 w
Annual Report and Accounts 201 1
The best local 
distributor The easy way to get online
Throughout this report you will ﬁnd several 
QR codes. Scan these codes using your 
smartphone to be taken to extra content online.
Scanning the code above will take you instantly 
to the Wolseley Online Annual Report 2011, or 
visit http://annualreport2011.wolseleyplc.com/
Contents
If you don’t have a QR code reader app on your phone, 
download one free here: scanlife.com
Strategic overview
01 Highlights
02 Group overview
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Chief Executive’s review
08 Key performance indicators (“KPIs”)
10 Value creation in action
10 Best customer service
12 Best branch staff
14 Preferred vendor relationships
16 Most efﬁcient operating model
Business and performance
18 The business
22 USA
24 Canada
26 UK
28 Nordic region
30 France
32 Central Europe
34 Financial review
38 Risk management and internal control
44 Corporate responsibility
Corporate governance
54 Board of Directors
56 Corporate governance report
71 Directors’ responsibility statement
72 Remuneration report
83 Other statutory information
Financial statements
87 Index to ﬁnancial statements
88 Group income statement
89 Group statement of comprehensive income
89 Group statement of changes in equity
90 Group balance sheet
91 Group cash ﬂow statement
92 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements
145 Independent auditors’ report to the members 
of Wolseley plc (in respect of consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements)
146 Company proﬁt and loss account
146 Company balance sheet
147 Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements
152 Independent auditors’ report to the members 
of Wolseley plc (in respect of Company 
ﬁnancial statements)
Other information
153 Five year summary
155 Pro forma information in United States dollars
156 Principal subsidiary undertakings and 
their directors
158 Shareholder information
159 Group information
160 Forward-looking statements 01
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Strategic overview Corporate governance Business and performance Financial statements Other information
Highlights
Generated like-for-like 
growth
During the year the Group 
generated revenue of £13,558 
million (2009/10: £13,203 million). 
This was 5 per cent ahead of 
last year on a like-for-like basis 
including strong growth in the USA.
Despite a weak economic climate, a return to like-for-like 
growth, together with a continuing focus on improving 
customer service, cash generation, cost reduction and 
margin protection have produced a strong set of results.
For our Financial review  
see page 34
Improved gross margin
We want each of our business 
units to make incremental 
improvements in gross margin 
every year. In 2010/11, in tough 
markets the Group’s gross margin 
improved by 0.2 per cent to 27.9 
per cent (2009/10: 27.7 per cent).
Improved customer 
service
A key objective for each business 
unit is to improve customer service. 
Processes for tracking and 
reporting monthly customer service 
data by branch are now in place in 
every business unit. This is helping 
us drive further improvements in 
our businesses.
Gained market share
Our objective for each business 
unit is to increase market share 
every year. In 2010/11, three 
quarters of our business units 
held or improved market share.
Rationalised portfolio
During the year we announced our 
plans to exit ﬁve underperforming 
business units. The signiﬁcant 
business disposals planned 
following last year’s strategic review 
is now largely complete. This will 
allow us to focus our resources on 
our strategically strong businesses 
going forward.
Reinstated dividend
In March we reinstated ordinary 
dividends reﬂecting the strength 
of the balance sheet and our 
conﬁdence in the future trading 
prospects of the Group. The total 
dividend for 2010/11 was 45 pence 
per share. 02
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Group overview
USA Canada UK
Revenue
£5,500m
+6%
Revenue
£81 1m
+6%
Revenue
£2,404m
–3%
Trading proﬁt
£314m
+31 %
Number of  
business units 
7
Trading proﬁt
£39m
–5%
Number of  
business units 
4
Trading proﬁt
£109m
+1 9%
Number of  
business units* 
7
Key brands Key brands Key brands
Market drivers
Revenue contribution
Market drivers
Revenue contribution
Market drivers
Revenue contribution
We are the largest specialist trade distributor of plumbing and heating products to 
professional contractors and a leading supplier of building materials to the professional 
market. Our businesses often hold leading positions in their local markets. 
40% of 
total 
revenue
Regional focus
Wolseley operates in six geographic regions –  
the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, 
France, the Nordic region and Central Europe. 
Within each region the Group operates a number 
of distinct business units with strong trading brand 
names, including many with market leading 
positions in their local markets.
Market drivers
Our six geographic regions supply customers 
in the new residential repair, maintenance and 
improvement (“RMI”), commercial, industrial 
and construction sectors. The exposure to each 
market differs by geography and by business unit. 
Please see above for the contribution to revenue 
of each market driver by region.
 Residential RMI
 Non-residential RMI
 Residential new construction
 Non-residential new construction
 Civil infrastructure
*  Excluding Build Center and Encon  
(disposal in progress)
**  Excluding Brossette (disposal in progress)
6% of 
total 
revenue
18% of 
total 
revenue
USA regional performance  
see page 22
Canada regional performance  
see page 24
UK regional performance  
see page 26
28% 30% 14% 14% 14% 23% 34% 35% 8% 52% 16%
2%
12% 18% 03
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Strategic overview Corporate governance Business and performance Financial statements Other information
Nordic region France Central Europe
Revenue
£2, 128m
+6%
Revenue
£1 ,943m
+0%
Revenue
£772m
–9%
Trading proﬁt
£1 13m
+1 2%
Number of  
business units 
7
Trading proﬁt
£53m
+77%
Number of  
business units** 
4
Trading proﬁt
£30m
+233%
Number of  
business units 
4
Key brands Key brands Key brands
Market drivers
Revenue contribution
Market drivers
Revenue contribution
Market drivers
Revenue contribution
51 % 14% 21 % 1 1 %
3%
38% 16% 31% 13%
2%
28% 9% 30% 27%
6%
16% of 
total 
revenue
14% of 
total 
revenue
6% of 
total 
revenue
Nordic regional performance  
see page 28
France regional performance  
see page 30
Central Europe regional performance  
see page 32
Number of branches
3,837
Number of vendors
> 100,000
Number of customers
>1 m
Number of employees
45,888
Number of countries
23
Group revenue
£13,558m
+3%
Group trading proﬁt
£622m
+38% 04
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chairman’s statement
Delivering shareholder value
I am pleased to present my ﬁrst statement to shareholders as 
Chairman of Wolseley and to report on a year of substantial 
progress across the Group. A return to like-for-like revenue 
growth, together with a continuing focus on improving 
customer service, cash generation, cost reduction and 
margin protection have produced a strong set of results 
despite a weak economic climate. Our Executive team, led 
by Ian Meakins, has also made robust and encouraging 
progress during the year on strategic initiatives, in particular 
in refocusing Wolseley on those businesses where we have 
or can create leading market positions. Several disposals 
of non-core businesses have been announced in the year. 
At the same time, in the core business the leadership teams 
have continued to impose greater rigour on the management 
and execution of strategy at the business unit level, which 
will serve us well in the future.
Group results
I am particularly pleased to report a strong set of ﬁnancial 
results for 2010/11. Like-for-like revenue growth for the year 
ended 31 July 2011 was 5 per cent and headline earnings per 
share was strongly ahead at 142.9 pence (2010: 74.1 pence). 
We continue to place a high degree of emphasis on generating 
cash. Our balance sheet remains strong and our adjusted 
net debt position at 31 July 2011 improved by £490 million 
to £705 million.
Dividend
In view of the Group’s improved prospects and strengthened 
ﬁnancial position, the Board is recommending a ﬁnal dividend 
of 30 pence per share. Together with an interim dividend of 
15 pence per share paid in May 2011, the total dividend for 
ﬁnancial year 2010/11 will amount to 45 pence per share, 
costing £127 million. Our policy is to grow the dividend over 
time, taking into account the signiﬁcant opportunities for 
investment in proﬁtable organic growth and selected bolt-on 
acquisitions. The Group will continue to target adjusted net 
debt in the range of 1x and 2x EBITDA, consistent with 
investment grade credit metrics.
In summary
Strong ﬁnancial results.
Dividend reinstated.
Successful redomiciliation to Switzerland.
Board refreshed with three new 
appointments.
For our Corporate governance report  
see page 56 05
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Strategic overview Corporate governance Business and performance Financial statements Other information
Redomiciliation to Switzerland
In November 2010, we completed the incorporation of 
Wolseley plc in Jersey, a new holding company for the 
Group, tax resident in Switzerland, which has a less complex 
and more certain system of taxation compared to the UK. 
The business case for redomiciling was compelling and the 
Board felt strongly that action was required to keep the 
Group’s effective tax rate competitive and that the action 
was in the best interests of shareholders. The redomiciliation 
does not make any substantive changes to our corporate 
governance or to any existing investor protection measures, 
nor has it had any adverse tax implications for shareholders. 
I am conscious of the UK coalition Government’s publicly 
stated desire to simplify UK tax law as it applies to 
multinational corporations such as Wolseley, and the Board 
will keep the Company’s position under review should the UK 
tax environment change materially.
Governance
The Board is committed to the highest standards of 
corporate governance. It recognises that it is accountable 
to the Company’s shareholders for good governance, 
to facilitate efﬁcient and effective management in order 
to deliver shareholder value over the long term, within 
appropriately established risk parameters. The Directors, 
both individually and collectively, take governance seriously 
and I am satisﬁed, as borne out again by this year’s Board 
review, that our Board operates effectively, is properly 
engaged on critical matters and that all Directors set 
aside the time required to fulﬁl their duties. Following the 
redomiciliation to Switzerland, a new meeting schedule 
was developed for the Board and its Committees, which 
has resulted in higher quality discussion of the issues facing 
the business. Further details are outlined on pages 56 to 70. 
Board changes
I have also reviewed the composition of the Board with the 
Nominations Committee and we have refreshed the team with 
three new Non Executive Directors. I am conﬁdent that these 
appointments will ensure that the Board continues to operate 
with a broad and diverse range of complementary skills and 
specialised knowledge to take the Company forward. 
In November 2010, following the redomiciliation, Alain Le Goff 
stepped down from the Board as a Non Executive Director. 
The Board and I were sorry to see Alain leave and we wish 
him well for the future. 
In January 2011, John Whybrow retired as Chairman having 
served nearly 13 years as a Non Executive Director, eight 
of which were as Wolseley Chairman. John steered the 
Company and the Board through a time of considerable 
change and we thank him for his steadfast leadership 
and his wise counsel. We wish him well for his retirement. 
At the same time Nigel Stein also stepped down as a Non 
Executive Director as a result of his increasing commitments 
as Chief Executive of GKN plc and President of the Society 
of Motor Manufacturers and Traders. He was a valued 
colleague and we wish him continued success. Andy Duff 
has assumed responsibility as the Company’s Senior 
Independent Director.
In March 2011, Tessa Bamford and Michael Clarke joined 
the Board as Non Executive Directors. Tessa is a Consultant 
at search ﬁrm Spencer Stuart and is also a Non Executive 
Director of Barratt Developments plc. Michael was recently 
appointed as Chief Executive of Premier Foods Plc and was 
previously President of Kraft Foods, Europe. We recently 
announced that Karen Witts will join the Board as a 
Non Executive Director, she brings with her tremendous 
experience in senior ﬁnance roles at Vodafone and BT. 
The Board and I welcome the ﬁndings of the Davies Report 
“Women on Boards” which recommends that targets are set 
for the appointment of women to Boards and Executive 
Committees. Our recent appointments to the Board 
mean that we are substantially in line with Lord Davies’ 
recommendations. Our objective here is to deliver an 
optimum level of skills and experience to lead the Company 
in its future developments. We also continue to put a 
signiﬁcant effort into succession planning for Executives, 
Non Executive Directors and all senior management. 
People
Lastly and most importantly, I would like to thank all our 
employees and pay tribute to their dedication, professionalism 
and loyalty to Wolseley; they have delivered a very good set 
of results for our shareholders. As a service business, at 
Wolseley our people really do make all the difference. 
Gareth Davis  
Chairman 06
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Value creation model
Strategy
Business 
unit 
strategies
Within 
business 
units
Cross-
business 
unit
Resource 
allocation
Operational 
performance
Proﬁtable growth
Chief Executive’s review
Overview
We have delivered a decent performance this year despite 
the challenging economic conditions. Further improvements 
in customer service and a return to like-for-like growth 
contributed to strong trading proﬁt growth. Our ongoing 
focus on operational efﬁciency has enabled us to both 
invest in future growth and deliver another increase in the 
trading margin of 120 basis points as well as delivering 
strong cash generation. During the year we announced our 
intention to exit some businesses and signed or completed 
most of the major disposals that were planned. This will allow 
us to focus all our resources on our strategically strong 
businesses going forward. 
Group results
During the year our markets broadly stabilised, driven 
principally by improving New Residential construction and 
the more resilient Repair, Maintenance and Improvement 
markets. 
The Group reported revenue up 3 per cent to £13,558 million 
(2010: £13,203 million). Like-for-like revenue was ahead by 
5 per cent which, coupled with an ongoing focus on 
protecting gross margins and careful cost control, led to a 
strong operating performance. We have continued to focus 
hard on achieving a better mix of products and vendors and 
despite considerable pressure on selling prices the gross 
margin was 20 basis points higher at 27.9 per cent (2010: 
27.7 per cent). We also continued to keep the cost base 
under tight control and operating costs excluding exceptional 
items were reduced by £45 million. Consequently the Group 
experienced strong operating leverage from incremental 
revenue and Group trading proﬁt in the year was up 38 per 
cent to £622 million (2010: £450 million). 
In summary
Markets broadly stabilised.
Operating performance improving.
Exit of non-core businesses largely 
completed in the year.
Improving customer service and 
employee engagement scores.
Focus on organic expansion 
and bolt-on acquisition.
For Value creation in action  
see pages 10–17
Most efﬁcient operating model
Gain share of existing customers and gain  
new customers
Best 
customer 
service
Preferred 
vendor 
relationships
Best  
branch  
staff 07
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Strategic overview Corporate governance Business and performance Financial statements Other information
During the year we continued to manage the balance sheet 
conservatively. Cash was tightly controlled enabling us 
to invest in additional capital expenditure of £93 million 
(2010: £84 million). 
Strategy update 
Our strategy remains unchanged: focusing Wolseley through 
a top down resource allocation process on those businesses 
which already have, or are capable of market leadership 
which will give us the best returns in the long term. Alongside 
this we have developed bottom up detailed business unit 
strategies to make sure we grow these businesses faster 
than the competition. In short, we are driving a parallel path 
of resource allocation and performance management to 
generate proﬁtable growth which is outlined in our value 
creation model opposite. In addition, you can read about the 
progress we are making on delivering the strategy on pages 
10 to 17.
Resource allocation 
During the year we have re-run the resource allocation process 
and we have disposed of a number of underperforming 
businesses which we felt had insufﬁcient scale or no clear 
economic synergies with our major businesses. These 
Performance Builder businesses included Brandon Hire 
and Electric Center in the UK and the plumbing and heating 
business in Italy. In July 2011 we also announced the sale of 
Build Center in the UK and exclusive negotiations for the sale 
of Brossette, our French plumbing and heating business. 
Both transactions are subject to clearance from the 
relevant competition authorities. On completion the total 
consideration for the two transactions is expected to be 
£310 million. Completion of the above transactions will 
conclude Wolseley’s signiﬁcant business disposals planned 
following last year’s strategic review.
Our business model also remains unchanged: we believe 
that delivering excellent customer service will allow us 
to deliver attractive levels of organic revenue growth 
whilst driving sustainable proﬁt and margin improvement. 
In combination with disciplined capital investment and tight 
control over working capital, this will result in strong cash 
ﬂows. Our markets are typically highly fragmented and have 
some really exciting growth prospects. We have some 
excellent businesses with strong market positions. 
We will continue to invest, both organically and in value 
creating bolt-on acquisitions where we can generate 
synergies. With acquisitions, our strong preference is for small 
to medium sized businesses in our existing geographies, so 
that we can integrate them rapidly into our strong businesses 
and deliver attractive returns. In line with this approach we 
made three small bolt-on acquisitions this year, including a 
small Waterworks business in the USA and two small building 
materials businesses in Denmark. Overall, we believe this 
focused approach will deliver real value to our shareholders. 
Operational performance
Our objective for each business unit strategy is to improve 
customer service by developing and training our staff so 
that we can win market share from our competition. 
Therefore in every branch we want to gain a greater share 
of our existing customers’ business and also attract new 
customers by providing the best local customer service, 
delivered by the best branch staff in the industry. 
Underpinning this is an efﬁcient operating model which 
ensures we are competitive and can attract favourable terms 
from our vendors. Here we have focused on establishing 
preferred partnership relationships to achieve the most 
competitive costs. 
Underpinning this is a performance review process which 
continues to gain traction. We now have good visibility down 
to business unit level and also down into our 3,837 branches. 
For example, in Ferguson for each branch we now have a 
dashboard of performance for customer service, product 
availability, local market share performance and branch 
manager performance as well as key ﬁnancial data. Regular 
customer feedback is now embedded in every business unit 
and it is informing our thinking and decisions every day. 
There is a clear correlation in our business between engaged 
employees delivering excellent customer service and strong 
ﬁnancial results in a branch. We are now therefore measuring 
employee engagement on a regular basis. This has improved 
in the last year even in the tough markets we have had to 
contend with. So having the right staff, properly trained and 
developed and with a clear view on how we can build their 
careers long term is fundamental to our future success. We are 
also beginning to share best practices across our business 
units and have increased our IT investment in projects that will 
deliver better front line performance. This includes sales force 
productivity, pricing and trade terms management, 
and product availability at the branch level. 
Priorities
Looking forward, we are well placed to exploit the signiﬁcant 
growth opportunities in our chosen distribution markets. 
The performance of the business is improving and we are 
now getting good visibility down to a branch level across all 
the key performance measures. We know we still have great 
opportunities for the future.
Lastly, I would like to reiterate Gareth’s comments about 
all our staff. I am very proud and lucky to lead this great 
organisation. So I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
our staff – their commitment during another tough year has 
made all the difference to our results. 
Ian Meakins  
Chief Executive 08
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Key performance indicators (“KPIs”)
The Group has used the following 
performance indicators to assess 
its development against its 
strategy and ﬁnancial objectives 
during the year. The Group gives 
prominence to different 
indicators as the economic 
environment changes.
Deﬁnition
The ratio of trading proﬁt to revenue. Over the 
cycle, the Group seeks to achieve a growth in 
trading proﬁt higher than the growth in revenue 
as a result of increasing the efﬁciency of 
operations and beneﬁting from its economies 
of scale and strong market positions.
Performance
Group trading margin increased from 3.4 per 
cent to 4.6 per cent as the Group grew 
revenue at a faster rate than overheads.
%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
6.0 5.3 3.4 3.1 4.6
Deﬁnition
Cash-to-cash days are deﬁned as the average number of days from 
payment for items of inventory to receipt of cash from customers. 
The Group uses the 12 month average number of cash-to-cash days, 
excluding the beneﬁt of factored receivables, to monitor working capital 
efﬁciency throughout the year.
Performance
A change in calculation method took place in 2011 to include rebates 
receivable and net rather than gross trade receivables within the 
calculation. After excluding the estimated impact of year-end working 
capital measures, the Group has improved its average cash-to-cash 
day performance in the year using this new measure. 
No. of days
2010 2009 2008
Old calculation method New calculation method
2007
57 50 50 53
2011
54
T rading margin Average cash-to-cash days
Deﬁnition
The total increase or decrease in revenue 
for the year, excluding the effect of currency 
exchange, trading days, new acquisitions, 
disposals, branch openings or closures 
in the year, and the incremental effect of 
acquisitions, branch openings and branch 
closures in the prior year. The Group expects 
changes in like-for-like revenue in each of its 
markets to exceed that achieved by the 
remainder of the market.
Performance
Group like-for-like revenue growth was 5.0 per 
cent for the year, compared to a reduction of 
6.0 per cent in the previous year.
%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
+5.1 –2.3 –6.0 –13.9 +5.0
Like-for-like revenue 
growth
Deﬁnition
The ratio of gross proﬁt excluding 
exceptional items to revenue.
Performance
Gross margin improved to 27 .9 per cent as 
a result of a continued focus on improving 
customer service and product mix despite 
competitive market conditions.
%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
28.3 28.2 27 .7 27 .7 27.9
Gross margin 09
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Strategic overview Corporate governance Business and performance Financial statements Other information
Deﬁnition
Return on gross capital employed is the ratio 
of trading proﬁt to the average year-end 
aggregate of shareholders’ funds, adjusted 
net debt and cumulative goodwill written off. 
Performance
Return on gross capital employed increased 
from 7 .1 per cent to 10.6 per cent. 
%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
15.6 12.5 7 . 1 6.9 10.6
Return on gross capital 
employed 
Deﬁnition
Total labour cost as a percentage of gross proﬁt, 
excluding exceptional items.
Performance
Labour cost as a percentage of gross proﬁt 
improved from 51.0 per cent to 49.0 per cent 
in the year.
%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
46.7 47 .0 51.0 50.9 49.0
Labour cost as % of 
gross proﬁt
Deﬁnition
Return on capital employed is the ratio 
of trading proﬁt to the average year-end 
aggregate of shareholders’ funds and 
adjusted net debt, excluding goodwill 
and other acquired intangible assets. 
Performance
Return on capital employed improved 
from 16.4 per cent to 25.4 per cent.
%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
26.9 24.3 16.4 14.4 25.4
Return on capital 
employed
Deﬁnition
Different types of customer have different 
requirements, or different priorities in ranking 
their requirements. Each business unit needs 
to understand what these requirements are 
and how its service performance is perceived 
relative to the competition. Regular customer 
surveys have been introduced in all business 
units to establish a base point from which 
progress can be measured. 
Performance
Processes for tracking and reporting of 
customer service KPIs differ by geography 
and by business unit. 
Customer service Supply chain 
There are numerous supply chain initiatives 
around the Group. Some are monitored 
by ﬁnancial measures, such as annualised 
savings in transportation costs, and others 
by non-ﬁnancial measures such as inventory 
turns and, for the Group’s distribution centres, 
the ﬁll rate achieved. This is the proportion of 
orders that can be fulﬁlled from inventory on 
hand at the time of the order.
Employees and health 
and safety
The safety of Wolseley’s people is paramount 
and lost time incident rates are monitored 
closely in each of our businesses. The Group’s 
health and safety performance is monitored 
using three standard KPIs: medical injury 
frequency, lost workdays and vehicle collision 
frequency. More information is provided in the 
Corporate responsibility report on page 48. 
In addition, all of our business units measure 
employee engagement levels on a regular basis.  3
2 1
10
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Value creation in action
Best 
customer 
service 4
5 6
11
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Strategic overview Corporate governance Business and performance Financial statements Other information
In order for us to be a supplier of 
choice for our customers we need 
to give them the best possible 
service. All of our business units 
measure customer service on a 
regular basis and use the results 
to drive improved performance.
Stark, the leading building materials 
business in Denmark, surveys all of its 
customers at least twice a year . 
Throughout the year they also send out 
targeted surveys asking customers about 
a particular initiative or part of their 
service. They use an online survey tool 
called My Maze to capture customer 
feedback and measure satisfaction in 
every branch. 
The advantages of this tool are that 
individual branches can see how they 
score; they can log into the tool and see 
the results for their own customers the 
next day . This means that the branches 
can take action straight away to follow up 
on the customer feedback. The surveys 
ask customers to rate how competitive 
Stark is and how they feel treated by 
employees. Depending on the rating that 
the customer gives Stark, the My Maze 
survey tool generates a red unhappy , 
amber or green smiley face. This is a 
simple way of capturing customer 
feedback and allows Stark employees 
to quickly identify the areas in which 
they need to take action.
For Value creation model  
see pages 06–07
Most efﬁcient operating model
Gain share of existing customers and gain  
new customers
Best 
customer 
service
Preferred 
vendor 
relationships
Best  
branch  
staff
Using your smartphone, scan this 
code to view a short ﬁlm about 
“Stark customer service”. 
Or visit:  
http://annualreport2011.
wolseleyplc.com/
Images of staff from Stark, Aalborg, Denmark 
1 Kirsten Hedeman, Accounts Manager.
2 Claus Bo Nielsen, Sales Assistant, Hardware. 
3 Lars Ersted Nielsen, Sales Manager, Stark Selvbyg.
4 Henning Jørgensen, Sales Assistant, Hardware.
5 Kasper Hansen, Sales Apprentice, Building materials.
6 Kasper Borup Green, Warehouse.  1
2
12
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Value creation in action continued
Best 
branch 
staff 3
4
13
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Strategic overview Corporate governance Business and performance Financial statements Other information
There is a direct link in our business 
between engaged employees 
delivering excellent customer 
service and strong ﬁnancial results 
in a branch. We want our staff to 
feel valued and proud to work for 
us and we want them to have the 
right skills and knowledge to 
deliver the best possible service 
for our customers. All of our 
businesses measure employee 
engagement levels. 
Wolseley UK’s most recent employee 
survey showed a signiﬁcant 
improvement in the overall engagement 
score which increased from 49 per cent 
in 2008 to 58 per cent in 2010. This was 
particularly encouraging in view of the 
restructuring activities that had taken 
place over the previous two years in 
response to the downturn in the 
UK markets.
Examples of the speciﬁc initiatives that 
had the biggest impact on the positive 
engagement score include the Branch 
Management training programme – 
Addvance – and the continuation of the 
Reward and Recognition programme – 
Wow! Factor .
For Value creation model  
see pages 06–07
Most efﬁcient operating model
Gain share of existing customers and gain  
new customers
Best 
customer 
service
Preferred 
vendor 
relationships
Best  
branch  
staff
Using your smartphone, scan this 
code to view a short ﬁlm about 
“Best branch staff in Wolseley UK”. 
Or visit:  
http://annualreport2011.
wolseleyplc.com/
Images of staff from Pipe Center, West Horndon, UK
1 Dave Woodberry, Branch Manager. 
2 John Kinchlea, Warehouse.
3 Ron Hughes, LGV Driver.
4 Joe Hainesborough, Trade Counter. 1
2
14
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Value creation in action continued
Preferred 
vendor 
relationships 3
15
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Strategic overview Corporate governance Business and performance Financial statements Other information
Wolseley is building strong long-term 
partnerships with vendors so that 
we can grow our business with 
them and beneﬁt from improved 
terms and pricing.
Like many Wolseley businesses, 
Ferguson has a preferred vendor 
programme whereby purchasing spend 
in the USA is prioritised with the vendors 
that offer the best terms and pricing. 
While an important aspect of the process 
is negotiating with vendors to leverage 
Ferguson’s spend nationally , the key to 
the partnerships being successful is 
to ensure that front line staff support 
these vendor programmes to drive 
higher volumes of more proﬁtable 
products. 
Ferguson developed a sales tool for 
branch managers which showed how 
they graded vendors depending on 
profitability by product category . Managers 
then coached associates on how to 
promote the most proﬁtable products.
Already they have seen improvements 
in the mix of higher margin products 
going through the distribution network. 
This initiative has been shared with the 
other Wolseley businesses in Europe and 
is being adopted by our sourcing teams 
in other countries. 
For Value creation model  
see pages 06–07
Most efﬁcient operating model
Gain share of existing customers and gain  
new customers
Best 
customer 
service
Preferred 
vendor 
relationships
Best  
branch  
staff
Using your smartphone, scan this 
code to view a short ﬁlm about 
“Preferred vendor relationships 
at Ferguson”. 
Or visit: http://annualreport2011.
wolseleyplc.com/
Images from Ferguson branch, Chantilly, USA
1 Kathy Scull, Branch Manager.
2 Butch Doane, Senior Sourcing Manager 
and Steve David, Director of Procurement.
3 Lamonta Bailey, Counter Assistant. 1
16
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Value creation in action continued
Most 
efﬁcient 
operating 
model 2
17
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Strategic overview Corporate governance Business and performance Financial statements Other information
Our objective is to operate the 
lowest cost, most efﬁcient 
operating model in our industry. 
This means ensuring that our 
distribution activities beneﬁt 
from national scale and an efﬁcient 
supply chain either through a 
network of distribution centres or 
direct deliveries from our vendors 
to customers.
In November 2009, Ferguson, in the 
USA, launched an initiative to provide 
100 per cent availability of the top 2,000 
Stock Keeping Units (“SKUs”) at the 
branch. They worked with their key 
vendors to get better support in terms 
of stock and delivery and marginally 
increased inventory and delivery 
frequency to all branches.
Ferguson expanded the initiative to the 
top 3,000 SKUs earlier this year and they 
are now achieving almost 100 per cent 
availability . This is a signiﬁcant competitive 
advantage and the initiative has been key 
to improved customer satisfaction scores 
in Ferguson as well as driving higher 
share of customer spend and market 
share gains this year .
For Value creation model  
see pages 06–07
Most efﬁcient operating model
Gain share of existing customers and gain  
new customers
Best 
customer 
service
Preferred 
vendor 
relationships
Best  
branch  
staff
Using your smartphone, scan this 
code to view a short ﬁlm about 
“Operational efﬁciency at 
Ferguson”. 
Or visit: http://annualreport2011.
wolseleyplc.com/
Images from Ferguson branch, Chantilly, USA
1 Eric Huggins, Sales Management Trainee.
2 Mark Fox, Residential Sales Manager. 18
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
The business
Wolseley is the world’s largest specialist 
trade distributor of plumbing and heating 
products to professional contractors and 
a leading supplier of building materials 
to the professional market.
The business model
Wolseley is a distributor bridging the gap between over 
100,000 vendors and over 1 million customers by bringing 
together a wide range of products from different vendors that 
our customers need and providing our vendors with access 
to these customers cost effectively.
Source
We source a wide 
range of products 
efﬁciently and 
responsibly, bringing 
together the mix of 
products from 
different vendors that 
our customers need
For more information  
see page 19
Distribute
We distribute them 
efﬁciently to our 
branches and 
customers, allowing 
us to provide great 
product availability 
levels for our 
customers
For more information  
see page 20
Sell
We sell through a 
variety of channels 
including branches, 
call centres and 
online, with a strong 
focus on providing 
excellent customer 
service
For more information  
see page 21
Business and management structure
Wolseley is an international business, operating 3,837 
branches in 23 countries and employing over 45,000 people.
The Group’s business falls into six geographic regions – the 
United States, Canada, United Kingdom, France, the Nordic 
region and Central Europe. 
Revenue split by region 
Total Group revenue £13.6 billion
USA
40%
Canada 6% UK 18%
Nordic 
region
16%
 
Central Europe
6%
France
14%
Within each geography the Group operates a number of 
distinct business units with strong trading identities, including 
many with market leading positions in their local markets.
The Group has strong management teams in each region. 
Business units report on operational performance and 
strategic progress through regular performance review 
meetings with senior executives.
Business unit strategies
Business unit strategies are aligned with the Group value 
creation model as outlined on pages 6 and 7. Each business 
unit aims to grow proﬁtability faster than the competition 
through gaining a greater share of its existing customers’ 
business and through attracting new customers. To achieve 
this each business unit focuses on achieving:
• best customer service;
• best branch staff; and
• preferred vendor relationships.
Underlying this, Wolseley aims to operate the most efﬁcient 
operating model in the industry, ensuring its distribution 
activities beneﬁt from national scale and an efﬁcient supply 
chain.
Synergies
The business model offers opportunities for synergies to be 
achieved by being part of the Group. These include:
• management synergies such as sharing best practice, 
management development and corporate ﬁnance; and 
• operating synergies in the areas of joint sourcing, own label 
development and the sharing of costs and infrastructure. 
Market overview
The markets for plumbing and heating and building materials 
are directly exposed to macroeconomic cycles. Most of the 
countries in which the Group operates began to return to 
growth in the second half of last ﬁnancial year and continued 
to recover throughout 2011. Further detail by geography is 
provided in the regional performance overviews on pages 
22 to 33.
Although our markets are cyclical, the business model is 
strong and it is underpinned by demographic trends towards 
ageing populations and smaller households and by the 
ageing of housing stocks. 
Over 
100,000 
vendors
Over 
1 million 
customers
pf 19
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business and performance Strategic overview
Our businesses sell to customers ranging across the 
residential, commercial and industrial sectors. The exposure 
to each market differs by geography and by business unit. 
Further detail is provided on pages 22 to 33.
Revenue by market driver 
% of total 2010/11 revenue
Residential
new construction
20%
Residential 
RMI
36%
Non-
residential 
new construction
16%
 
Civil 
infrastructure
7%
Non-
residential 
RMI
21%
Competition
The distribution of plumbing and heating and building 
materials is fundamentally a local business, in that the 
majority of our customers are serviced by a local branch 
a short distance from their workplace. It is also highly 
fragmented, with no dominant supplier and few large players. 
Wolseley aims to have a leading market position in the 
territories and sectors in which it operates, with strong 
local and national brands. 
Using public and private sources of information, the 
management of each of our business units assesses its 
position in its chosen markets relative to its competitors. 
These estimates are presented for our larger business units 
in each geographic region on pages 22 to 33.
Source
We source a wide range of products efﬁciently and 
responsibly, bringing together the mix of products from 
different vendors that our customers need.
• Over 100,000 trade vendors supplying a broad mix 
of products including own label ranges.
• Strong vendor relationships and use of preferred 
vendor programmes.
• Scale advantages in sourcing are a key 
competitive advantage.
• Commitment to responsible sourcing practices.
Sourcing programme
The aims of the sourcing programme are to standardise 
quality, improve product availability and choice, and 
maximise the synergies offered by the Group’s scale 
and size, beneﬁting both Wolseley and our customers.
Vendor relationships
Our vendors need distributors who can give them access 
to many smaller customers cost effectively. Our relationships 
with these vendors are key to our success; we want to build 
strong relationships and grow our business with them. 
The Group has over 100,000 trade vendors. Key vendors are 
manufacturers with market leading brands, usually focused 
on the needs of local markets. We work in partnership with 
our key vendors to offer market breadth and penetration 
and to collaborate on promotions and incentive programmes. 
Our primary focus is to derive beneﬁt from national scale. 
Whilst the vendor base is predominantly based on national 
geographies, some international sourcing beneﬁts exist, for 
example across Europe and for the sourcing of own label 
products. The Group continues to work with low cost, high 
quality manufacturers to supply our own label product ranges. 
In the year ended 31 July 2011 sales of own label products 
represented 8 per cent of Group revenue (2010: 8 per cent).
Products
The Group sources and supplies a broad range of products. 
The main product categories are set out in the following list:
Plumbing, heating and air conditioning
• Baths, showers and accessories. 
• Sanitaryware. 
• Brassware. 
• Bathroom furniture. 
• Boilers and burners. 
• Radiators and valves. 
• Hot water cylinders and ﬂues. 
• Control equipment. 
• Ventilation and air conditioning equipment. 
• Heat pumps and solar equipment. 
• Plastic pipes and ﬁttings. 
• Copper tubing and ﬁttings.
Building materials
• Insulation. 
• Plaster and plasterboard. 
• Rooﬁng materials. 
• Bricks, blocks and aggregates. 
• Tiles and ﬂooring. 
• Timber products. 
• Doors and frames. 
• Glass. 
• Beams, trusses and frames. 
• Hardware and tools. 
• Cement.
Civils/waterworks, industrial and commercial
• Drainage pipes, associated supplies and covers. 
• Underground pressure pipes. 
• Small bore pressure pipes and ﬁttings. 
• Carbon and stainless steel pipes, valves and ﬁttings. 
• Other pipes, valves and ﬁttings.
Other 
• Electrical cables, wiring and lighting. 
• Services, including installation, maintenance and 
management of customer inventory. 20
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
The business continued
The proportion of Group revenue derived from each product 
category is shown in the chart below. 
Product mix by category
Plumbing, 
heating and 
air conditioning
40%
Building 
materials
30%
 
Other
2%
Civils/
waterworks 
industrial 
and 
commercial 
28%
Responsible sourcing
The Group is committed to responsible sourcing and has a 
range of procedures and policies in place related to product 
safety and ethical sourcing practices. We work to ensure 
that the vendors we deal with adhere to our expected 
ethical standards.
Further detail is given in the Corporate responsibility report 
on pages 44 to 53.
Distribute
We distribute products efﬁciently to our branches and 
customers, allowing us to provide great product availability 
levels for our customers.
• Branch network of 3,837 branches.
• Large scale network of distribution centres supporting 
the plumbing and heating businesses.
• Market leading levels of product availability across a 
broad range of products is a key competitive advantage.
Distribution network
Distribution centres are a key competitive advantage for 
Wolseley, allowing the Group to purchase in bulk and better 
serve customers through reduced delivery times, broader 
product selection, increased ﬁll rates and improved product 
availability, as well as enabling the Group to better manage 
inventory.
The Group has a large scale network of distribution centres 
which serve branches for our plumbing and heating 
businesses. By contrast the majority of products in our 
building materials businesses are delivered directly to our 
branches or customers. 
Our objective is to operate the lowest cost, most efﬁcient 
operating model in our industry, ensuring that our distribution 
activities beneﬁt from national scale and an efﬁcient supply 
chain. The Group has invested signiﬁcantly in supply chain 
technology to manage inventory in our distribution centres 
and branches in order to maximise efﬁciency.
Product availability
The availability of a wide rage of products to our customers is 
fundamental to the Wolseley business model. Our distribution 
network is key to allowing us to outperform the competition 
in this area. Each distribution centre aims to maximise the ﬁll 
rate that it achieves, which is the proportion of orders that 
can be fulﬁlled from inventory on hand at the time of order. 
In many cases the distribution centres operate with ﬁll rates 
that are substantially better than those we receive from our 
vendors – the distribution centres absorb the gap between 
vendor ﬁll rates and ﬁll rates to our branches.
At a branch level, product ranges are focused on the fastest 
moving products, with the distribution centres able to 
quickly deliver a wide range of other products as required. 
For example, the Ferguson business in the US aims to 
provide 100 per cent ﬁll rates on its top 3,000 products which 
has been key to the improved customer satisfaction scores, 
higher share of customer spend and market share gains 
achieved this year. Further details can be found on page 17.
Branches
With 3,837 branches (at 31 July 2011) across 23 countries, 
Wolseley is an international business but also a local 
business, with the majority of the Group’s customers 
travelling less than 20 miles to a branch. We rely on the 
strength of our brands in their local markets, and the local 
knowledge of our employees in the branches to meet our 
customers’ needs. 
T ransport
The Group uses a range of different transport solutions 
in each of its businesses including both owned and 
leased ﬂeet and third party delivery. The Group uses ﬂeet 
management systems and backhauling arrangements 
to maximise the efﬁciency of its transport network and 
minimise its environmental impact. Further detail on the 
environmental impact of our transport requirements and 
actions taken to minimise CO2 emissions is given in the 
Corporate responsibility report on pages 44 to 53. 21
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business and performance Strategic overview
Sell
We sell through a variety of channels including branches, 
call centres and online, with a strong focus on providing 
excellent customer service.
• Continued focus on customer service measured 
through regular customer surveys.
• Investment in employee training programmes and 
tools to allow our branch staff to deliver the best 
customer service.
• Investment in online sales channels to drive 
organic growth.
Channels
Sales to customers are made over the counter at our 
branches, through supply contracts which are managed 
centrally, or through orders that can be placed with 
branches, into call centres, or over the internet. In some 
regions we also operate a network of showrooms which 
enables us to showcase our product range. 
E-commerce is a rapidly growing sales channel for the 
Group and we continue to invest in our business-to-business 
and business-to-consumer websites across the Group. 
For example, Plumb Center in the UK has recently launched 
its online Trade Superstore allowing its customers to order 
from across the product range online for either delivery or 
collection in the branch.
Customers
The Group has a wide range of customers operating in 
different industry sectors, ranging from individual plumbers 
and builders through to national contractor chains and 
house builders. Wolseley’s primary customer focus is on 
professional contractors, who constituted 87 per cent of the 
Group’s customer base during the year ended 31 July 2011. 
Customer mix 
% of total 2010/11 revenue
Electrical 
contractors 
1%
Building 
contractors 
25%
Plumbing and 
heating engineers 
23%
Industrial 
13%
End users 
13%
Mechanical 
contractors 
9%
 
Utilities 
10%
Heating, ventilation and 
air conditioning 
6%
Customer service
Wolseley is a relationship business and our focus is to meet 
our customers’ needs better than the competition, ensuring 
we deliver the right products, at the right price, at the right 
time, on every occasion they do business with us. We use 
regular customer surveys in all of our business units so that 
we can take actions to improve our performance, both 
nationally and within each branch operation.
Branch staff
In order to achieve the best customer service in the industry 
we need to have the right talent with relevant training, 
skills and knowledge in our locations. Within each of the 
business units there is a strong focus on ensuring that 
training programmes and tools are available for our people 
so they are equipped to give the best service in the industry. 
Employee engagement is measured in each business 
unit at least annually and the results are used to make 
improvements in working practices and environments. 22
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
USA
Revenue £5,500m (40% of Group)
Trading proﬁt £314m
Trading margin 5.7%
Business units 7
Branches 1,261
Employees 17,481
• Leading distributor of plumbing and heating products  
in North America.
• Strong business model with large scale distribution 
centre network and national branch network.
• Continued strong ﬁnancial performance despite difﬁcult 
market conditions.
• Market outperformance in the year with signiﬁcant 
market share gains achieved.
• Strong customer service and employee engagement 
scores.
Business unit portfolio and proﬁle
In the US we operate seven business units. Ferguson is the 
primary operating brand although a number of other brands 
have been retained to service speciﬁc markets. The business 
operates in all 50 states and is served by 10 distribution 
centres across the country that can provide next day product 
availability, a key competitive advantage. Ferguson 
predominantly serves the RMI markets with relatively low 
exposure to the residential new construction market.
The Ferguson Blended branches business sells to customers 
across the residential, commercial and industrial sectors 
for new construction and RMI projects through its national 
branch network. In smaller markets that may not justify a 
stand alone presence for HVAC and Waterworks, a blended 
location can also provide the products and services for 
these customers. 
The Waterworks business distributes pipes, valves, hydrants, 
ﬁttings and meters to residential, commercial and municipal 
contractors. This is a strong business which has been 
diversifying its customer base into private water companies 
and treatment plants, and expanding its product range into 
new areas such as metering technologies. 
The HVAC business distributes heating, ventilation, air 
conditioning and refrigeration equipment to specialist 
contractors, predominantly in the residential and commercial 
sectors. Vendors have a strong position in this market, and 
branded dealerships of high quality equipment are the most 
important parts of the business. The majority of revenues 
are generated by providing parts for the repair and 
replacement market. 
Regional performance
Regional KPIs
2011 2010 +/-
Like-for-like revenue growth 9% (9)% +18%
Trading margin 5.7% 4.6% +1.1%
Business unit contribution 
% of total 2010/11 revenue
Blended 
branches
60%
Waterworks
14%
HVAC
8%
 
Other 
7%
Industrial 
11 %
Revenue by market driver  
% of total 2010/11 revenue
Residential
new construction
14%
Residential 
RMI
28%
Non-residential 
new construction 
14%
 
Civil 
infrastructure
14%
Non-
residential 
RMI
30%
Five year performance £m
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
5,685 5,613 5,174 5,820 5,500
401 389 239 309 314
Revenue
Trading proﬁt
Quarterly like-for-like revenue growth 
%
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2011 2010
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
10%
0%
–10%
–20% 23
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business and performance Strategic overview
The Industrial business distributes pipes, valves and ﬁttings, 
including specialty high-density polyethylene pipes, to 
industrial customers across all sectors including oil and gas, 
mining and power generation sectors. Although project 
driven, the business has historically performed strongly over 
the economic cycle. The industrial business also offers 
maintenance, repair and operations services (MRO) and 
integrated services, off-site integrated supply with centralised 
procurement, storeroom and commodity management.
The other smaller business units include:
• Fire and Fabrication: The supply and fabrication of ﬁre 
protection systems. 
• B2C (Business-to-consumer): Websites and platforms to 
support e-business. Through the website Build.com, sales 
are made directly to consumers using the product range 
and distribution network of the Blended branches business. 
This is a particularly fast growing area of the US business.
• Master distribution: Distribution of plumbing, heating 
and pipe supplies to retailers and small wholesalers. 
These business units have synergies with the distribution 
and branch network of the larger units, and frequently 
share vendors.
Market position and competitive environment
Ferguson is the market leading distributor of plumbing 
supplies in the USA. The market positions of the main 
business units are estimated as follows:
Market position
Blended branches 1
Waterworks 2
HVAC 3
Industrial 4
Ferguson has no direct competitor that competes across 
all business units, but rather each business unit has its own 
competitor set. Competitors range from large national 
players, including professional sales from the national 
home improvement chains, to single-branch operations. 
The market remains fragmented with a large number of 
small and regional competitors making up the majority 
of the market. 
Management believes that Ferguson has continued to gain 
market share in the year to 31 July 2011, growing sales 
signiﬁcantly ahead of the market.
Ferguson branch bounced back two weeks after 
tornado hit
On Saturday 16 April this year a Ferguson branch in Raleigh, 
North Carolina was severely damaged by a tornado that 
ripped through the area. 
Within hours of the crisis, teams from Ferguson headquarters 
and the Raleigh branch were working to secure the facility 
and make arrangements to continue to service customers. 
Thanks to the strong communication culture created by 
the branch manager and her management team, affected 
associates were quickly informed, and an action plan 
was executed.
By Monday morning (18 April), phone calls were transferred 
to other branches, associates were reassigned and orders 
were being ﬁlled at neighbouring counters. Customers 
and vendors were notiﬁed of the event.
Less than two weeks after the tornado hit, a new 
temporary location was open for business. 
Davidson Pipe helps to rebuild 
World Trade Center towers
Davidson Pipe, Ferguson’s pipes, valves and ﬁttings 
business, supplies carbon and stainless steel pipe, valves 
and ﬁttings to many of the contractors who are working 
to rebuild the World Trade Center towers in New York. 
Davidson supplied material for ﬁre protection and plumbing 
for both towers, pipe and ﬁttings for the Memorial Fountain, 
heavy wall pipe used in the foundation, and recently the 
fabricated piping system for the chiller plant, which will be 
used to provide air conditioning for the World Trade 
Center’s non-commercial areas.
The largest pipe diameters that Davidson fabricates were 
42 inches (outside diameter) with half an inch wall thickness, 
and many of these pieces were up to 35 feet long. In total, 
there were more than 80,000 diameter inches of welding 
performed in Davidson’s fabrication shop.
The total contract for this project, including materials, 
welding and lining, exceeded £1.6 million.  24
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Regional performance continued
Operating performance
Revenue in the USA was 9 per cent ahead of last year on a 
like-for-like basis. Growth was broadly based, supported by 
price inﬂation of approximately 3 per cent with all of the major 
businesses ahead. The RMI segment has been resilient 
although it remains subdued as a result of lower consumer 
conﬁdence. The recovery in new construction was modest 
as factors such as high unemployment, low availability of 
credit and high levels of unsold housing inventory have 
continued to constrain demand. The Commercial sector 
showed some resilience although continued to be restricted 
by the lack of availability of ﬁnance for construction projects. 
Industrial markets were generally better. We believe all of our 
major businesses in the USA continued to gain market share 
in the period. 
The gross margin was ahead of last year as we continued 
to focus on improvements in the business mix towards 
showrooms, counter sales and private label products. 
Operating costs increased by 7 per cent in constant currency 
due to some additional headcount, the reinstatement of merit 
increases, pension contributions and higher volume related 
costs. The combination of strong revenue growth and margin 
improvement led to a signiﬁcant increase in trading proﬁt to 
£314 million (2010: £239 million). There was a one-off charge 
of £12 million in the period in respect of the settlement of 
litigation dating back to 2004.
Growth in Blended branches continued throughout the year. 
A strong focus on gross margins contributed to good proﬁt 
ﬂow through and the business was a major contributor to 
the overall improvement in the Group’s trading proﬁt. 
The Industrial and HVAC businesses made good progress. 
The Industrial business in particular beneﬁted from a buoyant 
oil and gas sector. The Waterworks business was resilient 
despite a fall in state and municipal funded projects. 
Our Build.com consumer internet business grew strongly 
at margins consistent with the rest of the US business. 
In the ﬁrst half of the year we completed a small Waterworks 
acquisition in Alabama. Since the year end we have also 
completed two further small acquisitions of a PVF business 
in Louisiana and a Blended branches business in Chicago.
The USA trading margin was 5.7 per cent (2010: 4.6 per cent). 
Canada
Revenue £811m (6% of Group)
Trading proﬁt £39m
Trading margin 4.8%
Business units 4
Branches 221
Employees 2,693
• A leading wholesale distributor of plumbing, heating, 
industrial and ventilation equipment. 
• National distribution centre in Ontario and branches 
located in all 10 provinces across Canada.
• Synergies with US.
• Experiencing increasingly difﬁcult market conditions.
Business unit portfolio and proﬁle
Wolseley Canada is a wholesale distributor of plumbing, 
heating, industrial and ventilation products, servicing RMI 
markets and with a higher exposure to new residential 
markets than most of our regions. Synergies with the US 
include shared supply chain and back ofﬁce functions 
and combined sourcing activities.
The Blended branches mainly supply plumbing equipment to 
residential and commercial contractors and DIY customers, 
and have historically delivered a strong performance. 
The new national distribution centre in Milton, Ontario 
supports the branch network.
The Waterworks business serves residential, commercial 
and municipal contractors. Its market leadership is based 
on strong relationships with a base of core contractors and 
national and international vendors.
The HVAC business supplies a wide range of heating, 
ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration products 
and parts from leading manufacturers to both residential 
and commercial contractors. 
The Industrial business derives three quarters of its revenue 
from industrial customers and a quarter from municipal 
contractors. We have the opportunity to gain a greater share 
of our existing customers’ business and win new customers 
through technically knowledgeable sales staff, on time 
in full delivery and value added services. 25
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business and performance Strategic overview
Market position and competitive 
environment
The market positions of the main business units are 
estimated as follows:
Market position
Blended branches 2
Waterworks 1
Industrial 3
Wolseley Canada is estimated to be the largest national 
competitor in the Waterworks business and the second 
largest in blended branches. However its market position 
varies by region. 
Wolseley Canada is the only national HVAC distributor, facing 
regional competitors. 
Operating performance
In Canada revenue was 2 per cent ahead of last year on a 
like-for-like basis. The growth rate declined as the Canadian 
economy cooled, following rises in interest rates and 
weakening consumer sentiment. Last year the business 
beneﬁted from the impact of tax incentives. 
Trading proﬁt of £39 million was £2 million lower after one-off 
costs of £3 million. Higher revenue and an improvement in 
the gross margin were offset by operating costs which grew 
by 7 per cent at constant currency as the new distribution 
centre in Milton came on stream and we also invested in 
more branch staff. Waterworks and Industrial both improved 
their performance during the year. Waterworks beneﬁted 
from government subsidies whilst the Industrial business 
continued to be supported by the strength of the oil and gas 
sector. HVAC revenues declined as government stimulus 
incentives were removed. Blended branches slowed in line 
with the weakening new residential construction market. 
The Waterworks and Industrial businesses both gained 
market share in the period though HVAC and Blended 
branches market shares were slightly lower. 
The trading margin in Canada overall was lower at 4.8 per cent 
(2010: 5.4 per cent). 
Regional KPIs
2011 2010 +/-
Like-for-like revenue growth 2% 1% + 1 %
Trading margin 4.8% 5.4% (0.6)%
Business unit contribution 
% of total 2010/11 revenue
Blended 
branches
62%
Waterworks
15%
HVAC
11 %
 
Industrial 
12%
Revenue by market driver  
% of total 2010/11 revenue
Residential
new 
construction
34%
Residential 
RMI
8%
Non-residential 
new construction 
35%
 
Non-
residential 
RMI
23%
Five year performance £m
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
619 684 765 700 811
42 39 41 32 39
Revenue
Trading proﬁt
Quarterly like-for-like revenue growth 
%
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2011 2010
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
10%
0%
–10%
Wolseley Canada improves efﬁciencies 
Wolseley Canada opened a new regional distribution centre 
(DC) in Milton, Ontario in October last year replacing their 
existing DC in Oakville. The new DC measures 300,000 
square feet and allows the business to offer a more extensive 
inventory of products, offer more vendor programmes and 
further improve ﬁll rates to its 221 branches. The distribution 
centre maintains a ﬁll rate to their branches which is on 
average 25 per cent higher than that of their vendors. 
This results in better product availability for customers.  26
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Regional performance continued
UK
Revenue £2,404m (18% of Group)
Trading proﬁt £109m
Trading margin 4.5%
Ongoing business units* 7
Ongoing branches* 1,059
Ongoing employees* 6,673
* Excludes Build Center and Encon (in disposal).
• Focus of UK portfolio on strongest businesses 
capable of market leadership.
• Disposal of the non-core businesses in the year, 
(Build Center subject to competition authority clearance).
• Investment in organic growth initiatives, including 
substantial investment in the online B2B platform.
Business unit portfolio and proﬁle
During the year ended 31 July 2011, Brandon Hire and 
Electric Center were disposed of in line with the Group’s 
strategy of focusing on businesses with signiﬁcant scale 
and leading market positions. In July, the Group announced 
an agreement, subject to competition authority clearance, 
to dispose of Build Center, its building materials distribution 
business. The UK management team is now in a strong 
position to focus on its core, strong businesses with market 
leading positions.
The majority of the UK’s revenue is generated from the RMI 
market. The business has particularly high exposure to public 
sector work, which accounts for around 25 per cent 
of revenue.
Plumb and Parts Center is a leading distributor of plumbing 
and heating products. The business operates through a 
national branch network and can deliver superior ﬁll rates 
and a wide range of products through its distribution centres. 
The business also supplies a wide range of spares and 
replacements. Efﬁciencies arise from purchasing volumes, 
from opportunities to cross-sell and from shared sites. 
The business has continued to deliver strong ﬁnancial 
performance in a tough trading environment and continues 
to look for opportunities to improve customer service and 
grow sales.
Pipe Center and Climate Center distribute pipes, valves, 
ﬁttings, air conditioning and refrigeration products. 
The business has a sound track record of proﬁtability, 
and volumes are particularly dependent on non-residential 
new build projects.
The smaller UK business units include:
• Drain Center, a specialist in above and below ground 
drainage;
• William Wilson, which distributes plumbing and heating 
products in Scotland; 
Regional KPIs
2011 2010 +/-
Like-for-like revenue growth 3% –+3%
Trading margin 4.5% 3.7% +0.8%
Business unit contribution 
% of total 2010/11 revenue
Plumb 
and Parts
Centers
43%
Build Center
14%
Pipe and 
Climate
Centers
10%
 
Disposals
6%
Others
27%
Revenue by market driver  
% of total 2010/11 revenue
Residential
new construction
12%
Residential 
RMI
52%
Non-
residential 
new 
construction 
18%
 
Non-residential 
RMI 16%
Infrastructure
2%
Five year performance £m
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
3,171 3,203 2,466 2,699 2,404
21 1 176 91 55 109
Revenue
Trading proﬁt
Quarterly like-for-like revenue growth 
%
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2011 2010
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
10%
0%
–10% 27
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business and performance Strategic overview
• Integrated services, outsourced inventory management 
and procurement services for maintenance activities on 
a long-term contract basis, mainly to public institutions 
for example housing associations;
• Bathstore, a retail bathroom specialist, whose product 
range includes baths, basins, showers, toilets, taps and 
bathroom furniture;
• Encon, a specialist distributor of insulation, drywall, ceilings, 
partitioning and ﬁre protection products (held for disposal 
at 31 July 2011); and
• BCG, which supplies kitchens, bathrooms and associated 
ﬁttings to other builders merchants and to retailers.
Market position and competitive environment
The market positions of the main business units are 
estimated as follows:
Market position
Plumb and Parts Center 2
Pipe and Climate Center 2
The UK market is more consolidated than many of the other 
markets in which the Group operates with a few large 
national players leading the market, although signiﬁcant 
competition is provided by numerous small local businesses. 
Plumb and Parts Center have historically been the market 
leader in the UK plumbing and heating distribution market. 
However, the recent merger of two businesses has created 
a competitor of a similar size.
Build Center holds the number four position in the UK market. 
The planned disposal is in line with Wolseley’s strategy 
of focusing resources on its market leading businesses.
Operating performance
Revenue in the UK was 3 per cent lower in the year due to 
the impact of disposals and the contract loss referred to at 
the half year, although the ongoing businesses were 2 per 
cent ahead due principally to commodity price inﬂation. 
Public sector activity, which represents around 25 per cent of 
UK revenue, weakened in the second half. The more resilient 
RMI sector, which represents about 65 per cent of revenue 
held up reasonably well. 
Trading proﬁt of £109 million was £18 million ahead of last 
year, of which £7 million arose within the ongoing businesses 
with higher revenue and gross margins partly offset by a 
£5 million one-off bad debt charge. 
Despite strong competition, Plumb and Parts Center was 
able to improve gross margins and gained market share 
in the fourth quarter. Pipe and Climate and Drain Center 
performed well, generating strong growth in the period as 
a result of improved management focus and some beneﬁts 
from commodity price inﬂation. Both businesses gained 
market share. Trading conditions in Bathstore were 
particularly challenging with revenue down 15 per cent in 
the year, though the business continued to generate proﬁts. 
The trading margin for the UK in the ongoing business 
was 5.2 per cent (2010: 4.9 per cent). 
Wolseley UK is awarded the Carbon Trust Standard 
Wolseley UK was recently awarded the Carbon Trust 
Standard in recognition of measuring, managing, and 
reducing carbon emissions.
The company underwent a rigorous assessment carried 
out by an independent third party in order to achieve 
this highly regarded national award. It recognises the 
company’s achievements in carbon reduction through 
initiatives such as the adoption of its Transport Management 
System, which ensures that vehicles take the most 
efﬁcient routes, and the installation of smart meters 
(pictured above) across the branch network to provide 
consumption data which enables the company 
to understand and manage its energy consumption.
Achieving the standard requires an ongoing commitment 
to reducing carbon emissions. Wolseley UK has already 
committed to reducing energy consumption in its business 
by a minimum of 10 per cent by 2012. 
Plumb Center launches online trade superstore
Plumb Center has launched a comprehensive and 
interactive plumbing and heating online trade superstore.
The website allows customers to check the current stock 
availability for 40,000 product lines 24/7 , with over 20,000 
products available for next day delivery.
Customers are able to register their trade account and see 
their own exclusive terms, so they can rest assured they 
are still getting the best possible deal. They can set up job 
lists, repeat orders and view their invoice and credit history. 
The website also saves installers time as they can now click 
and collect in branch or arrange delivery direct to site. 
The website also contains a wide range of useful information 
for customers. This includes product information, videos, 
details about training courses and accreditations, updates 
on regulations and legislation and industry events and 
updates. Visitors can also download or order company 
brochures and guides. 28
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Regional performance continued
Nordic region
Revenue £2,128m (16% of Group)
Trading proﬁt £113m
Trading margin 5.3%
Business units 7
Branches 288
Employees 6,754
• The largest distributor of building materials in the Nordic 
region with number one market positions in Denmark 
and Sweden.
• A leading retailer in Denmark and Sweden.
• Return to like-for-like revenue growth in all geographies 
in the year.
Business unit portfolio and proﬁle
Wolseley’s Nordic business principally operates in Denmark, 
Finland, Sweden and Norway. 
Stark is the leading distributor of heavy building materials, 
tools, hardware, timber and panels in Denmark. Stark’s 
customers include both professional contractors and DIY 
builders with around half of stores having a dedicated 
DIY section. Stark’s market leadership and its efﬁciencies 
of scale have historically delivered strong results. During the 
year we made two small acquisitions and Stark continued 
to focus on growing its market share.
Beijer is the leading distributor of building materials in 
Sweden. About half its revenue comes from local building 
contractors and another third from retail consumers. As the 
Swedish market is very fragmented, Beijer’s reach is valuable 
to vendors, and by maintaining efﬁciencies of scale and 
working capital management it has delivered good results 
over time.
Starkki is a Finnish chain of builders’ merchants with a 
business model based on large stores and well-trained 
specialist staff. Whilst local building contractors are the 
largest single customer segment, consumers and small retail 
stores generate nearly 50 per cent of its revenue. Starkki has 
a strong record of proﬁtability based on efﬁciency and a low 
cost base.
Silvan is a DIY and retail chain in Denmark. Its specialist DIY 
market, focused on tools and hardware, is driven by RMI. 
The majority of Silvan’s product range overlaps with other 
businesses in the Nordic region and therefore the business 
delivers signiﬁcant synergies by taking advantage of these 
economies of scale.
Regional KPIs
2011 2010 +/-
Like-for-like revenue growth 4% (7)% +11%
Trading margin 5.3% 5.0% +0.3%
Business unit contribution 
% of total 2010/11 revenue
Denmark 
(building 
materials)
35%
Sweden 
(building 
materials) 
22%
Finland
(building 
materials) 
21%
 
Norway (building 
materials) 7%
Denmark
(DIY) 
9%
Other
6%
Revenue by market driver  
% of total 2010/11 revenue
Residential
new construction
21%
Residential RMI
51 %
Non-
residential 
new 
construction 
11 %
 
Non-
residential 
RMI 14%
Infrastructure
3%
Five year performance £m
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
1,678 2,299 2,012 2,124 2,128
103 160 101 97 113
Revenue
Trading proﬁt
Quarterly like-for-like revenue growth
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2011 2010
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
10%
0%
–10% 29
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business and performance Strategic overview
The smaller business units managed in the region include:
• Neumann Bygg, a distributor of building materials 
in Norway;
• Cheapy, a DIY chain in Sweden; and
• Woodcote, a building materials distribution business 
operating in Eastern Europe. 
Market position and competitive environment
The market positions of the main business units are 
estimated as follows:
Market position
Denmark (building materials) 1
Sweden (building materials) 1
Finland (building materials) 2
Denmark (DIY) 2
The Stark and Beijer brands are market leaders in Denmark 
and Sweden respectively, with Silvan the number two DIY 
retailer in Denmark and Starkki the second largest builders’ 
merchant in Finland.
Each country in the Nordic region is a distinct market with its 
own national, regional and local competition. However, there 
are several major competitors operating across the region in 
the building materials and DIY markets. The markets in the 
Nordic region tend to be fragmented and there are signiﬁcant 
opportunities to consolidate our market positions across 
the region.
Operating performance
In the Nordic region revenue was 4 per cent ahead on a 
like-for-like basis. The building materials business in Denmark 
returned to like-for-like revenue growth in the period, although 
market conditions remained subdued as a result of low levels 
of construction activity and poor consumer conﬁdence. 
In contrast our building materials businesses in Sweden, 
Finland and Norway all generated good like-for-like revenue 
growth, with Finland performing strongest. Overall, we held 
market share in Denmark and Sweden and improved market 
share in Finland and Norway.
Trading proﬁt in the year of £113 million was £12 million 
higher than last year beneﬁting from revenue growth and an 
improvement in gross margin, offset by a 6 per cent increase 
in operating costs at constant currency. The underlying 
performance was better as last year’s results included 
a one-off credit of £4 million. 
During the year we completed two small bolt-on acquisitions 
in Denmark. 
The trading margin was higher at 5.3 per cent (2010: 
5.0 per cent). 
Stark targets a new market
Stark is the market leader in the building materials market 
in Denmark. They identiﬁed an opportunity to use their 
excellent knowledge and position as market leader in the 
professional market to help private house owners with 
their building projects and improve the value of their 
property through the right choices of building materials. 
Stark now offers private house owners the same service 
and product advice as they offer professional customers in 
Denmark. More than 200 Stark employees have received 
training in order to better understand the private customer’s 
needs. A dedicated area has been introduced in the 
branch for the self build customer with product displays, 
marketing and product literature. A special membership 
scheme has also been created for these customers with 
beneﬁts including member offers and discounts, home 
visits and access to project advice and prices. Since this 
concept was introduced in 2010, a total of 71,000 people 
have become members in Denmark.
Stark’s Health and Wellbeing pilot programme
The Stark business in Denmark has introduced a pilot 
health and wellbeing programme in some of its stores. 
It is aimed at raising awareness of employees’ health and 
physical wellbeing, advising on all aspects including diet, 
sleep, exercise and general lifestyle. Whilst providing 
positive beneﬁts for employees, it is also hoped that it will 
reduce sickness absence rates.  30
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Regional performance continued
France
Revenue £1,943m (14% of Group)
Trading proﬁt £53m
Trading margin 2.7%
Ongoing business units* 4
Ongoing branches* 322
Ongoing employees* 5,421
* Excludes Brossette: 368 branches, 2,651 employees (in disposal).
• A leading distributor of building materials and 
wood products.
• Disposal of plumbing and heating distributor Brossette 
agreed.**
• Improved market conditions and recovery in ﬁnancial 
performance in the year.
** Subject to competition clearance. 
Business unit portfolio and proﬁle
Wolseley France operates three divisions; building materials, 
import and wood solutions, and plumbing and heating. 
During the year the Group announced that it had entered 
into exclusive negotiations to dispose of the plumbing and 
heating business, Brossette, which contributed 32 per cent 
of revenue for France in 2011. 
The building materials division comprises Réseau Pro, 
the number two integrated distributor in France, selling 
building materials, rooﬁng, insulation, timber and ﬂooring, 
and Panofrance, focused on timber, panels and interior 
design. The businesses have efﬁciencies in both sourcing 
and shared services.
The Import and Wood Solutions division includes Softwood, 
the market leader in specialist sawn and processed woods 
and the structural wood business which manufactures 
trusses and other carpentry systems.
Regional KPIs
2011 2010 +/-
Like-for-like revenue growth 4% (8)% +12%
Trading margin 2.7% 1.5% + 1.2%
Business unit contribution 
% of total 2010/11 revenue
Building 
materials
55%
Plumbing 
and 
heating  
32%
Import and 
wood solutions  
13%
 
Revenue by market driver  
% of total 2010/11 revenue
Residential
new construction
31%
Residential RMI
38%
Non-
residential 
new 
construction 
13%
 
Non-
residential 
RMI 16%
Civil infrastructure
2%
Five year performance £m
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
1 ,872 2,116 1 ,937 2,144 1,943
101 103 30 32 53
Revenue
Trading proﬁt
Quarterly like-for-like revenue growth
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2011 2010
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
10%
0%
–10% 31
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business and performance Strategic overview
Market position and competitive 
environment
The market positions of the two core divisions in France are 
estimated as follows:
Market position
Import and wood solutions 1
Building materials 2
In addition to the two large corporates (including Wolseley 
France) there are also two buying groups that operate in 
France, accounting for a large proportion of the market.
Operating performance
Revenue in France was 4 per cent ahead on a like-for-like 
basis principally due to commodity price inﬂation. New 
residential construction markets continued to recover. Gross 
margins were higher as the business was successful in 
mitigating continued pricing pressure through improvements 
in supplier mix. Trading proﬁt of £53 million was £23 million 
ahead of last year, of which £15 million relates to Brossette 
and other disposed businesses and £8 million arose from 
ongoing operations through good conversion of increased 
revenue to trading proﬁt. There was a net £2 million one-off 
credit in the period.
Reseau Pro, our building materials business, performed in 
line with the market and improved its trading performance. 
Import and Wood Solutions generated good proﬁt growth, 
improved its productivity and continued to protect market 
share. 
The trading margin was higher at 2.7 per cent (2010: 
1.5 per cent).
“Eco Chantiers” renewables model
Following a successful pilot study last year, Wolseley France 
is extending its “Eco Chantiers” renewables model to more 
branches across France. The model provides a turnkey 
management tool for craftsmen, offering a range of 
sustainable products (such as timber, organic insulation 
and photovoltaic cells). 
After completion of a specialist training programme, over 
250 employees are now able to provide expert advice 
on energy efﬁciency and global renovation solutions to 
allow customers to meet new regulatory standards, and 
assistance with ﬁnancial assessments including renovation 
costs, savings forecasts and advice on tax incentives. 
Launch of e-learning in Wolseley France
With the introduction of a new enterprise resource planning 
system in 217 branches of the wood and building materials 
division of Wolseley France, approximately 1,700 managers 
and sales staff needed to be trained rapidly on the new 
system in order to maintain and improve the quality of 
customer service. Training time was reduced by a third as 
colleagues worked together and used a new e-learning 
platform, which was tailored to the business. The training 
programme also proved to be stimulating, resulting in 
greater employee engagement, less time away from the 
customer and immediately improved service standards. 
The programme will continue over the next year. 32
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Central Europe
Revenue £772m (6% of Group)
Trading proﬁt £30m
Trading margin 3.9%
Business units 4
Branches 144
Employees 1,965
• Plumbing and heating businesses with good market 
positions and strong local brands.
• Disposal of Italy (plumbing and heating).
• Signiﬁcantly improved ﬁnancial performance.
Business unit portfolio and proﬁle
Wolseley now operates in four countries in the region; 
Switzerland, Austria, Netherlands, and Luxembourg.
In Switzerland, Tobler is a distributor of heating and plumbing 
products. It operates a national distribution centre and has 
invested signiﬁcantly in e-commerce, generating a signiﬁcant 
proportion of its sales online.
The main brand in Austria is ÖAG, which distributes plumbing 
and heating products. There are also specialist divisions 
distributing industrial pipes, bathroom ﬁttings, parts and tools.
The main brand in the Netherlands is Wasco, a distributor of 
heating, plumbing and ventilation equipment. Boilers and 
spares account for about half of its revenue, and the 
customer base is weighted towards large regional and 
national contractors.
In Luxembourg, CFM is a distributor of sanitary ware, heating 
and appliances.
During the year the underperforming plumbing and heating 
business in Italy was sold.
Regional performance continued
Regional KPIs
2011 2010 +/-
Like-for-like revenue growth (2)% (4)% +2%
Trading margin 3.9% 1.0% +2.9%
Business unit contribution 
% of total 2010/11 revenue
Switzerland
33%
Netherlands 
24%
Disposals  
7%
 
Austria
32%
Luxembourg
4%
Revenue by market driver  
% of total 2010/11 revenue
Residential
new construction
30%
Residential RMI
28%
Non-
residential 
new 
construction 
27%
 
Non-
residential 
RMI 
9%
Civil 
infrastructure
6%
Five year performance £m
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
838 899 849 954 772
31 (1) 9 (1) 30
Revenue
Trading proﬁt
Quarterly like-for-like revenue growth
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2011 2010
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
5%
0%
–5% 33
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business and performance Strategic overview
Market position and competitive environment
The market positions of the main business units are 
estimated as follows:
Market position
Switzerland 1
Austria 2
Netherlands 3
Operating performance
In Central Europe revenue was 2 per cent lower than last year 
on a like-for-like basis, the decline arising from the exit of 
unproﬁtable business in Holland. The gross margin in the 
period was well ahead of last year and operating costs in the 
ongoing businesses were 2 per cent lower in constant 
currency. 
Results also beneﬁted from the disposal of the Group’s 
unproﬁtable Italian business earlier in the year. Consequently 
the business generated strong ﬂow through and trading proﬁt 
improved to £30 million (2010: £9 million). 
Tobler, our plumbing and heating business in Switzerland, 
performed strongly. Gross margins were well ahead and the 
business beneﬁted from the strengthening of the Swiss franc 
which added £3 million to trading proﬁt. In addition, lower 
distribution costs were incurred as a result of the 
rationalisation of distribution centres completed last year. 
The plumbing and heating businesses in Austria and the 
Netherlands also improved their performance, generating 
higher gross margins and productivity improvements. 
The trading margin was higher at 3.9 per cent (2010: 
1.0 per cent). 
Wasco introduces e-commerce site 
In April 2010, Wasco, Wolseley’s plumbing and heating 
business in the Netherlands, introduced a new and updated 
e-commerce website (Wasco.nl). The site has enhanced 
functionality which allows customers to browse products but 
also suggests alternative or complementary products to help 
the customer make the right choice for their needs. The site 
complements Wasco’s existing business and online sales 
increased by 25 per cent in ﬁnancial year 2010/1 1. Wasco is 
also launching a new version of Wasco mobile, a website 
and “APP” for mobile phones, which will include a bar code 
scanning facility and application.
ÖAG heating competence centers
ÖAG, our Austrian plumbing and heating business, has nine 
heating competence centres across Austria. Customers 
can visit these centres to get help in choosing the right 
products, and to draw up complete plans of heating and 
cooling systems based on traditional or renewable systems. 
Additionally, ÖAG can advise customers on government 
funding available for renewable products depending on 
which area of Austria they live. Since introducing these 
centres, ÖAG has increased sales of renewable products 
by almost 10 per cent and due to their involvement within 
this sector has become one of the opinion leaders for 
renewable energy in Austria.  34
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review
Income statement 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Revenue 13,558 13,203
Cost of sales (9,776) (9,548)
Gross proﬁt 3,782 3,655
Operating costs (3,160) (3,205)
Trading proﬁt 622 450
Exceptional items (51) (332)
Amortisation and impairment of 
acquired intangible assets (114) (315)
Net ﬁnance costs (66) (77)
Associate – share of loss and 
impairment of investment – (54)
Proﬁt/(loss) before tax 391 (328)
Tax expense (110) (38)
(Loss)/gain from discontinued 
operations (10) 26
Proﬁt/(loss) attributable to 
equity shareholders 271 (340)
Dividend paid (42) –
Retained proﬁt/(loss) 229 (340)
Headline earnings per share 142.9p 74.1p
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 99.4p (129.8)p
Gross margin 27.9% 27 .7%
Trading margin 4.6% 3.4%
Revenue and operating proﬁt
Group revenue of £13,558 million (2010: £13,203 million) 
was 3 per cent ahead of last year. Like-for-like revenue was 
ahead by 5 per cent. Despite continued pricing pressure, our 
focus on improving customer and product mix led to a higher 
gross margin of 27.9 per cent, 20 basis points ahead of last 
year. While operating costs before exceptional items were 
£45 million below the previous year, the underlying cost base 
adjusted for business disposals was 3 per cent higher. 
Trading proﬁt of £622 million (2010: £450 million) was 38 per 
cent ahead. This represents a trading margin of 4.6 per cent 
(2010: 3.4 per cent).
John Martin
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
In summary
Like-for-like revenue growth of 5 per cent.
Improved gross margin by 20 basis points 
to 27 .9 per cent.
Reduction in adjusted net debt of 
£490 million.
Resumed dividend payments in 2011.
Quarterly like-for-like revenue growth
%
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2011 2010
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
10%
0%
–10% 35
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business and performance Strategic overview
Disposals
Revenue of £1,335 million and trading proﬁt of £24 million 
arose from businesses which have been disposed of or 
are held for sale at 31 July 2011 (2010: £1,529 million of 
revenue and £10 million of trading loss). The Group received 
£115 million for the disposal of ﬁve businesses during the 
year and expects to receive a further £310 million in respect 
of the disposal of Build Center in the UK and Brossette in 
France, which will be reinvested in the Group’s growth 
engine and synergy driver businesses. An additional 
£67 million was received for other asset disposals.
Exceptional items
Exceptional charges of £51 million were incurred during the 
year (2010: £332 million). Gains on disposal of businesses of 
£5 million principally related to Electric Center and Italy. Build 
Center and Encon were classiﬁed as disposal groups held for 
sale at 31 July 2011, and the revaluation of their net assets to 
estimated disposal proceeds less costs to sell resulted in a 
charge of £64 million. A credit of £11 million arose in respect 
of adjustments to restructuring provisions made in previous 
years, the largest part of which related to the exit from certain 
onerous leases on better terms than previously expected.
Amortisation and impairment of 
acquired intangibles
Amortisation of £75 million (2010: £92 million) represents 
the normal charge relating to the Group’s intangible assets. 
In addition, in accordance with accounting standards, the 
Group has reviewed the carrying value of goodwill and other 
intangible assets and concluded that an impairment charge 
of £39 million in respect of businesses in the UK segment is 
appropriate. £27 million of this charge relates to Bathstore 
and £12 million to BCG, reﬂecting the continued difﬁcult 
trading conditions in the UK retail sector. 
Finance costs
Net ﬁnance charges in the year amounted to £66 million 
(2010: £77 million), which includes £6 million (2010: £nil) 
to write off unamortised arrangement fees on the early 
termination of banking facilities. £18 million of the charge 
relates to the unwind of discounts on pensions and provisions 
(2010: £16 million), and the reduction in the remaining charge 
from £61 million to £42 million reﬂects the implementation of 
cash pooling and lower average levels of debt.
Tax
The Group incurred a tax charge on proﬁt before discontinued 
operations of £110 million. Tax in relation to impairment and 
exceptional items amounted to £22 million. Non-recurring 
tax items of £20 million arose, principally from the release 
of provisions following settlement of historical exposures 
in the year. After adjusting for these the underlying tax rate 
was 27.3 per cent (2010: 34.6 per cent). The reduction in 
the effective rate is principally due to the redomiciliation 
to Switzerland.
2011 2010
Tax charge 110 38
Tax credits relating to exceptional items, 
amortisation and impairment of acquired 
intangibles 22 102
Provision movements 20 (11)
Underlying tax charge 152 129
Effective tax rate 27.3% 34.6%
Discontinued operations
The loss of £10 million from discontinued operations (2010: 
gain of £26 million) results from movements in tax, provisions 
and other items arising from the disposal of Stock Building 
Supply in 2009.
Earnings per share
Headline earnings per share, which is earnings per share 
before exceptional items, the amortisation and impairment of 
acquired intangibles and non-recurring tax credits, amounted 
to 142.9 pence (2010: 74.1 pence). The increase reﬂects the 
increase in trading proﬁt, the reduction in ﬁnance charges, 
the elimination of losses of associate and the lower tax rate. 
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations was 
99.4 pence (2010: loss per share of 129.8 pence).
Dividends
The Group resumed dividend payments in the year, paying 
an interim dividend of 15 pence per share, amounting to 
£42 million, in May 2011. A ﬁnal dividend of 30 pence per 
share, equivalent to £85 million, is proposed. The total 
dividend for the year of 45 pence is covered 3.2 times by 
headline earnings per share. The Board expects to grow 
the dividend over time taking into account the signiﬁcant 
opportunities for investment in proﬁtable organic growth 
and selected bolt-on acquisitions. 36
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review continued
Liquidity
The Group maintains sufﬁcient borrowing headroom to 
ﬁnance all investment and capital expenditure included in its 
strategic plan, with an additional margin for contingencies. 
During the year the Group replaced £2.8 billion of borrowing 
facilities with revolving credit facilities amounting to 
£822 million which expire on 31 October 2016. The maturity 
proﬁle of the Group’s borrowings and committed undrawn 
facilities at 31 July 2011 is as follows:
Maturity date
Drawn on 
all facilities
£m
Undrawn 
committed
£m
Capacity
£m
Less than one year 197 50 247
1–2 years 52 – 52
2–3 years 9 – 9
3–4 years 36 – 36
4–5 years 216 – 216
After 5 years 426 822 1,248
936 872 1,808
Drawn on uncommitted facilities (200)
Committed facilities at 31 July 2011 1,608
Net debt
Adjusted net debt is the Group’s all-inclusive measure of 
indebtedness. This deﬁnition includes the estimated impact 
of year-end working capital measures of £114 million (2010: 
£495 million) and receivables factoring of £68 million (2010: 
£274 million). There was no separate construction loan 
ﬁnancing at the end of the year (2010: £80 million).
During the year the Group terminated all receivables factoring 
facilities except that utilised by Brossette which amounted to 
£68 million at 31 July 2011.
Adjusted net debt at 31 July 2011 has reduced by 
£490 million year-on-year:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Reported net debt (523) (346)
Estimated year-end working 
capital adjustment* (114) (495)
Receivables factoring facilities (68) (274)
Construction loan ﬁnancing – (80)
Adjusted net debt (705) (1,195)
* Based on comparison with June and August.
Cash ﬂow
2011
£m
2010
£m
Trading proﬁt 622 450
Depreciation and amortisation 153 185
EBITDA 775 635
Working capital – unwind of  
year-end measures (381) 95
Working capital – reduction in factoring (206) 106
Working capital – other movements (52) 44
Provisions and other movements (120) (175)
Cash ﬂow from operations 16 705
Interest (50) (51)
Tax (162) 90
Acquisitions and disposals, 
net of debt acquired 110 (19)
Capital investment (93) (84)
Asset disposals 67 96
Dividends (42) –
Foreign exchange and other items (23) (124)
Movement in debt (177) 613
Net debt brought forward (346) (959)
Net debt carried forward (523) (346)
The Group continues to place a strong emphasis on 
generating cash. Capital investment has continued to be 
tightly controlled, net interest paid has reduced reﬂecting 
lower average levels of debt, and the Group has resumed 
paying dividends.
The cash outﬂow for taxation in the year includes a £60 million 
payment to settle a number of historical tax exposures in 
respect of earlier years. 
Pensions
The Group’s net pension obligations under IAS 19 at 31 July 
2011 reduced to £360 million (2010: £432 million), principally 
due to additional cash contributions of £48 million. The Group 
intends to make a one-off contribution of £60 million into 
the pension scheme following completion of the disposal 
of Build Center. 37
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business and performance Strategic overview
Operating lease commitments
As at 31 July 2011 the Group had total operating leases 
commitments of £1,126 million (2010: £1,292 million). There is 
substantial capacity for revenue growth utilising the existing 
infrastructure and management will remain cautious when 
considering new lease commitments in the foreseeable future.
Other ﬁnancial matters
Financial risk management
The Group is exposed to risks arising from the international 
nature of its operations and the ﬁnancial instruments which 
fund them. These instruments include cash, liquid investments 
and borrowings, and also items such as trade receivables 
and trade payables which arise directly from operations. 
The Group also enters into selective derivative transactions 
– principally interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency 
contracts – to reduce uncertainty about the amount of future 
committed or forecast cash ﬂows. The policies to manage 
these risks have been applied consistently throughout the 
year. It is Group policy not to undertake trading in ﬁnancial 
instruments or speculative transactions.
Capital structure
The Group’s sources of funding currently comprise cash 
ﬂows generated by operations, equity contributed by 
shareholders, and borrowings from banks and other ﬁnancial 
institutions. To assess whether the capital structure is 
appropriate for current and forecast trading, the Group’s 
principal measure is the ratio of net debt, including factoring, 
to EBITDA. The Group aims to operate within the range 
1x to 2x, consistent with an investment grade credit rating.
Foreign currency
The Group has signiﬁcant overseas businesses whose 
revenue is mainly denominated in the currencies of the 
countries in which the operations are located. The Group 
does not normally hedge proﬁt translation exposure since 
such hedges have only temporary effect.
The Group’s policy is to adjust the currencies in which its 
debt is denominated to materially match the currencies in 
which its trading proﬁts are generated.
Interest rates
The Group manages its exposure to changes in interest 
rates by ensuring that between 0 per cent and 50 per cent of 
borrowings required during the next two years are at ﬁxed 
rates. This percentage is regularly reviewed and may be 
overridden by the Board. It is the Group’s current intention 
to ﬁx a greater percentage of its borrowings. The Group 
generally borrows at ﬂoating rates of interest, and then 
uses interest rate swaps to get the desired rate proﬁle.
Other ﬁnancial risks
The nature of the Group’s business exposes it to risks which 
are partly ﬁnancial in nature. Counterparty risk is the risk that 
banks and other ﬁnancial institutions which are contractually 
committed to make payments to the Group may fail to do 
so. Credit risk is the risk that customers who have made 
purchases on credit may fail to pay in full. Commodity risk is 
the risk that, in order to satisfy its contractual commitments 
to customers, the Group may have to purchase commodities 
which subsequently fall in value. The Group manages 
counterparty risk by setting credit and settlement limits 
for a panel of approved counterparties, which are approved 
by the Treasury Committee and monitored regularly. 
The management of credit and commodity risk is considered 
to be the responsibility of operational management, and in 
respect of these risks the Group does not prescribe a 
uniform approach across the Group.
Further information on risk management and internal control 
can be found on pages 38 to 43.
Financial reporting
These ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under IFRS. 
The Group’s accounting policies are set out on pages 
127 to 135. There have been no changes to the Group’s 
accounting policies during the year ended 31 July 2011.
Going concern
The Directors are conﬁdent, on the basis of current ﬁnancial 
projections and facilities available, and after considering 
sensitivities, that the Company and the Group has sufﬁcient 
resources for its operational needs and will enable the Group 
to remain in compliance with the ﬁnancial covenants in its 
bank facilities for at least the next 12 months. Accordingly 
the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the ﬁnancial statements. 
John Martin  
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 38
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Risk management and internal control
Robust risk management and internal 
control provides competitive advantage 
and enhances productivity. 
Overview
In Wolseley, risk management and internal control are deﬁned 
in four main areas:
1.  Business Operations – implementation of sound risk 
management practices every day 
  The management team of each Group company is 
responsible for risk management and internal control 
within its own business and for ensuring compliance 
with the Group’s policies and procedures. Each of the 
Company’s main regions has also appointed a risk 
director whose primary role in such capacity is to ensure 
compliance by local management with the Group’s risk 
management policies and programme. 
2. Oversight functions
  Oversight functions deﬁne policies and procedures and 
monitor their implementation by business operations. 
  Group Risk Management – providing the structure, tools 
and techniques 
  The Company continues to maintain and improve its 
comprehensive risk management programme, which 
is designed to ensure that signiﬁcant and emerging 
risks are identiﬁed, assessed and managed effectively. 
Key features of this programme are described on 
page 40.
  The Advanced Control Environment (“ACE”) team 
– strengthening ﬁnancial reporting  
The ACE compliance programme is Wolseley’s internal 
ﬁnancial control testing process. Its objective is to avoid a 
material misstatement in the Group’s ﬁnancial accounts 
arising from inadequate ﬁnancial control. ACE deﬁnes 
ﬁnancial processes and their associated control 
objectives, which operating companies address with 
controls. In doing so, it aims to establish an efﬁcient and 
effective control environment over ﬁnancial reporting. 
  Other Corporate Functions – monitoring speciﬁc 
key risks 
  In order to deliver its business strategy, Wolseley 
maintains corporate oversight functions such as Health & 
Safety, HR, IT, Legal, Tax, Treasury and Finance. The 
policies, procedures and other activities established by 
these functions serve to mitigate a wide range of risks, 
including employee retention, credit, counterparty, 
interest rate, exchange rate, bribery and corruption 
and business continuity risks.
3. Independent assurance
   Independent assurance teams check that corporate 
policies and procedures to manage risk have been 
deﬁned and implemented. 
  Group Internal audit – independent assurance on ﬁnancial 
and non-ﬁnancial activities 
  The internal audit function is fully independent of the 
day-to-day operations of the Group. It is involved in the 
assessment of the quality of risk management and 
internal control and helps to promote and further develop 
effective risk management within the businesses. 
 External audit – assurance over ﬁnancial statements 
  PwC are the Company’s external auditors and give 
assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free from 
material misstatement.
 Other assurance providers 
  From time to time the Company commissions external 
organisations to provide assurance over aspects of the 
Company’s operations.
4.  The Board and its Committees – strategic direction 
and control of the Company 
  The Board manages risk through its strategic planning 
and performance monitoring processes. The Board 
receives regular reports from the Audit Committee on the 
status of risk management and internal control.
  The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives 
annually and approves Group company budgets and 
strategies in light of these. Control is exercised at Group 
and business unit level through monthly monitoring of 
performance by comparison to budgets, forecasts and 
cash targets, and by regular visits to Group companies 
by the Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and 
Managing Directors of our main geographical regions. 
The Board has formal procedures in place for the 
approval of investment, acquisition and disposal projects, 
with designated levels of authority, supported by post-
investment review processes for major acquisitions or 
disposals and capital expenditure. The Board takes 
account of social, environmental and ethical matters 
in relation to the Group’s businesses when reviewing 
the risks faced by the Group. The Board is conscious 
of the effect that such matters may have on the short- 
and long-term value of the Company. 39
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business and performance Strategic overview
Risk management and internal control structure
First level
The ﬁrst level of the control 
environment is the business 
operations which perform day-to-
day risk management activity.
Front line business operations 
eg branches, distribution centres.
•  Business operations have most 
ownership of risks and controls 
– through implementation of 
sound working practices.
Fourth level: Board, Executive Committee and Audit Committee
Second level
Oversight functions in the Company, 
such as Finance, HR and Risk 
Management set direction, ensure 
compliance with policy and monitor 
performance.
Oversight functions
eg Group Risk Management, the 
“ACE” internal controls team, 
Finance, Health & Safety, HR, IT, 
Legal, Tax and Treasury.
•  Management and ﬁnancial control;
•  Policy and procedure setting;
•  Acting at Group and Operating 
Company level.
Third level
Internal and external audit are the 
third level of control, offering 
independent challenge to the levels 
of assurance provided by business 
operations and oversight functions.
Independent assurance
Internal audit, external audit and 
other independent assurance 
providers.
•  Provide independent challenge 
and assurance.
Ownership of risk and control
Group Risk Management Conference – February 2011
Signiﬁcant value is gained by sharing knowledge on risk 
across the Group. To this end, the Company gathers 
together its risk specialists at its annual Risk Management 
Conference. Over 60 delegates and speakers attended the 
event in February from a range of Wolseley businesses in 
North America and Europe. As well as brieﬁngs from the 
Group CEO, CIO, General Counsel and other Executives, 
the forum provides an opportunity for “deep dives” into 
risk areas such as product sourcing, health and safety, IT, 
physical security, treasury, insurance, ﬁnance, HR and ﬂeet 
management. External speakers provide added challenge, 
but most important is the ability to share ideas and 
experiences across different geographies, markets 
and risk disciplines. 40
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Risk management and internal control continued
Key features of the Group’s risk management 
programme
The Group’s risk management programme forms a core part 
of the Company’s overall framework for managing risks and 
maintaining internal control. It includes:
• Ownership of the programme by the Board, supported by 
the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel with 
sponsorship from the Group Chief Financial Ofﬁcer;
• An appointed Group Head of Risk to lead and continually 
improve risk management;
• A network of Risk Directors across the Group to develop 
risk management in their businesses;
• A Group Risk Management policy, applicable throughout 
the Group and reviewed annually;
• A standard set of risk categories and risk deﬁnitions;
• A standardised and automated risk assessment and 
reporting tool, including standard risk assessment criteria, 
evaluation of “gross” and “net” risks and the determination 
of risk appetite by setting a “target” score for each major risk; 
• Consolidation of risk assessments for each business at 
Group level to identify organisation-wide impacts and trends; 
• A six-monthly risk assessment, action planning and 
reporting cycle, including the review by senior 
management, the Audit Committee and the Board of key 
risks and their mitigation;
• Reporting by the chairman of the Audit Committee to 
the Board on any matters which have arisen from the 
Committee’s review of the way in which the risk 
management and internal control processes have been 
applied and on any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, 
these processes; and 
• Periodic reviews of business units’ risk mitigation by the 
Group Head of Risk and by Group Internal Audit.
During the year, this programme was further strengthened 
through a number of initiatives, including: 
• Risk appetite deﬁnition updated and cascaded by means 
of revised risk assessment and escalation scales;
• A global Wolseley risk management conference, bringing 
together risk specialists from across the Group to share 
ideas and best practices;
• Launch of an updated and improved risk assessment tool, 
reﬂecting improvements requested by business units;
• Updated risk management policy;
• The development of a more integrated approach to 
Governance, Risk Management and Control within the 
IT function; and
• The ongoing development of key risk indicators to support 
qualitative assessments of the top risks affecting the Group.
Signiﬁcant risks to the Company’s performance
The nature of the industry in which we operate and our 
chosen strategy expose the Company to a number of risks. 
Listed on pages 41 to 43 are risks which senior management 
have identiﬁed as the most signiﬁcant, which have action 
plans for their mitigation and which are subject to regular 
review. The colouring (red, amber, green) shows the 
Company’s estimate of the inherent risk level before any 
mitigation. It should be noted that these risks are difﬁcult 
to estimate with accuracy. The materialisation of these risks 
could have an adverse effect on the Group’s results or 
ﬁnancial condition. Various mitigation strategies are 
employed to reduce these inherent risks to an acceptable 
level. The Company also faces many other risks which, 
although important and subject to regular review, have 
been assessed as less signiﬁcant and are not listed here. 
This includes some risks (such as the impact of restructuring 
activity or product price volatility), which were reported in last 
year’s Annual Report and which through changes in external 
factors and careful management are no longer material to the 
Group as a whole. 
However, many risk factors remain beyond the direct control 
of the Company and the risk management programme can 
only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that key 
risks are managed to an acceptable level. 
Find out more about Wolseley’s risk management and 
internal control activities in this section and elsewhere 
in the Annual Report:
Financial risk management: see page 37 in the 
Financial review and pages 114 and 115 in the notes 
to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements
–  Provisions: (see notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements page 116).
–  Contingent liabilities: (see notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements page 127 and page 150 in 
the Company ﬁnancial statements).
–  Provisions for self insured risks (see page 93).
–  Derivative ﬁnancial instruments (see page 110).
Key risks (see pages 41 to 43).
The Board and its Committees – see the “Corporate 
governance” section on pages 56 to 70, including the 
Report from the Audit Committee: see pages 69 and 70. 41
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business and performance Strategic overview
Inherent risk 
and trend Deﬁnition Mitigation
Market conditions
 
Inherent risk 
level: high
Increased risk
The Group’s results depend on the levels of activity in the 
new construction and property repair and remodelling 
markets. In light of the debt levels in Europe and concerns 
about economic recovery in the US, there continues to be 
a risk that markets may ﬂuctuate rapidly or experience a 
second downturn. Factors inﬂuencing this risk include:
• the general rate of GDP growth;
• consumer conﬁdence;
• the availability of credit to ﬁnance customer investment;
• mortgage and other interest rates;
•  the level of government initiatives to stimulate 
economic activity;
• inﬂation; and 
• unemployment. 
These factors are out of the Group’s control and are 
difﬁcult to forecast.
The majority of underperforming businesses have been 
identiﬁed through the resource allocation process and 
have been turned around or are being exited. This has 
made the Company intrinsically better placed to withstand 
a second downturn. 
A more conservative approach has been taken to the 
balance sheet. Adjusted net debt has been reduced, new 
ﬁnancing facilities have been arranged and there are tighter 
controls on capital expenditure. 
Market conditions are considered in detail during the 
Strategic Planning process, which includes forecasting 
and budgeting relating to the current economic climate. 
Performance is constantly monitored through reviews 
with each business. Internal visibility of monthly business 
performance is being enhanced. Most businesses have 
now completed organisational structure changes, which 
have created deﬁned business groups with clear cost 
accountability. Cost reduction and pricing initiatives continue 
to be developed where possible, and there is greater 
knowledge sharing on these topics across the businesses.
Competitive pressures and margin erosion
 
Inherent risk 
level: high
Increased risk
Current market conditions have further increased 
competition during the period under review which, if not 
mitigated, could lead to downward pressure on sales prices 
and proﬁt margins.
There is a risk that such competitive pressures will continue 
and could be exacerbated by factors such as levels of 
economic activity, customer or vendor consolidation, 
manufacturers shipping directly to customers, other 
changes in the route to market, and changes in technology.
Gross margin improvement initiatives are a strategic priority 
for all Wolseley businesses. All businesses are focused on 
continuous improvement in customer service, product 
availability and product mix. Examples of recent initiatives 
include:
•  Improvements in the visibility of gross margin across the 
Group through the use of Hyperion HFM software, which 
went live in October 2010; 
•  Knowledge sharing webcasts on pricing for the Company’s 
senior staff, sponsored by the CEO. For example, webcasts 
on the use of dynamic pricing and pricing matrices by 
Wolseley UK and DT Group;
•  In the US, there is greater emphasis on the development of 
counters, showrooms, E-commerce and private label sales. 
Matrix pricing efforts are contributing to greater consistency;
•  In Canada, a major training programme for branch 
managers and counter/showroom staff was launched;
•  Wolseley France continues to focus on the optimisation of 
product mix and customer mix and undertakes regular 
reviews of its pricing and discount matrix systems. It has 
also implemented pricing projects and negotiated improved 
purchasing terms and conditions; and
•  In Central Europe, terms have been renegotiated with 
unproﬁtable or low margin customers.
Litigation
 
Inherent risk 
level: medium
Increased risk
The international nature of Wolseley’s operations exposes 
it to the potential for litigation from third parties, and such 
exposure is considered to be greater in the US than in 
Europe. Litigation can arise in such areas as workers’ 
compensation, general employer liability, product liability 
and environmental and asbestos litigation.
There is a risk that the number of claims made against 
the Company may increase as a result of the changes in 
economic conditions, changes in purchasing practices or 
other factors. For example, an increase in the number of 
own label products offered by the Group may result in a 
greater risk of product warranty claims.
Although the number of claims made against the Company 
has increased during the year as an expected consequence 
of the environment in which it has operated, there has been 
no material change in the level of litigation in which the 
Group is involved. For more information on speciﬁc litigation 
to which the Company is exposed, see pages 93 and 116.
Levels of litigation are monitored by individual operating 
companies and by Group functions. A comprehensive 
liability insurance programme is maintained and insurance 
policy terms, conditions and limits were reviewed at the start 
of the last ﬁnancial year.
The Company is closely monitoring ongoing product 
litigation relating to historical operations in the US and 
has recently resolved a number of employment practice 
complaints in that country. HR and product quality 
assurance procedures will be kept under regular review 
as the Company works through current turbulent market 
conditions and expands its private label range of products.
In the case of claims related to exposure to asbestos, 
Wolseley employs independent professional advisers to 
actuarially determine its potential gross liability. Wolseley has 
insurance which signiﬁcantly exceeds the current estimated 
liability relating to asbestos claims. For more information 
on the Company’s exposure to asbestos-related litigation, 
see pages 93, 109 and 116. 42
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Risk management and internal control continued
Inherent risk 
and trend Deﬁnition Mitigation
People
 
Inherent risk 
level: medium
No change
Wolseley’s ability to provide leadership and products and 
services to customers depends on retaining sufﬁciently 
qualiﬁed, experienced and motivated personnel.
In order to increase productivity, and be able to take 
growth opportunities when markets improve, Wolseley 
must maintain the skills and experience of its existing 
management and continue to develop the managers 
of the future.
The current difﬁcult conditions experienced in certain 
markets, and the Group’s response to them, have resulted 
in somewhat increased staff turnover and may demotivate 
remaining staff.
The Company will continue to closely monitor staff turnover 
across all grades in all businesses. Retention data relating 
to the top 100–150 staff receives particular attention. 
Reward packages are being comprehensively reviewed 
and updated where necessary. A set of core values for the 
Group has been deﬁned and communicated, and a new 
programme of employee engagement surveys has been 
launched. Quarterly talent reviews across all businesses 
seek to identify high performing staff with potential. Clear 
succession plans have been developed and are reviewed 
every six months by the Executive Committee and the 
Board. There is greater career planning for counter and 
other front line staff and a greater focus on effective 
performance management and appraisals at half year 
and year end. 
Speciﬁc examples of counter-measures applied by business 
units include a greater use of market salary benchmarks in 
Canada, a review of the pay and beneﬁts structure in the 
UK, enhanced communications on career development in 
France, reinstatement of 401k pension contributions in the 
US and improved succession planning in the Nordic region.
Operational resilience
 
Inherent risk 
level: medium
No change
The Group can only carry on business as long as it has 
the people, the information technology and the physical 
infrastructure to do so. The safe and continued operation 
of these resources is threatened by natural and man-made 
perils and is affected by the level of investment available 
to improve them. For example,
•  some of the Company’s physical assets are located 
in areas exposed to natural catastrophe risks;
•  the Group remains reliant on a variety of different 
technology systems across the Group, some of which 
have been operating for many years; 
•  to optimise costs and supply chain efﬁciency, some 
companies within the Group have also centralised their 
distribution network and are therefore reliant on a smaller 
number of larger distribution centres; and
•  the level and sophistication of IT security threats is 
constantly evolving. 
Core IT systems and data centres for DT Group, Ferguson, 
Wolseley France, and Wolseley UK have documented plans 
which are tested regularly. An annual testing schedule of 
these plans is agreed by Group IT. Some businesses, such 
as Wolseley UK, have disaster recovery contracts with a 
third party to relocate to a back up facility. Options are being 
reviewed to further improve levels of resilience in Europe. 
In North America, proposals are being considered to 
accelerate the relocation of existing systems to a higher 
security facility in Cincinnati.
The Company operates an IT governance framework 
including dedicated IT security policies. Speciﬁc operational 
controls for IT security include intrusion detection, 
penetration testing, wireless remediation of issues, log and 
conﬁguration management and in-ﬂight projects to reduce 
the likelihood of an incident. Future plans include an 
intrusion prevention project and improvements in the 
monitoring of compliance with existing IT policies. A review 
of “e-data” risks and opportunities, focusing on data 
protection issues, is planned. 
The loss of a physical site is naturally hedged by the 
diversiﬁed nature of our locations, customers and suppliers. 
The Company has formally documented and tested plans 
for those distribution centres, head ofﬁce buildings and data 
centres where the risk exposure is deemed to be greatest. 
Some of these were successfully put into action following 
natural catastrophe incidents in the US (see case study on 
page 23). A comprehensive insurance programme is 
purchased, including coverage for property damage, 
business interruption and “cyber” risks. A reassessment of 
the Company’s business interruption risks has led to a 
reduction in the level of coverage purchased. 43
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business and performance Strategic overview
Inherent risk 
and trend Deﬁnition Mitigation
Capital expenditure and return on investment
 
Inherent risk 
level: medium/
low
Increased risk
A core element of the Company’s strategy is a focus on 
organic growth with “bolt-on” acquisitions only where 
signiﬁcant beneﬁts and synergies are available.
In light of this strategy, the ability of the Company’s 
management to control organic capital expenditure and 
to identify, value and integrate any such acquisitions can 
have a signiﬁcant impact on the return on investment 
obtained by investors in the Company.
The Company’s resource allocation process targets future 
capital allocation to those businesses capable of generating 
the highest return on investment. Capital expenditure 
approval limits were lowered in 2009 and all acquisitions 
irrespective of size require approval from the Group CEO 
and CFO. Both have been actively involved in reviewing 
recent acquisitions. Since the last year end report in August 
2010, the Company’s capital expenditure and disposals 
policy has been updated (October 2010) and going forward 
this will include guidance on expected M&A practices, a 
standard ﬁnancial model and narrative requirements. 
Governmental regulations, including anti-trust and bribery laws
 
Inherent risk 
level: medium/
low
No change
The Group’s operations are affected by various statutes, 
regulations and laws in the countries and markets in which it 
operates. The amount of such regulation and the penalties 
can change. 
While the Group is not engaged in a highly regulated 
industry, it is subject to the laws governing businesses 
generally, including laws relating to competition, international 
trade, corruption and fraud, land usage, zoning, the 
environment, health and safety, transportation, labour and 
employment practices (including pensions), data protection, 
payment terms and other matters. In addition, building 
codes or particular tax treatments may affect the products 
Wolseley’s customers are allowed to use and, consequently, 
changes in these may affect the saleability of some 
Wolseley products.
The Group monitors regulations across its markets to 
ensure that the effects of changes are minimised and that 
compliance with all applicable regulation is continually sought.
During the course of the year, a number of initiatives have 
been undertaken to respond to new or updated laws 
and regulations. These include, for instance, the launch 
in August 2010 of an updated compliance programme 
for the prevention of fraud, bribery and corruption. 
The Company reviewed its policies against the guidance 
raised by the UK Ministry of Justice regarding compliance 
with the UK Bribery Act, which came into force in July 2011. 
The Company continued to deploy online competition law 
training throughout Wolseley’s European operations.
Liquidity and funding risks 
 
Inherent risk 
level: medium/
low
Decreased risk
Wolseley’s current bank facilities include a covenant that 
its net debt should not exceed 3.5 times its annualised 
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and 
amortisation (“EBITDA”). A breach of this covenant could 
result in a signiﬁcant proportion of the Group’s borrowings 
becoming payable immediately.
There is a risk that the Group might have to take actions to 
reduce costs or preserve cash that it would not otherwise 
have chosen to do, or that it might not have the resources 
to exploit opportunities it would otherwise have pursued.
There are also risks relating to the Company’s ability to 
maintain sufﬁcient working capital, for example, increases 
in bad debt. 
The Company’s liquidity position has strengthened through 
the successful syndication of two ﬁve-and-a-quarter-year 
revolving credit facilities totalling £822 million. Reduction of 
the Group’s adjusted net debt from £1,195 million (31 July 
2010) to £705 million (31 July 2010) provides greater 
ﬁnancial ﬂexibility. The Group’s committed facilities currently 
provide signiﬁcant headroom. The Group purchases 
insurance to protect itself against trade credit risks and 
seeks to ensure no special payment terms are agreed. 
The Company is monitoring plans for the implementation 
of the EU Late Payment Directive into the domestic laws of 
EU member states, but has no speciﬁc mitigation in place 
at present given the uncertainty regarding implementation. 
Due to the low risk levels, further mitigation is not planned 
beyond the continued monthly monitoring and re-
forecasting activity. 
Further information can be found in the Financial review 
section on pages 34 to 37 . 44
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate responsibility
We are making good progress and have 
a clear direction for the future
During the year, we gave priority to those parts of our 
corporate responsibility programme that would best support 
our business objectives. Some examples are given in the 
Business review and more information is available on the 
Wolseley plc website: www.wolseley.com. The rest of this 
section provides more detail on how we have further 
integrated the corporate responsibility programme into 
our operations and on our plans for the years ahead.
We have achieved our objectives for the year: 
• We have introduced a comprehensive ethics programme, 
with every employee now familiar with our new Code of 
Conduct introduced in 2010. 
• Our new anti-corruption training programme will reach 
all of our participating employees by the end of this 
ﬁnancial year. 
• A thorough review of our health and safety programmes 
has resulted in tougher and more ambitious targets for 
our businesses. 
• We have reviewed our environmental impact and the way 
we set environmental targets, and how we report on them 
will be revised during ﬁnancial year 2011/12. 
• The training and development programmes for our 
employees, from sales staff to senior executives, continue 
to be maintained and improved, with positive results.
Our values
Last year we identiﬁed and communicated our Group 
core values, which are inherent in all of our businesses. 
Local businesses may have slightly different interpretations 
but the core values are consistent across the Company. 
The principles have been discussed with employees 
throughout the Group and are reinforced through regular 
communications from the Chief Executive and senior 
management. They are also embedded in the way we 
conduct our performance reviews – both of our operations 
and of our people (see the People section on page 48). 
These are our values, together with some examples of 
what is expected of us:
We act with integrity
We conduct all our activities with fairness, 
honesty and integrity.
We drive for results and improvement
We listen and respond to the needs of our 
customers, then exceed their expectations; 
we are not happy with the status quo, and 
constantly strive to improve.
We value our people
We understand, respect and value personal 
and cultural differences; we are open and 
honest in all our dealings with our people.
The things that are important to us
We want our values and corporate responsibility 
programmes to be at the heart of what we do – how we run 
the business day-to-day and how we can improve it in the 
future. They will help to drive operational improvement. 
In practice this means that our Group values and corporate 
responsibility framework – which we have used for the past 
few years – will continue to provide a guide for how we will 
continue to improve our business. As we are a decentralised 
Group, the priorities are determined by what is important 
for each business in each country, and targets are set and 
progress is measured during the operational performance 
reviews. The projects, activities and targets are business-
driven. Some examples are given in this report. 
The ﬁve key themes of our corporate responsibility 
framework are summarised in the table opposite, together 
with an explanation of what they mean to us and the beneﬁts 
to the business. 
With the assistance of a specialist consultancy, we are 
reviewing our policies and the practices in each of our 
businesses in respect of each of the ﬁve elements of our 
corporate responsibility programme; particular attention is 
being given to our environmental impact. During the 2011/12 
ﬁnancial year, the Board and the Executive Committee will 
discuss the ﬁndings of that review in order to assess the 
scope for setting targets and KPIs aimed at improving 
environmental performance and reducing our carbon impact. 
This review will take into account the existing good practices 
and identify actions which have the greatest opportunity 
to improve operational productivity. It will also assess the 
scope and potential for our sustainable product offering. 
The considerations of our external stakeholders will also be 
taken into account when developing our policy. We will aim 
to have the necessary systems in place for the start of the 
following ﬁnancial year. This will not detract from our existing 
commitments. 45
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business and performance Strategic overview
Key themes
Health  
and safety
(see pages 47 and 48)
Principle
We will provide a safe and healthy working 
environment and we will not compromise the 
health and safety of any individual.
Business beneﬁts
Protecting the health and safety of our people 
helps us to gain and maintain their trust and 
loyalty. It also ensures that we protect the skills 
and experience that are used to serve our 
customers. Maintaining our physical assets 
minimises the risk of injury, helps us to preserve 
the integrity of our operations, improves 
efﬁciency, lowers our costs and improves 
the quality of our customer service.
People
(see pages 48 and 49)
Principle
We value our people. We understand, respect 
and value personal and cultural differences.
Business beneﬁts
The development and retention of our people will 
lead to increased motivation and improvement 
in the quality of operations and the service 
we provide our customers, and will lower our 
cost base.
Responsible 
business
(see pages 49 and 50)
Principle
We are committed to observing both the spirit 
and the letter of the laws of all jurisdictions in 
which we operate, and to complying with our 
Code of Conduct. We expect our vendors, 
contractors and agents to adhere to our Code 
of Conduct and to adopt similar standards.
Business beneﬁts
Conducting business responsibly and with 
integrity minimises risks related to fraud and 
corruption and strengthens our reputation. It 
also makes our business more efﬁcient because 
we avoid costly disruptions. Compliance 
programmes strengthen our internal controls.
Environment
(see pages 50, 51 and 52)
Principle
We will run efﬁcient operations that minimise 
waste and reduce any negative effect of our 
business activities on the environment. We will 
promote sustainable development.
Business beneﬁts
Measuring our environmental performance in 
chosen areas will enable us to become more 
efﬁcient, reduce operational costs and reduce 
our impact on the environment.
Community 
engagement
(see page 53)
Principle
We will be a responsible member of the 
communities in which we work.
Business beneﬁts
Building closer relationships with the 
communities in which we operate helps us to 
promote our business, attract high quality 
recruits and gain a greater understanding of our 
customers, vendors and employees. It helps us 
run a better, more efﬁcient business. 46
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate responsibility – governance 
and risk management
Overall policy and direction is set by the Board, which 
reviews the Group’s corporate responsibility-related activity 
annually. Each business unit identiﬁes its objectives for the 
year, which include non-ﬁnancial targets for the improvement 
of health and safety performance and, in most cases, 
customer satisfaction, employee engagement and reducing 
environmental impact. The targets set, and the KPIs used to 
measure progress, may differ as they are orientated towards 
what is most appropriate for the improvement of the 
particular business. These targets form part of the annual 
process of budget preparation and the monthly review of 
performance conducted by the Group Chief Executive, the 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and business unit management. 
The Executive Committee regularly reviews these objectives 
and also ensures that they are aligned with and take into 
account Wolseley’s strategic objectives and the interests 
of its stakeholders. The Group’s system of sharing best 
practice includes webinars which discuss examples of 
management actions which have improved productivity 
or results. These will include examples of improvements in 
health and safety and environmental management systems. 
To ensure that the integrity of the business is maintained 
and strengthened, the Company’s internal audit programme 
includes detailed reviews of compliance with Group policies 
on health and safety and the implementation of its ethics 
programme. This is complemented by the maintenance of 
the internal controls programme which ensures that there 
is rigorous testing of and adherence to our procedures. 
The Group’s Company Secretary and General Counsel is 
responsible for the overall framework and direction of the 
corporate responsibility programme, and regularly discusses 
progress with business unit representatives.
As part of the Group’s wider risk management and internal 
controls system, each business, and each corporate function, 
assesses non-ﬁnancial as well as ﬁnancial risks and sets 
action plans for management of those risks. Included in that 
assessment process are risks relating to health and safety, 
environmental and other compliance requirements, employees, 
fraud, corruption and product quality. An explanation of the 
Group’s risk management programme is set out on pages 
38 to 43.
Corporate responsibility continued
More information on these activities can be found online at  
http://www.wolseley.com/corporate-responsibility.aspx
Progress against goals
Goals Progress/Status
Targets set in 2010/11
All employees to be 
trained on the Code of 
Conduct.
Complete. The new Code of Conduct was communicated to all employees through one or more 
means: online training; presentations from management; distribution of hard copies of the Code 
of Conduct; and posting of the key principles on message boards.
Training of relevant 
employees.
Substantially complete. A detailed online training programme was developed and has been 
deployed in some parts of the Group. This will be completed, on target, by the end of 2011.
Risk assessments for 
fraud and corruption.
Substantially complete. Our businesses are identifying their higher value, higher risk business 
relationships and activities. Where necessary, contract terms and procedures have been or are 
being improved. Due diligence is being or will be conducted on higher-risk business partners. 
The process is expected to be completed by the end of 2012. 
Improvement of health 
and safety performance.
All businesses have set targets and most businesses have achieved or exceeded their goals 
for the ﬁnancial year.
Improvement of 
environment data quality.
Ongoing. The integrity of our systems for recording environmental data steadily improves: more 
businesses are able to provide accurate data, and a lower proportion is derived from estimates.
T argets and priorities for 2012
Activity Deadline
Thorough review of environmental efﬁciency programmes for the improvement of fuel use, energy consumption 
and reduction of waste. Existing best practices in business units will be shared across the Group. Where they 
do not already exist, and if appropriate, suitable targets will be set at business unit and at Group level.
End 2012 
Improvement of health and safety performance throughout the Group. Appropriate targets are set at 
business unit level and Group level, and reviewed regularly. Where relevant, an element of management 
bonuses will be dependent on improvement of health and safety performance. 
July 2012
Ensure performance reviews are conducted for all employees at all levels. End 2012
Ensure every business conducts employee engagement surveys on a regular basis and sets improvement 
targets based on the output from those surveys.
Ongoing
Robust talent review and succession plans in place across the Group. July 2012
Ensure due diligence procedures are improved and contract terms with existing and new key business 
partners meet the standards of our ethics programme.
July 2012 47
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business and performance Strategic overview
Health and safety
Efforts to provide a healthy and safe environment for our 
employees, customers and others whom we come into 
contact with have continued throughout the year. Overall our 
results have not improved as much as we would like. In part, 
this is because we are capturing more and better quality data 
for improved reporting. However, we plan to do better next 
year. Our medical injury rate has improved across the Group 
and in every business unit over the year although the number 
of lost workdays has, overall, remained static. The number 
of third party collisions has increased; investigations are 
under way to better understand this phenomenon and 
improvements are being made. Despite our efforts, and the 
overall reduction in medical injury rates, two of our employees 
were involved in fatal accidents and some of our employees 
suffered serious injuries while at work. We cannot tolerate 
this and have set further improvement actions. 
This year we conducted a thorough review of our policies 
and procedures for the management of health and safety 
throughout the Group. This included an assessment of the 
quality and integrity of our management, reporting and 
training systems and the benchmarking of our performance 
against other companies in our sector as well as those 
companies regarded as leaders in health and safety 
management. We found that, as a Group and in most of our 
main geographical regions, our safety performance leaves 
room for further improvement. With the assistance of a 
specialist consultancy, we assessed ourselves in several 
categories and compared our scores with publicly available 
information for our nearest competitors. The categories were: 
culture and values; policies and standards; governance 
and director competence; organisational structures, roles 
and responsibilities; management systems; performance 
management; and monitoring and audit. This allowed us 
to better understand the current status of our operations 
and to clarify our ambition and the standards we wish to 
reach over time. Although in some categories we were 
assessed as demonstrating good practice, we are still 
improving our performance in other areas. Our aim is to 
demonstrate good practice in all categories and in all parts 
of the Group.
Our review also showed that our businesses have well-
established frameworks for the management of health and 
safety risks. Training and communications programmes are 
well developed and new themes and techniques are used 
to maintain awareness. For example, during the year, the 
in-house magazine at DT Group featured accounts by 
employees describing their own accidents and injuries and 
saying what they would do differently, which proved very 
powerful with colleagues. Ferguson emphasised driver safety 
by requiring all new ﬂeet vehicles to be equipped with bright 
orange safety belts as a simple but effective visual reminder. 
Wolseley UK continues its monthly programme of “essential 
safety themes”, an email and poster campaign which 
includes practical steps to reduce risks. Local health and 
safety initiatives are shared across the Group so that best 
practices can be identiﬁed and adopted.
Improving the safety culture in the Nordic region
Stark has pioneered a safety management review process 
which has already improved standards in its branches. 
The process involves a detailed analysis and discussion 
with branch management of four areas: internal trafﬁc; 
ergonomics (for example, manual handling); accident 
hazards (for example, with the use of technical equipment); 
and formal risk assessments based on external and internal 
standards. 
Businesses are given a score on a scale of 1 to 5 
(basic compliance with laws earns a score of 5, while full 
compliance with all external and internal standards of best 
practice produces a score of 1). This provides an incentive 
for branches to accelerate their safety improvements to 
achieve a higher rating. So far, 77 per cent of the branches 
in the programme have a score of 3 or better and 42 per 
cent of the branches have a score of 2 or better. 
Ferguson: Safety Leadership
During the year, every manager in Ferguson was involved 
in a new, customised “Safety Leadership” training 
programme, aimed at improving workplace and driver 
safety. This equipped them to deliver training to every 
employee as part of a “Safety Fundamentals” curriculum. 
The target beneﬁts were not only improvement in 
workplace safety, but better customer service: the 
Ferguson slogan “Nobody expects more of us than we do” 
applies to all aspects of the way they operate.  48
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Ferguson district trainer programme
Trainers are being introduced in Ferguson districts whose 
objective is to identify, develop, implement and evaluate 
training programmes in sales, leadership, customer 
service, product knowledge and systems for Ferguson 
branch associates which support the businesses’ 
strategies and goals. Emphasis is on local delivery of 
training across all job functions: drivers, warehouse, inside 
sales, counters, showrooms, outside sales, branch 
managers, operations and new hires. The training delivery 
will include on the job coaching and mentoring, as well as 
group-led classroom and web-based programmes. 
Performance measures will include: the number of distinct 
district and branch associates trained; the number of 
training events conducted; hours of instruction per course; 
learning achieved as a percentage of those who pass 
milestone exams; productivity improvements by role, 
based on observed performance and supervisor and 
associate feedback; employee engagement scores based 
on survey results; branch employee retention; and branch 
operational performance. 
Corporate responsibility continued
Last year, we obtained a sufﬁciently reliable set of data against 
which we could measure our performance year-on-year. 
The table below therefore shows our performance this year 
and explains the variances from the ﬁnancial year 2009/10. 
The three key performance indicators are the only ones used 
throughout the Group; additional metrics are used in our 
businesses in order to encourage speciﬁc improvements. 
During the course of 2011/12, we shall further review which 
are the appropriate Group-wide KPIs to use. KPIs are 
reviewed regularly within each business and by the 
Executive in order to identify new trends and to ensure that 
the appropriate management actions are being taken.
FY 2011 FY 2010
 per cent  
change from  
previous year
Medical injury rate
Number of at-work injuries 
requiring medical treatment 
per 100 employees 2.97 3.43 –13.51%
Lost workday rate
Number of workdays lost 
per 100 employees 62.51 62.32 +0.03%
Fleet collision rate
Number of third-party 
vehicle collisions per 
100 vehicles 19.33 17 .27 + 1 1.92%
People
Throughout the year, our businesses have focused on 
maintaining and improving upon high standards of customer 
service. We aim to differentiate ourselves from our 
competitors by demonstrating superior knowledge of our 
product range, providing tailored advice to our professional 
and retail customers, and offering sustainable products to 
meet stakeholder and customer expectations. Superior 
customer service is delivered by engaged, well-trained and 
knowledgeable sales staff. Our broad-ranging programme 
of sales training is now well established and continues to 
produce good results. Furthermore, this year an additional 
fund was allocated to the training and development of branch 
managers and front line sales staff. 
Despite the economic downturn and consequent reductions 
in the levels of recruitment, we are pleased to see that after 
several years there is still a very high retention rate overall. 
In particular, we have a high retention rate for our employees 
recruited through our graduate development programmes, 
and are now seeing participants from that programme take 
management positions in various countries around the 
Group. Our Leadership Development Programmes are aimed 
at developing mid-to-senior level managers so that they 
acquire the broader skills required to operate at higher 
management levels. For example, Wolseley’s European 
Senior Leadership Development Programme, operated 
in collaboration with IMD business school in Lausanne, 
Switzerland, provides an intensive learning and development 
forum for our high-potential senior managers who are, 
or who aspire to become, part of the senior leadership 
in our businesses and in corporate functions. 
Wolseley UK apprenticeship scheme
The UK business participates in an accredited, 
government-funded apprenticeship programme which 
puts recruits through a nine-month course focusing on 
branch operations and customer service in particular. 
Successful completion of that course results in a national 
vocational qualiﬁcation (NVQ level 2) and participants then 
proceed to an advanced course in customer service, which 
can be completed in a further 9-12 months. All of the 
training is provided in-house, with external mentoring and 
regular assessment through the government scheme. 
The aim is for all these participants to become branch 
managers of the future.  49
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business and performance Strategic overview
High-potential employees are also beginning to go through 
an assessment as part of the longer term succession 
planning process. At least twice in each year, the Executive 
Committee and the Board review the succession plans both 
for their own positions and, in the case of the Executive 
Committee, for the senior managers who report to them. 
Thus, we aim to ensure that there is an effective training 
and development programme for employees at all levels 
of our organisation.
During the recession, we recognised the difﬁculty in 
maintaining morale and commitment. We are privileged 
to have loyal employees who have continued to work hard 
for the Company despite the pressure on wages and on 
proﬁtability. Their dedication is something that we recognise 
and appreciate. This year, we required every business to 
conduct an employee engagement survey, so that we 
could better understand the concerns of our employees 
and identify the action needed to address those concerns. 
We were pleased to see engagement scores that were 
generally higher than the industry average and in most cases 
higher than the scores achieved in 2008. Nevertheless, we 
realise that there is much more that we can do for our loyal 
employees, and the ﬁndings of those engagement surveys 
are being acted upon. We will conduct employee 
engagement surveys annually.
As part of our efforts to improve the quality of management 
and the development of our people, we require that all 
employees go through a detailed performance appraisal at 
the end of each ﬁnancial year. At that point, objectives are set 
for the next ﬁnancial year and a personal development plan is 
discussed. All employees are expected to discuss progress 
against their objectives and their development plans regularly 
with their managers, and at least at the half year. In parts of 
our business, the personal performance evaluation process 
was upgraded during the year so that each competency that 
is assessed is aligned with our Group values.
Responsible business
Our new Code of Conduct was successfully introduced in all 
parts of the Group this year, reaching all 45,000 employees. 
It sets out in clear terms the standards and behaviour that is 
expected of our employees and, in some cases, our business 
partners. Training on the Code of Conduct was provided 
through an online presentation, using case studies relevant to 
the business and an interactive question and answer module. 
For those employees who do not have access to a computer 
at work, materials were also provided for use in presentations 
by management, and copies of the Code of Conduct, 
leaﬂets and posters have been distributed to all locations. 
The Code of Conduct sets out the high ethical standards 
which Wolseley expects from its employees and others 
carrying out its business, focusing on compliance with the 
law, in particular avoiding bribery, corruption and fraud, 
maintenance of gifts and hospitality registers, preservation 
of conﬁdential information, managing conﬂicts of interest, 
treating customers and vendors fairly, engaging in fair 
competition, maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance, transparency and responsibility, providing 
a safe and healthy working environment, running efﬁcient 
operations, minimising waste and limiting our environmental 
Diversity in the business
For a number of years, Ferguson in the US has promoted 
diversity through a programme of recruitment, training 
and awareness, and leadership development. The effort 
consists of engagement surveys and exit interviews; 
leadership development and mentoring programmes; 
diversity training (through workshops and web-based 
training); and offering alternative work schedules. 
The programme also features an internal newsletter 
that encourages all employees to build skills that promote 
communication, teamwork, performance and productivity. 
The programme extends outside the company and 
includes vendor diversity, which promotes links with 
companies owned by minorities, women and service-
disabled veterans. 
Wolseley UK: modular engineering 
Pipe Center’s new modular engineering facility provides 
the customer with a design and manufacture service 
for pre-fabricated, multi-service modules, which feature 
various components such as pre-insulated pipe work, 
electrical containment and duct work delivered to site 
on time and on budget.
When compared against more traditional methods of 
construction, this facility has numerous environmental 
advantages, including reduction in vehicle use and carbon 
emissions; less waste, as the modules are delivered on 
temporary re-usable trolleys with no waste packaging 
to dispose of; improved health and safety through more 
efﬁcient manufacturing and less congested work areas; 
less wasted energy due to improvements to installation 
efﬁciency; and as the products are ISO 9001 quality 
approved they consistently meet customer requirements.
More information on The Wolseley Code of Conduct 
can be found on our website at http://www.
wolseley.com/investor-centre/our-governance-
and-ethics/code-of-conduct.aspx. 50
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate responsibility continued
impact, and developing our employees and valuing diversity. 
Wolseley’s new Group-wide conﬁdential reporting system, 
“Speak Up!”, is available in all the languages in which the 
Company operates and has worked effectively over the last 
year. The conﬁdential reports are investigated and, where 
necessary, actions are taken to rectify any weakness in 
our systems that may have been identiﬁed. These actions, 
and the overall integrity of the reporting system, are subject 
to regular scrutiny by the Audit Committee.
In anticipation of the UK Bribery Act 2010 coming into force 
during the ﬁnancial year, the Company developed a 
comprehensive anti-fraud and anti-corruption manual, which 
includes case studies and training materials with examples 
relevant to our business activities. The employees in our 
Group who are perceived to be most at risk of exposure to 
fraud, bribery and corruption have been identiﬁed for more 
detailed training. The programme includes an interactive 
online module with test questions which every participant 
must pass. An action plan is in place for the identiﬁcation and 
review of higher-risk and higher-value business relationships. 
If necessary following this additional due diligence, we will 
amend our contract terms and our procedures for the 
negotiation of contracts and the retention of agents or service 
providers. In March 2011 the UK Department of Justice 
issued its “Guidance about procedures which relevant 
commercial organisations can put into place to prevent 
persons associated with them from bribing”. We reviewed 
this guidance document with the aim of ensuring that our 
policies and systems that we have in place could be 
regarded as “adequate procedures” within the meaning 
of the Bribery Act. 
Timber and ethical product sourcing
In October 2010, the European Union and the Council of 
the European Union adopted a Regulation laying down 
the obligations of operators who place timber and timber 
products on the market. Its substantive terms apply from 
March 2013. This Regulation will require companies such 
as Wolseley to meet certain standards, including having a 
due diligence system in place, when bringing timber onto 
the European market and, where the timber or timber 
products are already on the European market, to be able to 
identify those who have supplied timber or timber products. 
The Company already has a well-established system in place 
to allow it to track timber from its origin throughout the chain 
of custody, and continues to work with vendors to ensure 
that all timber is identiﬁable as originating from certiﬁed 
sources. Our ethical timber policy already sets high 
standards for the procurement of timber and the existing 
compliance framework should therefore be readily adaptable 
to new requirements. Sourcing managers and environmental 
specialists in the Group have already begun to work more 
closely to ensure that the systems in place will meet those 
future legislative requirements well in advance of their coming 
into force. We believe that this will provide other beneﬁts 
to the organisation: more efﬁcient and robust purchasing 
processes, giving our customers greater conﬁdence that 
they can rely on us for high quality products and materials.
In Wolseley UK, the pilot programme for the development 
of a comprehensive ethical product sourcing programme 
has made steady progress. An assessment process has 
been introduced which enables vendors to provide details 
of how they comply with the requirements of Wolseley’s 
policy, including the provision of documentary evidence 
of compliance. It is intended to include a greater number 
of vendors in this programme, in each case assessing the 
risks associated with the product, country of origin and 
complexity of the supply chain.
Our efforts to improve our commitment to product quality 
and integrity are continuous. There is now closer collaboration 
amongst our sourcing and quality assurance and quality 
control specialists within the Group to ensure that best 
practices are shared and are more consistent in our 
businesses. An improved procedure for response to product 
safety concerns has also been introduced in every business. 
Environment
A desire to improve and integrate environmental 
management into our operations.
The impact of our operations on the environment is 
summarised in the tables in this section. It is based on 
improved data quality, providing a more reliable assessment 
of our efﬁciency. We have not been satisﬁed with the nature 
of the data we gather or the way in which we set targets and 
measure performance, as a Group and at business unit level. 
We have been able to provide more detailed information for 
inclusion in the Carbon Disclosure Project – we were pleased 
to see our score improve on the previous year – but in doing 
so we recognised that there was more that we could do to 
integrate carbon reduction actions into our everyday 
business life. 
Some of our businesses already have established, high-
quality programmes to improve their environmental impact. 
These include fuel efﬁciency plans as well as programmes for 
the reduction of energy consumption and waste. Examples 
of our achievements are included in this report. Our current 
practice is that guidelines are set by the Board and the 
Executive Committee but targets are set at business unit 
level, taking into account their speciﬁc business objectives, 
and this is consistent with our model of ensuring that 
accountability for performance improvement remains with 
business unit management. In some cases, our existing 
practices have boosted our credentials when bidding for 
major construction contracts and we think this has given 
us a competitive advantage. At present we do not have a 
comprehensive Group-wide programme, nor do we set or 
disclose targets at a Group level. This has been driven by the 
decentralised nature of our business and by the difﬁculty of 
identifying adequate targets and KPIs that are meaningful 
and equally applicable to all of our operations. However, 
we continue to measure and report on greenhouse gas 
emissions, water consumption and waste management, 
and these ﬁgures are shown later in this section.  51
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business and performance Strategic overview
The Group further reduced its environmental footprint this 
year. Greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by 9 per 
cent, non-hazardous waste was reduced by 6 per cent and 
hazardous waste by 26 per cent. These ﬁgures take into 
account a change in the number of Group entities within the 
scope of environmental reporting as compared to the 
ﬁnancial year 2009/10, in particular the exclusion of data 
relating to our Italian business for 2010/11 following its 
disposal during the year.
Greenhouse gas emissions (“tCO2e emissions”)
The majority of the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions derive 
from electricity use at our locations (47 per cent) and the 
transportation of our products (27 per cent). Fuel use in 
operations and the transportation of people account for 
14 per cent and 12 per cent respectively.
As in previous years, tCO2e emissions have been reported in 
accordance with the principles of the World Business Council 
for Sustainable Development and the World Resources 
Institute’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol (“GHG Protocol”). 
The GHG Protocol categorises emissions as follows:
• Scope 1 – Direct emissions. 
These are emissions for which businesses are directly 
responsible.
• Scope 2 – Electricity indirect emissions. 
These are emissions from the electricity which a company 
buys to use in its equipment or operations.
• Scope 3 – Other indirect emissions. 
These are emissions from activities that are relevant to a 
company but are not within its direct control – for example, 
transport in vehicles not owned by the company.
Wolseley reports on its Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, 
as deﬁned by the GHG Protocol, and aims to report on its 
Scope 3 emissions wherever possible. The table opposite 
therefore includes selected Scope 3 emissions (those arising 
from business travel), although it should be noted that a 
proportion of the data is derived from estimates. Each year 
we aim to reduce our reliance on estimates so that we can 
provide data based on accurate measurements. This year, 
approximately 60 per cent of our data is derived, or partly 
derived, from estimates. This compares to 65 per cent 
last year.
A number of factors inﬂuence the amount of electricity used, 
fuel consumed and business travel undertaken across the 
Group, and hence the corresponding greenhouse gas 
emissions. These factors include the fuel used in operations, 
the size of vehicle ﬂeets for the transportation of both goods 
and people, and the overall level of business activity. 
Changes in each of these during ﬁnancial year 2010/11 
have resulted in decreases in emissions in several of the 
categories noted in the table opposite when compared 
to 2009/10 ﬁgures. 
Speciﬁc programmes aimed at reducing fuel consumption, 
including the backhaul and route optimisation programmes 
in Ferguson, have also contributed to the decreases in 
emissions. Emissions from air and rail travel have increased 
as the overall level of business activity has improved. 
The Group has also taken steps to improve the accuracy 
and completeness of its emissions data, including the use 
of actual third-party information, for example relating to fuel 
consumption in company vehicles, rather than estimating 
such consumption as in previous years.
Source
FY2011  
emissions
(tCO2e)
1
FY2010  
emissions
(tCO2e)
1
FY2009  
emissions
(tCO2e)
1
Electricity use 346,280 360,069 393,930
Fuel use: operations
2
101,190 104,623 1 18,270
Fuel use: transportation 
of goods 197,802 245,468 246,518
Business travel: vehicles 81,543 96,567 87,647
Business travel: air and rail 7,532 5,215 8,189
Refrigerant leakage 2,550 3,303 1,594
Total
3
736,897 815,245 856,148
Emissions per £m 
of revenue 54.2 61.7 59.3
1  Greenhouse gas emissions are reported as tonnes of CO2 equivalent 
(abbreviated as tCO2e), based on the Global Warming Potential (“GWP”) 
of each of the “basket of six” greenhouse gases, as deﬁned by the Kyoto 
Protocol. The GWP of CO2 is 1 (1 tonne CO2 = 1 tonne CO2e). For other 
greenhouse gases in the “basket of six”, including refrigerants, the GWP is 
relative to the CO2 over a 100-year time horizon (eg one tonne of the refrigerant 
R407C is equivalent to 1,526 tonnes of CO2 in terms of its potential impact on 
climate change). 
2 Includes supplied heat (district heating).
3 Based on a combination of actual and estimated data. 52
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Wolseley UK’s “Go Green” campaign 
As part of the Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) audit 
programme in the UK business, the “Go Green” campaign 
was initiated to further improve upon Wolseley UK’s existing 
HSE compliance initiatives. These compliance-based audits 
focus on key HSE matters affecting the business with the 
aim being for all sites to achieve compliance standards 
(measured consistently in all UK sites) and, ultimately, an 
internal target of “green” status. A site achieves this status 
when it is 100 per cent compliant in 10 auditable 
categories, supported by documentary evidence.
The campaign was a joint initiative between the Internal 
Audit and HSE teams of Wolseley UK, with support given 
by each of the business unit management teams as 
required. Any outstanding items identiﬁed following an audit 
taking place were tracked through to completion and 
performance was measured weekly using a reporting 
dashboard. Given the success of the programme since its 
introduction during 2011, Wolseley will maintain it as part of 
its continuing improvement of compliance and of branch 
manager training on health, safety and environment 
matters. 
Corporate responsibility continued
Waste management
The Group’s businesses generate non-hazardous waste and 
smaller quantities of hazardous waste. Deﬁnitions vary from 
country to country: hazardous waste may include items such 
as batteries and electronic equipment; non-hazardous waste 
typically includes materials such as paper, plastic and metal.
In the ﬁnancial year 2010/11, 7 per cent of hazardous waste 
and 27 per cent of non-hazardous waste was recycled. 
This compares with 7 per cent and 29 per cent respectively 
for the previous year. The remaining waste was sent to landﬁll 
or incinerated. Our companies strive to increase the amount 
of waste that is recycled, and the programmes that are in 
place continue to show gradual improvement. Of the total 
waste generated by the Group’s activities in 2011, 
approximately 26 per cent is based on actual data. 
The remaining 74 per cent was partly or entirely estimated 
– this is an improvement on last year. 
Hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste
Final waste 
destinations
FY2011 
(tonnes)
FY2010 
(tonnes)
FY2009 
(tonnes)
FY2011 
(tonnes)
FY2010 
(tonnes)
FY2009 
(tonnes)
Incinerated 793 1,098 1,283 14,601 10,120 6,599
Landﬁll 168 190 250 39,725 45,623 85,003
Recycled 68 96 77 19,855 23,266 22,617
Total
1
1,029 1,384 1,610 74,181 79,010 114,617
Waste per 
£m of 
revenue 0.08 0.1 0.1 5.5 6.0 7 .9
1 Based on a combination of actual and estimated data.
Water use
The majority of the Group’s water consumption is related 
to normal operational and sanitary use. Although water 
consumption is not as material a factor in our operations as it 
would be for a manufacturer, we have continued to measure 
water consumption throughout the Group in an effort to 
improve our water efﬁciency. The Group’s water is almost 
exclusively supplied by local utility providers. This year, our 
overall water use decreased by 17 per cent. This reﬂects a 
number of factors, including a reduction in the number of 
properties across the Group to which water is supplied and 
restructuring of individual businesses within the scope of our 
reporting, which have led to lower volumes of water being 
consumed. 
FY2011  
(cubic 
metres)
FY2010  
(cubic 
metres)
FY2009  
(cubic 
metres)
Total water 
consumption
1
831,038 1,001,515 984, 102
Average water 
consumption per 
employee 18.5 21.2 19.4
1  83 per cent of the 2011 ﬁgure is based on estimated, or partly estimated, data. 
This compares to 89 per cent for 2010. 53
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business and performance Strategic overview
Community engagement
In all of our businesses, our employees are encouraged to 
develop their skills by contributing to charitable or other 
activities outside the workplace which beneﬁt the communities 
in which they work or live. In addition, each business unit has 
the discretion to select the charitable or community projects 
that most resonate with its employees or that provide a link 
to its operations. Many of our companies recognise the 
importance of their presence in a particular community 
and the value it can bring both to the business and the area 
in which its employees live. A notable example this year of 
how this has worked in practice is given opposite. 
Our principal areas for charitable support continue to be 
the alleviation of homelessness, the provision of training for 
the homeless or marginalised in order to allow them to return 
to work, and the improvement of the quality of the built 
environment. Our businesses have also supported numerous 
other charitable causes, including the relief of suffering 
following natural disasters, support for the aged, and the 
development of the arts. 
Wolseley continues to contribute to the construction sector 
support for the Great Ormond Street children’s hospital 
“Raising the Roof” campaign, whose purpose is to fund 
the development of a new centre for neurosciences. We are 
in the second year of our partnership with Impetus Trust 
(www.impetustrust.org.uk), an organisation which works 
to break the cycle of poverty by accelerating the growth of 
charities and social enterprises that ﬁght economic 
disadvantage, helping them to multiply their social impact. 
Through its venture philanthropy model providing strategic 
funding, management support and specialist expertise, 
Impetus has helped its portfolio of organisations to grow their 
income by an average of 31 per cent a year and to increase 
the number of people they help by an average of 40 per 
cent a year. Included in the Impetus portfolio is Blue Sky 
Development & Regeneration – see opposite for more details. 
Recognising our commitment to the maintenance and 
development of the integrity of the built environment, this year 
Wolseley became a supporter of The Prince’s Foundation 
for the Built Environment (www.princes-foundation.org). 
One of The Prince of Wales’ charities, it promotes the 
understanding of sustainable building and encourages 
community engagement in the improvement of public health 
and affordable and safer streets and communities. Its mission 
is to transform lives by making great places. Its work includes 
master planning new cities and promoting sustainable building 
through its showcase “Natural House” (to which Wolseley 
contributed materials supplied through its Sustainable 
Building Center). The Foundation also undertakes education 
initiatives to train individuals committed to maintaining and 
building better communities; Wolseley also contributed to 
The Prince of Wales’s Building Craft Apprentices programme, 
which among other things aims to increase the numbers 
of skilled building craftspeople in the UK.
Ripon, UK – fully engaged in the community
Wolseley’s shared service centre in the UK is based 
in Ripon, North Yorkshire. It supports all of the UK’s 
operations and is the city’s largest employer; it has been 
in the area for 40 years. Wolseley UK and its employees 
have supported the community in numerous ways. 
These are only a few examples: fundraising activities for 
a variety of local charities; hosting work experience for 
students and offering careers advice; supplying more than 
50 staff to the police and emergency services “Crucial 
Crew” which teaches primary school children how to 
deal with various threats and emergencies; numerous 
contributions in-kind, such as provision of temporary 
warehouse space for the Salvation Army; and drastically 
reducing its environmental impact by recycling 90 per cent 
of ofﬁce waste and recycling all ofﬁce paper (achieved 
simply and effectively by removing all waste bins in ofﬁces 
and providing only recycling containers). Wolseley UK’s 
community activities in Ripon led to its being awarded the 
Harrogate Borough Council 2011 Award for Community 
Involvement.
Supporting the Impetus portfolio of charities – Blue Sky 
Blue Sky is a charity which gives paid work to people 
coming out of prison, to enable them to move successfully 
into long-term employment. As part of its scale-up plan, 
which Impetus and Wolseley are backing, this social 
business has signiﬁcantly increased the number of 
employment contracts offered to ex-offenders, hiring more 
than 500 to date – enough to close a small prison. 
Training at The Prince of Wales’s Building Craft Apprentices 
programme run by The Prince’s Foundation for the Built 
Environment, which Wolseley supported this year. 
Photo credit: Richard Ivey
More information on our Corporate responsibility programme, including 
further case studies, statistics and examples of our practices, our 
employee training programmes, awards and community engagement can 
be found on the Wolseley plc website at http://www.wolseley.com/
corporate-responsibility.aspx. Further business unit information is 
also available on the websites of our subsidiary companies. 54
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Board of Directors
(Directors in ofﬁce as at 31 July 2011)
Michael Clarke 
Non Executive Director 
Appointment
Appointed to the Board on 22 March 2011. 
Key strengths
Considerable board and executive management 
experience within global businesses with strong 
marketing and distribution capabilities. 
Experience
Mr Clarke, a qualiﬁed accountant, spent his early career 
in South Africa and Hong Kong working for Deloitte. 
He joined Reebok International in 1991 and serving as 
Vice President of South Asia/Paciﬁc. Between 1996 
and 2008 he held various roles at The Coca-Cola 
Company including President of South Paciﬁc and 
Korea, and President of North West Europe and 
Nordics. Until August 2011, he was President of Kraft 
Foods Europe, headquartered in Zurich. Age 47 .
Committee membership
Member of the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nominations Committees. 
External appointments
Became Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Premier 
Foods Plc in September 2011.
Gareth Davis 
Chairman
Appointment
Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2003 and became 
Chairman on 21 January 2011. 
Key strengths
Extensive international board and general 
management experience, having served on various 
company boards for many years.
Experience
Mr Davis spent 38 years in the tobacco industry and 
was Chief Executive of Imperial Tobacco Group plc 
from its incorporation in 1996 until May 2010. 
Age 61.
Committee membership
Chairman of the Nominations Committee and 
member of the Major Announcements Committee.
External appointments
Chairman of William Hill PLC and a Non Executive 
Director of DS Smith Plc, the international packaging 
manufacturer and ofﬁce products wholesaler.
Tessa Bamford 
Non Executive Director 
Appointment
Appointed to the Board on 22 March 2011. 
Key strengths
Extensive City experience having held senior 
advisory roles in both the UK and US across a range 
of sectors. 
Experience
Ms Bamford was, until July 201 1, a Director of Cantos 
Communications, the online communications service 
provider. Previously she was a Director of J Henry 
Schroder & Co where she worked for 12 years in a 
number of roles between 1986 and 1998. Prior to 
that, Ms Bamford worked in corporate ﬁnance for 
Barclays de Zoete Wedd. Age 52.
Committee membership
Member of the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nominations Committees. 
External appointments
Consultant at Spencer Stuart. Non Executive 
Director of Barratt Developments plc and a 
Governor of the British Institute of Florence.
Ian Meakins 
Group Chief Executive
Appointment 
Appointed to the Board on 13 July 2009.
Key strengths
Broad international board and general management 
experience in brand, retail and wholesale distribution 
management; strategic vision and extensive 
operational leadership. 
Experience
Mr Meakins was, until April 2009, Chief Executive 
of Travelex Holdings Ltd, the international foreign 
exchange and payments business. Previously he was 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Alliance UniChem plc until 
its merger with Boots in July 2006 and prior to that, 
between 2000 and 2004, was President, European 
Major Markets and Global Supply for Diageo plc, 
spending over 12 years with the company in a variety 
of international management positions. Age 55. 
Committee membership
Chairman of the Executive Committee. Member of 
the Major Announcements, Treasury and Disclosure 
Committees.
External appointments
Director of the Impetus Trust and Non Executive 
Director of Centrica plc. 
John Martin 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Appointment 
Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2010. 
Key strengths
Extensive operational and ﬁnancial management 
experience. Mr Martin has signiﬁcant experience 
at cost control, driving productivity, and leading 
business expansion projects, acquisitions, 
disposals, capital efﬁciency, tax, treasury and 
compliance activities. 
Experience
Mr Martin, a chartered accountant, joined the 
Company in February 2010. He was previously a 
partner at the private equity group Alchemy Partners 
and prior to that was Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of 
Travelex Holdings Ltd and Hays plc, the business 
services group. Mr Martin started his career at Arthur 
Andersen before joining The Stationery Ofﬁce 
Group, on its privatisation, where he was Group 
Controller. Age 45.
Committee membership
Chairman of the Major Announcements, Disclosure 
and Treasury Committees and a member of the 
Executive Committee.
External appointments
None.
Richard Shoylekov 
Group Company Secretary  
and General Counsel
Appointment
Appointed on 9 November 2007 . 
Responsibilities
Mr Shoylekov, a solicitor, has responsibility 
for the Group’s legal affairs, risk management 
and corporate responsibility. Age 46.
Committee membership
Secretary to the Board and all Committees 
of the Board. Member of the Major 
Announcements, Disclosure and 
Executive Committees. 
External appointments
None. 55
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business and performance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Strategic overview
Andrew Duff 
Non Executive Director
Appointment 
Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2004.
Key strengths
Broad knowledge of international business; 
Strategic management and strong customer 
service experience. 
Experience
Mr Duff spent 16 years at BP plc working in Europe, 
the USA, Far East and Africa in marketing, strategy 
and oil trading. He joined National Power in 1998, 
joining the board of its daughter company Innogy 
plc (a FTSE 100 company) upon its demerger from 
National Power in 2000 and its listing on the LSE. 
Restructured Innogy plc, prepared a technology 
spin-out for IPO, secure shareholder approval for 
several Class 1 transactions including the sale of 
Innogy to RWE in 2003. Mr Duff then became CEO 
of the successor company, npower and a member 
of the RWE Group Executive Committee. He was 
appointed Non Executive Chairman of RWE npower 
until his retirement in December 2010. Age 52.
Committee membership
Senior Independent Director. Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and a member of 
the Audit and Nominations Committees.
External appointments
Chairman of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent 
Water Ltd. Member of the CBI President’s 
committee. A fellow of the Energy Institute. 
Member of the board of trustees of MacMillan 
Cancer Support. Member of the board of trustees 
of the Earth Trust.
Michael Wareing CMG 
Non Executive Director 
Appointment 
Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2009. 
Key strengths
Comprehensive board and ﬁnancial management 
experience; Signiﬁcant commercial and international 
experience having served in various advisory roles.
Experience 
Mr Wareing was International Chief Executive of 
KPMG from 2005 until he retired in September 
2009, having previously been Chief Executive of 
KPMG’s Europe, Middle East and Africa region. 
Throughout his career Mr Wareing has been closely 
involved with a number of charities and public 
bodies, including his appointment in 2007 as the 
Prime Minister’s Special Envoy for the reconstruction 
of Southern Iraq and Chairman of the Basra 
Development Commission. Age 57 .
Committee membership
Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of 
the Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
External appointments
Became Non Executive Director of Cobham plc 
in December 2010 and of Intertek Group plc in 
April 2011. Chairman of the Iraq Advisory Board 
of G4S Risk Management. Board member 
of Business in the Community. Economic 
Development Adviser to the Government 
of Afghanistan.
Frank Roach 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, North America
Appointment 
Appointed to the Board on 16 December 2005. 
Key strengths
Strong business and operational leadership; 
Management of subsidiaries and joint ventures. 
Business development and wide ranging 
sales experience.
Experience
Mr Roach is responsible for all the North American 
businesses. He ﬁrst joined Ferguson Enterprises Inc. 
in 1976 and has held a number of business roles. 
In 2005, Mr Roach was appointed as Senior 
Vice President of the Wolseley North America 
management team, playing a key part in further 
developing and expanding the Group’s North 
American businesses. Age 60.
Committee membership
Member of the Executive Committee.
External appointments
None. 56
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance report
Foreword from the Chairman 
Governance within Wolseley
As mentioned in my Chairman’s statement, the Board 
is committed to the highest standards of corporate 
governance. At Wolseley, we believe that good 
governance comes from an effective Board which 
provides strong leadership to the Company and engages 
well with both management and stakeholders. This year 
we are moving forward, building on the high standards 
set by my predecessor. 
Leadership, effectiveness and diversity
Although the change in our tax residence to Switzerland 
has resulted in some practical changes to the Company’s 
governance structure, fundamentally we have not changed 
our governance standards. From the beginning of my 
Chairmanship, I have fostered an environment for the Board 
whereby constructive challenge and open debate is actively 
encouraged at all meetings. I am mindful that it is my 
responsibility as Chairman of the Board to provide strong 
leadership to ensure the Board is effective and to oversee 
the implementation of the Group’s strategy. As we do each 
year, the Board reviewed its effectiveness and the overall 
strength of the Company’s governance and controls 
framework. We will undertake a full external evaluation in 
ﬁnancial year 2011/12.
We refreshed the composition of the Board over the last 
12 months making two new appointments in the 2010/11 
ﬁnancial year and one since the year end. Four of our 
Non Executive Directors have been appointed to the Board 
in the last two years. The Board and I believe these new 
appointments bring additional depth and diversity of 
experience to the Board, while ensuring the composition 
and size remains well suited to our business. As I referred 
to in my Chairman’s statement, we welcome the ﬁndings and 
recommendations of the Davies Report “Women on Boards”. 
There will soon be two women on the Board and I expect the 
diversity of our Board to meet the recommendations of the 
Davies Report by 2015. We also continue to put signiﬁcant 
effort into succession planning for Directors (both Executive 
and Non Executive) and all senior management.
Recent developments
I ensure that I am kept fully aware of the recent developments 
in the ﬁeld of corporate governance. The Board as a whole 
has been proactive in addressing many of the recent 
developments, including the annual re-election of directors 
of FTSE 350 companies (adopted last year ahead of the 
implementation of the provision in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code), externally facilitated performance 
evaluations every three years (our last external evaluation was 
in 2009 and our next is scheduled to be conducted in 2012) 
and Lord Davies’ recommendations on gender diversity.
As Chairman, I will take responsibility for providing the Board 
with the opportunity to consider all developments in this ﬁeld 
and, where appropriate for Wolseley, for ensuring that 
Directors receive appropriate training and education on 
governance issues as required so that we maintain our high 
standards of corporate governance.
Gareth Davis  
Chairman 57
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business and performance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Strategic overview
Board and Committees of the Board 
Meetings held in Switzerland or outside the UK.
These take decisions of a strategic  
or substantive nature.
Compliance with the Code
Following the move of our corporate headquarters to 
Switzerland, Wolseley plc (a public company limited by 
shares, incorporated in Jersey with registered number 
106605) and tax resident in Switzerland became the new 
parent company of the Wolseley Group, pursuant to a 
scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the UK Companies 
Act 2006 (the “UK Companies Act”). Wolseley plc is listed on 
the London Stock Exchange, and is therefore subject to the 
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority. It complies 
with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the “Code”) and relevant institutional shareholder guidelines.
Although (as a Jersey incorporated company) the Company 
is not subject to the UK Companies Act, the Board retains its 
strong commitment to high standards of governance and 
corporate responsibility. Therefore, the Board considers it 
appropriate to provide shareholder safeguards which are 
similar to those that apply to a UK registered company. 
At the date of this report, for ﬁnancial years beginning on or 
after 29 June 2010, the principal governance rules applying 
to UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange are 
contained in the Code. A copy of the Code is available from 
the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.
uk/corporate/ukcgcode. This report, including the report 
from the Audit Committee and the Remuneration report, 
describes how the Board has complied with the Code’s 
main principles of good governance, as contained in sections 
A to E of the Code, and seeks to demonstrate how those 
principles have been applied during the year under review. 
Compliance statement
Throughout the accounting period to which this report 
relates, the Company applied all of the principles set out in 
sections A to E of the Code for the period under review 
and has, throughout the year, complied with the detailed 
provisions set out therein. The Company’s auditors, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, are required to review 
whether the above statement reﬂects the Company’s 
compliance with the nine provisions of the Code speciﬁed 
for their review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority 
and to report if it does not reﬂect such compliance. No such 
report has been made.
Corporate and governance structure
Wolseley plc, a Jersey registered company, became the new 
parent company of the Wolseley Group on 23 November 
2010. The diagram below sets out the governance structure 
of the new company, including where meetings are held.
To maintain Wolseley’s tax residence in Switzerland, the 
majority of meetings of the Board must be held there, and 
to maintain the beneﬁts of that tax residence, no meeting 
requiring decisions of a strategic or substantive nature must 
be held in the United Kingdom. All meetings of the Board 
and all Committees of the Board are held outside the 
United Kingdom.
The Committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, the 
Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and 
the Major Announcements Committee. Other committees 
which implement those strategic decisions or whose remit 
does not extend to strategic or substantive decisions include 
the Executive Committee, Treasury Committee, Disclosure 
Committee and other ad hoc committees. Those committees 
may meet in the United Kingdom.
Other committees 
Meetings may be held in the UK. These implement strategic  
decisions and executive or administrative matters. 
Board and Committee structure
Board
Wolseley plc
Audit
Executive
Nominations
Disclosure
Major 
Announcements
Ad hoc
Remuneration
Treasury 58
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance report continued
Our Board
The Board’s primary role is to provide effective and 
entrepreneurial leadership necessary to enable the Group’s 
business objectives to be met and to review the overall 
strategic development of the Group as a whole. The Board 
is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the 
Company. It has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it 
for its decision, while day-to-day operational decisions are 
managed by the Executive Committee, led by the Group 
Chief Executive. The Board reviewed and updated the 
matters reserved for its consideration in March 2011. 
The categories of matters that are reserved for the  
Board are:
• strategy and management;
• corporate structure;
• ﬁnancial reporting and controls;
• tax and treasury matters;
• major commitments;
• communication;
• board and senior management appointments;
• remuneration;
• delegation of authority;
• corporate governance; 
• policies; and 
• other miscellaneous matters.
Meeting attendance/eligibility at Board Meetings held 
during the year ended 31 July 201 1
1
Name Position Scheduled meetings
G Davis Chairman
2
8/8
J Whybrow Chairman 4/4
T Bamford Non Executive Director 3/3
M Clarke Non Executive Director 3/3
A Duff Non Executive Director 8/8
A Le Goff Non Executive Director 2/2
J Martin Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 9/9
I Meakins Group Chief Executive 9/9
J Murray Non Executive Director 1/1
F Roach Chief Executive,  
North America 8/8
N Stein
3
Non Executive Director 4/5
M Wareing Non Executive Director 8/8
1  The details of meeting attendance and eligibility noted above include two 
meetings of Wolseley plc (now known as Wolseley Limited), one meeting of 
Wolseley plc as the new holding company of the Group relating to the 
redomiciliation, and all subsequent scheduled Board meetings of Wolseley plc.
2  Prior to his appointment as Chairman on 20 January 2011, Mr Davis attended 
Board meetings in his capacity as a Non Executive Director.
3  Due to a prior scheduled commitment, Mr Stein was unable to attend 
one Board meeting.
The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on 
an ad hoc basis as required by time-critical business needs. 
There were nine scheduled meetings during the year and 
Director attendance is shown in the table opposite. The table 
shows those meetings which each Director attended and 
was eligible to attend as a member of the Board rather than 
as an invitee. In addition to the scheduled meetings, two 
unscheduled meetings were convened at short notice to deal 
with transactions, which some Directors were unable to 
attend because of prior commitments which could not be 
re-scheduled. In each case, the matters discussed at 
those unscheduled meetings had already been considered 
in detail by the full Board at previous meetings. Of those two 
unscheduled meetings, the ﬁrst was attended by Messrs 
Clarke, Martin and Roach and the second by Ms Bamford 
and Messrs Davis, Clarke, Martin, Meakins and Roach. 
Details of changes to the composition of the Board during 
the year are shown on page 59.
All Directors are required to attend all meetings of the Board 
or Committees of which they are a member, so that they 
keep fully up to date with the business. They are expected 
to constructively challenge all the proposals brought to the 
meetings. In accordance with the Code, papers and other 
information are delivered at times that allow Directors to 
be properly briefed in advance of meetings to ensure that 
they are provided with sufﬁcient resources to undertake 
their duties. To further improve efﬁciency and to provide ease 
of access to information, Board and Committee papers are 
published in advance via a secure web portal, allowing 
access using an iPad at each meeting.
Meetings led by the Senior Independent Director between 
the Non Executive Directors, both with and without the 
presence of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive, 
are scheduled in the Board’s annual timetable. Both Board 
and Committee meetings are conducted within an 
environment fostered by the Chairman which allows for 
challenge and debate. All Directors are fully aware of the 
role that the Non Executive Directors play in providing 
constructive challenge on all matters. 59
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business and performance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Strategic overview
The Board ensures that it stays in touch with the 
management of the business units so that it understands 
the changing dynamics of their markets. In addition to visits 
by the Board at operating locations, management make 
frequent presentations to the Board on their current and 
planned activities. This provides opportunities for more 
in depth and informal discussions. 
The table below summarises some of the matters discussed 
by the Board during the year:
Redomiciliation (change in corporate headquarters).
Debt reﬁnancing.
Board and executive succession planning.
Corporate values.
Strategy and Resource allocation process.
Customer service.
Employee engagement.
Our Directors 
Board composition
As at 31 July 2011, the Board of Directors was made up of eight members consisting of the Chairman, three Executive Directors 
and four Non Executive Directors. During the ﬁnancial year, two new Non Executive Directors were appointed to the Board. 
Since the year end, the Company announced the appointment of another Non Executive Director, Karen Witts. After that 
appointment, 22 per cent of the Board will be women. The table below summarises the changes to the Board effected 
during the year:
Date Name Position Change
30 September 2010 James Murray Non Executive Director Stepped down
23 November 2010 Alain Le Goff Non Executive Director Stepped down
20 January 2011 John Whybrow Chairman Stepped down
20 January 2011 Gareth Davis Chairman Appointed (and stepped down  
as Senior Independent Director)
20 January 2011 Andrew Duff Senior Independent Director Appointed
22 March 2011 Nigel Stein Non Executive Director Stepped down
22 March 2011 Tessa Bamford Non Executive Director New appointment
22 March 2011 Michael Clarke Non Executive Director New appointment
Biographical details of each of the Directors in ofﬁce as at 31 July 2011 are shown on pages 54 and 55.
Executive
Directors
(3)
Non Executive
Directors
(4)
 
Chairman
(1)
Executive/Non Executive split 
as at 31 July 2011
Sweden Board meeting
The Board visited Stockholm in Sweden on 21 October 
2010. The programme included presentations from local 
management within the Beijer and other DT businesses, 
visits to a Beijer showroom and meetings with showroom 
employees. 60
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance report continued
The Chairman and the Non Executive Directors are each 
considered by the Board to be independent of management 
and free of any relationship which could materially interfere 
with the exercise of their independent judgement. External 
directorships held by such Directors are not considered to 
impact on their independence where such directorships are 
of companies which have historically had and continue to do 
business with Wolseley as there are robust processes in 
place in relation to conﬂicts of interests. The Company’s 
policy relating to the terms of appointment and the 
remuneration of both the Executive and Non Executive 
Directors is detailed in the Remuneration report.
Board balance and succession planning
The Nominations Committee, as well as the Board as a 
whole, considers succession planning and the appropriate 
composition of the Board to ensure that the Board has the 
correct balance of individuals to discharge its duties effectively. 
The new appointment of three Non Executive Directors 
in the last 12 months, recommended to the Board by the 
Nominations Committee, has brought additional depth 
and diversity of experience, while ensuring the composition 
and size remains well suited to Wolseley’s business.
Our current Board contains a wealth of experience and 
skills covering a broad range of businesses, industries and 
advisory roles. In addition, some members of the Board have 
extensive ﬁnancial experience. Collectively, this provides 
Wolseley with a strong, varied and insightful Board. Further 
details of each Director’s skills and experience are shown in 
the biographical details of the Directors on pages 54 and 55.
Succession planning at both Board level and throughout 
senior management level is on the Board’s agenda and 
timetable. During the year, the Board also undertook its 
formal annual review of the senior leadership team. 
Roles of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and 
Senior Independent Director
The distinct roles of, and division of responsibility between, 
the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are acknowledged, 
set out in writing and agreed by the Board. 
Gareth Davis, as Chairman, is responsible for the overall 
leadership and governance of the Board (including induction, 
development and performance evaluation) and for ensuring 
that the Directors have an understanding of the views of 
the Company’s major shareholders. He is responsible for 
ensuring a healthy culture of challenge and debate at Board 
and Committee meetings. As permitted under the Code, 
the Chairman chairs one other board of directors in the 
FTSE 100, as noted in his biographical details on page 54. 
Ian Meakins, as Group Chief Executive, is responsible for 
the effective leadership of the Company, strong and focused 
management and development of the Group, delivery of the 
Company’s objectives and strategy agreed by the Board, 
good relationships and communications with investors 
and prudent ﬁnancial controls. A number of duties which 
derive from these responsibilities include developing 
and implementing policies relating to health and safety 
and corporate responsibility.
Andrew Duff, as Senior Independent Director, makes sure 
that he is available for approach by or representations from 
investors and shareholders, where communication through 
the Chairman or the Executive Directors may not seem 
appropriate. He is also a sounding board for the Chairman 
and an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
Induction and development of the Directors
The Chairman, assisted by the Group Company Secretary 
and General Counsel, is responsible for the induction and 
continuing development of all Directors. Following their 
appointment, a formal comprehensive and tailored induction 
is provided. This includes provision of relevant current and 
historical information about the Company and the Group, 
brieﬁngs on corporate governance and on remuneration and 
audit issues. The Directors are also made aware that there 
is an established procedure for all Directors, if deemed 
necessary, to take independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense in the furtherance of their duties. 
This is in addition to the direct access that every Director 
has to the Company Secretary, who is charged with ensuring 
that Board procedures are followed and that good corporate 
governance and compliance is implemented throughout 
the Group. The material provided to the Directors is 
supplemented by meetings, as required, with major 
shareholders, visits to operations across the Group and 
one-to-one meetings with members of the Executive 
Committee and other senior executives at the Group services 
ofﬁce and overseas. When considered appropriate, meetings 
with external advisers may also be arranged. Tessa Bamford’s 
and Michael Clarke’s induction to their roles as Non Executive 
Directors followed the process described above. 
Each of the Non Executive Directors brings his or her own 
senior level of experience and expertise to the Board. As part 
of their continuing development, the Executive Directors are 
encouraged to take on not more than one external non 
executive directorship on the board of a non-competitor 
company, for which they may retain payments received in 
respect of such appointment, as the Board believes there are 
signiﬁcant beneﬁts to be achieved for both the Company and 
the individual. In order to avoid any potential conﬂict of 
interest, all appointments are subject to the Board’s approval. 
All Non Executive Directors are aware, at appointment, of the 
time commitment expected of them; although there is no 
requirement as to the number of other directorships they 
may hold, they are required to discuss with the Chairman 
any additional directorships prior to acceptance. The Board 
monitors the extent of Directors’ other interests to ensure 
that the effectiveness of the Board is not compromised. 
The external appointments for all Directors are shown in the 
biographical details of the Directors on pages 54 and 55. 61
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business and performance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Strategic overview
Re-election of Directors
It has been Board policy that Non Executive Directors are 
normally appointed for an initial term of three years, which is 
then reviewed and extended for up to a further two three-
year periods. It is also Board policy that Non Executive 
Directors should not generally serve on the Board for more 
than nine years and that, in cases where it is proposed to 
exceed this period, the Director concerned will retire annually 
and seek re-election. The Company’s Articles of Association 
also provide that one-third of the Directors should retire by 
rotation each year and that each Director will seek re-election 
by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) 
at least once every three years. In addition, new Directors are 
subject to election by shareholders at the ﬁrst opportunity 
after their appointment.
Nevertheless, all Directors will, in accordance with the Code, 
seek election or re-election at the Company’s AGM each year. 
Ms Bamford, Mr Clarke and Ms Witts will seek election 
having been appointed to the Board since the last AGM. Full 
biographical details of the Directors seeking election can be 
found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting. As required 
by the Code, and to allow transparency, the terms and 
conditions of appointment of all Directors are available for 
inspection by any person at its registered ofﬁce in Jersey, at 
its corporate headquarters in Switzerland and at its Group 
services ofﬁce in the United Kingdom, and will be available 
for inspection at the AGM in Switzerland prior to the meeting. 
Additional details regarding service agreements and letters 
of engagement are contained in the Remuneration report 
on pages 73 and 77.
Board effectiveness: Board procedures and 
responsibilities
A 12-month rolling programme of items for discussion by the 
Board is prepared to ensure that all matters reserved to the 
Board and other strategic issues are considered at 
appropriate times. Together with the Group Chief Executive 
and the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel, 
the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept properly 
informed and is consulted on all matters reserved to it and 
that papers and other information are delivered in a timely 
fashion.
The Board has processes and procedures in place which 
require a Director to identify and declare actual or potential 
conﬂicts of interest, whether matter-speciﬁc or situational. 
Such notiﬁcations can be made by a Director at a Board 
meeting or in writing. All Directors have a continuing duty to 
update any changes. In accordance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association, the Board may authorise potential 
conﬂicts which can be limited in scope. Such authorisations 
are regularly reviewed. During the year under review, the 
conﬂict management procedures were adhered to and 
operated effectively.
Board effectiveness: Board evaluation
Each of the Directors continues to be considered by the 
Board to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to 
his or her respective role. The Board is required, under 
the Code, to complete an externally facilitated Board 
performance evaluation every three years. The last external 
evaluation of the Board’s own performance and that of the 
individual Directors was completed during 2009. Due to the 
recent changes to the Board, the Board carried out an 
effectiveness review internally during the year and agreed 
to conduct a comprehensive, externally facilitated review 
in the ﬁnancial year 2011/12. 
The internal review used a set of questions adapted to 
address the activities and concerns of the Board, the Audit 
Committee and the Remuneration Committee. The questions 
were in the form of online surveys which encouraged 
comment and qualitative evaluation of the Board’s and of 
each Committee’s effectiveness, the individual members and 
the contributions received from advisers. The results of the 
surveys formed the basis of discussion of areas for further 
improvement by the Board and the Committees. 
Risk management
The Board is ultimately responsible for determining the 
nature and extent of the signiﬁcant risks it is willing to take 
in achieving its strategic objectives and for maintaining 
sound risk management and internal control systems. 
The Board requires the Audit Committee to conduct more 
detailed oversight of risk. Further details on the role of the 
Audit Committee can be found on page 64. For details of 
the process of risk management within the business, 
further information can be found in the section entitled 
“Risk management and internal control” on page 38.
Indemnities
The Company indemniﬁes its Directors in respect of liabilities 
incurred as a result of their ofﬁce in accordance with the 
Articles of Association and to the maximum extent permitted 
by Jersey law. Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions 
(to the maximum extent permitted by English law) were 
granted to all Directors then in ofﬁce and to the Group 
Company Secretary by Wolseley plc (now known as Wolseley 
Limited) and these remain in force as at the date of this 
report. When Wolseley plc (a Jersey registered company) 
became the new holding company, additional third-party 
indemnity provisions were granted by the Company. The 
Company has also arranged appropriate insurance coverage 
in respect of legal action against its Directors and ofﬁcers. 
Neither the Company’s indemnity nor insurance would 
provide any coverage to the extent that a Director is proved 
to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly. 62
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance report continued
Relations with shareholders
Communication with shareholders
The Company places considerable importance on 
communication with its shareholders, including its employee 
shareholders. Our investor relations policy reﬂects our 
commitment to our shareholders. It includes:
• regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and ﬁnancial 
analysts with the close involvement of the Group Chief 
Executive and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer;
• an up to date record of ﬁnancial analysts’ forecasts, which 
is kept and published on the Wolseley plc website at  
www.wolseley.com;
• an announcement each quarter incorporating sales, 
proﬁtability by region, net debt and appropriate 
commentary;
• promotion of communication with shareholders, ensuring 
that the views of our major shareholders are reported to the 
Board by the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and by the Chairman 
and are discussed at its meetings; 
• the maintenance of contact, when appropriate, with 
shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans 
and policies; and 
• a report each quarter incorporating revenue and proﬁtability 
by region, net debt and appropriate commentary. 
Investor communication is governed by written guidelines 
to ensure the appropriate and prompt disclosure of sensitive 
information which could affect the Company’s share price. 
The Chairman meets with the larger institutional shareholders 
at least once a year. He ensures that the Board as a whole 
maintains an appropriate dialogue with shareholders. 
The Non Executive Directors are encouraged to attend 
presentations of the Full Year and Half Year Results. 
A senior executive, reporting to the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, 
has day-to-day responsibility for all investor relations matters 
and for contact with institutional shareholders, as well as with 
ﬁnancial analysts, brokers and the media.
The Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer see 
the major institutional shareholders face to face at least twice 
a year following the full year and half year ﬁnancial results. 
The Board receives institutional shareholder feedback 
following these meetings and receives an annual formal 
presentation outlining the investor relations programme 
for the year.
During the year ended 31 July 2011 the Group Chief Executive 
and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer spent 33 days respectively 
engaged in investor relations activities attending 88 meetings 
collectively. The investor relations function additionally 
spent 15 days meeting with institutions comprising a further 
76 meetings. There were a total of 164 investor meetings 
in the year. 
The Annual Report and Accounts are available to all 
shareholders either in paper form or electronically and 
can be accessed via the Wolseley plc website at  
www.wolseley.com or via Shareview, an internet service 
offered by the Company’s Registrars, as detailed in 
Shareholder information on page 158. The Group’s Full Year 
and Half Year Results, as well as all announcements issued 
to the London Stock Exchange, are published on the 
Wolseley plc website. During the year the Company issued 
regular updates to the market and these, together with 
copies of presentations to analysts and interviews with the 
Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, are also 
posted on the Wolseley plc website.
United
Kingdom
47 .8%
Europe
16.6%
 
Rest of World
3.9%
Geographical breakdown of shareholder base
(Institutional investors only) as at 31 July 2011
North
America
31.7%
Concentration of investors as at 31 July 2011 
%
Others Rest of
top 100
investors
Rest of
top 30
investors
Top 5
investors
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
36.3 35.1 10.7 17 .9
Institutional
and other
private investors
99.3%
 
Percentage of holders split between institutional 
and other private investors and individuals 
as at 31 July 2011
Individual
investors
0.7% 63
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business and performance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Strategic overview
Substantial share interests
As at the date of this report, the Company had received 
notiﬁcation of the following material shareholdings pursuant 
to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing 
Authority:
Name
Number  
of shares held  
(millions)
Percentage  
of issued voting 
share capital
Blackrock, Inc 39,073,305 13.714%
Capital Research and 
Management Company 14,731,312 5.178%
Cevian Capital II GP Limited 14,690,088 5.165%
Fidelity 14,070,947 4.957%
AXA S.A. 13,065,225 4.603%
Legal and General Group plc 11,234,843 3.958%
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”)
The AGM will take place on 29 November 2011 at Parkhotel, 
Industriestrasse 14, Zug, Switzerland with an audio-visual link 
to The Lincoln Centre, London, UK. The link will allow active 
two-way participation by persons physically present 
in Switzerland and the UK. 
Full details of the AGM are contained in the Notice of Annual 
General Meeting.
AGM procedure
The Notice of the AGM is circulated to all shareholders 
at least 20 working days before such meeting and it is 
Company policy not to combine resolutions to be proposed 
at general meetings. All shareholders are invited to the 
Company’s AGM, at which they have the opportunity to put 
questions to the Board. It is standard practice to have the 
Senior Independent Director and the chairmen of the Audit, 
Nominations and Remuneration Committees available in 
person to answer questions. Some questions may not be 
answered at the meeting, should they not be in the interests 
of the Company, involve the disclosure of conﬁdential 
information or if it would not be to the good order of the 
meeting. The Chairman may also nominate a Company 
representative to answer a speciﬁc question after the AGM 
or may refer to a response on the Wolseley plc website.
The proxy votes received for and against each resolution, 
as well as abstentions which may be recorded on the proxy 
form accompanying the Notice of Meeting, are counted 
before the AGM and the results of all votes are made 
available shortly after the meeting. The results are also 
announced to the London Stock Exchange via Regulatory 
News Service and are published on the Wolseley plc website.
AGM resolutions
The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to be held on 
29 November 2011, together with explanatory notes, appear 
in the Notice of AGM which is posted to each shareholder in 
advance of the meeting. This document is available on the 
Wolseley plc website. 
Switzerland
Venue:  Parkhotel, Industriestrasse 14, CH-6304,  
Zug Switzerland
Time: 3pm (CET)
Parkhotel
Industriestrasse
Baarerstrasse
Dammstrasse
Albisstrasse
Zug Bahnhof
Rail station
Zug Bahnhofplatz
Kino
Gotthard
Metalliplatz
Bärenplatz
Metallstrasse
Gubelstrasse
London
Venue:  The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincoln’s Inn Fields  
London WC2A 3ED, United Kingdom
Time: 2pm (GMT)
Chancery Lane
Chancery Lane
Holborn
Serle Street
Kingsway
The Lincoln Centre
High Holborn
Lincoln’s Inn
Fleet Street
Aldwych
Carey Street
Portugal Street
Great Queen Street
Parker Street
Fields
Using your smartphone, scan this code to download 
details about Wolseley’s AGM. 
Alternatively, please visit the Wolseley plc website  
at www.wolseley.com 64
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance report continued
Our Committees
Details of the Wolseley plc Board and Committee governance 
structure can be found on page 57. The formal terms of 
reference for the Committees of the Board, which have 
been approved by the Board and comply with the Code, 
are available from the Group Company Secretary and 
General Counsel and can also be found on the Wolseley plc 
website at www.wolseley.com. Membership and activities 
of the various Committees are summarised on pages 64 to 
68. The Group Company Secretary and General Counsel, 
whose appointment and removal is a matter for the Board 
as a whole, acts as Secretary to all Committees.
Committees of the Board
Audit Committee
Michael Wareing, Chairman
Members and attendance (eligibility) at meetings held 
during the year ended 31 July 2011
1
:
Meetings during the year: 4 
Current members
M Wareing (Chairman) 4(4)
T Bamford 0(0)
M Clarke 1(1)
A Duff 2(2)
Members who stepped down during the year:
G Davis 2(2)
J Murray 1(1)
N Stein 3(3)
1  The Committee is made up of four Non Executive Directors and the Board 
considers that the chairman and each member of the Committee is 
independent within the deﬁnition set out in the Code and that each of them 
has relevant ﬁnancial experience.
Role and responsibilities
The Audit Committee has wide-ranging oversight of 
responsibilities assigned to it by the Board. These are to:
• assist the Board to fulﬁl its responsibilities relating to 
external ﬁnancial reporting and associated announcements 
including:
 – the Half Year and Full Year ﬁnancial statements, including 
the requirements for ﬁnancial reporting; and
 – the Half Year and Annual Full Year results announcements 
made to the London Stock Exchange;
• review key accounting and auditing issues;
• review the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control 
and risk management procedures;
• report regularly to the Board on compliance in relation to 
the business activities for which it has responsibility within 
its terms of reference;
• ensure that it has an agenda which is linked to events in the 
Company’s ﬁnancial calendar; 
• review the Company’s policies and procedures relating to 
governance, risk and control and, in addition to the regular 
items, each member of the Committee may request reports 
on matters of interest; 
• develop, implement and monitor the Company’s policy on 
external audit; 
• monitor independence, objectivity and compliance with 
ethical and regulatory requirements in relation to external 
audit; 
• review the effectiveness of the external auditor;
• recommend the appointment and reappointment of the 
Company’s external auditors; 
• review annually a formal letter provided by the external 
auditors conﬁrming their independence and objectivity 
within the context of applicable regulatory requirements 
and professional standards;
• review the effectiveness of the internal audit function;
• review of litigation, contingent liabilities and tax matters, 
including compliance with statutory tax obligations; and
• monitor fraud reports and the operation of the Company’s 
whistleblowing policy. 65
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business and performance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Strategic overview
Governance
The Committee’s membership is reviewed by the 
Nominations Committee and by the chairman of the Audit 
Committee at regular intervals. Members of the Committee 
are appointed by the Board following recommendations by 
the Nominations Committee. All members of the Committee 
receive appropriate induction, which is in addition to the 
induction which all new Directors receive and includes an 
overview of the business, its ﬁnancial dynamics and risks. 
Members of the Committee may undertake ongoing training 
as required. Audit Committee members are expected to have 
an understanding of the following areas:
• the principles of, contents of and developments in ﬁnancial 
reporting, including the applicable accounting standards 
and statements of recommended practice and, in 
particular, the appropriateness of the Company’s 
accounting policies and integrity of the ﬁnancial statements;
• the Company’s wider corporate policies and its ﬁnancing; 
and
• the Company’s systems of internal control and matters that 
require the use of judgement in the presentation of 
accounts and key ﬁgures as well as the role of internal and 
external auditors.
Each member of the Committee brings relevant experience 
at a senior executive level. In addition to the existing 
members of the Audit Committee, Mr Wareing, who was 
International Chief Executive of KPMG until his retirement in 
September 2009, continues to provide the Board with further 
assurance that the Audit Committee has the appropriate 
skills and experience and that it meets the Code 
requirements that at least one member of the Committee has 
signiﬁcant, recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience. The 
expertise and experience of each member of the Committee 
are summarised on pages 54 and 55.
The Committee invites the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, Group Financial Controller and the 
Head of Internal Audit, together with senior representatives of 
the Company’s external auditors, to attend each meeting and 
receive its papers, although it reserves part of each meeting 
for discussions without those invitees present. Other senior 
executives are also invited to certain meetings to present 
such reports as are required for the Committee to discharge 
its duties. The Committee members periodically meet the 
Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors without the 
presence of executive management. The chairman of the 
Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the Board 
on the key issues covered by the Committee, and the Board 
also receives copies of the minutes of each meeting. 
During the year, the Committee critically reviewed its own 
performance and considered where improvements could be 
made. In addition, the Committee’s terms of reference were 
reviewed during the year.
The chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General 
Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might 
be raised on the Committee’s activities.
Activities
Details of the activities of the Committee during the ﬁnancial 
year ended 31 July 2011 and a full discussion of how the 
Audit Committee discharges it responsibilities are set out in 
the Report from the Audit Committee on pages 69 and 70.
Remuneration Committee
Andrew Duff, Chairman
Members and attendance (eligibility) at meetings held 
during the year ended 31 July 2011:
Meetings during the year: 6
Current members:
A Duff (Chairman) 6(6)
T Bamford 2(2)
M Clarke 1(1)
M Wareing 3(3)
Members who stepped down during the year:
A Le Goff 2(2)
N Stein 3(4)
G Davis 3(3)
The table above sets out the members of the Committee 
and their attendance during the year. Full details of the 
Committee’s responsibilities, governance and activities 
during the year are detailed in the Remuneration report 
on pages 72 to 82. 66
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance report continued
Nominations Committee
Gareth Davis, Chairman
Members and attendance (eligibility) at meetings held 
during the year ended 31 July 2011:
Meetings during the year: 3
Current members:
G Davis (Chairman) 2(2)
T Bamford 2(2)
M Clarke 2(2)
A Duff
1
 2(3)
M Wareing 3(3)
Members who left during the year:
A Le Goff 1(1)
J Murray 1(1)
N Stein 1(1)
J Whybrow 0(0)
1  Owing to scheduling conﬂicts, Mr Duff was unable to attend one Nominations 
Committee meeting. 
Role and responsibilities
The Nominations Committee responsibilities are to:
• review the structure, size and composition of the Board and 
its Committees;
• make recommendations with regard to any changes that 
are considered necessary, both in the identiﬁcation and 
nomination of new Directors and the continuation of 
existing Directors in ofﬁce;
• evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience 
on the Board and, in light of that evaluation, prepare the 
description of the relevant role and capabilities required of 
prospective candidates;
• make its recommendations to the Board, after a rigorous 
interview process for shortlisted candidates;
• retain external search consultants for appointments to the 
Board; and 
• advise the Board on succession planning for Board 
appointments, although the Board itself has overall 
responsibility for succession generally. 
Governance
Mr Davis succeeded Mr Whybrow as chairman of the 
Nominations Committee on 20 January 2011. Mr Le Goff, 
Mr Murray and Mr Stein all ceased to be members of the 
Committee on the dates they stepped down from the Board. 
Ms Bamford and Mr Clarke were appointed to the Committee 
on 22 March 2011.
There is a formal procedure in place for selecting and 
recruiting Directors as detailed in the role and responsibilities 
section opposite. During the year, the Committee retained an 
external search agency to assist in the process of identifying 
potential candidates for nomination to the Board.
The chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General 
Meeting to respond to any questions shareholders may raise 
on the Committee’s activities.
Activities
The matters discussed by the Committee during the ﬁnancial 
year ended 31 July 2011 included:
• the appointment of a successor Chairman; 
• the appointment of a new Senior Independent Director;
• the appointment of new Non Executive Directors to the 
Board; and 
• a review of the Committee’s terms of reference.
During the year, the Committee (in recognising the impact of 
the Davies Report) ensured that skills, experience, potential 
and overall balance of the Board – as well as diversity 
including gender – were fully considered in relation to the 
appointments mentioned above. When the Committee 
considered the appointment of a successor Chairman, 
Mr Whybrow and Mr Davis absented themselves from 
the meeting. 
The proposed activities for the Committee in ﬁnancial year 
2011/12 will be to continue to monitor and assess the Board’s 
composition and diversity, longer term succession planning 
and potential further recruitment of Non Executive Directors.
Gareth Davis  
Chairman of the Nominations Committee 67
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business and performance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Strategic overview
Major Announcements Committee
John Martin, Chairman
Members during the year ended 31 July 2011:
Current members:
J Martin Chief Financial Ofﬁcer (Chairman)
G Davis Chairman of the Board
M Fearon Group Communications 
and Investor Relations Director
I Meakins Group Chief Executive
R Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel
Members who stepped down during the year:
J Whybrow Chairman of the Board
Role and responsibilities 
The Committee meets as required to consider the 
Company’s disclosure obligations in relation to material 
information in circumstances where the matter (i) is outside 
the scope of the authority of the Disclosure Committee or 
(ii) has been referred to it by the Disclosure Committee as 
being a matter that may involve an announcement relating 
to a decision of a strategic nature or (iii) is otherwise of such 
signiﬁcance or sensitivity that it ought properly be considered 
by the Committee. The Committee’s terms of reference 
anticipate that it would meet usually only in exceptional 
circumstances where information has come to light which 
is of an unexpected, non-routine, and material nature. 
The Committee therefore has no meetings scheduled, 
and it was not required to meet during the year.
Other Committees
Executive Committee
Ian Meakins, Chairman
Members during the year ended 31 July 2011:
Current members:
I Meakins Group Chief Executive (Chairman)
S Ashmore Managing Director, UK
T England Group Chief Information Ofﬁcer
P Gardies Managing Director, France
J Martin Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
C Morrison Group HR Director
F Roach Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, North America
R Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel
S Weirsøe Managing Director, Nordic region
Role and responsibilities
The Executive Committee meets at least 10 times each year 
and these meetings usually take place prior to Board 
meetings. The Committee addresses operational business 
issues and is responsible for implementing Group strategy 
and policies, day-to-day management and monitoring 
business performance Management matters are addressed 
by the Executive Committee and other committees to whom 
speciﬁc authority has been delegated to implement Board 
strategy or policy.  68
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance report continued
Treasury Committee
Members during the year ended 31 July 2011:
Current members:
J Martin Chief Financial Ofﬁcer (Chairman)
I Meakins Group Chief Executive
R Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel
M Verrier Group Treasurer
M Webb Group Financial Controller
Role and responsibilities
The Treasury Committee’s role is to consider treasury policy, 
including ﬁnancial structures and investments, tax and 
treasury strategy, policies and certain transactions on behalf 
of the Group, and to review the performance and compliance 
of the tax and treasury function, within a framework 
delegated by the Board. It makes recommendations to the 
Board in matters such as overall ﬁnancing structure and 
strategy and currency exposure.
As part of the review of corporate governance during the 
creation of the new holding company, the Board revised the 
scope and terms of reference of the Treasury Committee. 
The Board retains responsibility for treasury and tax strategy 
and has clariﬁed the Treasury Committee’s responsibilities as 
orientated principally towards the implementation of treasury 
and tax strategy and policies.
Disclosure Committee
Members during the year ended 31 July 2011:
Current members:
J Martin Chief Financial Ofﬁcer (Chairman)
M Fearon Group Communications  
and Investor Relations Director
I Meakins Group Chief Executive
R Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel
Role and responsibilities
The Disclosure Committee meets as required to deal with all 
matters relating to public announcements of the Company 
and, in particular, the Company’s obligations under the 
Listing and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK 
Listing Authority. The Committee also assists in the design, 
implementation and periodic evaluation of the Company’s 
disclosure controls and procedures. Announcements relating 
to any matters which the Board has designated as reserved 
matters, or matters of a substantive or strategic nature, are 
dealt with by the Board or by the Major Announcements 
Committee.
 
Other ad hoc committees
As required by the demands of business, the Board may 
appoint ad hoc committees to facilitate the implementation 
of its decisions or to consider speciﬁc matters in further detail 
between scheduled meetings. The Board may delegate 
matters of a substantive nature to a special purpose 
Committee. If it does so it will generally have already 
considered the matter in depth at a full Board meeting 
but may require further review prior to ﬁnal approval. 69
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business and performance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Strategic overview
Report from the Audit Committee
The composition, attendance, matters of governance and 
responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out on pages 
64 and 65. Full details of how the business implements its 
risk management and controls on a Group-wide basis are set 
out in Risk management and internal control section at pages 
38 to 43. The activities of the Committee include reviews of 
external and internal audits, internal controls, ﬁnancial 
reporting, and risk management systems.
Audit Committee activities in relation to External audit  
and external auditors
During the year, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) 
undertook both external audit and certain non-audit work. 
Representatives from PwC are invited to attend Audit 
Committee meetings. They provide the Committee with 
relevant reports, reviews, information and advice. 
The Committee reviewed and approved the terms, areas of 
responsibility and scope of the audit (including schedules of 
unadjusted errors and representation letters) as set out in the 
external auditors’ engagement letter. During the year, PwC 
provided audit related services such as regulatory and 
statutory reporting, and reviewing shareholder and other 
circulars relating to the redomiciliation. PwC report to the 
Committee any material departures from Group accounting 
policies and procedures that they identify during the course 
of their audit work. None were found in the last year.
Within the constraints of the APB Ethical Standards on 
Auditing, PwC undertake certain due diligence reviews and 
provide assistance on tax matters each year. The provision of 
non-audit services within such constraints of the agreed 
policy is assessed on a case by case basis so that the 
best-placed adviser is retained. Under the policy, the external 
auditors cannot be engaged to perform any of the following 
services:
• book-keeping services related to accounting records or 
ﬁnancial statements;
• design and implementation of ﬁnancial information systems;
• appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions and 
contributions in kind reports;
• actuarial services;
• internal audit outsourcing services;
• management functions including human resources;
• broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking 
services; or
• legal and other services unrelated to audit work.
The Committee considers at each meeting all requests for, 
and engagements of, non-audit work to be performed by 
PwC for the Company, to ensure that the provision of those 
non-audit services falls within the agreed policy regarding 
such services and does not impair the objectivity or 
independence of the external auditors. The policy requires 
pre-approval by the chairman of the Committee where a level 
(set by the Committee) is exceeded, for any non-audit work 
(subject to maximum budget levels).
The total fees paid to PwC in the year ended 31 July 2011 
(together with a comparison of fees paid in the year ended 
31 July 2010) are set out in the table below. Further 
disclosure of the non-audit fees paid during the year ended 
31 July 2011 can be found in note 3 to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements on page 99.
Year
Fees paid  
(total)
Of which fees related  
to non-audit work
2011 £7.6 million £3.9 million
1
 
2010 £10.4 million £6.7 million
2
 
1  £1.2 million of the non-audit fees were pursuant to work required in relation 
to the Group’s change in corporate structure and domicile.
2  £1 million of the non-audit fees were pursuant to work required in relation 
to the Group’s proposed change in corporate structure and domicile. 70
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance report continued
Although PwC have been the Company’s auditors for a 
number of years, the Committee is satisﬁed with their 
effectiveness and independence having conducted a review 
of PwC’s effectiveness during the year. The Committee did 
not consider it necessary this year to conduct a tender 
process for the appointment of its auditors. In accordance 
with UK regulations, PwC adhere to a rotation policy 
based on best practice and accounting standards which 
the Committee monitors. Accordingly, a new lead audit 
partner was appointed in September 2010. 
Audit Committee activities relating to internal audit
The Head of Internal Audit attends all Audit Committee 
meetings in addition to having regular meetings with the 
chairman of the Committee. At each Committee meeting, 
an internal audit report is presented and discussed.
Throughout the year, the Committee reviewed the internal 
audit function’s plans and its achievements against those 
plans. The Committee considered the results of the audits 
undertaken by the internal audit function and considered the 
adequacy of management’s response to matters raised, 
including the time taken to resolve any such matters. The 
Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
audit function, including its terms of reference, its audit plans, 
its general performance and its relationship with the external 
auditors. This annual review was undertaken using guidance 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England 
and Wales and the Institute of Internal Auditors – UK. 
The Committee reviews key performance indicators relating 
to the activity of the department. These reviews occur either 
at each Committee meeting, or annually when KPIs are 
reviewed against the audit plan. 
Audit Committee activities in relation to risk management 
and internal control 
The Committee receives and reviews a risk management 
report on a six monthly basis prepared by the Group Head 
of Risk. Such reports are presented to the Committee by 
the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and summarise submissions 
from across all areas of the business which the Executive 
Committee and senior management have reviewed.
The chairman of the Committee then reports to the Board on 
any matters which have arisen from the Committee’s review 
of the way in which the risk management and internal control 
processes have been applied and on any breakdowns in, or 
exceptions to, these processes. These processes have been 
in place throughout the year ended 31 July 2011 and have 
continued to the date of this report.
Further information on the Group’s approach and how 
the risk management process works is set out in Risk 
management and internal control on pages 38 to 43.
The Board retains overall responsibility for internal control, 
for establishing the systems of internal control and reviewing 
their effectiveness and for the identiﬁcation and management 
of business risk. On behalf of the Board, the Committee 
monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal control systems, accounting policies and practices, 
standards of risk management and risk management 
procedures and compliance controls, as well as the 
Company’s statements on internal controls, before they 
are agreed by the Board for each year’s Annual Report. 
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining 
adequate internal control over ﬁnancial reporting for the 
Group including the consolidation process. The Committee 
monitors the work undertaken by the Advanced Control 
Environment (“ACE”) team whose focus is on the accuracy 
of ﬁnancial reporting. In a decentralised Group, where local 
management has considerable autonomy to run and develop 
their businesses, Wolseley has a well-designed system of 
internal control. This is necessary to safeguard shareholders’ 
investment and the Company’s assets and depends on 
regular evaluation on the extent of the risks to which the 
Company is exposed.
The Company’s systems comply with the guidance set out in 
the Turnbull Report “Internal Control: Guidance for Directors 
on the Combined Code”. An ongoing process is in place for 
identifying, managing and evaluating the risks faced by the 
Group, and the effective internal controls required to maintain 
such effectiveness. The Group’s internal control systems are 
designed to manage rather than eliminate business risk. 
These systems and their effectiveness have been in place for 
the full ﬁnancial year and up to the date on which the ﬁnancial 
statements were approved, and are reviewed by the Board 
regularly to deal with any changing circumstances.
The Company’s whistleblowing policy, which supports 
the Group-wide Code of Conduct, is monitored by the 
Committee. All matters reported are investigated and, where 
appropriate, reported to the Committee, together with details 
of any corrective action taken. A report which includes 
statistics on the volume and general nature of all disclosures 
made is submitted to the Committee quarterly. During the 
year, the Committee reviewed the report at each meeting. 
The Group has international conﬁdential telephone reporting 
lines and a secure website reporting facility, which are 
operated on its behalf by an independent third party. 
The reporting channels are a conﬁdential means for 
employees to notify any concerns about actual or potential 
breaches of law or Company policy, including in relation 
to accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues 
and related matters. A copy of the Group’s Code of 
Conduct is available on the Wolseley plc website at 
www. wolseley.com. 
Michael Wareing CMG, 
on behalf of the Audit Committee 71
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business and performance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Strategic overview
Directors’ responsibility statement 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations. The Directors have prepared the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report as if the Company were 
required to do so in accordance with the UK Companies 
Act 2006.
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 requires the Directors to 
prepare ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year, which 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company 
and the proﬁt and loss for that year. Under that law the 
Directors have prepared the Group ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union, and the parent 
company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 
(“UK GAAP”) (United Kingdom Accounting Standards 
and applicable law). 
In preparing these ﬁnancial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
• state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the Group and parent company ﬁnancial 
statements respectively; and
• prepare the ﬁnancial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that are sufﬁcient to show and explain the 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position of the Company 
and the Group and enable them to ensure that the ﬁnancial 
statements comply with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 
and, as regards the Group ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 
of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the Company’s website. Jersey legislation 
and United Kingdom regulation, governing the preparation 
and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements, may differ from 
requirements in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are 
listed on pages 54 and 55 conﬁrm that, to the best of their 
knowledge:
• the Group ﬁnancial statements, which have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and 
proﬁt of the Group; and
• the Performance review contained in the report of the 
Directors includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces. 72
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
for Wolseley plc. Financial year 2010/11 continued to be 
demanding for the sector. However, the Company continued 
to make signiﬁcant progress despite the challenging 
business conditions within the global economy. As a result 
the Company has been able to deliver against stretching 
ﬁnancial objectives and this is reﬂected in the bonus awards 
throughout the Company for this year. 
As the Company performance continues to improve, it is 
hoped that this will be rewarded in the coming years with 
appropriate awards under long-term incentive schemes 
and the Committee will therefore continue to monitor the 
performance of these schemes over the coming year. 
The 10 year life of these schemes, as approved by 
shareholders, will expire during 2012/13 and we will consult 
with shareholders during the course of this ﬁnancial year 
before recommending their extension or replacement.
There are very few changes to the compensation of senior 
executives within the Company during 2010/11. The senior 
team has chosen to accept only modest inﬂation related 
salary increases this year in order to show solidarity with pay 
discipline throughout the Company.
The Committee would wish to see higher levels of share 
ownership amongst the leadership of the Company following 
the economic slow-down and several years in which share 
schemes have failed to vest. The Committee will be reviewing 
alternatives during 2011/12 to encourage greater ownership.
We believe that this Remuneration Report provides helpful 
context and explanation of our policies and practical 
considerations that inﬂuence our decisions. We hope 
to receive your support at our AGM to be held on 
29 November 2011.
Andrew Duff
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Introduction
This Report, approved by the Board, has been prepared in 
accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority. Although it is not a requirement 
of Jersey company law to have the Directors’ remuneration 
report approved by shareholders, the Board believes that as 
a Company whose shares are listed on the London Stock 
Exchange, it is good corporate governance for it to do so. 
Accordingly, a resolution to approve this report will be 
proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
Furthermore, the Board has also applied the principles 
of good governance relating to Directors’ remuneration 
contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the “Code”) which came into effect in June 2010. 
Those parts of the report which have been subject to audit 
are clearly marked.
Remuneration Committee
The Board sets the Company’s remuneration policy. 
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board, within 
its agreed terms of reference (available on the Wolseley plc 
website, www.wolseley.com), on the Company’s framework 
of executive remuneration and its cost. It determines, with the 
agreement of the Board, speciﬁc remuneration packages for 
each of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the Group 
Company Secretary. It also determines the remuneration, 
based on proposals from the Group Chief Executive, for the 
members of the Executive Committee. The Chairman and 
the Executive Directors determine the remuneration of the 
Non Executive Directors. The Committee is also responsible 
for the Company’s share incentive schemes for all employees 
and further carries out reviews of overall remuneration policy 
for employees below executive level.
The current members of the Committee, as detailed on 
page 65, consist of four Non Executive Directors, all of whom 
are independent within the deﬁnition set out in the Code. 
The Group Chief Executive, Mr Meakins, the Chairman, 
Mr Davis and the Group HR Director, Mr Morrison, are 
usually invited to attend the meetings to respond to speciﬁc 
questions raised by members of the Committee. 
This speciﬁcally excludes matters concerning the details of, 
and any discussions relating to, their own remuneration. 
To reach informed decisions on executive remuneration, 
the Committee obtains detailed external research on market 
data and trends from experienced independent consultants. 
Since 2003, the Committee has sought external advice 
from Hewitt New Bridge Street, now part of the Aon group. 
Whilst the Aon group itself provides other services to the 
Company (pensions advice and insurance services) these 
other services are not provided by Hewitt New Bridge Street, 
which only provides services to the Company in relation to 
remuneration activities. The Committee met six times during 
the year, at which all eligible Committee members were in 
attendance, with the exception of the meeting in March 2011 
which Mr Stein was unable to attend due to a prior 
scheduled commitment. Mr Le Goff attended two meetings 
prior to stepping down as a Non Executive Director 
in November 2010; Messrs Wareing and Clarke and 
Ms Bamford attended all meetings following their respective 
appointments to the Committee.
Remuneration report
For the year ended 31 July 201 1 73
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business and performance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Strategic overview
The Committee has scheduled meetings throughout the year, 
as well as ad hoc meetings to consider additional items as 
they arise. For example, an ad hoc meeting was called in 
January 2011 to review, clarify and approve the treatment 
of certain share plan rules.
At the scheduled meetings, among other matters, the 
Committee considered recommendations as to base 
salaries for 2010/11; the bonus objectives review for the 
same period; the Chairman’s fees and Senior Executives’ 
remuneration. It also approved awards made under the 
Company’s discretionary share plans, commenced a 
review of the Company’s long term incentive schemes and 
its all employee share plans, considered the structure of the 
bonus plan for 2011/12 and set the shareholding targets for 
Directors and Executive Committee members. The advisers 
to the Committee were also reviewed and the Committee 
decided to continue to retain the services of Hewitt New 
Bridge Street. A review of the effectiveness of the Committee 
was also carried out.
Policy on Directors’ remuneration
Executive Directors
The Company’s remuneration policy continues to be to provide 
remuneration packages that fairly reward Executive Directors 
for the contribution they make to the business, taking into 
account the size and complexity of the Group’s operations 
and the need to attract, retain and motivate executives of the 
highest quality.
Historically, remuneration packages have comprised salary, 
performance bonuses, share options, long term incentive 
awards, beneﬁts in kind and retirement beneﬁt provisions. 
Over the past ﬁnancial year the Committee started to 
review how it structures its executive options and long term 
incentive awards for its senior management, which are 
due to reach the end of their 10-year life shortly. 
The Company’s policy still ensures that each of the 
packages incorporates components linking individual and 
Company performance, short- and long-term returns, as well 
as absolute and relative ﬁnancial performance. It also remains 
the case that none of the variable elements of remuneration 
are pensionable.
The Committee considers that the targets set for the 
different elements of performance related remuneration 
are appropriate and demanding in the context of the 
Company’s trading environment. It further believes that these 
targets align the interest of its executives with those of the 
Company’s shareholders. The contribution of ﬁnancial bonus 
targets based on trading proﬁt and cash ﬂow, personal 
targets linked to customer service, health and safety and 
other strategic objectives, and longer term incentives provide 
strong alignment with the Group’s strategy.
The following chart shows total remuneration (base salary, 
target and maximum amounts relating to bonus and the 
value of long term incentive awards and executive share 
options granted during the ﬁnancial year) for the Executive 
Directors in ofﬁce during ﬁnancial year 2010/11:
Maximum
Target 40% 37% 10% 13%
19% 23% 24% 34%
Options Bonus
Base salary LTIS
Proportion of total remuneration %
 
Details of each of the Executive Directors can be found on 
pages 54 and 55.
Non Executive Directors
The remuneration of Non Executive Directors is made up 
of a basic fee plus an additional fee where a Non Executive 
Director acts as chairman of either the Audit Committee or 
Remuneration Committee or acts as Senior Independent 
Director; details of these fees are listed below. These fees 
are reviewed from time to time by the Chairman and the 
Executive Directors of the Board and were reviewed and 
increased in July 2011.
Fees
2011
Additional fees
2010
Additional fees
Senior Independent Director £11,000 £10,000
Remuneration Committee 
chairman £12,500 £12,000
Audit Committee chairman £16,500 £16,000
The Non Executive Directors have letters of engagement rather 
than service agreements. As a result of the redomiciliation of 
Wolseley plc in November 2010, new letters were entered into 
by each Non Executive Director containing identical terms to 
the original letters. The Non Executive Directors do not 
participate in any incentive plan, nor is any pension payable in 
respect of their services as Non Executive Directors. It remains 
the Board’s policy that Non Executive Directors are appointed 
for an initial term of three years, which is then reviewed and, 
if appropriate, extended for a further three-year period. 
Appointments may be terminated upon six months’ notice by 
either party. There are no provisions for compensation in the 
event of termination. The terms and conditions of appointment 
of the Non Executive Directors are available for inspection at 
the Company’s registered ofﬁce during normal business hours, 
the corporate head ofﬁce and at the Annual General Meeting. 
Details of each of the Non Executive Directors can be found 
on pages 54 and 55.
External appointments
Mr Meakins is a non executive director of Centrica plc 
and receives a fee of £65,000 per annum for his services. 
The Company allowed Mr Meakins to retain this fee for 
such external appointment.
Salaries
The Committee intends that base salary reﬂects the level of 
responsibility of the Director, the relevant market in which 
he or she operates and individual performance. Independent 
external advice is taken to benchmark salaries with market 
data, derived from a group of companies selected on the basis 
of comparable size, geographic spread and business focus. 
It is the Committee’s objective to set base salaries at or around 
the market median, with the opportunity to go above this 
level in the event of sustained individual high performance.  74
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
In accordance with the core principles of the Code, 
consideration has also been given to general pay and 
employment conditions across the Group. The Committee 
continues to assess these and other matters, such as 
prevailing market conditions, when determining levels of 
remuneration for Executive Directors and the Executive 
Committee and when reviewing schemes that are appropriate 
to a broader group of senior employees. For new appointments, 
in particular internal promotions, the policy is for base salary to 
progress towards the median once expertise and performance 
have been proven and sustained. The payment of salaries at 
this level is considered appropriate for motivation and retention 
of the calibre of executive required to ensure the successful 
management of the Company in the challenging international 
business environment in which it operates.
The Committee reviews the fees of the Chairman and the 
salaries of the Executive Directors annually, having sought 
the views of both the Chairman and the Group Chief 
Executive (other than in the case of their own remuneration). 
In recognition of the Company’s improved performance 
during ﬁnancial year 2009/10, the Committee agreed that 
base salaries for each Executive Director for the ﬁnancial 
year commencing 1 August 2010 be increased by 2.5 per 
cent for UK executives, and 3 per cent for the US executive. 
The Chairman’s fee was unchanged from the previous year.
As part of the overall review of the structure of executive 
packages carried out during the year, which considered 
basic benchmarking data, the base salaries for the ﬁnancial 
year 2011/12 payable to Executive Directors and the 
members of the Executive Committee who are not on the 
Board have been set generally in line with market median. 
Only very modest inﬂationary adjustments to salary were 
made for senior executives, in line with pay restraint 
throughout the Company.
The Board also reviewed the fees payable to the Non 
Executive Directors and benchmarked them against 
comparable FTSE companies. It concluded that fees should 
be increased for the ﬁnancial year 2010/11 to bring them 
in line with the median. This resulted in an increase of just 
under 2 per cent. As part of this review, it was agreed that 
the Chairman’s fee again remain unchanged.
The fees payable to the Chairman and Non Executive 
Directors and base salaries in respect of the Executive 
Directors for the ﬁnancial year commencing 1 August 2011 
are therefore as follows: G Davis £360,500; I Meakins 
£814,234; J Martin £504,300; F Roach $1,016,236; and, 
for each of the Non Executive Directors, £63,000 (exclusive 
of Committee or Senior Independent Director fees). In the 
case of the Executive Directors, this represents an increase 
of 2.5 per cent for UK based Executive Directors and an 
increase of 3 per cent for Mr Roach who is US-based. 
The majority of the Executive Committee were awarded 
increases of 2.5 per cent.
Performance bonuses
Performance bonus arrangements for the Executive Directors 
are designed to encourage individual performance and 
generate operating efﬁciencies and proﬁtable growth. 
Stretching targets, determined by the Committee, are 
set for each element of the bonus. The Committee also 
considers the levels of performance targets to be achieved 
for bonus payments to be made in the succeeding year. 
The annual bonus awards are based on a mix of demanding 
ﬁnancial targets, derived from the Company’s annual 
long-term strategic business plan and annual budget, as well 
as market expectations. For the ﬁnancial year 2010/11, 80 per 
cent of potential bonus was driven by ﬁnancial performance. 
The balance depended on speciﬁc strategic personal 
objectives which were set for each Executive Director 
and member of the Executive Committee. As part of the 
continued drive to improve the business, the performance 
measures at Group level were weighted as follows, giving 
an increased emphasis on trading proﬁt:
Trading
proﬁts
50%
Cash-to-
cash days
30%
 
Personal
objectives
20%
Performance bonus 
Challenging trading proﬁt and cash stretch targets are set 
for each geographical region and at the overall Group level. 
Depending on their particular responsibilities and their 
performance, Executive Directors were eligible to receive up to 
100 per cent of salary for UK based Directors, and up to 1 10 per 
cent of salary for US based Directors, for on-target performance. 
In relation to the ﬁnancial components, at the Group level the 
signiﬁcant improvement in trading proﬁt of 38 per cent in the year 
meant that the stretch (maximum) trading proﬁt target was 
exceeded. Strong Group cash management delivered 
performance that exceeded the cash-to-cash days stretch 
(maximum) target. The North American proﬁt performance 
exceeded the target set at the start of the year but did not reach 
the stretch (maximum) level, whereas the cash-to-cash 
performance exceeded threshold (minimum) performance 
but fell short of target. No Director fully achieved the stretch 
levels for their personal objectives in the year. Bonuses 
payable for each Director are set out in the table on page 76. 
For the forthcoming ﬁnancial year, the ﬁnancial components 
have been adjusted such that they will now account for 
85 per cent of the total potential bonus, with a greater 
weighting on trading proﬁt. The remaining 15 per cent 
will target speciﬁc strategic personal objectives for each 
Executive Director. The Committee believes that setting 
such stretching targets remains appropriate.
The Committee has determined that the following 
percentages of base salary will be payable as bonus, 
subject to the achievement of the minimum, on-target 
and maximum levels of performance for each element 
(with the percentages increasing on a linear basis for 
achievement between each level):
Percentage of base salary 
payable on achievement of:
Minimum 
target On-target
Maximum 
target
J Martin 40 70 100
I Meakins 80 100 120
F Roach* 80 110 140
*US based.
Remuneration report continued 75
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business and performance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Strategic overview
Beneﬁts in kind
Beneﬁts in kind consist of the provision of a car at the Company’s expense, or a car allowance, and healthcare insurance. 
In addition, to ensure that executives are not disadvantaged as a result of paying personal tax in more than one jurisdiction 
arising from the discharge of their duties, the Company meets the cost of any additional tax that they would be obliged to pay 
through the operation of a tax equalisation mechanism. Messrs Meakins and Martin are taxed on their income in the United 
Kingdom and Switzerland, and in addition Mr Roach is taxed on his income in the United States.
Key elements of Executive Directors’ remuneration in 201 1/12
Element Objective
Performance 
period Description Policy
Base salary To provide competitive 
base salary compensation 
to executives allowing the 
Company to attract and 
retain talented leaders.
Annual Reviewed annually with 
effect from 1 August. 
Base salaries are reviewed 
against suitable comparator 
companies based on size 
and sector and take into 
account business and 
personal performance and 
local market conditions.
Base salary is set at mid-market, 
with the opportunity to go above this 
level if there is sustained individual 
high performance. Compensation 
provided should be commensurate 
with the executive’s contribution to 
the Company. The Committee 
intends to pay appropriately, based 
on skill, experience and performance 
achieved by the executive.
Annual 
bonus
To ensure a market 
competitive package 
and link total cash 
reward to achievement 
of the Company’s 
ﬁnancial and strategic 
business objectives.
Annual The maximum target 
ranges from 100% to 
140% of base salary 
(varying by individual and 
geographical location).
To reward achievement of budgeted 
and stretching ﬁnancial and 
operational goals within the year, 
and applying proﬁtability metrics 
and personal goals which are 
linked to overall strategic aims 
and shareholder expectations.
Pension To aid retention and 
reward long service.
Ongoing Up to 32% of salary is 
contributed for Deﬁned 
Contribution arrangements 
(varying by individual and 
geographical location).
For executives in the UK the aim 
is to provide a market-competitive 
beneﬁt for retirement. For executives 
in the US, the vesting criteria for the 
Senior Executive Retirement Plan 
are related to age and service.
Long Term  
Incentive 
Scheme  
and 
Executive 
Share  
Option Plan 
To incentivise executives to 
deliver superior long-term 
performance in absolute 
terms and also relative 
to peer group companies. 
To align executives’ 
interests with those 
of shareholders and to 
retain key individuals.
Three 
years
A maximum grant of 
200% of salary per annum 
may be made under the 
LTIS. A maximum grant of 
500% of salary per annum 
may be made under the 
ESOP . (A maximum grant 
would be awarded only in 
exceptional circumstances.)
Awards under the LTIS have been 
made annually to senior executives 
and other high-performing key 
leaders. Vesting is conditional on 
Group TSR meeting certain targets 
over a three-year performance 
period, relative to a comparator 
group of principally FTSE 100 
companies, excluding banks, 
telecommunications, IT and utility 
companies but including CRH plc 
and Travis Perkins plc. For future 
grants, the comparator group 
encompasses the full FTSE 100 
with no additions or exclusions.
Awards under the ESOP have 
been made annually to senior 
management. Vesting is conditional 
on certain earnings per share 
(“EPS”) growth targets being 
achieved over a three-year 
performance period. 76
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Emoluments (audited)
The emoluments for ﬁnancial year 2010/11 payable from 1 August 2010 for the Directors who served during the year are set 
out below. The total received by Mr Roach was paid in US dollars and this has been translated into sterling at the exchange 
rate $1.6426:£1 (2010: $1.5699:£1):
Directors
Salary and fees
£000
Additional fees
£000
Bonuses
£000
Beneﬁts
£000
2011  
Total 
£000
2010  
Total 
£000
Chairman      
G Davis
1
219.3 4.6 – – 224.0 71.8
Executive Directors      
J Martin
2
492.0 – 487 . 1 141.4 1,120.5 531.1
I Meakins
3
794.4 – 934.2 282.3 2,010.9 1,943.4
F Roach
4
600.7 – 748.2 41.0 1,389.9 1,406.9
Non Executive Directors     
T Bamford
5
22.5 ––– 22.5 –
M Clarke
5
22.5 ––– 22.5 –
A Duff
6
61.8 17 .4 – – 79.1 73.8
M Wareing 61.8 16.0 – – 77.8 60.8
Former Directors      
A Le Goff
7
19.5––– 19.5 56.6
J Murray
8
10.3 ––– 10.3 68.8
N Stein
9
41.2 ––– 41.2 61.8
J Whybrow
10
169.6––– 169.6 360.5
Total 2,515.6 38.0 2,169.5 464.7 5,187.8 4,635.5
Pensions to former Directors –––– 204 193
Pension contributions to money purchase plans –––– 138 140
Aggregate gains on exercise of share options –––– – 17
Total –––– 342 350
1 Appointed as Chairman with effect from 21 January 2011. Additional fees received as Senior Independent Director up until 20 January 2011.
2 £123,000 of the ﬁgure for beneﬁts relates to a cash supplement in lieu of payments to the Company’s pension scheme.
3 £254,200 of the ﬁgure for beneﬁts relates to a cash supplement in lieu of payments to the Company’s pension scheme.
4  The actual salary paid during the year in US dollars increased by 3 per cent from the ﬁgure reported in the 2009/10 Annual Report but is subject to exchange 
rate variances.
5 Appointed to the Board with effect from 22 March 2011.
6 Additional fees increased due to appointment as Senior Independent Director from 21 January 2011.
7 Stepped down from the Board as a Non Executive Director with effect from 23 November 2010.
8 Stepped down from the Board as a Non Executive Director with effect from 30 September 2010.
9 Stepped down from the Board as a Non Executive Director with effect from 22 March 2011.
10 Stepped down as Chairman of the Board and as a Non Executive Director with effect from 20 January 2011.
Remuneration report continued 77
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business and performance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Strategic overview
Board changes
Following the appointment of Mr Davis as Chairman, the 
Committee agreed that he would receive the same level 
of fees as that paid to Mr Whybrow throughout the course 
of 2009 and 2010 of £360,500. During the year the Company 
appointed two new Non Executive Directors, as detailed on 
page 59 and on 30 September 2011 announced the 
appointment of an additional Non Executive Director.
Service agreements
Following the introduction of a new holding company in 
November 2010, Wolseley plc was renamed Wolseley Limited 
and it is this company with which the Executive Directors 
have their service agreements. The terms of appointment 
remain unchanged. Under each service agreement, the 
notice period is 12 months if given by the Company and 
six months if given by the Executive. This reﬂects current 
market practice and the balance that should be struck 
between providing contractual protection to the Directors 
that is fair and promoting the interests of shareholders. 
Typically, upon termination by the Company, a payment 
would be made equal to the aggregate of base salary, any 
pension contributions made and the cost to the Company 
of providing other beneﬁts to the Executive. The Company 
would also seek to ensure that any termination payment is 
mitigated in the event that the Executive ﬁnds alternative 
employment during the notice period. As a result of 
the redomiciliation of Wolseley plc in November 2010, 
appointment letters were entered into by each Executive 
Director, supplementing their service agreements, to address 
service and taxation matters arising from the discharge of 
their duties in Switzerland. No additional remuneration has 
become payable to them as a consequence of the change 
in the Company’s tax residency in Switzerland.
Director Date of service agreement Date of appointment letter
J Martin 25 January 2010 23 November 2010
I Meakins 13 July 2009 23 November 2010
F Roach 27 February 2006 23 November 2010
Other senior executives
The members of the Executive Committee, who are not on 
the Board, are senior executives whose roles are considered 
able to signiﬁcantly inﬂuence the ability of the Group to meet 
its strategic objectives. The Committee determines the level 
of remuneration for this group, based on proposals from the 
Group Chief Executive. Their total remuneration including 
salary and beneﬁts, actual bonus, and the fair value of long 
term incentives granted or awarded during the year ended 
31 July 2011 is summarised below:
Total remuneration 2010/11 
(£000)
Number in band 
(2009/10 in brackets)
401–500 1 (0)
501–600 0 (1)
601–700 1 (2)
701–800 1 (2)
801–900 1 (1)
901–1,000 1 (0)
1,201–1,300 0 (1)
1,301–1,400 1 (0)
Director share ownership
A share ownership programme was introduced with effect 
from 1 August 2004 and is designed to encourage all 
Directors and Executive Committee members to build up 
a shareholding in value equivalent to the following levels:
Group Chief Executive 1.5 times basic salary
Other Executive Directors 1 times basic salary
Chairman and Non Executive Directors 1 times annual fees
Executive Committee members 0.5 times basic salary
For Executive Directors and Executive Committee members, 
share ownership may be achieved by retaining shares 
received as a result of participating in a Company share plan, 
after taking into account any shares sold to ﬁnance option 
exercises or to pay a National Insurance or income tax liability 
or overseas equivalent. The programme speciﬁcally excludes 
the need for executives to make a personal investment 
should awards not vest. Normally these levels of shareholding 
should be expected to be achieved within three to ﬁve years 
from the time the individual is included in the programme. 
The Committee has reviewed and noted the progress which 
has been made towards meeting these targets during the 
year. Directors’ current interests in shares are set out on 
page 78. 78
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
The interests of the Directors in ofﬁce at 31 July 2011, and 
of their connected persons, in the ordinary shares of the 
Company at the following dates were:
Ordinary shares of
10 pence each held at
31 July 2011 and at
the date of this report
Ordinary shares
of 10 pence
each held at
1 August 2010
T Bamford 1,000 –
M Clarke 1,000 –
G Davis* 13,038 3,679
A Duff* 5,023 3,508
J Martin 21,071 –
I Meakins 63,490 34,533
F Roach* 17,927 15,824
M Wareing 5,288 3,199
* As a result of the capital reorganisation which was completed on 2 April 2009, 
each of the Directors noted above held a number of deferred shares of 
24 pence each. These deferred shares held no value or voting rights and were 
cancelled on 23 November 2010 as part of the Company’s redomiciliation.
Pensions (audited)
Mr Roach, who is a US citizen, participated in the deﬁned 
contribution pension arrangements of Ferguson Enterprises, 
Inc., receiving contributions at the level of 23 per cent of his 
base salary. Bonus is not included in the calculation of 
Company pension contributions. The following table shows 
the cost of the Group’s contributions during the ﬁnancial year 
for Mr Roach:
Deﬁned contributions  
pensions (US)
2011
£000
2011
$000*
2010
£000
2010
$000*
F Roach 138.1 226.9 140.4 220.3
* Exchange rate used to convert the $ to £ over the year to 31 July 2011 is 
$1.6426 : £1 (2010: $1.5699 : £1).
Brossette, a French subsidiary undertaking, has a 
commitment to a former director, who is a French citizen, to 
pay an annual pension of €233,536 (2010: €232,701), with 
a widow’s entitlement of 60 per cent, subject to an annual 
increase based on the agreed French pension index. The full 
actuarial cost of this arrangement was provided in previous 
years as part of Brossette’s ongoing pension obligations. 
The Company is guarantor of this future pension commitment 
which at 31 July 2011 was estimated at approximately 
£2.7 million (2010: £2.7 million).
Long term incentives (audited)
The Company currently operates long term incentive plans 
under the Wolseley plc 2002 Long Term Incentive Scheme 
and the Wolseley Group Long Term Incentive Scheme 2010, 
which was approved in identical form by shareholders in 
November 2010 as part of the Company’s redomiciliation 
(together the “LTIS”). The purpose of the LTIS is to incentivise 
executives to deliver superior long-term performance and 
reward them for relative outperformance of the Company 
against a deﬁned list of comparator companies. The LTIS 
provides for awards of ordinary shares in the capital of the 
Company, subject to the Company meeting TSR targets over 
separate three-year periods. All awards are made subject 
to the achievement of stretching performance conditions. 
The measure of TSR has been selected as the appropriate 
performance measure to ensure that the interests of the 
Executive Directors and senior executives are more closely 
aligned with those of the Company’s shareholders over the 
long term (as further detailed on page 73). Calculations of 
TSR are independently carried out and veriﬁed before being 
approved by the Committee. Awards may not exceed an 
amount equal to two times salary for executives.
The following performance conditions apply for historical 
awards made under the LTIS:
Wolseley’s TSR position in the comparator group
Percentage of award 
which will vest
Top decile 100%
Between median and top decile 25–100%
At median 25%
Below median 0%
The lists of comparator companies for awards made to 
date under the LTIS have been based upon the constituent 
members of the FTSE 100 as at the respective dates of 
grant, excluding banks, telecommunications, IT and utility 
companies but including CRH plc and Travis Perkins plc, 
which compete in the same sector as the Company. For 
the purposes of simpliﬁcation, the comparator companies 
for future awards made under the LTIS will be based upon 
the full constituent members of the FTSE 100 at the 
respective date of grant. The LTIS is discretionary and it is 
the Committee’s current policy to make annual awards 
to the Group Chief Executive, Executive Directors and other 
members of the Executive Committee. Awards are made 
in shares, save where there may be material securities or 
tax law constraints in overseas jurisdictions where the 
scheme would be operated, in which case conditional 
awards in cash would be considered. A total of 436,150 
shares were conditionally granted under the LTIS in 
December 2010 to 88 employees (2009: 87).
Remuneration report continued 79
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business and performance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Strategic overview
The maximum amount that can be granted under the 
LTIS for each award is 200 per cent of base salary per 
annum. Each year the Committee assesses the relevant 
proportion of awards arising from both share options and 
long term incentive awards. Extant awards remain subject 
to the achievement of performance conditions following 
a participant’s agreed retirement and vesting is only 
determined at the end of the performance period. 
In 2010/11, the highest award under the LTIS was 
125 per cent, and only in exceptional circumstances 
would the maximum be awarded.
The following table sets out the percentage of each award 
which has vested and the percentage of each extant award, 
had it vested on 31 July 2011:
Year of 
award
Year of 
vesting
Percentage vested on maturity or indicative vesting 
percentage based on performance as at 31 July 2011
2007 2010 0% (vested at 31 July 2010)
2008 2011 0% (at 31 July 2011)
2009 2012 46.4% (performance after 24 months)
2010 2013 71.6% (performance after 12 months)
Details of the awards conditionally made under the LTIS 
to the Executive Directors and the number of awards 
outstanding at 31 July 2011 are shown in the table below:
Name of 
Director
Interests in 
shares held at 
August 2010
Interests 
awarded 
during the
year
1
Interests 
lapsed during
the year
2
Interests in 
shares held at
31 July 2011
3
 
J Martin 27 ,135 25,448 – 52,583
I Meakins 67 ,555 57 ,067 – 124,622
F Roach 96,968 32,696 13,806 115,858
1  The market value of awards made on 2 December 2010 was 1740 pence per 
share.
2  Awards granted in 2007 did not pass their TSR performance conditions and 
all such awards lapsed in October 2010.
3  The outstanding three-year performance periods are as follows: 2009 grant –  
1 August 2009 to 31 July 2012; and 2010 grant – 1 August 2010 to 31 July 2013.
Executive share options (audited)
The Wolseley Share Option Plan 2003 (“2003 Option Plan”) 
received shareholder approval at the Annual General 
Meeting held in November 2003. As part of the Company’s 
redomiciliation to Switzerland, a replacement executive 
share option plan in identical form, the Wolseley Group Share 
Option Plan 2010 (“the 2010 Option Plan”), was presented 
to and approved by shareholders of the new Wolseley plc 
at a General Meeting in November 2010. As a consequence, 
no further options will be granted under the 2003 Option 
Plan. The grant made to executives in December 2010 
was made under the rules of the 2010 Option Plan.
The purpose of the executive share option plans is to reward 
executives for absolute EPS growth of the Company above 
UK inﬂation. All employees and Executive Directors of the 
Company and its subsidiaries are eligible to participate in 
the 2010 Option Plan. Participants are selected by the 
Committee at its discretion and upon the recommendation 
of the Group Chief Executive. The Committee considers 
annually the levels of grant, which are phased over time. 
It also determines the size of each award at the time of 
grant based on individual performance, the ability of 
each individual to contribute to the achievement of the 
performance conditions, and market levels of remuneration. 
Awards may not exceed an amount equal to ﬁve times 
salary for US-based executives and three times salary for 
European-based executives, although the Committee may, 
if it so determines, also use the ﬁve times salary limit in 
exceptional circumstances. No options under either the 2003 
Option Plan or the 2010 Option Plan may be granted more 
than 10 years after the date on which the 2003 Option Plan 
was ﬁrst approved by the Company’s shareholders. 
In 2010/11, no award to any executive under the 2010 
Option Plan exceeded 230 per cent of salary and awards 
signiﬁcantly higher than this percentage are expected to 
be made only in exceptional circumstances. The Committee 
has decided to increase the face value of the option awards 
to be made to the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer in 2011 to 225 per 
cent of salary to reﬂect his performance since appointment.
Satisfaction of options
The Company continually monitors the effect that awards 
made under the various employee and discretionary 
share plans may have on dilution limits. Options are either 
satisﬁed by the issue of new shares or shares purchased 
in the market. In accordance with the recommendations 
of the Association of British Insurers (“ABI”), the number of 
new shares that may be issued to satisfy options granted 
under the 2010 Option Plan and any other employee share 
scheme is restricted to 10 per cent of the issued ordinary 
share capital of the Company over any rolling 10-year period. 
Further, as set out in the ABI principles and guidelines, the 
number of new shares that may be issued to satisfy executive 
options granted under the Company’s discretionary share 
schemes is restricted to 5 per cent of the issued ordinary 
share capital of the Company over any rolling 10-year period.  80
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
The Company adheres to these requirements. At 31 July 
2011, awards had been granted resulting in shares being 
issued or capable of being issued during the preceding 
10 years under all of the Company’s employee share plans 
representing 7.76 per cent of the issued ordinary share 
capital at that date and 4.07 per cent of the issued ordinary 
share capital under the Company’s executive share plans.
These percentages remain disproportionately high, as the 
adjustment factors used during the capital reorganisation 
and share issue in 2009 cannot be applied to shares which 
have already been issued under the Company’s share 
option schemes in the last 10 years, the period used for this 
calculation. It is expected that as historical awards lapse, 
these percentages will reduce signiﬁcantly.
Performance conditions
The extent to which options will be capable of exercise 
depends on the satisfaction of a performance condition, 
based on achieving growth above UK inﬂation in the 
Company’s EPS. The performance of the Company is 
measured over three ﬁnancial years, starting with the 
ﬁnancial year in which the option grant takes place. For 
all grants under the 2003 Option Plan made on or after 
5 November 2004 there is a single three-year performance 
period and, in the event that the performance conditions 
are not fully met on the third anniversary of the date of grant, 
the unvested options will lapse. Provided the performance 
condition has been satisﬁed, an option may be exercised 
at any time until it lapses, 10 years from the date of grant. 
No amount is payable on the grant of an option. The same 
conditions apply to the 2010 Option Plan.
The Committee may set different EPS targets, provided 
that the new targets are no less challenging at the time 
of resetting than when the initial targets were agreed. For 
awards made in 2009 and 2010, the Committee revised the 
EPS targets as detailed below. Further, for the 2010 option 
grant, the Committee decided to set the base EPS at the 
2008/09 level, which was higher than that achieved in 
2009/10 and therefore provided a more challenging base 
from which to achieve the target performance levels for the 
2010 awards. The Committee is currently of the opinion 
that awards made in 2011 would be sufﬁciently challenging 
based on the 2011 EPS and on the continuing stretching 
performance conditions (summarised opposite).
The performance conditions are currently as follows:
Options  
granted
under the  
2003
Option Plan  
in 2003–2008
Options 
granted
under the 
2003
Option Plan 
in 2009/10
Options 
granted
under the 
2010
Option Plan 
in 2010/11
Multiple of salary worth
of shares under option
Total margin of growth over UK inﬂation 
after three years (RPI)
First 100% of salary 9% 9% 9%
Second 100% of salary 12% 15% 15%
Next 50% of salary 15% 21% 21%
Greater than 250% of salary 15%  
to 21% 21% 21%
The Committee intends to apply the same growth targets to 
grants to be made in 2011.
The Committee can also vary the terms of existing options 
to take account of any technical changes, for example, 
changes in accounting standards. Any amended target will 
be materially no less challenging as a result of any such 
change. The Committee continues to believe that the EPS 
condition is appropriate for share options, as it requires 
substantial improvement in the Company’s underlying 
ﬁnancial performance and complements the inherent 
requirement for share price growth for an option to have value.
In December 2010, 2,690,478 options were granted under 
the 2010 Option Plan to 934 employees (2009: 1,121) at an 
option price of 1855 pence. The table on page 81 shows the 
number of share options awarded to the Executive Directors 
and the number of awards outstanding as at 31 July 2011.
Remuneration report continued 81
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business and performance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Strategic overview
Directors’ interests in share options (audited)
Name of Director/scheme
Date of  
grant
Options 
held at 
31 July  
2010
Options 
granted 
during year
Options 
lapsed 
during year
Options 
exercised 
during year
Options 
held at 
31 July  
2011
Option price 
(p)
Earliest date 
of exercise
Expiry  
date
J Martin        
Executive options 01.04.10 37 ,688  37,688 1592 01.04.13 31.03.20
09.12.10 – 35,805 35,805 1855 09.12. 13 08.12.20
UK Sharesave 28.04.11 – 957 957 1692 01.06. 18 30.11.18
I Meakins        
Executive options 06.11.09 152,679  152,679 1269 06.11.12 05.11.19
09.12.10 – 98,493 98,493 1855 09.12.13 08.12.20
UK Sharesave 22.04.10 1,277  1,277 1276 01.06.17 30.11.17
F Roach        
Executive options 04.11.02 3,156   3,156 2264 04.11.05 03.11.12
 27.11.03 7,191   7,191 3098 27 .11.06 26.11.13
 04.11.04 4,162   4,162 3957 04.11.07 03.11.14
 01.11.0727,171 27,171
1
  – 3359 01.11.10 01.11.10 
 31.10.0887,357   87,357 1334 31.10.11 30.10.18
 06.11.0972,800  72,800 1269 06.11.12 05.11.19
09.12.10 – 54,523 54,523 1855 09.12.13 08.12.20
ESPP
 22.03.10236 23
2
 213 – 1355 01.05.11 21.05.11
30.03.11 – 166 166 1798 01.05.12 29.05.12
1  Options lapsed on 1 November 2010 as the 2007 grant did not pass the relevant EPS performance conditions.
2  Under the ESPP , a total of 236 options were granted in April 2010. However, the exchange rate increased between the date of grant and the date of maturity in 
May 2011, which led to a lower number of options equating to total contributions being exercised. Accordingly the balance of options lapsed. The Company’s share 
price on the date of exercise was 2118 pence.
The highest mid-market price of the Company’s ordinary 10 pence shares during the year was 2261 pence and the lowest 
was 1223 pence. The price of the Company’s ordinary 10 pence shares on 31 July 2011 was 1815 pence.
Employee Beneﬁt T rusts
The Wolseley plc 2004 Overseas Employee Beneﬁt Trust, 
the Wolseley plc 2004 Employee Beneﬁt Trust and the 
Wolseley plc 2004 Directors’ Beneﬁt Trust were established 
in October 2004 in connection with the Wolseley Share 
Option Plan 2003 and the Wolseley plc 2002 Long Term 
Incentive Scheme. Upon its redomiciliation, the Company 
changed the trustees to Bedell Trust Company Limited, 
also registered in Jersey. These new trustee arrangements 
would also cover awards made under the Wolseley Group 
Long Term Incentive Scheme 2010 and the Wolseley 
Group Share Option Plan 2010.
The trustees of each of the Trusts have waived their rights 
to receive dividends on any shares held by them. At the 
date of this report, the Trust holds 1,947 ,259 ordinary shares 
of 10 pence each. 82
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Remuneration report continued
Savings related share option schemes 
(audited)
The UK-based Executive Directors may participate in the 
UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme (“UK Sharesave”) 
and the US-based Executive Director may participate in the 
Employee Share Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). Under the UK 
Sharesave, participants can enter into a savings contract 
for three, ﬁve or seven years, up to a maximum level of 
£250 per month (over all contracts) and are granted options 
to subscribe for shares in the Company. Under the ESPP, 
a US Code 423 Plan, US participants may enter into a 
one-year savings contract to a maximum level of no more 
than $400 per month. A similar scheme is also offered to 
employees across Europe under the Wolseley European 
Savings Plan (“WESP”). Participants in the WESP are also 
subject to a maximum savings level of the equivalent of 
£250 per month in their local currency. The local currency 
equivalent is calculated by reference to the rate of exchange 
determined at the deemed date of grant. The Board may 
determine that the options granted under these three 
schemes may be awarded at a discount. The maximum 
discount, which was applied to the 2011 awards, was 
20 per cent for the UK Sharesave, and 15 per cent for the 
ESPP and WESP . A total of 280,308 options were granted 
in April 2011 to 3,640 employees in the United States and 
Canada under the ESPP; 76,270 options were granted to 
324 employees across Europe under the WESP, all at an 
option price of 1798 pence per share. In the UK, a total of 
193,702 options were granted at an option price of 1692 
pence per share to 1,319 employees. The table on page 81 
sets out the number of share options granted to Executive 
Directors during the year under the UK sharesave and ESPP 
and the number of options outstanding as at 31 July 2011.
As the current UK Sharesave and ESPP share plan 
rules expire at the end of 2011, the Company intends 
to renew these rules and present them to shareholders 
for approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held 
on 29 November 2011. It is proposed that the new UK 
Sharesave plan be incorporated into a new international 
sharesave plan which combines the HMRC approved 
rules for UK employees together with terms appropriate 
to European employees. Summaries of the new plans 
can be found in the Notice of the AGM.
Performance graph
The following graphs show Wolseley’s TSR performance 
against the performance of the FTSE 100 Index over the 
ﬁve-year period to 31 July 2011. The FTSE 100 Index 
has been chosen as being a broad equity market index 
consisting of companies comparable in size and complexity 
to Wolseley.
The ﬁrst graph is for information and includes the 
performance of Wolseley for the ﬁve years from 31 July 2006 
to 31 July 2010. The second graph is that required by 
Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008. It relates 
only to the performance of the new Wolseley plc holding 
company from November 2010 to 31 July 2011.
31/7/06 31/7/07 31/7/08 31/7/09 31/7/10 31/7/11
FTSE 100 return index
Wolseley return index
T otal return indices – Wolseley and FTSE 100
125
100
75
50
25
0
31/10/10 31/1/11 30/4/11 31/7/11
FTSE 100 return index
Wolseley return index
T otal return indices – Wolseley and FTSE 100
105
104
103
102
101
100
The Remuneration Report has been received and adopted 
by shareholders at each of the Annual General Meetings 
held since 2003. Shareholders will again be invited to 
receive and adopt this report at the forthcoming AGM 
on 29 November 2011.
This report has been approved by the Board and is 
signed on its behalf by the chairman of the Committee.
On behalf of the Board
Andrew Duff 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
4 October 2011 83
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business and performance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Strategic overview
Share capital and voting rights
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together 
with any movements in the issued share capital during the 
year, are shown at note 29 of the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements. As at 31 July 2011 there were 284,910,959 fully 
paid ordinary shares of 10 pence each in issue and listed 
on the London Stock Exchange. The rights and obligations 
attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares, as well as 
the powers of the Company’s Directors, are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association, copies of which can be 
obtained from Companies Registry, Jersey or by writing to 
the Group Company Secretary. 
The Company also has a Level 1 American Depositary 
Receipt (“ADR”) programme in the US for which Deutsche 
Bank Trust Company Americas acts as Depositary. The 
American Depositary Shares (“ADS”) which are evidenced by 
ADRs are traded on the US over-the-counter market, where 
each ADS represents one-tenth of a Wolseley plc ordinary 
share.
CREST
The Company’s ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement 
system for stocks and shares.
Restrictions on transfer of shares
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the 
Company’s ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in 
the Company. No person holds securities in the Company 
carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or on voting rights. The Company’s 
Articles of Association may be amended by a special 
resolution of the Company’s shareholders.
Authority to allot shares
At the Annual General Meeting held in January 2011, 
authority was given to the Directors to allot new 10 pence 
ordinary shares up to a nominal value of £18,967 ,966. 
The Directors intend to propose at the Annual General 
Meeting in November 2011 to seek authority to allot and 
grant rights to subscribe for or to convert securities into 
shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of £18,994,968, 
representing approximately two-thirds of the Company’s 
issued share capital as at the date of this report, but of that 
amount, £9,497 ,484 may only be allotted pursuant to a fully 
pre-emptive rights issue. If approved, this authority will expire 
at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held 
in November 2012.
Subject to the terms of the authority noted above, the 
Directors will also recommend that they be empowered to 
allot equity securities for cash other than pro rata to existing 
shareholders, until the Annual General Meeting to be held 
in November 2012. This authority shall be limited to the 
allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £1,424,622, being 5 per cent of the 
ordinary share capital issued at the date of this report. 
The Directors currently have no intention to issue ordinary 
shares, other than pursuant to the Company’s employee 
share schemes and any share dividend alternatives. 
Authority to purchase shares
In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the 
Company to purchase its own ordinary shares and a special 
resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting 
in November 2011 to renew the Directors’ limited authority, 
last granted in January 2011, to purchase the Company’s 
ordinary shares in the market. The authority will be limited 
to a maximum of 28,492,450 ordinary shares (being 
approximately 10 per cent of the Company’s issued share 
capital at the date of this report) and sets the minimum 
and maximum prices which may be paid. The Directors 
will use this authority to purchase shares only after careful 
consideration, taking into account market conditions, other 
investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and 
the overall ﬁnancial position of the Company. The authority 
will enable the Directors to continue to be able to respond 
promptly should circumstances arise in which they consider 
that such a purchase would result in an increase in earnings 
per share and would be in the best interests of the Company.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles the Company is 
allowed to hold shares purchased by it to be held as treasury 
shares that may be cancelled, sold for cash or used for the 
purpose of employee share schemes. As at the date of this 
report, the Company holds no shares in treasury but the 
Directors currently intend that any shares which are purchased 
will be held in treasury. The authorities to be sought by each 
of the resolutions noted above are intended to apply equally 
to shares to be held by the Company as treasury shares 
and to the sale of treasury shares. The Directors consider 
it desirable for these general authorities to be available to 
provide ﬂexibility in the management of the Company’s 
capital resources.
Other statutory information 84
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Other statutory information continued
Share options
During the ﬁnancial year ended 31 July 2011, options were 
exercised pursuant to the Company’s share option schemes 
resulting in the allotment of 476,390 ordinary 10 pence 
shares. A further 13,569 ordinary 10 pence shares have been 
allotted under these schemes since the end of the ﬁnancial 
year to the date of this report. Details of shares issued during 
the year are set out in note 29 to the ﬁnancial statements.
Auditors and audit information
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) are willing to continue 
as auditors of the Company and resolutions concerning their 
reappointment and the determination of their remuneration 
will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Directors in ofﬁce at the date of this report conﬁrm that, 
so far as they are each aware, in respect of the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements for the ﬁnancial year ended 31 July 2011, 
there is no relevant audit information of which PwC are 
unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that ought 
to have been taken as a Director to be aware, in respect of 
the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the ﬁnancial year 
ended 31 July 2011, of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that PwC are aware of that information.
Change of control
The Company is not party to any signiﬁcant agreements 
that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control 
following a takeover except for the €750,000,000 multi-
currency revolving credit facility agreement dated 18 July 
2011 and US$270,000,000 revolving credit facility agreement 
dated 21 July 2011, which could become repayable following 
a relevant change of control. 
There are no agreements between the Company and any 
Director that would provide compensation for loss of ofﬁce 
or employment resulting from a change of control following 
a takeover bid, except that provisions of the Company’s 
share schemes may cause options and awards granted 
under such schemes to vest in those circumstances. All of 
the Company’s share schemes contain provisions relating to 
a change of control. Outstanding options and awards would 
normally vest and become exercisable for a limited period 
of time upon a change of control following a takeover, 
reconstruction or winding up of the Company (not being 
an internal reorganisation), subject at that time to rules 
concerning the satisfaction of any performance conditions. 
Employees
We believe that our employees are central to our future 
success. The Group actively encourages employee 
involvement and places particular importance on keeping 
employees regularly informed on the Company’s activities 
and ﬁnancial performance and on matters affecting them 
individually and the business generally. This can be through 
informal bulletins, in-house publications and brieﬁngs, as well 
as via the Company’s intranet sites. The Group operates on a 
largely decentralised basis with a rigorous control framework 
exercised by a small team at the Group Services Ofﬁce. 
This allows for greater autonomy and accountability at a local 
level and provides encouragement for the development of 
entrepreneurial ﬂair.
Local management is responsible for maintaining high 
standards of health and safety and for ensuring that there 
is appropriate employee involvement in decision-making. 
A European Works Council (“EWC”) has been operating 
since 1996 to provide a forum for informing and consulting 
employees in Europe on such matters as signiﬁcant 
developments in the Group’s operations, management’s 
plans and expectations, organisational changes within the 
Group and also for employee representatives to consult 
Group management about concerns over any aspect of 
the Group’s operations. At the date of this report, there 
were 23 EWC representatives of which 17 were employee 
representatives and six were management representatives. 
Employee representatives are appointed from each European 
country in which Wolseley operates, with more than one 
employee representative appointed from the UK, France 
and Denmark. All employees are offered a range of beneﬁts 
depending on their local environment. Where possible, they 
are also encouraged to build a stake in the Company through 
the ownership of shares through participation in the 
Company’s employee share schemes.
Employment policies
Our employment policies aim to attract the very best people 
and we believe that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key 
factor in being a successful business. The Group remains 
committed to equality of opportunity in all of its employment 
practices. It is the Group’s policy that the selection of 
employees for appointment, career development and 
promotion be determined solely on the skills and attributes 
which are relevant to the job and which are in accordance 
with the laws of the country concerned, without having 
regard to an employee’s gender, race, religion, age or 
disability. Ongoing training of employees and the continued 
development of their skills is of prime importance to the 
Group. These policies also cover the continuation of 
employment and appropriate retraining for employees 
who become disabled during their employment.
UK pension schemes 
Wolseley currently has two pension schemes in respect of 
UK employees:
(1)  Deﬁned Beneﬁt Scheme – the Wolseley Group Retirement 
Beneﬁts Plan and the William Wilson Group Pension 
Scheme merged on 1 January 2010. Both have been 
closed to new entrants since 31 May 2009. The merged 
plan is known as the Wolseley Group Retirement Beneﬁts 
Plan, retains a separate section in relation to the former 
William Wilson Group Pension Scheme and has three 
trustees consisting of an independent trustee, a member 
nominated trustee and a corporate trustee. The corporate 
trustee consists of nine trustee directors and, save for 
Mr David Tucker, chairman of the trustees, David Illingworth 
and Ian Percy, CBE, all of the other trustee directors are 
employees or former employees of the Group. 85
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business and performance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Strategic overview
(2)  Deﬁned Contribution Scheme – the Wolseley Group 
Deﬁned Contribution Plan is a trust-based deﬁned 
contribution pension scheme with three Company-
nominated trustees, one of whom is an independent 
trustee and two who are UK-based employees of the 
Group. In addition, up to three member-nominated 
trustees may be appointed. Following an election process 
in July 2010 one member was appointed. The chairman 
of the trustees is Wayne Phelan of PS Independent 
Trustees Limited.
Charitable donations
The Group’s Charitable donations in 2011 totalled £1,457 ,000 
(2010: £1,521,000). Donations to charitable organisations 
from the businesses across the Group range from small to 
substantial amounts. The charitable organisations which 
received donations of more than £10,000 per annum from 
Wolseley are referred to in the Corporate responsibility report. 
General details of charitable donations made in the year 
are contained in the Corporate responsibility section. 
Political donations
At each of the Annual General Meetings held since 2002, 
shareholders have passed a resolution, as a precaution, 
to approve donations to political organisations and to incur 
political expenditure (as such terms are now deﬁned in 
sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006). Each year, 
the Board has conﬁrmed that it operates a policy of not 
giving any cash contribution to any political party in the 
ordinary meaning of those words and that it has no intention 
of changing that policy. In previous years this resolution 
related to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
The Company has ensured that, although Jersey registered, 
it will continue to apply the same standards and has such 
provisions incorporated into its Articles of Association. 
The Directors propose to seek, once more, authority for 
the Group to make political donations and/or incur political 
expenditure for amounts not exceeding £125,000 in a total 
aggregate, which they might otherwise be prohibited from 
making or incurring under the provisions of Article 12 of 
the Company’s Articles of Association and which would 
not amount to “donations” in the ordinary sense of the word. 
This authority would last until the Company’s next Annual 
General Meeting.
Creditor payment policy
All Group companies are responsible for establishing 
terms and conditions of trading with their vendors. It is the 
Company’s policy that payments to vendors are made 
within agreed terms and are, where applicable, consistent 
with The Prompt Payment Code, which is sponsored by the 
UK Department for Business Innovation & Skills (“BIS”). 
Copies of this Code can be obtained from BIS. At 31 July 
2011, the Company had no trade creditors (2010: nil). 
The amount of trade creditors for the Group as at 31 July 2011 
was equivalent to 64 days (2010: 67 days) of trade purchases.
On behalf of the Board
Richard Shoylekov
Group Company Secretary and General Counsel 
4 October 2011 86
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Strategic overview Financial statements
87
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
 
Consolidated financial statements 
88 Group income statement 
89 Group statement of comprehensive income 
89 Group statement of changes in equity 
90 Group balance sheet 
91 Group cash flow statement 
92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
92 1. Accounting policies and critical estimates and judgements 
95 2. Segmental analysis 
99 3. Operating costs 
100 4. Exceptional items 
100 5. Finance revenue 
100 6. Finance costs 
101 7. Taxation 
102 8. Discontinued operations 
102 9. Dividends 
102 10. Non-GAAP performance measures 
103 11. Earnings/(loss) per share 
103 12. Employee information and Directors’ remuneration 
104 13. Intangible assets – goodwill 
105 14. Intangible assets – other 
106 15. Property, plant and equipment 
107 16. Investment in associate 
108 17. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
109 18. Trade and other receivables 
110 19. Derivative financial instruments 
110 20. Construction loans 
111 21. Cash and cash equivalents 
112 22. Assets and liabilities held for sale 
113 23. Trade and other payables 
113 24. Bank loans and overdrafts 
114 25. Financial instruments and financial risk management 
115 26. Obligations under finance leases 
116 27. Provisions  
117 28. Retirement benefit obligations 
120 29. Share capital 
121 30. Share-based payments 
122 31. Shareholders’ funds and statement of  
  changes in shareholders’ equity 
124 32. Reconciliation of profit/(loss) to cash generated  
  from operations 
125 33. Analysis of the net outflow of cash in respect  
  of the purchase of businesses 
125 34. Acquisitions 
125 35. Disposals 
126 36. Reconciliation of opening to closing net debt 
126 37. Related party transactions 
127 38. Operating lease commitments 
127 39.  Contingent liabilities 
127 40. Additional information 
145 Independent auditors’ report to the members  
 of Wolseley plc 
 
Company financial statements 
146  Company profit and loss account 
146 Company balance sheet 
147 Notes to the Company financial statements 
147 1. Corporate information 
147 2. Company accounting policies 
149 3. Fixed asset investments 
149 4. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
149 5. Share capital 
150 6. Share premium account 
150 7. Profit and loss account 
150 8. Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds 
150 9. Share-based payments 
150 10. Contingent liabilities 
151 11. Employees, employee costs and auditors’ remuneration 
151 12. Dividends 
151 13. Related party transactions 
152 Independent auditors’ report to the members  
 of Wolseley plc 
 
 
 
Index to ﬁnancial statements 88
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
 Notes 
2011
Before 
exceptional 
items
£m 
2011
Exceptional 
items 
(note 4)
£m 
2011
Total 
£m 
2010 
Before  
exceptional 
items 
£m 
2010 
Exceptional 
items 
(note 4) 
£m 
2010
Total
£m 
Revenue 2 13,558 – 13,55813,203 – 13,203
Cost of sales  (9,776) – (9,776) (9,548) (8) (9,556)
Gross profit  3,782 – 3,782 3,655 (8) 3,647
 Operating costs:    
  amortisation of acquired  
  intangibles  (75) – (75) (92) – (92)
  impairment of acquired  
  intangibles  (39) – (39) (223) – (223)
  other  (3,160) (51) (3,211) (3,205) (324) (3,529)
Operating costs 3 (3,274) (51) (3,325) (3,520) (324) (3,844)
Operating profit/(loss) 2, 3 508 (51) 457 135 (332) (197)
Finance revenue 5 7– 7 14 – 14
Finance costs  6 (73) – (73) (91) – (91)
Associate – share of after tax loss  –– – (24) 11 (13)
Associate – impairment  –– – – (41) (41)
Profit/(loss) before tax  442 (51) 391 34 (362) (328)
Tax (expense)/income 7 (117) 7 (110) (112) 74 (38)
Profit/(loss) from continuing 
operations  325 (44) 281 (78) (288) (366)
(Loss)/profit from discontinued 
operations 8 – (10) (10) – 26 26
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable 
to equity shareholders  325 (54) 271 (78) (262) (340)
Earnings/(loss) per share 11   
Continuing operations and 
discontinued operations    
Basic earnings/(loss) per share  95.9p  (120.6)p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share  95.1p  (120.6)p
Continuing operations only    
Basic earnings/(loss) per share  99.4p  (129.8)p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share  98.6p  (129.8)p
    
Non-GAAP performance measures 10,11   
Trading profit  622 450  
EBITDA before exceptional items  775 635  
Profit before tax, exceptional items 
and the amortisation and impairment 
of acquired intangibles  556 349  
Headline earnings per share   142.9p 74.1p  
Headline diluted earnings per share   141.8p 73.9p  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Group income statement
Year ended 31 July 2011 89
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
Group statement of comprehensive income
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Profit/(loss) for the year 271 (340)
Other comprehensive income:  
Exchange gain on translation of overseas operations 67 156
Exchange gain/(loss) on translation of borrowings and derivatives designated as hedges 
of overseas operations 12 (71)
Cumulative currency translation differences on disposals recycled to income statement 1 (13)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on retirement benefit plans 5 (93)
Valuation gains on interest rate swaps  – 5
Valuation losses on cash flow hedges reclassified to income statement 3 4
Tax on gains and losses not recognised in the income statement (9) 23
Other comprehensive income for the year 79 11
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to shareholders 350 (329)
 
 
Group statement of changes in equity 
    Retained earnings  
 
 
Year ended 31 July 2011 
Share 
capital 
£m 
Share 
premium 
£m 
Translation 
reserve 
£m 
Hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Own  
shares  
£m 
Profit and 
loss account 
£m 
Total 
equity
£m 
Total comprehensive income – – 80 3 – 267 350
Reclassification on group 
reconstruction (213) 3,805 – – – (3,592) –
Capital reduction – (4,961) – – – 4,961 –
New share capital subscribed – 6 – – – – 6
Credit to equity for  
share-based payments – – – – – 3 3
Dividends – – – – – (42) (42)
Net addition to/(reduction in) 
shareholders’ funds (213) (1,150) 80 3 – 1,597 317
Opening shareholders’ funds 241 1,156 300 (5) (78) 1,445 3,059
Closing shareholders’ funds 28 6 380 (2) (78) 3,042 3,376
On 23 November 2010 a new Jersey incorporated, Swiss headquartered, company became the holding company of the 
Wolseley Group. Shareholders received one 10p ordinary share in this new company in place of each 10p ordinary share they 
held in the old Wolseley holding company (note 29). On 6 December 2010 the new holding company undertook a reduction of 
capital under which the entire amount of the share premium account as at 6 December 2010 was cancelled and transferred to 
retained earnings. 
    Retained earnings  
 
 
Year ended 31 July 2010 
Share 
capital 
£m 
Share 
premium 
£m 
Translation 
reserve 
£m 
Hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Own  
shares  
£m 
Profit and loss 
account 
£m 
Total 
equity
£m 
Total comprehensive income – – 72 6 – (407) (329)
New share capital subscribed – 4 – – – – 4
Credit to equity for  
share-based payments – – – – – 8 8
Net addition to/(reduction in) 
shareholders’ funds – 4 72 6 – (399) (317)
Opening shareholders’ funds 241 1,152 228 (11) (78) 1,844 3,376
Closing shareholders’ funds 241 1,156 300 (5) (78) 1,445 3,059
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  90
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Group balance sheet
As at 31 July 2011
 Notes 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Assets   
Non-current assets   
Intangible assets: goodwill 13 1,236 1,347
Intangible assets: other 14 392 465
Property, plant and equipment 15 1,249 1,409
Financial assets: available-for-sale investments  3 3
Deferred tax assets 17 241 284
Trade and other receivables 18 131 182
Derivative financial assets 19 59 66
  3,311 3,756
Current assets   
Inventories  1,596 1,611
Trade and other receivables 18 1,928 1,850
Current tax receivable  7 1
Derivative financial assets 19 5 10
Financial receivables: construction loans (secured) 20 33 80
Cash and cash equivalents 21 403 665
  3,972 4,217
Assets held for sale 22 595 111
Total assets  7,878 8,084
Liabilities   
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables 23 2,292 2,673
Current tax payable  82 177
Borrowings: construction loans (unsecured) 20 – 80
Bank loans and overdrafts 24 197 226
Obligations under finance leases 26 10 14
Derivative financial liabilities 19 2 5
Provisions 27 98 123
Retirement benefit obligations 28 26 23
  2,707 3,321
Non-current liabilities   
Trade and other payables 23 74 83
Bank loans 24 739 778
Obligations under finance leases 26 42 61
Derivative financial liabilities 19 – 3
Deferred tax liabilities  17 166 136
Provisions  27 186 223
Retirement benefit obligations 28 334 409
  1,541 1,693
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 22 254 11
Total liabilities  4,502 5,025
Net assets  3,376 3,059
Shareholders’ equity   
Called up share capital 29 28 241
Share premium account 31 6 1,156
Foreign currency translation reserve 31 380 300
Retained earnings 31 2,962 1,362
Equity shareholders’ funds  3,376 3,059
The consolidated financial statements on pages 88 to 144 were approved by the Board of Directors on 4 October 2011 and 
were signed on its behalf by 
 
Ian Meakins John Martin 
Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  91
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
Group cash ﬂow statement
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
 Notes 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Cash flows from operating activities   
Cash generated from operations 32 16 705
Interest received  7 18
Interest paid  (57) (69)
Tax (paid)/received  (162) 90
Net cash (used by)/generated from operating activities   (196) 744
Cash flows from investing activities   
Acquisition of businesses (net of cash acquired) 33 (12) (11)
Disposals of businesses (net of cash disposed of) 35 115 (10)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment  (74) (54)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and assets held for sale  67 96
Purchases of intangible assets  (19) (30)
Disposals of investments  – 159
Net cash generated from investing activities  77 150
Cash flows from financing activities   
Proceeds from the issue of shares to shareholders 31 6 4
Proceeds from new borrowings  136 –
Repayments of borrowings and derivatives  (208) (992)
Finance lease capital payments  (20) (17)
Dividends paid to shareholders  (42) –
Net cash used by financing activities  (128) (1,005)
Net cash used  (247) (111)
Cash and bank overdrafts of disposal groups transferred to held for sale  (11) –
Effects of exchange rate changes  15 88
Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts  (243) (23)
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the beginning of the year 36 575 598
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the end of the year 36 332 575
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  92
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements
Year ended 31 July 2011
1. Accounting policies and critical estimates and judgements 
Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union, including interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 
(“IASB”) and its committees.  
On 23 November 2010, pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006, a new parent 
company was introduced which is now called Wolseley plc (the “Company”). The previous parent company has been renamed 
as Wolseley Limited (“Old Wolseley”). 
Immediately after the Scheme of Arrangement became effective the Company had the same management and corporate 
governance arrangements as Old Wolseley had immediately before. The consolidated assets and liabilities of the Company 
immediately after the effective date of the Scheme of Arrangement were the same as the consolidated assets and liabilities 
of Old Wolseley immediately before. 
The introduction of a new holding company constitutes a group reconstruction and has been accounted for using merger 
accounting principles. Therefore, although the group reconstruction did not become effective until 23 November 2010, 
the consolidated financial statements of the Group are presented as if the Company and Old Wolseley had always been part 
of the same Group. 
Accordingly, the results of the Group for the entire year ended 31 July 2011 are shown in the Group income statement, 
and the comparative figures for the year ended 31 July 2010 are also prepared on this basis. Earnings per share are unaffected 
by the reorganisation. 
The Company is incorporated in Jersey under the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and is headquartered in Switzerland. 
Accounting developments and changes 
There have been no changes to Group accounting policies during the year ended 31 July 2011. A summary of the principal 
accounting policies applied by the Group in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements is set out in note 40 on 
pages 127 to 135. 
Certain new standards, amendments to and interpretations of existing standards have been published that will be mandatory for 
the Group with effect from 1 August 2013 or later. The following new and amended standards are expected to be relevant to 
the Group:  
• IAS19 Employee benefits 
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
• IFRS10 Consolidated financial statements 
• IFRS12 Disclosure of interests in other entities 
• IFRS13 Fair value measurement 
The Group is assessing the likely effect of these new and amended standards on its future financial statements. 
Choices permitted by IFRS 
The Group has elected to apply hedge accounting to some of its financial instruments, and to recognise its liability for retirement 
benefit obligations in full. 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
Many of the Group’s accounting policies require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported 
amounts. The following areas are most sensitive to the accuracy of such estimates. 
Impairment of trade receivables 
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is made when management estimates that the present value of future cash flows 
recoverable in respect of these receivables is less than the carrying amount. Determining the amount of such provision requires 
estimating the amount and timing of such future cash flows, giving consideration to the financial condition of the debtor and the 
probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation. The actual amounts of cash recovered may differ 
materially from the estimated amounts on which the provision is based. 
The amount relating to continuing operations charged to the income statement in 2011 in respect of impaired receivables 
represented 0.35 per cent of revenue (2010: 0.32 per cent). Wolseley held a provision for impairment of receivables at 31 July 
2011 amounting to £47 million (2010: £60 million). 
  93
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
1. Accounting policies and critical estimates and judgements continued 
Valuation of inventories 
Provisions are made against slow-moving, obsolete and damaged inventories for which the net realisable value is estimated to 
be less than the cost. Inventories which are damaged or obsolete are written down as identified. The risk of obsolescence of 
slow-moving inventory is assessed by comparing the level of inventory held to future sales projected on the basis of historical 
experience. The actual realisable value of inventory may differ materially from the estimated value on which the provision is 
based.  
The Group held allowances in respect of inventory balances at 31 July 2011 amounting to £126 million (2010: £140 million). 
Impairment of assets 
The Group reviews assets that have an indefinite useful life at least annually to assess whether their recoverable amount 
exceeds their carrying value. The recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell, or value in use, 
which in turn is the present value of the future cashflows expected to be derived from the asset. 
The recoverable amount of goodwill and acquired intangibles is assessed on the basis of the value in use of the cash generating 
unit or group of cash generating units (“CGU”) to which they are attributed. The estimate of value in use, and hence the 
outcome of the impairment test, is sensitive to the assumptions made about the revenue growth, trading margin and the level of 
working capital required to support trading over the next five years, the long-term growth rate of their market, and the discount 
rate considered appropriate to reflect the time value of money and any risks specific to the CGU that are not reflected in the 
cash flows. 
As disclosed in notes 13 and 14, the Group has charged £42 million in respect of the impairment of long-lived assets during the 
year ended 31 July 2011 (2010: £402 million) of which £39 million relates to goodwill and acquired intangible assets, after 
preparing value in use calculations on the basis of assumptions set out on page 130. 
The Group acquired Stark and Silvan, two Danish businesses, when it purchased DT Group in 2006. Goodwill and acquired 
intangibles for these businesses have a carrying value at 31 July 2011 of £362 million and £86 million respectively, after 
impairment charges of £152 million and £121 million in 2009. The value in use estimated for each of these businesses at 31 July 
2011 exceeds their carrying value by 3 per cent and 5 per cent respectively. If the long-term prospects for the Danish market or 
the competitive positions of these businesses deteriorate, then further impairment charges may be required against the carrying 
value of these assets. The estimated value in use of these businesses is most sensitive to the trading profit assumed in the final 
year of the cash flow forecast which reflects the mid point in the business cycle. A reduction in trading profit of approximately 
5 per cent would result in carrying value equalling value in use. 
Rebates receivable from vendors 
The Group enters into agreements with many of its vendors that provide for rebates of the cost of inventory purchased. 
Many of these agreements apply to purchases in a calendar rather than financial year, and under certain agreements the 
rebate rises as a proportion of purchases as higher quantities or values of purchases are made. The Group adjusts the cost 
of inventory purchased to reflect estimated rebates receivable, which can depend on the projected volume, value and mix 
of purchases from a vendor through to the end of the qualifying period. Actual rebates receivable from vendors may differ 
materially from the estimates on which the cost of inventory is based. 
Provisions for self-insured risks 
The Group retains layers of certain of its insurable risks, principally US casualty and global property damage, which are 
managed by a captive insurance company, Wolseley Insurance Limited. Certain of the retained risks are subject to an annual 
actuarial assessment. The provision for self-insured risks represents an estimate, based on historical experience, of the ultimate 
cost of settling outstanding claims and claims incurred but not reported. The actual cost of settling these liabilities may differ 
materially from the estimated amounts on which the provision is based. At 31 July 2011, the provision for claims arising from 
this insurance was £57 million (2010: £55 million). 
Provisions for legal, environmental and related exposures 
The Group makes provisions for known and potential legal claims and environmental and other matters, including asbestos 
related litigation and product liability claims, where an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable estimate may 
be made of the likely outcome of the dispute or matter. In establishing such provisions the Group takes into account 
the relevant facts and circumstances of each matter and considers the advice of its legal and other professional advisers. 
The ultimate liability for potential legal claims and other matters may be dependent upon the discovery of facts that are currently 
uncertain, the outcome of litigation proceedings and possible settlement negotiations, and the actual cost of settlement may 
differ materially from the estimated amounts on which the provisions are based. At 31 July 2011 legal, environmental and other 
provisions amounted to £164 million (2010: £152 million). Where the Group has insurance cover that it is virtually certain will 
settle a provision then it recognises an equivalent asset in trade and other receivables.  94
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
1. Accounting policies and critical estimates and judgements continued 
Provisions for onerous leases 
When the present value of the future cash flows receivable from the operation of leased assets is less than the present value 
of the rental payments to which the Group is committed, the Group applies the shortfall firstly against the carrying amount 
of the assets (in the case of finance leases) and then provides for any further onerous element of the contract (for all leases). 
Determining the amount of such provision requires estimating the future net cash flows receivable in respect of these assets, 
and in the particular case where the leased properties are vacant this requires assessing the likely period for which the 
property will remain vacant, the cost of any works required to enhance its marketability and the rental income receivable 
when the property is sublet. Actual cash flows paid and received may differ materially from the estimated amounts on which 
the provisions are based. At 31 July 2011, the provision for onerous leases was £54 million (2010: £88 million). 
Impairment of construction loan receivables and foreclosed properties held for sale 
A provision for impairment of construction loan receivables is made when management estimates that the present value 
of future cash flows recoverable in respect of these receivables is less than the carrying amount. Determining the amount 
of such provision requires estimating the amount and timing of such future cash flows, including an assessment of:  
• the financial condition of the debtor; 
• the ability of the debtor to meet contractual payments; and 
• in the event that the Group forecloses on the property on which the receivable is secured, the likely cost of enhancing 
the marketability of the property, the likely disposal proceeds, and the likely period for which the property will be held before 
a sale can be achieved. 
The actual amounts recovered may differ materially from the estimated amounts on which the provision is based. At 31 July 
2011, the provision for impairment of construction loans receivables was £19 million (2010: £36 million) and the provision 
against foreclosed properties held for sale was £25 million (2010: £24 million). 
Taxation 
Accruals for current tax are based on management's interpretation of country-specific tax law, and require judgements about 
the likelihood that tax positions taken will be sustained. Where management considers it probable that the tax position will be 
sustained, each material tax benefit is reviewed to assess whether it should be recognised in full, or whether provision should 
be made for a potential settlement through negotiation. All such provisions are included in creditors due within one year. 
Any estimated exposure to interest on tax liabilities is provided for in the tax charge. 
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the United Kingdom and in a number of overseas locations that are 
accounted for using methods that rely on actuarial assumptions to estimate costs and liabilities for inclusion in the financial 
statements. These actuarial assumptions include discount rates, assumed rates of return, salary increases and mortality rates, 
and are disclosed in note 28. 
While management believes that the actuarial assumptions are appropriate, any significant changes to those used would 
affect the balance sheet and income statement. The Group considers that the most sensitive assumptions are the discount 
rate and life expectancy. The Group has estimated that a decrease of 0.5% in the discount rate would increase the liability 
by £132 million, an increase of 0.5% would decrease the liability by £117 million, and increasing the estimate of life expectancy 
by one year would increase the liability by £34 million.  95
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
2. Segmental analysis 
Wolseley’s reportable segments are the operating businesses overseen by distinct divisional management teams responsible for 
their performance. All reportable segments derive their revenue from a single business activity, the distribution of plumbing and 
heating products and building materials. 
During the year the Electro-Oil business in Denmark has been reclassified from the Central Europe segment to the Nordic 
segment. The comparative figures for 2010 have been restated to reflect the transfer of £11 million of revenue, £1 million of 
trading profit and operating profit, £4 million of assets and £1 million of liabilities from Central Europe to Nordic. The Central 
Europe segment was formerly named “Central and Eastern Europe”. Central and other costs include Corporate and 
Construction loans which were disclosed separately last year. 
The Group’s business is not highly seasonal half on half. The Group’s customer base is highly diversified, with no individually 
significant customer. 
Revenue by reportable segment for continuing operations is as follows: 
 
2011 
£m 
2010 
(restated) 
£m 
USA 5,500 5,174
Canada 811 765
UK 2,404 2,466
Nordic 2,128 2,012
France 1,943 1,937
Central Europe 772 849
Group 13,558 13,203
Trading profit (note 10) and operating profit/(loss) by reportable segment for continuing operations for the year ended 31 July 
2011 are as follows: 
 
Trading 
profit/(loss)
£m 
Exceptional 
items 
£m 
Amortisation 
and 
impairment of 
acquired 
intangibles 
£m 
Operating 
profit/(loss)
£m 
USA 314 2 (22) 294
Canada 39 – – 39
UK 109 (50) (46) 13
Nordic 113 (1) (43) 69
France 53 3 (2) 54
Central Europe 30 (2) (1) 27
Central and other costs (36) (3) – (39)
Group 622 (51) (114) 457
Finance revenue   7
Finance costs   (73)
Profit before tax   391
  96
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
2. Segmental analysis continued 
Trading profit (note 10) and operating profit/(loss) by reportable segment for continuing operations for the year ended 31 July 
2010 are as follows: 
 
Trading
profit/(loss) 
(restated) 
£m 
Exceptional 
items 
£m 
Amortisation 
and 
impairment of 
acquired 
intangibles 
£m 
Operating
profit/(loss) 
(restated) 
£m 
USA 239 (16) (27) 196
Canada 41 (3) – 38
UK 91 (87) (105) (101)
Nordic 101 (8) (69) 24
France 30 (3) (114) (87)
Central Europe 9 (20) – (11)
Central and other costs (61) (195) – (256)
Group 450 (332) (315) (197)
Finance revenue   14
Finance costs   (91)
Associate – share of after tax loss   (13)
Associate – impairment   (41)
Loss before tax   (328)
The change in revenue and trading profit between the years ended 31 July 2010 and 31 July 2011 are analysed in the following 
tables into the effects of changes in exchange rates, disposals and acquisitions with the remainder being organic change. 
When entities are disposed in the year, the difference between the revenue/trading profit in the current year up to the date of 
disposal and the revenue/trading profit in the equivalent portion of the prior year is included in organic change. 
Analysis of change in revenue 
2010 
(restated) 
£m 
Exchange 
£m 
Disposals 
£m 
 
Acquisitions  
£m 
Organic  
change  
£m 
2011
£m 
USA 5,174(89)–12 403 5,500
Canada 76527–– 19 811
UK 2,466–(132)– 70 2,404
Nordic 2,01212–5 99 2,128
France 1,937(35)(18)– 59 1,943
Central Europe 849 15 (82) – (10) 772
Group 13,203(70)(232)17 640 13,558
 
Analysis of change in trading profit (note 10) 
2010 
(restated) 
£m 
Exchange 
£m 
Disposals 
£m 
 
Acquisitions  
£m 
Organic  
change  
£m 
2011
£m 
USA 239(4)–1 78 314
Canada 412–– (4) 39
UK 91–1– 17 109
Nordic 1011–– 11 113
France 30(1)2– 22 53
Central Europe 9 1 5 – 15 30
Central and other costs (61) – – – 25 (36)
Group 450(1)81 164 622
  97
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
2. Segmental analysis continued 
A number of Group entities have been disposed of or classified as disposal groups held for sale in 2011 and 2010. The revenue 
and trading profit of the Group’s segments excluding those entities (“ongoing segments”) is analysed in the following table. 
This is non-GAAP information. 
    Revenue   Trading Profit 
   
2011
£m 
2010  
£m 
 2011  
£m 
2010
£m 
Ongoing segments    
 USA 5,500 5,174  314 239
 Canada 811 765  39 41
 UK 1,749 1,712  91 84
 Nordic 2,128 2,012  113 101
 France 1,317 1,294  46 38
 Central Europe 718 717  31 18
 Central and other costs – –  (36) (61)
 12,223 11,674  598 460
Entities disposed of or classified as held for sale 1,335 1,529  24 (10)
Group 13,558 13,203  622 450
 
Other information on assets and liabilities by segment is set out in the tables below. 
   2011   2010 
Segment assets and liabilities 
Segment
assets
£m 
Segment
liabilities
£m 
Segment
net assets 
£m 
Segment 
assets 
£m 
Segment 
liabilities 
£m 
Segment
net assets 
£m 
USA 2,288 (804) 1,484 2,304 (929) 1,375
Canada 382 (133) 249 357 (136) 221
UK 1,082 (853) 229 1,166 (1,042) 124
Nordic 1,878 (669) 1,209 1,757 (609) 1,148
France 1,095 (495) 600 902 (458) 444
Central Europe 345 (178) 167 391 (213) 178
Central and other costs 93 (132) (39) 181 (238) (57)
Total 7,163 (3,264) 3,899 7,058 (3,625) 3,433
Taxation assets and liabilities 248 (248) – 285 (313) (28)
Financing assets and liabilities 467 (990) (523) 741 (1,087) (346)
Group assets/(liabilities) 7,878 (4,502) 3,376 8,084 (5,025) 3,059 98
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
2. Segmental analysis continued 
 
    2011    2010 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additions 
to goodwill 
£m 
Additions 
to non- 
acquired 
intangible 
assets 
£m 
Additions to 
property 
plant and 
equipment 
£m 
Additions 
to goodwill 
£m 
Additions  
to acquired  
intangible  
assets  
£m 
Additions  
to non- 
acquired  
intangible  
assets  
£m 
Additions to 
property 
plant and 
equipment 
£m 
USA  4 4 12 42 2 8
Canada  – – 3 –– – 2
UK  – 6 17 –– – 12
Nordic  1 – 15 –– – 11
France  – 2 21 –– – 23
Central Europe  – 1 6 – – 1 26
Central and other costs  – 2 – – – 12 –
Group  5 15 74 4 2 15 82
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended 31 July 2011   
Depreciation 
of property 
plant and 
equipment
£m 
Amortisation 
of non- 
acquired 
intangibles
£m 
Impairment  
of non- 
acquired  
intangibles 
£m 
Amortisation  
of acquired  
intangibles 
£m 
Impairment 
of acquired 
intangibles
£m 
USA  542 – 22 –
Canada 4 – – – –
UK  21 – – 7 39
Nordic  21 – – 43 –
France  30 – – 2 –
Central Europe  92– 1 –
Central and other costs –10 3 – –
Group  139 14 3 75 39
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended 31 July 2010   
Depreciation 
of property 
plant and 
equipment
£m 
Amortisation 
of non- 
acquired 
intangibles
£m 
Impairment  
of non- 
acquired  
intangibles 
£m 
Amortisation  
of acquired  
intangibles 
£m 
Impairment 
of acquired 
intangibles
£m 
USA  682– 27 –
Canada  4 – – – –
UK  33 – – 10 95
Nordic  23 1 – 52 17
France  33–– 3 111
Central Europe  11 2 – – –
Central and other costs  – 11 138 – –
Group  17216138 92 223
  99
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
3. Operating costs 
Amounts charged in arriving at operating profit/(loss) include: 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 139 172
Amortisation of non-acquired intangible assets 14 16
Impairment of non-acquired intangible assets 3 138
Loss on disposal of businesses and revaluations of disposal groups 59 57
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and assets held for sale (13) 7
Staff costs (note 12) 1,884 1,925
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 75 92
Impairment of acquired intangible assets 39 223
Operating lease rentals: land and buildings 198 244
Operating lease rentals: plant and machinery 40 41
Amounts included in costs of goods sold with respect to inventory  9,643 9,126
Amounts charged to write inventory down to net realisable value 10 –
Amounts credited to reverse write downs of inventory – (9)
Trade receivables impairment 47 43
Construction loan receivables impairment – 20
During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Company’s auditor 
and its associates:  
Fees for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.7 0.7
Other services  
– Fees for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 3.0 3.0
– Fees for other services pursuant to legislation – 1.2
– Taxation 3.9 4.5
– Other services – 1.0
Total fees payable to the auditors 7.6 10.4
Operating lease rentals: land and buildings shown above excludes exceptional credits of £3 million relating to future lease 
rentals on vacant properties (2010: charges of £25 million).  100
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
4. Exceptional items 
Exceptional items are those material items which, by virtue of their size or incidence, are presented separately in the income 
statement to enable a full understanding of the Group’s financial performance. If provisions have been made for exceptional 
items in previous years, then any write-back of those provisions is shown as exceptional. Exceptional items included in 
operating profit from continuing operations are analysed by purpose as follows: 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Staff redundancy write-back/(costs) 5 (30)
Asset write-downs, disposals and other property related restructuring credits/(costs) 6 (51)
Restructuring credits/(costs) 11 (81)
Write-down of construction loan portfolio  – (24)
Impairment of software assets under construction (3) (138)
Other costs arising from revised approach to the Group’s Business Change Programme – (32)
Gain/(loss) on disposal of businesses 5 (51)
Loss on revaluations of disposal groups (64) (6)
Total (51) (332)
Exceptional items relating to discontinued operations are detailed in note 8. 
5. Finance revenue 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Interest receivable  7 14
6. Finance costs 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Interest payable  
– Bank loans and overdrafts 46 61
– Finance lease charges 3 5
Discount charge on receivables funding arrangements 7 6
Net pension finance cost (note 28) 15 13
Unwind of discount on provisions 3 3
Valuation (gains)/losses on financial instruments  
– Derivatives held at fair value through profit and loss 1 (30)
– Loans in a fair value hedging relationship (5) 29
– Valuation losses on cash flow hedges reclassified from equity 3 4
Total finance costs  73 91
In 2011 the Group wrote off £6 million of unamortised loan arrangement fees following the early termination of banking facilities. 
This amount is included in interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts shown above. 101
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
7. Taxation 
The tax charge for the year comprises: 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Current year tax charge 65 81
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years (3) (32)
Total current tax charge 62 49
Deferred tax charge/(credit): origination and reversal of temporary differences 48 (11)
Tax charge 110 38
The current tax prior year credit is £3 million. The overall prior year tax credit on continuing operations taking into account prior 
year movements in deferred tax is £20 million. 
Tax on items credited to the statement of other comprehensive income: 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Deferred tax (charge)/credit on actuarial gain/loss on retirement benefits (9) 26
Deferred tax charge on change in fair value of cash flow hedges – (3)
Total tax on items credited to other comprehensive income (9) 23
 
Tax reconciliation: 
2011 
% 
2010
% 
Weighted average tax rate 28 28
Prior year amounts (5) (5)
Non-deductible amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 4 (18)
Other non deductible and non-taxable items 1 (12)
Share of loss of associate disclosed net of tax – (4)
Tax rate on profit/loss before tax 28 (11)
  102
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
8. Discontinued operations 
(a) The results from the discontinued operations, which have been included in the consolidated income statement, 
are as follows: 
 
          
   2011    2010 
 
Before
exceptional
items 
£m 
Exceptional 
items 
£m 
Total 
£m 
 Before 
exceptional  
items  
£m 
 
Exceptional  
items  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Loss on disposal –(3) (3) – (19) (19)
Tax (charge)/credit on loss on disposal –(7) (7) – 45 45
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations – (10) (10) – 26 26
Amounts charged and credited to discontinued operations are generated from movements in tax, provisions and other items 
arising from the sale of Stock Building Supply Holdings LLC in 2009. 
(b) Cash flows from discontinued operations included in the cash flow statement are as follows: 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Net cash generated from operating activities  – 130
Net cash used in investing activities (4) (7)
Net cash (used in)/generated from discontinued operations (4) 123
9. Dividends 
The Company paid an interim dividend of £42 million (15 pence per share) for the year ended 31 July 2011 and has proposed 
a final dividend of £85 million (30 pence per share). No dividends were paid in 2010. 
10. Non-GAAP performance measures 
Trading profit is defined as operating profit before exceptional items and the amortisation and impairment of acquired 
intangibles. It is a non-GAAP measure. As explained on page 142, the Group considers that trading profit, and other 
performance measures based on it, including EBITDA before exceptional items, present valuable additional information to users 
of the financial statements. 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Operating profit/(loss) 457 (197)
Add back: amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 114 315
Add back: exceptional items 51 332
Trading profit 622 450
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and software excluding 
exceptional items 153 185
EBITDA before exceptional items 775 635
Profit/(loss) before tax 391 (328)
Add back: amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 114 315
Add back: exceptional items 51 362
Profit before tax and exceptional items and the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 556 349
Tax expense (110) (38)
Add back: deferred tax credit on the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles (15) (28)
Add back: tax credit on exceptional items (7) (74)
Add back: non-recurring tax credit relating to prior years (20) –
Adjusted tax expense  (152) (140)
The non-recurring tax credit relating to prior years principally arises from the release of provisions following the settlement of 
a number of historical exposures during the year.  103
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
11. Earnings/(loss) per share 
   2011    2010 
 
Earnings/ 
(loss) 
£m 
Basic 
earnings/
(loss) 
per share 
Pence 
Diluted 
earnings/
(loss) 
per share 
Pence 
 
 
(Loss)/  
earnings  
£m 
 
(Loss)/ 
earnings  
per share  
Pence 
Diluted 
(loss)/
earnings 
per share 
Pence 
Headline profit after tax from continuing 
operations  404 142.9 141.8 209 74.1 73.9
Exceptional items (net of tax) (44) (15.6) (15.5) (288) (102.1) (102.0)
Amortisation and impairment of acquired 
intangibles (net of deferred tax) (99) (35.0) (34.7) (287) (101.8) (101.7)
Non-recurring tax credit relating to prior years 20 7.1 7.0 – – –
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 281 99.4 98.6 (366) (129.8) (129.8)
Discontinued operations (10) (3.5) (3.5) 26 9.2 9.2
Profit/(loss) from continuing 
and discontinued operations 271 95.9 95.1 (340) (120.6) (120.6)
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by Employee Benefit Trusts, 
was 282.6 million (2010: 282.0 million). The impact of all potentially dilutive share options on earnings per share would be to 
increase the weighted average number of shares in issue to 285.0 million (2010: 282.9 million).  
12. Employee information and Directors’ remuneration 
Employee benefit costs 
2011 
£m 
2010 
(restated) 
£m 
Wages and salaries 1,631 1,663
Social security costs 193 192
Pension costs – Defined contribution schemes  38 35
Pension costs – Defined benefit schemes (note 28) 19 27
Share-based payments (note 30) 3 8
Total employee benefit costs  1,884 1,925
Amounts for 2010 have been restated to reflect an improved allocation of insurance costs between wages and salaries and 
social security. 
Details of Directors’ remuneration and share options are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 72 to 82, which form part 
of these financial statements. The aggregate emoluments for all key management are set out in note 37. 
Average number of employees 2011 
2010 
(restated) 
USA 17,175 17,108
Canada 2,645 2,503
UK 9,352 10,544
Nordic 6,535 6,468
France 8,184 8,831
Central Europe 2,190 2,591
Central and other 165 181
Group 46,246 48,226
The average number of employees are shown above by segment rather than geographic location and the comparative numbers 
for 2010 have been restated accordingly.  104
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
13. Intangible assets – goodwill 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Cost  
At 1 August 1,969 2,049
Exchange rate adjustment 59 32
Acquisitions 5 4
Disposal of businesses (51) (62)
Reclassification as held for sale (250) (54)
At 31 July 1,732 1,969
Accumulated impairment losses  
At 1 August  622 535
Exchange rate adjustment 26 (6)
Impairment charge for the year 39 205
Disposal of businesses (51) (58)
Reclassification as held for sale (140) (54)
At 31 July 496 622
Net book amount at 31 July 1,236 1,347
The carrying value of goodwill by segment is as follows: 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
USA 377 392
Canada 98 95
UK 70 219
Nordic 493 461
France 141 134
Central Europe 57 46
Group 1,236 1,347
As explained on page 93, impairment tests were performed for all of the Group’s cash generating units or groups of cash 
generating units (CGUs) during the year ended 31 July 2011. These impairment reviews have resulted in the recording of the 
following impairment charges. 
  
  
CGU   
  
Goodwill 
impairment  
charge  
£m 
 
Pre-tax 
discount  
rate used 
 
Long-term 
growth
rate used 
Bathstore 27 11% 2.5%
BCG 12 11% 2.5%
UK segment 39  
The UK retail sector has continued to experience challenging market conditions and this has been reflected in reduced 
expectations of the value in use for certain businesses. Goodwill relating to the Bathstore and BCG businesses has been fully 
impaired. 
  105
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
14. Intangible assets – other 
 
Software 
£m 
Trade names 
and brands 
£m 
Customer 
relationships  
£m 
Other  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost   
At 1 August 2010 295 314 508 45 1,162
Exchange rate adjustment 117 8 – 26
Disposal of businesses (1) (1) (4) (2) (8)
Additions 15 – – – 15
Disposals and transfers (211) – – – (211)
Reclassified as held for sale – (15) (45) – (60)
At 31 July 2011 99 315 467 43 924
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses   
At 1 August 2010 262 97 308 30 697
Exchange rate adjustment 154 – 10
Amortisation charge for the year 14 23 48 4 89
Impairment charge for the year 3 – – – 3
Disposal of businesses (1) (1) (4) (2) (8)
Disposals and transfers (210) – – – (210)
Reclassified as held for sale – (9) (40) – (49)
At 31 July 2011 69 115 316 32 532
Net book amount at 31 July 2011 30 200 151 11 392
 
 
Software 
£m 
Trade names 
and brands 
£m 
Customer 
relationships  
£m 
Other  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost   
At 1 August 2009 283 341 526 41 1,191
Exchange rate adjustment 1 – 11 2 14
Additions 15–– 2 17
Disposal of businesses – (17) (18) – (35)
Disposals and transfers (3) – – – (3)
Reclassified as held for sale (1) (10) (11) – (22)
At 31 July 2010 295 314 508 45 1,162
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses   
At 1 August 2009 111 88 260 23 482
Exchange rate adjustment 1 – 5 – 6
Amortisation charge for the year 16 25 61 6 108
Impairment charge for the year 138 9 8 1 156
Disposal of businesses – (15) (15) – (30)
Disposals and transfers (3) – – – (3)
Reclassified as held for sale (1) (10) (11) – (22)
At 31 July 2010 262 97 308 30 697
Net book amount at 31 July 2010 33 217 200 15 465
Included in the amounts above are £6 million (2010: £8 million) relating to assets under construction.  106
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
15. Property, plant and equipment 
 Land and buildings   
 
Freehold 
£m 
Finance 
lease 
£m 
Operating  
leasehold  
improvements  
£m 
Plant  
machinery  
equipment  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost   
At 1 August 2010 1,214 97 259 869 2,439
Exchange rate adjustment 34 8 (3) 8 47
Acquisitions 3–– 1 4
Disposal of businesses (6) (13) (9) (21) (49)
Additions 19 – 14 41 74
Disposals and transfers (14) (16) (5) (31) (66)
Reclassified as held for sale (117) (6) (20) (88) (231)
At 31 July 2011 1,133 70 236 779 2,218
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 August 2010 226 26 163 615 1,030
Exchange rate adjustment 4 1 (3) 3 5
Disposal of businesses – (8) (5) (14) (27)
Depreciation charge for the year 31 2 21 85 139
Disposals and transfers (5) (3) (5) (31) (44)
Reclassified as held for sale (51) (3) (11) (69) (134)
At 31 July 2011 205 15 160 589 969
Owned assets 928 – 76 171 1,175
Assets under finance leases – 55 – 19 74
Net book amount – 31 July 2011 928 55 76 190 1,249
Net book amount – 1 August 2010 988 71 96 254 1,409
At 31 July 2011, the book value of property, plant and equipment that had been pledged as security for liabilities was 
£602 million.  107
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
15. Property, plant and equipment continued 
 Land and buildings   
 
Freehold 
£m 
Finance 
lease 
£m 
Operating  
leasehold  
improvements  
£m 
Plant  
machinery  
equipment  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost   
At 1 August 2009 1,304 83 262 986 2,635
Exchange rate adjustment 17 – 9 25 51
Disposal of businesses (58) (1) (10) (26) (95)
Additions 12189 43 82
Disposals and transfers (19) (3) (10) (151) (183)
Reclassified as held for sale (42) – (1) (8) (51)
At 31 July 2010 1,214 97 259 869 2,439
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 August 2009 228 26 147 641 1,042
Exchange rate adjustment 2 – 5 16 23
Disposal of businesses (18) – (6) (20) (44)
Depreciation charge for the year 34 2 26 110 172
Disposals and transfers (7) (2) (9) (128) (146)
Reclassified as held for sale (13) – – (4) (17)
At 31 July 2010 226 26 163 615 1,030
Owned assets 988 – 96 227 1,311
Assets under finance leases – 71 – 27 98
Net book amount – 31 July 2010 988 71 96 254 1,409
Net book amount – 1 August 2009 1,076 57 115 345 1,593
At 31 July 2010, the book value of property, plant and equipment that had been pledged as security for liabilities was 
£600 million. 
16. Investment in associate 
At 31 July 2011 the Group had a 44 per cent interest in common equity of Saturn Acquisition Holdings LLC (“Saturn”). 
This investment had a carrying value of nil following an impairment charge of £41 million in 2010. 
Saturn has a financial year ending 31 December. Summarised balance sheet information in respect of Saturn as at 31 July is 
set out below: 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Total assets 170 207
Total liabilities (115) (113)
Net assets 55 94
Group’s share of associate’s net assets 24 41
In the year ended 31 July 2011 Saturn recorded revenue of £477 million (2010: £605 million) and a loss after tax of £36 million 
(2010: £29 million).   108
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
17. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
The deferred tax assets and liabilities shown in the balance sheet are analysed as follows: 
Deferred tax 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Deferred tax assets 241 284
Deferred tax liabilities (166) (136)
 75 148
Current 61 33
Non-current 14 115
 75 148
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the 
current and prior reporting period: 
 
Goodwill  
and  
intangibles  
£m 
Share-based 
payment 
£m 
Property, 
plant and 
equipment 
£m 
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations 
£m 
Inventory 
£m 
Tax  
assets  
£m 
Other  
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 31 July 2009 (150) 2 (77) 111 (49) 151 80 68
Credit to income 75 4 8 1 (6) (46) 10 46
Credit to equity – – – 26 – – (3) 23
Disposal of businesses 1 – 4 – – – (1) 4
Transfers between 
categories – – – – – (8) 8 –
Exchange rate 
adjustment (1) 1 – 3 (5) 7 2 7
At 31 July 2010 (75) 7 (65) 141 (60) 104 96 148
Charge to income 19 2 13 (16) (10) (23) (40) (55)
Charge to equity – – – (9) – – – (9)
Disposal of businesses – – 2 – – (2) – –
Exchange rate 
adjustment (5) – (5) (5) 5 (3) 4 (9)
At 31 July 2011 (61) 9 (55) 111 (65) 76 60 75
Tax losses in the USA and UK have been recognised on the basis that both territories are forecast to have sufficient taxable 
profits in the future to enable these to be utilised. 
There are other potential deferred tax assets in relation to tax losses totalling £15 million (2010: £48 million) that have not been 
recognised on the basis that their future economic benefit is uncertain. The tax losses are in the Czech Republic and expire after 
five years.  
No deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investment in subsidiaries. 
However, tax may arise on £379 million (2010: £503 million) of temporary differences but the Group is in a position to control 
the timing of their reversal and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.  
  109
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
18. Trade and other receivables 
Current 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Trade receivables 1,691 1,572
Less: provision for impairment (47) (60)
Net trade receivables 1,644 1,512
Other receivables 71 89
Prepayments and accrued income 213 249
 1,928 1,850
 
Non-current  
Other receivables 131 182
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
At 1 August 60 81
Disposals and transfers (17) (15)
Net charge for the year 47 43
Utilised in the year (46) (49)
Exchange 3 –
At 31 July 47 60
Provisions for impairment of receivables are made locally, and have two components: 
• a provision for amounts that have been individually determined not to be collectible in full, because of known financial 
difficulties of the debtor or evidence of default or delinquency in payment, amounting to £39 million at 31 July 2011 
(2010: £47 million); and  
• a provision based on historic experience of non-collectability of receivables, amounting to £8 million at 31 July 2011 
(2010: £13 million). 
Trade receivables can be aged with respect to the payment terms specified in the terms and conditions established with 
customers as follows: 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Amounts not yet due 778 704
Past due not more than one month 586 552
Past due more than one month and less than three months 260 228
Past due more than three months and less than six months 18 27
Past due more than six months 10 14
Amounts individually determined to be impaired 39 47
 1,691 1,572
Other receivables includes an insurance receivable of £44 million (2010: £44 million) relating to asbestos claims (note 27) which 
has been discounted at a rate of 3.8 per cent (2010: 3.7 per cent) due to the long-term nature of the receivable. The fair value of 
the remaining balances in trade and other receivables approximates to book value. 
At 31 July 2010, £233 million of trade receivables had been discounted under receivables factoring facilities that were 
terminated during the year ended 31 July 2011.  11 0
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
19. Derivative financial instruments 
The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on its borrowings, and currency swaps 
either to obtain the optimum return on its surplus funds or to hedge cash flows in respect of committed transactions or to 
hedge its investment in overseas operations. The fair values of derivative financial instruments are as follows:  
 
Non-current assets 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Interest rate swaps: fair value hedges 59 66
Derivative financial assets 59 66
 
Current assets 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Interest rate swaps: fair value hedges 5 5
Currency swaps: at fair value through profit and loss – 3
Currency swaps: net investment hedges – 2
Derivative financial assets 5 10
 
Current liabilities 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Interest rate swaps: at fair value through profit and loss (2) (5)
Derivative financial liabilities (2) (5)
 
Non-current liabilities 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Interest rate swaps: at fair value through profit and loss – (3)
Derivative financial liabilities – (3)
The Group’s accounting and risk management policies, and further information about the derivative financial instruments 
that it uses, are set out on pages 133 to 141. 
20. Construction loans 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Construction loan receivables (secured) 52 116
Less: provision for impairment (19) (36)
Net construction loan receivables  33 80
Borrowings to finance construction loan receivables (unsecured) – (80)
 33 –
Construction loan receivables are secured principally against properties in the course of construction or completed properties 
awaiting sale and are all denominated in US dollars. These loans are generally settled when completed homes are sold, rather 
than at a fixed term. The average age since origination is 14 months (2010: 15 months). As at 31 July 2011, the effective rate of 
interest on construction loans was 8 per cent (2010: 7 per cent). The Group has ceased new lending and the construction loan 
portfolio is in run-off. 
At 31 July 2010 construction loan receivables were financed from bank facilities which had a purpose clause under which the 
Group could borrow to finance construction loan receivables but only to the extent that it had sufficient receivables to offset 
these borrowings. The borrowings were disclosed separately from the Group’s net debt. These facilities were terminated in 
2011.  111
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
20. Construction loans continued 
Movements in the provision for impairment of construction loan receivables are as follows: 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
At 1 August 36 39
Charge for the year – exceptional – 20
Utilised in the year (16) (26)
Exchange rate adjustment (1) 3
At 31 July 19 36
Construction loan receivables on which payments are delinquent are subject to foreclosure of the property on which the 
loan is secured, such that the disposal proceeds of the property can be applied in settlement of the outstanding liability. 
After foreclosure, the balance of receivables net of provisions for impairment is transferred to assets held for sale. 
Provisions for impairments of receivables comprise:  
• a provision for amounts that have been individually determined not to be collectable in full, because of known financial 
difficulties of the debtor or evidence of default or delinquency in payment, amounting to £7 million at 31 July 2011 
(2010: £12 million); and 
• a provision based on historic experience of the shortfall of disposal proceeds of foreclosed properties to the outstanding 
balance due, amounting to £12 million at 31 July 2011 (2010: £24 million). 
Construction loan receivables can be aged with respect to the payment terms specified in the terms and conditions established 
with customers as follows: 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Amounts not yet due 32 65
Past due not more than one month 7 12
Past due more than one month and less than three months 4 5
Past due more than three months 2 22
Amounts individually determined to be impaired 7 12
 52 116
Construction loan receivables at 31 July 2011 includes £15 million in respect of loans on which foreclosure proceedings have 
been started (2010: £27 million). The fair value of collateral held in respect of construction loans receivable is believed to be 
sufficient to cover the net amount of construction loans receivable. During the year ended 31 July 2011 disposal proceeds 
of £27 million (2010: £41 million) were realised from the sale of foreclosed properties, in respect of loans with a principal value 
of £41 million before provisions (2010: £70 million). Undrawn committed facilities at 31 July 2011 amounted to £3 million 
(2010: £25 million). 
21. Cash and cash equivalents  
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents  324 249
Short-term bank deposits 79 416
Total cash and cash equivalents 403 665 11 2
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
22. Assets and liabilities held for sale 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Properties awaiting disposal  53 64
Assets of disposal groups held for sale 542 47
Assets held for sale 595 111
  
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 254 11
Properties awaiting disposal at 31 July 2011 includes £26 million relating to properties obtained after foreclosing on construction 
loans (2010: £37 million). 
At 31 July 2011 the Group was in the process of disposing of several businesses which it has therefore classified as disposal 
groups held for sale. These include: 
Build Center: The Group has signed an agreement to sell Build Center, its building materials distribution business in the UK, 
to Saint Gobain. An impairment charge of £19 million was recognised to write down the business to fair value less costs to sell. 
Net assets included in disposal groups held for sale amount to £180 million. The disposal will complete when the transaction 
has received clearance from the relevant competition authorities. 
Brossette: The Group has entered into exclusive negotiations with Saint Gobain to sell Brossette, its plumbing and heating 
distribution business in France. Net assets included in disposal groups held for sale amount to £71 million. Brossette’s net 
assets also include an inter-company receivable balance of £54 million which has been eliminated on consolidation and will be 
settled prior to disposal. Completion of the transaction is subject to clearance from the relevant competition authorities. 
Encon: The Group is pursuing options to dispose of Encon, a specialist distributor of insulation, ceilings, partitioning and fire 
protection products in the UK. An impairment charge of £45 million was recognised to write down the business to fair value 
less costs to sell. Net assets included in disposal groups held for sale amount to £33 million including £14 million of cash and 
cash equivalents. 
At 31 July 2010 the Brandon Hire business in the UK was classified as a disposal group held for sale. This business was sold 
on 22 September 2010. 
The assets and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale consist of: 
  £m 
Intangible assets  54
Property, plant and equipment  92
Inventories  164
Trade and other receivables  218
Cash and cash equivalents  14
Bank overdrafts  (3)
Finance leases  (1)
Payables and provisions  (250)
  288 11 3
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
 
23. Trade and other payables 
Current 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Amounts falling due within one year:  
Trade payables 1,691 1,962
Bills of exchange payable 74 109
Other tax and social security 88 100
Other payables 111 171
Accruals 318 322
Deferred income 10 9
Total trade and other payables 2,292 2,673
 
Non-current   
Other payables 74 83
 
24. Bank loans and overdrafts 
Current 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Bank overdrafts 71 90
Bank loans 126 3
Senior unsecured loan notes – 133
Total bank loans and overdrafts 197 226
 
Non-current 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Bank loans 226 236
Senior unsecured loan notes 513 542
Total bank loans 739 778
£223 million of the bank loans are secured against the Group’s freehold property (2010: £206 million) and £123 million against 
trade receivables (2010: nil). 
The non-current loans are repayable as follows: 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Due in one to two years 52 1
Due in two to three years 9 56
Due in three to four years 36 34
Due in four to five years 216 73
Due in over five years 426 614
Total 739 778
The senior unsecured loan notes have a par value of £453 million (2010: £607 million). Certain tranches of these loan 
notes have been hedged with interest rate swaps, and accordingly the loan notes are stated at an amount of £513 million 
(2010: £675 million). The increase in the recognised liability over the par value of £60 million (2010: £68 million) is offset by the 
carrying value on interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of £64 million (2010: £71 million).  11 4
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
25. Financial instruments and financial risk management 
There have been no significant changes during the year to the Group’s policies on accounting for, valuing and managing the risk 
of financial instruments. These policies are summarised on pages 127 to 141. 
Capital structure 
To assess the appropriateness of its capital structure to current and forecast trading, the Group’s principal measure of financial 
gearing is the ratio of net debt, including receivables factoring facilities, to EBITDA before exceptionals. The Group’s target is to 
keep this ratio within a range of 1 to 2, consistent with an investment grade credit rating. The Group’s main borrowing facilities 
contain a financial covenant limiting the ratio of net debt to EBITDA before exceptionals to 3.5:1.  
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets 
to reduce debt.  
Liquidity 
During the year the Group replaced bank facilities approximating £2,800 million with two revolving credit facilities amounting to 
£822 million which expire on 31 October 2016. 
As at 31 July 2011, the Group had undrawn facilities maturing as follows:  
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Less than one year 50 100
Between one and two years – 1,394
Between two and three years – 188
Between three and four years – 832
After five years 822 –
Total 872 2,514
At 31 July 2011, the Group also had £68 million (2010: £274 million) drawn and £63 million (2010: £96 million) undrawn on 
receivables factoring facilities. 
Foreign currency 
Net debt at 31 July 2011 by currency was as follows: 
As at 31 July 2011  
Interest 
rate swaps
£m 
Finance lease 
obligations
£m 
Cash, 
overdrafts 
and bank 
loans 
£m 
Currency 
bought/(sold)  
forward 
£m 
Total
£m 
Sterling – (1) (7) – (8)
US dollars 64 (3) (494) – (433)
Euros, Danish kroner and Swedish kronor (2) (24) (13) – (39)
Other – (24) (19) – (43)
Total 62 (52) (533) – (523)
Net debt at 31 July 2010 by currency was as follows: 
As at 31 July 2010  
Interest 
rate swaps
£m 
Finance lease 
obligations
£m 
Cash, 
overdrafts 
and bank 
loans 
£m 
Currency 
bought/(sold)  
forward 
£m 
Total
£m 
Sterling –(2)249 (104) 143
US dollars 71 (7) (416) (75) (427)
Euros, Danish kroner and Swedish kronor (8) (41) (105) 141 (13)
Other –(25)(67) 43 (49)
Total 63(75)(339) 5 (346) 11 5
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
 
25. Financial instruments and financial risk management continued 
Interest rates 
The interest rate profile of the Group’s net debt after including the effect of interest rate swaps is set out in the following tables. 
As at 31 July 2011 – currency Floating Fixed Total 
Sterling (7) (1) (8)
US dollars (430) (3) (433)
Euros, Danish kroner and Swedish kronor 75 (114) (39)
Other currencies (19) (24) (43)
Total (381) (142) (523)
 
As at 31 July 2010 – currency Floating Fixed Total 
Sterling 145 (2) 143
US dollars (290) (137) (427)
Euros, Danish kroner and Swedish kronor 286 (299) (13)
Other currencies (24) (25) (49)
Total 117 (463) (346)
Fixed rate borrowings at 31 July 2011 carried a weighted average interest rate of 4.7 per cent fixed for a weighted average 
duration of 2.0 years (31 July 2010: 4.6 per cent for 1.6 years). Floating rate borrowings at 31 July 2011 carried a weighted 
average interest rate of 1.3 per cent (31 July 2010: 1.5 per cent). 
26. Obligations under finance leases 
 
Gross 
2011
£m 
Gross  
2010 
£m 
Net  
2011 
£m 
Net 
2010
£m 
Due within one year 14 18 10 14
Due in one to five years 31 43 23 32
Due in over five years 24 41 19 29
 69 102 52 75
Less: future finance charges (17) (27)  
Present value of finance lease obligations 52 75  
Current   10 14
Non-current   42 61
Total obligations under finance leases  52 75
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its property, plant and equipment under finance leases. Finance lease obligations 
included above are secured against the assets concerned.  11 6
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
27. Provisions  
 
Environmental 
and legal
£m 
Wolseley 
Insurance
£m 
 
Restructuring 
£m 
Other 
provisions  
£m 
Total
£m 
At 31 July 2009 58 57 202 49 366
Utilised in the year (4) (31) (100) (7) (142)
Amortisation of discount – – 3 – 3
Charge for the year 10 26 50 42 128
Disposal of businesses – – (22) (1) (23)
Exchange differences 3 3 6 2 14
At 31 July 2010 67 55 139 85 346
Utilised in the year (8) (12) (66) (5) (91)
Amortisation of discount –– 3 – 3
Charge/(credit) for the year 21 16 (7) 4 34
Disposal of businesses and reclassified as held for sale (1) – (7) 4 (4)
Exchange differences (3) (2) 1 – (4)
At 31 July 2011 76 57 63 88 284
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: 
At 31 July 2011 
Environmental 
and legal
£m 
Wolseley 
Insurance
£m 
 
Restructuring 
£m 
Other 
provisions  
£m 
Total
£m 
Current  32 18 20 28 98
Non-current  44 39 43 60 186
Total provisions 76 57 63 88 284
 
At 31 July 2010 
Environmental 
and legal
£m 
Wolseley 
Insurance
£m 
 
Restructuring 
£m 
Other 
provisions  
£m 
Total
£m 
Current  22 23 50 28 123
Non-current  45 32 89 57 223
Total provisions 67 55 139 85 346
Wolseley Insurance provisions represent an estimate, based on historical experience, of the ultimate cost of settling outstanding 
claims and claims incurred but not reported on certain risks retained by the Group (principally US casualty and global property 
damage).  
The environmental and legal provision includes £44 million (2010: £44 million) for the estimated liability for asbestos litigation 
on a discounted basis using a long-term discount rate of 3.8 per cent (2010: 3.7 per cent). This amount has been actuarially 
determined as at 31 July 2011 based on advice from independent professional advisers. The Group has insurance that it 
currently believes is sufficient cover for the estimated liability and accordingly an equivalent insurance receivable has been 
recorded in other receivables. Based on current estimates, the amount of performing insurance cover available significantly 
exceeds the expected level of future claims and no material profit or cash flow impact is therefore expected to arise in the 
foreseeable future. There were 160 claims outstanding at 31 July 2011 (31 July 2010: 249). 
Restructuring provisions include provisions for staff redundancy costs and future lease rentals on closed branches. In 
determining the provision for onerous leases, the cash flows have been discounted on a pre-tax basis using appropriate 
government bond rates. The weighted average maturity of these obligations is approximately five years. 
Other provisions include the Group’s best estimate of the cost of potential product and service warranty claims arising in Stock 
Building Supply Holdings LLC (“Stock”) before its disposal on 6 May 2009, separation costs relating to the disposal of Stock 
and contractual and constructive obligations relating to the Business Change Programme. Other provisions also include rental 
commitments on vacant properties other than those arising from restructuring actions, dilapidations on leased properties 
and warranties. The weighted average maturity of these obligations is approximately four years.  11 7
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
 
28. Retirement benefit obligations 
(i) Long-term benefit plans provided by the Group 
The Group has a final salary pension plan for certain of its UK employees. The Group operates a number of individually 
insignificant schemes in other jurisdictions, providing pensions or other long-term benefits such as long service or termination 
awards. More information about the schemes operated by the Group is set out on pages 142 and 143. There have been no 
significant changes during the financial period. 
The Group expects to contribute £106 million to the UK defined benefit schemes, including an intended one-off contribution of 
£60 million following the completion of the disposal of Build Center, and £10 million to the non-UK defined benefit schemes in 
the year ending 31 July 2012. 
(ii) Financial impact of plans 
As disclosed in the balance sheet 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Current liability (26) (23)
Non-current liability (334) (409)
Total liability (360) (432)
 
Analysis of balance sheet liability 
2011
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010 
£m 
2010
£m 
Fair value of plan assets:   
 UK 696 593 
 Non-UK 193 131 
 889  724
Present value of defined benefit obligation:   
 UK (946) (897) 
 Non-UK (303) (259) 
 (1,249)  (1,156)
Net deficit recognised in balance sheet (360)  (432)
 
Analysis of total expense recognised in income statement 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Current service cost 30 26
Past service cost – 1
Curtailment (11) –
Charged to administrative expenses 19 27
Interest on pension liabilities 61 57
Expected return on plan assets (46) (44)
Charged to finance costs 15 13
Total expense recognised in income statement 34 40
 
The curtailment gain arises as a result of the disposal of Brandon Hire and Electric Center and the anticipated disposal of Build 
Center. It is included in the exceptional gain on disposal of businesses and loss on revaluations of disposal groups. 
Analysis of amount recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Actuarial gain/(loss) 5 (93)
Deferred tax thereon (9) 26
Total amount recognised in the statement of comprehensive income  (4) (67)
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income have been £265 million 
(2010: £270 million).  11 8
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
28. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
The assets in the UK schemes and the expected rates of return were: 
   2011 UK   2010 UK 
 
Long-term 
rate of 
return 
expected at 
31 July 
2011 
Value at  
31 July  
2011 
£m  
Long-term  
rate of  
return  
expected at  
31 July  
2010 
Value at 
31 July 
2010
£m 
Equities 7.3% 483  7.3% 411
Bonds 4.4% 176  4.5% 158
Other 4.1% 37  4.3% 24
Total market value of assets 6.4% 696  6.4% 593
The assets in the non-UK schemes and the expected rates of return were: 
  2011 Non-UK   2010 Non-UK 
 
Long-term 
rate of 
return 
expected at 
31 July 
2011 
Value at  
31 July  
2011 
£m  
Long-term  
rate of  
return  
expected at  
31 July  
2010 
Value at 
31 July 
2010
£m 
Equities 8.0% 75  7.7% 61
Bonds 4.2% 73  4.3% 49
Property 4.2% 15  4.8% 8
Other including insurance policies 3.1% 30  4.0% 13
Total market value of assets 5.7% 193  5.9% 131
 
Fair value of plan assets 
UK 
2011
£m 
Non-UK 
2011
£m 
Total 
2011
£m 
UK  
2010 
£m 
Non-UK  
2010 
£m 
Total 
2010
£m 
At 1 August 593 131 724 511 129 640
Expected return on plan assets 38 8 46 36 8 44
Actuarial gain 38 1 39 40 4 44
Employer’s contributions 56 34 90 36 6 42
Participants’ contributions –3 3 1 2 3
Disposal of businesses –– – – (23) (23)
Reclassification –15 15 – – –
Benefits paid (29) (12) (41) (31) (6) (37)
Currency translation –13 13 – 11 11
At 31 July 696 193 889 593 131 724
Actual return on plan assets 76 9 85 76 12 88
 
 
  11 9
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
 
28. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
Present value of defined benefit obligation 
UK 
2011
£m 
Non-UK 
2011
£m 
Total 
2011
£m 
UK  
2010 
£m 
Non-UK  
2010 
£m 
Total 
2010
£m 
At 1 August 897 259 1,156 737 244 981
Current service cost 24 6 30 20 6 26
Past service cost –– – 1 – 1
Curtailment and settlement (11) (1) (12) – – –
Interest cost 48 13 61 44 13 57
Participants’ contributions –3 3 2 2 4
Disposal of businesses –(2) (2) – (24) (24)
Reclassified as held for sale – (15) (15) – – –
Benefits paid (27) (16) (43) (31) (11) (42)
Reclassification –15 15 – – –
Actuarial loss 15 19 34 124 13 137
Currency translation –22 22 – 16 16
At 31 July 946 303 1,249 897 259 1,156
 
Analysis of present value of defined benefit obligation 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Amounts arising from wholly unfunded plans 77 67
Amounts arising from plans that are wholly or partly funded 1,172 1,089
 1,249 1,156
(iii) Valuation assumptions 
The financial assumptions used to estimate defined benefit obligations are: 
   2011    2010 
 UK Non-UK  UK Non-UK 
Discount rate 5.4% 4.1%  5.4% 4.7%
Inflation rate 3.7% 1.9%  3.4% 2.0%
Increase to deferred benefits during deferment 2.7% 2.0%  3.4% 2.0%
Increases to pensions in payment 3.6% 1.8%  3.3% 1.8%
Salary increases 4.7% 2.6%  4.4% 2.7%
The life expectancy assumptions used to estimate defined benefit obligations are: 
   2011    2010 
 UK Non-UK  UK Non-UK 
Current pensioners (at age 65) – male 22 20  22 20
Current pensioners (at age 65) – female 24 22  24 22
Future pensioners (at age 65) – male 25 21  24 21
Future pensioners (at age 65) – female 26 23  26 23
  120
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
29. Share capital 
  Authorised  Allotted and issued 
 2011 2010  2011 2010 
Number of deferred 24 pence shares in Old Wolseley (million) – –  – 887
Number of ordinary 10 pence shares in Old Wolseley (million) – –  – 284
Number of ordinary 10 pence shares in the Company (million) 500 –  285 –
Total number of shares (million) 500 –  285 1,171
Nominal value of deferred 24 pence shares in Old Wolseley (£ million) – –  – 213
Nominal value of ordinary 10 pence shares in Old Wolseley (£ million) – –  – 28
Nominal value of ordinary 10 pence shares in the Company (£ million) 50 –  28 –
Total nominal value of shares (£ million) 50 –  28 241
All the allotted and issued shares, including those held by Employee Benefit Trusts, are fully paid or credited as fully paid. 
On 23 November 2010 pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement under Part 26 of the UK Companies Act 2006 between Old 
Wolseley (the former holding company of the Group) and the Old Wolseley shareholders, and as sanctioned by the High Court, 
all the issued 10 pence ordinary shares in Old Wolseley were cancelled and the same number of new shares were issued to the 
Company in consideration for the allotment to shareholders of one ordinary 10 pence share in the Company for each ordinary 
10 pence share in Old Wolseley held at the scheme record date of 19 November 2010. 
The Old Wolseley deferred shares had no voting rights, no entitlement to a dividend and could not be traded. On 24 November 
2010 the Old Wolseley deferred shares were transferred from their current holders to the Company for no consideration and 
were then repurchased and cancelled by Old Wolseley. 
From 1 August 2010 to 31 July 2011, shares were issued to satisfy options exercised under the Group’s share schemes. 
A summary of the movements in the year is detailed in the following table: 
 2011 2010 
Number of 10 pence ordinary shares in Old Wolseley in issue at 1 August 284,399,824 283,839,366
Exercise of executive share options 2,877 11,990
Exercise of savings related share options  31,868 548,468
Group reconstruction  (284,434,569) –
Number of 10 pence ordinary shares in Old Wolseley in issue at 31 July – 284,399,824
Initial subscriber shares issued 28 September 2010 2 –
Number of 10 pence ordinary shares in the Company in issue at 1 August – –
Group reconstruction 284,434,569 –
Redemption of initial subscriber shares (2) –
Exercise of executive share options 292,122 –
Exercise of savings related share options 184,268 –
Number of 10 pence ordinary shares in the Company in issue at 31 July 284,910,959 – 121
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
 
30. Share-based payments 
Analysis of profit and loss charge/(credit) 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Executive Option Schemes (4) 1
Employees Savings Option Schemes 4 5
LTIS and RSP 3 2
 3 8
During the year there have been no significant changes to the Group’s share-based payment plans, which are summarised on 
page 144. Awards granted under the Executive Option Schemes are subject to a condition such that they may not be exercised 
unless the growth in earnings per share over a period of three consecutive financial years exceeds the growth in the UK Retail 
Price Index over the same period by at least 9 per cent. When management expect that there is no realistic probability that 
this condition for a particular award to vest will be attained, amounts charged in previous periods in respect of that award are 
credited to the income statement. £13 million has been credited to the income statement in the year in respect of the 2008 
award (2010: £9 million in respect of the 2007 award). 
The number of outstanding and number of exercisable share options and share awards are detailed below. 
 
2011 
Number of 
shares/options 
000’s 
2010 
Number of 
shares/options
000’s 
Outstanding at 1 August 16,474 14,801
Granted 3,685 5,275
Options exercised or shares vested (507) (591)
Surrendered or expired (3,378) (3,011)
Outstanding at 31 July 16,274 16,474
Exercisable at 31 July 770 926
 £  
Weighted average fair value per share/option granted during the year 7.18 4.96
At 31 July 2011, 12,849,000 of the shares and options outstanding had an exercise price which was below the market price.  
£ 122
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
31. Shareholders’ funds and statement of changes in shareholders’ equity  
    Retained earnings  
For the year ended 31 July 2011 
Share 
capital 
£m 
Share 
premium 
£m 
Translation 
reserve 
£m 
Hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Own  
shares  
£m 
Profit and  
loss account  
£m 
Total 
equity
£m 
Profit for the year attributable 
to equity shareholders – – – – – 271 271
Exchange gain on translation 
of overseas operations – – 67 – – – 67
Exchange loss on translation 
of borrowings and derivatives 
designated as hedges  
of overseas operations – – 12 – – – 12
Cumulative currency translation 
differences on disposals recycled 
to income statement – – 1 – – – 1
Actuarial loss on retirement benefits – – ––– 5 5
Valuation losses on cash flow hedges 
reclassified to income statement – – – 3 – – 3
Tax on gains and losses not 
recognised in the income statement – – – – – (9) (9)
Total comprehensive income  – – 80 3 – 267 350
Reclassification on group 
reconstruction (213) 3,805 – – – (3,592) –
Capital reduction – (4,961) – – – 4,961 –
New share capital subscribed – 6 – – – – 6
Credit to equity for share-based 
payments – – ––– 3 3
Dividends – – – – – (42) (42)
Net additions to shareholders’ funds (213) (1,150) 80 3 – 1,597 317
Opening shareholders’ funds 241 1,156 300 (5) (78) 1,445 3,059
Closing shareholders’ funds 28 6 380 (2) (78) 3,042 3,376
Total retained earnings, which are the sum of the hedging reserve, own shares reserve and profit and loss account, were 
£2,962 million at 31 July 2011 (2010: £1,362 million).  123
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
 
31. Shareholders’ funds and statement of changes in shareholders’ equity continued  
    Retained earnings  
For the year ended 31 July 2010 
Share 
capital 
£m 
Share 
premium 
£m 
Translation 
reserve 
£m 
Hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Own  
shares  
£m 
Profit and  
loss account  
£m 
Total 
equity
£m 
Loss for the year attributable 
to equity shareholders – – – – – (340) (340)
Exchange gain on translation 
of overseas operations – – 156 – – – 156
Exchange loss on translation 
of borrowings and derivatives 
designated as hedges  
of overseas operations – – (71) – – – (71)
Cumulative currency translation 
differences on disposals recycled 
to income statement – – (13) – – – (13)
Actuarial loss on retirement benefits – – – – – (93) (93)
Valuation gain on interest rate swaps  – – – 5 – – 5
Valuation losses on cash flow hedges 
reclassified to income statement – – – 4 – – 4
Tax on gains and losses not 
recognised in the income statement – – – (3) – 26 23
Total comprehensive income  – – 72 6 – (407) (329)
New share capital subscribed – 4 – – – – 4
Credit to equity for share-based 
payments – –––– 8 8
Net additions to shareholders’ funds – 4 72 6 – (399) (317)
Opening shareholders’ funds 241 1,152 228 (11) (78) 1,844 3,376
Closing shareholders’ funds 241 1,156 300 (5) (78) 1,445 3,059
  12 4
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
32. Reconciliation of profit/(loss) to cash generated from operations 
Profit/(loss) for the year is reconciled to cash generated from operations as follows: 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Profit/(loss) for the year 271 (340)
Net finance costs 66 77
Share of after tax loss of associate – 13
Impairment of associate – 41
Tax expense 110 38
Loss on disposal of businesses and revaluation of disposal groups 69 31
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 139 172
Amortisation and impairment of non-acquired intangibles 17 154
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and assets held for sale (13) 7
Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 114 315
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (165) 13
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (300) 124
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (174) 108
Decrease in provisions and other liabilities (121) (56)
Share-based payments  3 8
Cash generated from operations 16 705
Trading profit is reconciled to cash generated from operations as follows: 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Trading profit  622 450
Exceptional items in operating profit  (51) (332)
Loss on disposal of businesses and revaluation of disposal groups 59 57
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 139 172
Amortisation and impairment of non-acquired intangibles 17 154
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and assets held for sale (13) 7
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (165) 13
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (300) 124
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (174) 108
Decrease in provisions and other liabilities (121) (56)
Share-based payments  3 8
Cash generated from operations 16 705
  125
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
 
33. Analysis of the net outflow of cash in respect of the purchase of businesses 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Purchase consideration 8 7
Deferred and contingent consideration paid in the year 1 6
Cash consideration 9 13
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts acquired 3 (2)
Net cash outflow in respect of the purchase of businesses 12 11
34. Acquisitions 
On 31 December 2010 the Group acquired the assets of Summit Pipe and Supply, Inc, a supplier of water and waste water 
products in the USA, for cash consideration of £6 million. The Group also acquired two builders’ merchants in Denmark.  
XL-BYG-Alfred Nielsen NS was acquired on 28 January 2011 for a cash consideration of £1 million and XL-BYG Ebeltoft Ny 
Tommerhandel was acquired on 1 March 2011 for a cash consideration of £1 million. The acquisition of these businesses has 
not had a material effect on the financial statements. 
35. Disposals 
During the year the Group disposed of Brandon Hire, its UK tool and equipment hire business, Electric Center, a UK distributor 
of lighting and electrical accessories, its business in Italy, a small business in France and a small business in the USA. Details of 
assets and liabilities disposed of, transaction costs and consideration received in respect of these disposals are provided in the 
following table. 
   
2011
Assets 
disposed of 
£m 
Intangible assets   1
Property, plant and equipment   22
Inventories   37
Receivables   71
Assets and liabilities held for sale   36
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts   (21)
Finance leases   (9)
Payables and provisions   (62)
Deferred tax   –
Total   75
Consideration    (96)
Disposal costs and provisions for separation costs   15
Cumulative currency translation loss recycled from reserves   1
Profit on disposal   (5)
Analysis of the net inflow of cash in respect of the disposal of businesses: 
 
2011
£m 
Sale consideration 96
Deferred consideration (2)
Cash consideration received 94
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts disposed 21
Disposal costs paid (7)
Amounts received in respect of prior year disposals 12
Payments made to settle liabilities regarding prior year disposals (5)
Net cash inflow in respect of the disposal of businesses 115
  126
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
36. Reconciliation of opening to closing net debt 
For the year ended 31 July 2011 
 
At 1 August 
£m 
Cash flows 
£m 
Acquisitions 
and 
disposals 
£m 
Reclassified 
as held for
sale 
£m 
Fair value  
and other 
adjustments  
£m 
Exchange 
movement  
£m 
At 31 July 
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents 665   403
Bank overdrafts (90)  (71)
 575 (247) – (11) – 15 332
Derivative financial instruments 68 – – – (3) (3) 62
Bank loans (914) 72 (2) – (47) 26 (865)
Obligations under finance leases (75) 20 9 1 – (7) (52)
 (346) (155) 7 (10) (50) 31 (523)
Fair value and other adjustments include the transfer of £52 million of construction loans payable to bank loans. 
For the year ended 31 July 2010 
 
At 1 August 
£m 
Cash flows 
£m 
Acquisitions 
and 
disposals 
£m 
New 
finance 
leases 
£m 
Fair value  
and other 
adjustments  
£m 
Exchange 
movement  
£m 
At 31 July 
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents 635   665
Bank overdrafts (37)  (90)
 598 (111)––– 88 575
Financial assets: trading investments 155 (159) – – – 4 –
Derivative financial instruments 21 8 – – 36 3 68
Bank loans (1,662) 984 – – (89) (147) (914)
Obligations under finance leases (71) 17 2 (22) – (1) (75)
 (959)7392(22)(53) (53) (346)
37. Related party transactions 
There are no related party transactions requiring disclosure under IAS 24, “Related Party Disclosures” other than the 
compensation of key management personnel which is set out in the following table. 
Key management personal compensation (including Directors) 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Salaries, bonuses and other short-term employee benefits 9 10
Termination and post-employment benefits 1 3
Share-based payments 1 1
Total compensation 11 14
More detailed disclosures on the remuneration of the Directors are provided in the Remuneration report on pages 72 to 82. 
  127
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
 
38. Operating lease commitments 
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for the following periods are: 
 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
Within one year 245 253
Later than one year and less than five years 638 674
After five years 243 365
Total operating lease commitments 1,126 1,292
Operating lease payments mainly represent rent payable by the Group for certain of its properties. Some of these 
operating lease arrangements have renewal options and rental escalation clauses, though the effect of these is not material. 
No arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments. 
The total minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 July 2011 is 
£19 million (2010: £16 million). 
The commitments shown above include commitments for onerous leases which have already been provided for. 
At 31 July 2011 provisions include an amount of £54 million (2010: £88 million) in respect of minimum lease payments 
for such onerous leases net of sublease payments expected to be received (note 27). 
39. Contingent liabilities 
The Group has exposure in the ordinary course of business to certain legal and product warranty claims. Whilst provision is 
made for any known and quantifiable items, it is possible that additional claims may arise in the future.  
40. Additional information 
Group accounting policies 
A summary of the principal accounting policies applied by the Group in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements 
is set out below. 
Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation 
of available-for-sale investments and financial assets and liabilities held for trading. 
Exceptional items 
Exceptional items are those material items which, by virtue of their size or incidence, are presented separately in the income 
statement to enable a full understanding of the Group’s financial performance. These exclude impairments of acquired 
intangibles which are also presented separately in the income statement. Transactions which may give rise to exceptional items 
include restructurings of business activities and gains or losses on the disposal of businesses. 
Consolidation 
The consolidated financial information includes the results of the parent company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 
31 July 2011. 
The trading results of businesses other than discontinued operations acquired or sold during the year are included in profit on 
ordinary activities from continuing operations from the date of acquisition or up to the date of sale. 
Intra-group transactions and balances and any unrealised gains and losses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated 
on consolidation. 
Discontinued operations 
When the Group has disposed of or intends to dispose of a business component that represents a separate major line of 
business or geographical area of operations it classifies such operations as discontinued. The post-tax profit or loss of the 
discontinued operations is shown as a single line on the face of the income statement, separate from the other results of 
the Group. 
Foreign currencies 
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings are measured using the currency of 
the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary undertaking operates (the “functional currency”). The consolidated 
financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group and the functional currency 
of the parent company. 
The trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling using average rates of exchange ruling during 
the relevant financial period.  128
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
40. Additional information continued 
Group accounting policies continued 
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the period 
end. Exchange differences arising between the translation into sterling of the net assets of these subsidiary undertakings at 
rates ruling at the beginning and end of the year are recognised in the currency translation reserve as are exchange differences 
on foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge against foreign currency net 
assets. 
Changes in the fair value and the final settlement value of derivative financial instruments, entered into to hedge foreign currency 
net assets and that satisfy the hedging conditions of IAS 39, are recognised in the currency translation reserve (see the separate 
accounting policy on derivative financial instruments). 
In the event that an overseas subsidiary undertaking is sold, the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the income statement is 
determined after taking into account the cumulative currency translation differences that are attributable to the subsidiary 
undertaking concerned. 
Foreign currency transactions entered into during the year are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the 
dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of 
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All currency translation differences are taken to the income statement with the 
exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge against 
foreign currency net assets as detailed above.  
Business combinations 
The introduction of a new holding company constitutes a group reconstruction and has been accounted for using merger 
accounting principles. In all other cases the Group has applied the purchase method in its accounting for the acquisition of 
subsidiaries. 
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or 
assumed at the date of exchange. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business 
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest. 
Acquisition related costs are expensed. 
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded 
as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Group’s share of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, 
the difference is recognised directly in the income statement. 
Associates 
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding 
of between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity 
method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. 
The Group’s share of its associates’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of 
post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted 
against the carrying amount of the investment. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest 
in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred 
obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. 
Revenue 
Revenue is the amount receivable for the provision of goods and services falling within the Group's ordinary activities, excluding 
intra-group sales, estimated and actual sales returns, trade and early settlement discounts, value added tax and similar sales 
taxes. 
Revenue from the provision of goods is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership of goods have been transferred to 
the customer. The risks and rewards of ownership of goods are deemed to have been transferred when the goods are shipped 
to, or are picked up by, the customer. 
Revenue from services is recognised when the service provided to the customer has been completed. 
Customer loyalty credits are accounted for as a separate component of the sales transaction in which they are granted. 
A portion of the fair value of the consideration received is allocated to the loyalty credits and deferred over the period that loyalty 
credits are redeemed. 
Revenue from the provision of goods and services is only recognised when the amounts to be recognised are fixed or 
determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. 
Cost of sales 
Cost of sales includes purchased goods, the cost of bringing inventory to its present location and condition, and labour and 
overheads attributable to assembly and construction services.  129
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
 
40. Additional information continued 
Group accounting policies continued 
Vendor rebates 
The Group enters into arrangements with certain vendors providing for inventory purchase rebates. These purchase rebates are 
accrued as earned and are recorded initially as a reduction in inventory with a subsequent reduction in cost of sales when the 
related product is sold. 
Intangible assets 
Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets 
of the acquired subsidiary undertaking at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings is included 
in intangible assets. 
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. 
All goodwill has arisen from business combinations. On transition to IFRS, the balance of goodwill as measured under UK 
GAAP was allocated to cash-generating units and groups of cash-generating units (“CGUs”). These are independent sources of 
income streams, and represent the lowest level within the Group at which the associated goodwill is monitored for management 
purposes, which may be at country, divisional, brand or regional level. Goodwill arising on business combinations after 1 August 
2004 has been allocated to the CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination. No CGUs are larger than 
the reporting segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 “Operating Segments”. 
Other intangible assets 
An intangible asset, which is an identifiable non-monetary asset without physical substance, is recognised to the extent that it 
is probable that the expected future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and that its cost can be 
measured reliably. The asset is deemed to be identifiable when it is separable or when it arises from contractual or other legal 
rights. 
Intangible assets, primarily brands, trade names and customer relationships, acquired as part of a business combination are 
capitalised separately from goodwill and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. 
Amortisation is calculated using the reducing balance method for customer relationships and the straight-line method for other 
intangible assets. The cost of the intangible assets is amortised over their estimated useful lives as follows: 
Customer relationships 4 – 25 years    
Trade names and brands 1 – 15 years 
Other   1 – 4 years 
 
Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible 
asset and is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Costs include software 
licences, consulting costs attributable to the development, design and implementation of the computer software and internal 
costs directly attributable to the development, design and implementation of the computer software. Costs in respect of training 
and data conversion are expensed as incurred. Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method so as to charge the 
cost of the computer software to the income statement over its estimated useful life as follows: 
Computer software 3 – 5 years 
Software assets are generally either purchases from third parties or internally generated. Other intangible assets arise on 
business combinations. 
Property, plant and equipment (“PPE”) 
PPE is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, except for land and assets in the 
course of construction, which are not depreciated and are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Cost includes 
expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. In addition, subsequent costs are included in the asset’s 
carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and 
maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.  130
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
40. Additional information continued 
Group accounting policies continued 
Depreciation on assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value over 
its estimated useful life, as follows: 
Freehold buildings and long leaseholds 35 – 50 years 
Short leaseholds over the period of the lease 
Plant and machinery 7 – 10 years 
Computer hardware 3 – 5 years 
Fixtures and fittings 5 – 7 years 
Motor vehicles 4 years 
 
The residual values and useful lives of PPE are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date. 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the long-term construction or production of an asset are capitalised as part of the cost 
of the asset. 
Leased assets 
Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have 
transferred to the Group, are capitalised in the balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their useful 
lives. The asset is recorded at the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception 
of the lease. The capital elements of future obligations under finance leases are included in liabilities in the balance sheet and 
analysed between current and non-current amounts. The interest elements of future obligations under finance leases are 
charged to the income statement over the periods of the leases and represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital 
repayments outstanding in accordance with the effective interest rate method. 
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases. The cost 
of operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis 
over the periods of the leases. 
Assets and disposal groups held for sale  
Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered by sale rather than by continuing use in the 
business. Where a group of assets and their directly associated liabilities are to be disposed of in a single transaction, such 
disposal groups are also classified as held for sale. For this to be the case, the asset or disposal group must be available for 
immediate sale in its present condition, and management must be committed to and have initiated a plan to sell the asset or 
disposal group which, when initiated, was expected to result in a completed sale within 12 months. Assets that are classified 
as held for sale are not depreciated. Assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale are measured at the lower 
of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.  
Impairment of assets 
Assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment 
and whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Assets that are 
subject to amortisation and assets under construction are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the 
asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less 
costs to sell and value in use. The value in use is in most cases based on the discounted present value of the future cash flows 
expected to arise from the cash generating unit to which the goodwill relates, or from the individual asset or asset group.  
The value in use calculations in respect of CGUs use cash flow projections based on five year financial forecasts approved by 
management. The key assumptions for these forecasts are those regarding revenue growth, trading margin and the level of 
working capital required to support trading, which management estimates based on past experience, reflecting the cyclicality 
of earnings, and expectations of future changes in the market. To prepare value in use calculations, the cash flow forecasts are 
extrapolated after the five year period at an estimated average long-term nominal growth rate for each market (ranging from 
1.9 per cent to 2.5 per cent), and discounted back to present value. The discount rate assumptions use an estimate of the 
Group’s post-tax weighted average cost of capital of 8.3 per cent, based on the five year historic volatility of Wolseley shares 
and on benchmark interest rates. The pre-tax discount rate which ranges from 10 per cent to 13 per cent has been applied to 
the risk adjusted cashflows of each CGU. The carrying amounts of goodwill and acquired intangibles for CGUs which have a 
significant proportion of the Group’s total are: Stark (Nordic) £362 million, Blended Branches (USA), £233 million, Beijer (Nordic) 
£160 million, PBM (France) £150 million and Starkki (Nordic) £115 million.  131
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
 
40. Additional information continued 
Group accounting policies continued 
Inventories 
Inventories, which all comprise goods purchased for resale, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method or the average cost method as appropriate to the nature of the 
transactions in those items of inventory. The cost of goods purchased for resale includes import and custom duties, transport 
and handling costs, freight and packing costs and other attributable costs less trade discounts, rebates and other subsidies. 
It excludes borrowing costs. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable 
variable selling expenses. 
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is 
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. 
Examples of such evidence include significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy 
or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments. The amount of the provision is the difference between the 
asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. 
The amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement. Trade receivables are written off against the provision when 
recoverability is assessed as being remote. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to the 
income statement. 
Construction loans 
Construction loan receivables are secured loans made to builders to finance the construction of properties or the purchase of 
land. As the contractual maturity of these loans, which did not exceed 12 months from the reporting date, was set at origination 
to correspond to the normal operating cycle of the construction business, and the Group normally expects to realise the loans 
within their contractual maturity, these loans have all been classified as current assets.  
Construction loan receivables are recognised initially at fair value and measured subsequently at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method, less provision for impairment.  
A provision for impairment of construction loan receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will 
not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Examples of such evidence include 
significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and 
default or delinquency in payments. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the 
present value of estimated future cash flows collectible from the debtor or recoverable from the disposal of the asset on which 
the receivable is secured, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The amount of the loss is recognised in the income 
statement. Construction loan receivables are written off against the provision when recoverability is assessed as being remote. 
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to the income statement. 
Provisions 
Provisions for environmental restoration, restructuring costs, product and service warranties and legal claims are recognised 
when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow 
of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated. Such provisions are measured 
at the present value of management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance 
sheet date. The discount rate used to determine the present value reflects current market assessments of the time value of 
money. Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses. 
Provisions for insurance represent an estimate, based on historical experience, of the ultimate cost of settling outstanding 
claims and claims incurred but not reported at the balance sheet date on certain risks retained by the Group.  132
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
40. Additional information continued 
Group accounting policies continued 
Retirement benefit obligations 
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans and other post-retirement benefits are charged to the income statement 
as incurred. 
For defined benefit pension plans and other retirement benefits, the cost is calculated annually using the projected unit credit 
method and is recognised over the average expected remaining service lives of participating employees, in accordance with 
the recommendations of independent qualified actuaries. The current service cost of defined benefit plans is recorded within 
operating profit. The total expected return from pension scheme assets less the total interest on pension scheme liabilities is 
recorded within finance revenue if a gain and finance costs if an expense. Past service costs resulting from enhanced benefits 
are recorded within operating profit and recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, or immediately if the benefits 
have vested. Actuarial gains and losses, which represent differences between the expected and actual returns on the plan 
assets and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in full in the statement of comprehensive income 
in the period in which they occur. The defined benefit liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet comprises the net total 
for each plan of the present value of the benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, less any past service costs not yet 
recognised, less the fair value of the plan assets, if any, at the balance sheet date. Where a plan is in surplus, the asset 
recognised is limited to the amount of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any amount which the 
Group expects to recover by way of refunds or a reduction in future contributions.  
The expected long-term rates of return for equities are long-term assumptions and were set after taking actuarial advice. 
The expected equity returns can be considered as a risk free rate of return (determined by reference to government bond 
rates in the countries in which the plans are based) plus a risk premium to reflect the additional risks associated with equities. 
For the UK scheme the expected return implies a premium of 3.1 per cent per year as at 31 July 2011 (2010: 2.9 per cent) over 
the expected return from government bonds. For the principal overseas schemes in USA, Canada and Switzerland a similar 
approach has been adopted with returns set by reference to long-term bond rates after taking actuarial advice. 
Taxation 
Current tax represents the expected tax payable (or recoverable) on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments arising from prior years. 
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from 
initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction 
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. 
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet 
date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. Deferred tax 
assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised. 
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversal 
of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future. 
Share capital 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the 
proceeds, net of tax. 
Where any group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including 
any directly attributable incremental costs (net of tax), is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until 
the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration 
received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related tax effects, is included in equity 
attributable to the Company’s equity holders.  133
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
 
40. Additional information continued 
Group accounting policies continued 
Share-based payments 
Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Group’s executive share option, long-term incentive and 
employee share purchase schemes. The Group recognises a compensation cost in respect of these schemes that is 
based on the fair value of the awards, measured using Black-Scholes, Binomial and Monte Carlo valuation methodologies. 
For equity-settled schemes, the fair value is determined at the date of grant (including the impact of any non-vesting conditions 
such as a requirement for employees to save) and is not subsequently re-measured unless the conditions on which the award 
was granted are modified. For cash-settled schemes, the fair value is determined at the date of grant and is re-measured at 
each balance sheet date until the liability is settled.  
The fair value at the date of grant of options awarded during the year has been estimated by the binomial methodology for all 
schemes except the long term incentive scheme, for which a Monte Carlo simulation was used. The fair value of shares granted 
under the Wolseley Restricted Share Plan was calculated as the market price of the shares at the date of grant reduced by the 
present value of dividends expected to be paid over the vesting period. 
The principal assumptions required by these methodologies were: 
 Executive Share Options  Employee Share Options  
Long Term Incentive 
Schemes 
 2011 2010  2011 2010  2011 2010 
Risk free interest rate 2.55% 3.23% 1.57% 1.55%  1.31% 2.11%
Expected dividend yield 1.84% 1.70% 1.80% 1.43%  1.93% 1.36%
Expected volatility 42.14% 39.19% 44.04% 48.56%  53.2% 51.97%
Expected life 5.7 years 5.8 years 1-7 years 1-7 years  3 years 3 years
Expected volatility has been estimated on the basis of historic volatility over the expected term, excluding the effect of 
extraordinary volatility due to the Group’s capital reorganisation and rights issue in 2009. Expected life has been estimated 
on the basis of historical data on the exercise pattern. 
Generally, the compensation cost is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Adjustments are made to 
reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period due to the failure to satisfy service conditions or non-market 
performance conditions. 
Dividends payable 
Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which the dividends 
are approved by the shareholders of the Company (generally in the case of the final dividend) or paid (in the case 
of interim dividends). 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments 
with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current 
liabilities on the balance sheet to the extent that there is no right of offset and no practice of net settlement with cash balances. 
Derivative financial instruments 
Derivative financial instruments, in particular interest rate swaps and currency swaps, are used to manage the financial risks 
arising from the business activities of the Group and the financing of those activities. There is no trading activity in derivative 
financial instruments. 
At the inception of a hedging transaction entailing the use of derivative financial instruments, the Group documents 
the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument together with its risk management objective and the 
strategy underlying the proposed transaction. The Group also documents its assessment, both at the inception of the hedging 
relationship and subsequently on an ongoing basis, of the effectiveness of the hedge in offsetting movements in the fair values 
or cash flows of the hedged items. 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date. 
Where derivative financial instruments do not fulfil the criteria for hedge accounting contained in IAS 39, changes in their fair 
values are recognised in the income statement.   134
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
40. Additional information continued 
Group accounting policies continued 
When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships are classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net 
investment hedges. Where the hedging relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, the carrying amount of the hedged asset 
or liability is adjusted by the increase or decrease in its fair value attributable to the hedged risk and the resulting gain or loss 
is recognised in the income statement where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it will be offset by the change in the fair 
value of the hedging instrument. If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying 
amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss over the period to maturity. 
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge or as a net investment hedge, to the extent the hedge is 
effective, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument arising from the hedged risk are recognised directly in equity rather 
than in the income statement. When the hedged item is recognised in the financial statements, the accumulated gains and 
losses recognised in equity are either recycled to the income statement or, if the hedged item results in a non-financial asset, 
are recognised as adjustments to its initial carrying amount. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no 
longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and 
is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is 
no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income 
statement. 
Financial assets 
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss; loans and 
receivables; held-to-maturity investments; and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for 
which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition 
and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date. 
(a) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
This category comprises financial assets held for trading which have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in 
the short term. Derivatives also fall within this category unless they are designated as hedges and the hedge is effective for 
accounting purposes. Assets in this category are classified as current. 
(b) Loans and receivables 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an 
active market and with no intention of trading. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 
12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets. Construction loans are shown separately 
on the balance sheet. Other loans and receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet. 
(c) Held-to-maturity investments 
Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities 
that the Group’s management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. They are included in non-current 
assets unless the investment is due to mature within 12 months of the balance sheet date. 
(d) Available-for-sale financial assets 
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not 
classified in any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of 
the financial asset within 12 months of the balance sheet date. 
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through 
profit or loss. Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired 
or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. 
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value. 
Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method. Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the “Financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss” category are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise. Unrealised gains and 
losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in equity. 
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the 
income statement as gains and losses from investment securities. 
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial 
assets is impaired. In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair 
value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are impaired. If any such evidence exists for 
available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss, measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current 
value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss, is removed from equity and 
recognised in the income statement.  135
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
 
40. Additional information continued 
Group accounting policies continued 
Borrowings 
Borrowings are recognised initially at the fair value of the consideration received net of transaction costs incurred.  
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost with any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and 
the redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest 
method. 
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for 
at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. 
Additional information about financial instruments 
Financial instruments by category 
The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the following items: 
Assets at 31 July 2011 
Cash 
and cash 
equivalents
£m 
Loans and 
receivables
£m 
Derivatives 
used for  
hedging 
£m 
Available- 
for-sale 
£m 
Total
£m 
Financial assets: available-for-sale investments ––– 3 3
Trade and other receivables, excluding prepayments and 
accrued income – 1,846 – – 1,846
Derivative financial assets – – 64 – 64
Financial receivables: construction loans (secured) –33 – – 33
Cash and cash equivalents 403 – – – 403
 403 1,879 64 3 2,349
Impairment losses in the period –47 – – 47
 
Liabilities as at 31 July 2011 
Fair value  
through  
profit or loss 
£m 
Other 
financial 
liabilities 
£m 
Total
£m 
Trade and other payables, excluding accruals, deferred income and other tax and  
social security – 1,950 1,950
Bank loans and overdrafts – 936 936
Obligations under finance leases  – 52 52
Derivative financial liabilities 2 – 2
 2 2,938 2,940 136
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
40. Additional information continued 
Additional information about financial instruments continued 
Assets at 31 July 2010 
Cash 
and cash 
equivalents
£m 
Loans and 
receivables
£m 
Derivatives
used for 
hedging
£m 
Fair value  
through  
profit or loss 
£m 
Available- 
for-sale 
£m 
Total
£m 
Financial assets: available-for-sale investments – – – – 3 3
Trade and other receivables, excluding 
prepayments and accrued income – 1,783 – – – 1,783
Derivative financial assets – – 73 3 – 76
Financial assets: trading investments – – – – – –
Financial receivables: construction loans (secured) – 80 – – – 80
Cash and cash equivalents 665 – – – – 665
 6651,863733 3 2,607
Impairment losses in the period – 63 – – – 63
 
Liabilities as at 31 July 2010 
Fair value  
through  
profit or loss 
£m 
Other financial 
liabilities 
£m 
Total
£m 
Trade and other payables, excluding accruals, deferred income and other tax and  
social security – 2,325 2,325
Borrowings: construction loans (unsecured) – 80 80
Bank loans and overdrafts – 1,004 1,004
Obligations under finance leases  – 75 75
Derivative financial liabilities 8 – 8
 8 3,484 3,492
Financial instruments by measurement basis 
Financial instruments in the categories “derivatives used for hedging”, “fair value through profit or loss” and “available-for-sale” 
are all measured in the balance sheet at fair value. Fair value measurements can be classified in the following hierarchy: 
• Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1); 
• Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly 
(level 2); 
• Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3). 
The following tables present the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 July 2011 and 31 July 2010: 
Assets at 31 July 2011   
Level 1
£m 
Level 2 
£m 
Level 3 
£m 
Total
£m 
Financial assets: available-for-sale investments  3– – 3
Derivatives used for hedging  – 64 – 64
Total assets  3 64 – 67
    
Liabilities at 31 July 2011    
Derivatives at fair value through profit and loss  –2 – 2
Total liabilities  –2 – 2
  137
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
 
40. Additional information continued 
Additional information about financial instruments continued 
Assets at 31 July 2010   
Level 1
£m 
Level 2 
£m 
Level 3 
£m 
Total
£m 
Financial assets: available-for-sale investments  3– – 3
Derivatives at fair value through profit and loss  –3 – 3
Derivatives used for hedging  – 73 – 73
Total assets  3 76 – 79
     
Liabilities at 31 July 2010    
Derivatives at fair value through profit and loss  – 8 – 8
Total liabilities  –8 – 8
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. 
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (such as over-the-counter derivatives) is determined 
by using valuation techniques. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future 
cash flows based on observable yield curves. The fair value of currency swaps has been estimated as the cost of closing out 
the contracts using market prices at the balance sheet date. 
The Group’s other financial instruments are measured on bases other than fair value. Other receivables include an amount of 
£44 million (2010: £44 million) which has been discounted at a rate of 3.8 per cent (2010: 3.7 per cent) due to the long-term 
nature of the receivable. Because other current assets and liabilities are either of short maturity or bear floating rate interest, their 
fair values approximate to book values. The book values and fair values of categories including non-current assets and liabilities 
can be compared as follows: 
   
2011
Book value
£m 
2011 
Fair value 
£m 
2010 
Book value 
£m 
2010
Fair value
£m 
Trade and other receivables, excluding 
prepayments and accrued income  1,846
 
1,846 
 
1,783 1,782
Trade and other payables, excluding accruals, 
deferred income and other tax and social security  1,950
 
1,950 
 
2,325 2,325
Bank loans  352 352 238 238
Senior unsecured notes  513 513 675 678
Finance lease obligations  52 52 75 75
 
Financial instruments: risk management policies 
The Group is exposed to market risks arising from its international operations, and the financial instruments which fund them. 
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk. The 
Group has well defined policies for the management of interest rate, liquidity, foreign exchange and counterparty exposures, 
which have been consistently applied during the financial periods ended 31 July 2010 and 31 July 2011. By the nature of its 
business the Group also has trade credit and commodity price exposures, the management of which is delegated to operating 
businesses. There has been no change since the year end in the major financial risks faced by the Group. 
Policies for managing each of these risks are regularly reviewed and are summarised below. When the Group enters into 
derivative transactions (principally interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts), the purpose of such transactions 
is to hedge certain interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of finance. It is, and has 
been throughout the period under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments or speculative transactions 
be undertaken.  138
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
40. Additional information continued 
Additional information about financial instruments continued 
Capital risk management 
The Group’s sources of funding currently comprise cash flows generated by operations, equity contributed by shareholders and 
borrowings from banks and other financial institutions. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure the Group may return 
capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.  
Liquidity risk 
The Group maintains a policy of ensuring sufficient borrowing headroom to finance all investment and capital expenditure 
included in its strategic plan, with an additional contingent safety margin.  
The Group has estimated its anticipated contractual cash outflows including interest payable in respect of its bank and 
construction loan borrowings on an undiscounted basis. The principal assumptions are that floating rate interest is calculated 
using the prevailing interest rate at the balance sheet date, and cash flows in foreign currency are translated using spot rates 
at the balance sheet date. These cash flows can be analysed by maturity as follows:  
As at 31 July 2011 
Debt
£m 
Interest on 
debt 
£m 
Interest rate 
and currency 
swaps 
£m 
Total
£m 
Due in less than one year 197 31 2 230
Due in one to two years 50 29 – 79
Due in two to three years 9 28 – 37
Due in three to four years 36 28 – 64
Due in four to five years 198 23 – 221
Due in over five years 386 68 – 454
Total 876 207 2 1,085
 
As at 31 July 2010 
Construction 
loan 
borrowings
£m 
Debt
£m 
Interest on 
debt 
£m 
Interest rate 
and currency 
swaps 
£m 
Total
£m 
Due in less than one year 80 136 41 5 262
Due in one to two years – 1 38 3 42
Due in two to three years – 53 36 – 89
Due in three to four years – 34 24 – 58
Due in four to five years – 73 24 – 97
Due in over five years – 549 79 – 628
Total 80846242 8 1,176
  139
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
 
40. Additional information continued 
Additional information about financial instruments continued 
Foreign currency risk 
The Group has significant overseas businesses whose revenues are mainly denominated in the currencies of the countries in 
which the operations are located. Approximately 40 per cent of the Group’s revenue is in US dollars and 22 per cent in euros. 
The Group does not have significant transactional foreign currency cash flow exposures. However, those that do arise may be 
hedged with either forward contracts or currency options. The Group does not normally hedge profit translation exposure since 
such hedges have only temporary effect. 
Most of the foreign currency earnings generated by the Group’s overseas operations are reinvested in the business to fund 
growth in those territories. The Group’s policy is to adjust the currencies in which its debt is denominated to materially match 
the currencies in which its trading profit is generated. 
Details of average exchange rates used in the translation of overseas earnings and of year-end exchange rates used in the 
translation of overseas balance sheets, for the principal currencies used by the Group, are shown in the Five year summary 
on page 154. The net effect of currency translation was to reduce revenue by £70 million (0.5 per cent) (2010: increase of 
£223 million, or 1.5 per cent) and to reduce trading profit by £1 million (0.2 per cent) (2010: increase of £5 million, or 1.1 per 
cent). These currency effects reflect a movement of the average sterling exchange rate against US dollars, uros and Canadian 
dollars as follows: 
 
2011 
Strengthening/ 
(weakening) 
of sterling 
2010
Weakening 
of sterling 
US dollars 1.7% (0.1%)
Euros 1.8% (1.8%)
Canadian dollars (3.6%) (12.3%)
The Group has financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies which have been designated as hedges of the net 
investment in its overseas subsidiaries. The principal value of these financial instruments at the balance sheet date was 
£852 million (2010: £1,401 million). The gain on translation of these financial instruments into sterling of £12 million (2010: loss of 
£71 million) has been taken to the translation reserve. 
At 31 July 2011 the Group had no open short-term currency swaps and forward contracts which were designated and effective 
as hedges of overseas operations. At 31 July 2010 they were as follows: 
     2010 
    
Currency 
million £m 
Bought/(sold) forward   EUR 138 115
   DKK 260 29
   GBP 104 (104)
   USD 118 (75)
   CAD 60 37
    2
The changes in value of these currency swaps and forward contracts during the year can be analysed as follows: 
Hedge of net investment in overseas operations 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
At 1 August 2 1
Valuation (losses)/gains on effective hedges (charged)/credited to equity (2) 1
At 31 July – 2
 
E 140
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
40. Additional information continued 
Additional information about financial instruments continued 
The Group also uses forward contracts and currency swaps to hedge cash flows in respect of committed transactions. At the 
balance sheet date the Group had entered into the following short-term forward contracts which were classified as fair value 
through profit or loss: 
  2011   2010 
 
Currency 
million £m  
Currency 
million £m 
Bought/(sold) forward DKK 1,360 (160)  DKK 1,418 (157)
 SEK 1,415 137  SEK 1,700 150
 EUR 25 22  NOK 60 6
 USD 1 1  EUR 5 4
 –   3
The changes in value of these forward contracts during the year can be analysed as follows: 
At fair value through profit and loss 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
At 1 August 3 7
Valuation losses charged to income statement (3) (4)
At 31 July – 3
Interest rate risk 
To manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations, the Group’s policy is that between 0 per cent and 50 per cent of 
projected borrowings required during the next two years should be at fixed rates. However, this percentage is regularly reviewed 
and may be overridden by the Board. It is the Group’s current intention to fix a greater percentage of its borrowings. The Group 
borrows in the desired currencies principally at rates determined by reference to short-term benchmark rates applicable to the 
relevant currency or market, such as LIBOR. Rates which reset at least every 12 months are regarded as floating rates, and the 
Group then uses interest rate swaps to generate the desired interest rate profile. 
The Group reviews deposits and borrowings by currency at both Treasury Committee and Board meetings. The Treasury 
Committee gives prior approval to any variations from floating rate arrangements. 
Interest rate swap contracts comprising fixed interest payable on notional principal of €100 million (2010: €300 million) were 
held at fair value through profit and loss at 31 July 2011 and expired on 13 August 2011. These swap contracts were 
designated as cash flow hedges until 31 January 2010. As the cash flows which were the subject of the hedge relationship are 
still forecast to occur, valuation losses deferred in equity are being recycled over the duration of the previous hedge relationship. 
At fair value through profit and loss 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
At 1 August (8) –
Transfer from hedge of interest rate cash flows – (12)
Settled 3 –
Valuation gains credited to income statement 3 4
At 31 July (2) (8) 141
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
 
40. Additional information continued 
Additional information about financial instruments continued 
The Group’s private placement borrowings are at fixed rates. Interest rate swap contracts comprising fixed interest receivable 
on notional principal of $729 million (2010: $729 million) are designated as hedges of the fair values of these borrowings. 
The movement in fair value of these interest rate swaps has been analysed into a proportion that is effective as a hedge, 
and a proportion that is ineffective; both portions have been charged to the income statement with the effective portion 
offsetting the change in fair value of the hedged borrowings (see note 6). The contracts expire between November 2012 
and November 2020 and the fixed interest rates range between 4.93 per cent and 5.32 per cent (2010: 4.93 per cent 
and 5.32 per cent). 
Hedge of fair value of fixed interest borrowings 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m 
At 1 August 71 38
Valuation (losses)/gains (charged)/credited to income statement (4) 30
Exchange (3) 3
At 31 July 64 71
Credit risk 
Wolseley provides sales on credit terms to many of its customers. There is an associated risk that customers may not be able to 
pay outstanding balances. The Group’s construction loan business also provides loans to finance the construction of properties. 
There is an associated risk that customers may not be able to pay outstanding loan balances. At 31 July 2011 the maximum 
exposure to credit risk was £1,872 million (2010: £1,863 million) of which £33 million (2010: £80 million) is secured against 
properties under construction or completed properties awaiting sale. 
Each of the businesses have established procedures in place to review and collect outstanding receivables. Significant 
outstanding and overdue balances are reviewed on a regular basis and resulting actions are put in place on a timely basis. 
In many cases, protection is provided through lien rights on projects, or through credit insurance arrangements. All of the major 
businesses use professional, dedicated credit teams, in some cases field-based. Appropriate provisions are made for debts that 
may be impaired on a timely basis. Concentration of credit risk in trade receivables is limited as the Group’s customer base is 
large and unrelated. Accordingly, management consider that there is no further credit risk provision required above the current 
provision for impairment.  
The Group’s construction loans are secured on the related properties and are managed by a dedicated lending team within that 
business. Policies are also applied to provide further protection and KPIs are monitored regularly by management outside the 
business. 
The Group has cash balances deposited for short periods with financial institutions, and enters into certain contracts (such as 
interest rate swaps) which entitle the Group to receive future cash flows from financial institutions. These transactions give rise 
to credit risk on amounts due from counterparties with a maximum exposure of £470 million (2010: £744 million). This risk 
is managed by setting credit and settlement limits for a panel of approved counterparties, all of which have credit ratings 
equivalent to Standard & Poor’s A or higher. In exceptional circumstances the Treasury Committee will allow deposits with 
relationship banks with other investment grade ratings, subject to close monitoring of the exposure. The limits are approved 
by the Treasury Committee and ratings are monitored regularly. 
Market price risk 
The Group monitors its interest rate and currency risk by reviewing the effect on financial instruments over various periods 
of a range of possible changes in interest rates and exchange rates. The Group does not consider it has a material exposure 
to changes in interest rates. The Group has estimated that a weakening of sterling by ten per cent against all the currencies in 
which the Group does business would result in a charge to equity of £66 million (2010: £62 million), arising from the translation 
of borrowings denominated in foreign currency, and would have no material effect on the income statement. 
The Group does not require operating businesses to adhere to a formalised risk management policy in respect of trade credit 
risk or commodity price risk, and does not consider that there is a useful way of quantifying the Group’s exposure to any of the 
macro-economic variables that might affect the collectability of receivables or the prices of commodities.  142
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
40. Additional information continued 
Additional information about non-GAAP measures of performance 
Trading profit is defined as operating profit before exceptional items and the amortisation and impairment of acquired 
intangibles. It is a non-GAAP measure. Exceptional items are material non-recurring items which are excluded from trading 
profit to enable a clear and consistent presentation of the Group’s underlying financial performance. In addition, the current 
businesses within the Group have arisen through internal organic growth and through acquisition. Operating profit includes 
only the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles arising on those businesses that have been acquired subsequent 
to 31 July 2004 and as such does not reflect equally the performance of businesses acquired prior to 31 July 2004 (where no 
amortisation or impairment of acquired intangibles was recognised), businesses that have developed organically (where no 
intangibles are attributed) and those businesses more recently acquired (where amortisation and impairment of acquired 
intangibles is charged).  
The Group believes that trading profit provides valuable additional information for users of the financial statements in assessing 
the Group’s performance since it provides information on the performance of the business that local managers are more directly 
able to influence and on a basis consistent across the Group. The Group uses trading profit and certain key performance 
indicators, calculated by reference to trading profit, for planning, budgeting and reporting purposes and for its internal 
assessment of the operating performance of individual businesses within the Group. 
Additional information about pensions and other long-term employee benefits 
Description of plans 
The principal scheme operated for UK employees is the Wolseley Group Retirement Benefits Plan which provides benefits 
based on final pensionable salaries. The assets are held in separate trustee administered funds. The scheme’s retirement 
benefits are funded by a salary sacrifice arrangement from employees with the balance being paid by Group companies. 
Employees salary sacrifice either 5 per cent or 8 per cent of earnings depending on the level of benefits accruing. The Group 
contribution rate is calculated on the Projected Unit Method and agreed with an independent consulting actuary. This scheme 
was closed to new entrants in 2009. A defined contribution scheme is also operated. 
The principal schemes operated for US employees are defined contribution schemes, which are established in accordance 
with US 401k rules. Companies contribute to both employee compensation deferral and profit sharing plans. The Group also 
operates two defined benefit schemes in the United States which are closed to new entrants. One of the schemes is funded 
and the majority of assets are held in trustee administered funds independent of the assets of the companies. The closed plans 
now provide a minimum pension guarantee in conjunction with a defined contribution scheme. The contribution rate is 
calculated on the Projected Unit (credit) Method as agreed with independent consulting actuaries.  
In Canada defined benefit schemes and a defined contribution scheme are operated. Most of the Canadian defined benefit 
schemes are funded. The contribution rate is calculated on the Projected Unit (credit) Method as agreed with independent 
consulting actuaries. 
In Europe both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes are operated. Liabilities arising under defined benefit schemes 
are calculated in accordance with actuarial advice.   143
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
 
40. Additional information continued 
Additional information about pensions and other long-term employee benefits 
continued 
Investment policy 
The Group’s investment strategy for its funded post employment plans is decided locally and, if relevant, the trustees of the 
plan, and takes account of the relevant statutory requirements. The Group’s objective for the investment strategy is to achieve 
a target rate of return in excess of the increase in the liabilities, while taking an acceptable amount of investment risk relative 
to the liabilities. 
This objective is implemented by using specific allocations to a variety of asset classes that are expected over the long term 
to deliver the target rate of return. Most investment strategies have significant allocations to equities, with the intention that this 
will result in the ongoing cost to the Group of the post-employment plans being lower over the long term and within acceptable 
boundaries of risk. 
For the UK scheme, the policy is to invest approximately 75 per cent of the assets in equities and 25 per cent in other asset 
classes, principally bonds. The investment strategy is subject to regular review by the scheme trustees in consultation with the 
Group. For the overseas schemes the investment strategy involves the investment in defined levels of predominantly equities 
with the remainder of the assets being invested in cash and bonds. 
History of experience gains and losses 
History of experience gains and losses – UK schemes 
2011
£m 
2010
£m 
2009 
£m 
2008 
£m 
2007
£m 
Fair value of plan assets 696 593 511 542 588
Present value of defined benefit obligation (946) (897) (737) (693) (630)
Deficit in the plan (250) (304) (226) (151) (42)
Experience gain/(loss) to scheme assets   
 Amount 38 40 (87) (103) 40
 Percentage of scheme assets 5% 7% (17)% (19)% 7%
Experience gain/(loss) on scheme liabilities   
 Amount (5) –– – (8)
 Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (1)% –– – 1%
 
History of experience gains and losses – non-UK schemes 
2011
£m 
2010
£m 
2009 
£m 
2008 
£m 
2007
£m 
Fair value of plan assets 193 131 129 130 123
Present value of defined benefit obligation (303) (259) (244) (215) (188)
Deficit in the plan (110) (128) (115) (85) (65)
Experience gain/(loss) to scheme assets   
 Amount 1 4 (26) (14) 5
 Percentage of scheme assets 1% 3% (20)% (11)% 4%
Experience (gain)/loss on scheme liabilities   
 Amount (3) (2) 1 6 3
 Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (1)% (1)% 0% 3% 2% 144
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
Year ended 31 July 2011
 
40. Additional information continued 
Additional information about share-based payment plans 
The Group operates ten share option plans of which four are discretionary plans (collectively, the “Executive Option Schemes”) 
and six are all employee sharesave plans (collectively the “Employee Saving Option Schemes”). Four plans were adopted as 
part of the Company’s redomiciliation after approval by shareholders in November 2010. 
Awards granted under the Executive Option Schemes are subject to a condition such that they may not be exercised unless 
the growth in earnings per share over a period of three consecutive financial years exceeds the growth in the UK Retail Price 
Index over the same period by at least 9 per cent and consequently vest over a period of three years. Awards granted under 
the Employee Savings Option Schemes vest over periods ranging from three to seven years, save for awards granted under the 
US sharesave plan, which vest over a one-year period. 
The Group also operates a Long Term Incentive Scheme (“LTIS”) and the Wolseley Restricted Share Plan (“RSP”) for senior 
executives. Under the LTIS, executives are awarded a variable number of shares depending on the level of total shareholder 
return over the next three years relative to that of a number of comparator companies. The vesting period is three years. 
The maximum award under the LTIS is determined at grant date and then adjusted at vesting date in accordance with the 
market performance condition. Under the RSP, executives are granted free shares. The vesting period is three years and there 
are no performance measures other than retained employment. 
Additional information about employee benefit trusts 
Three Employee Benefit Trusts were established in October 2004 in connection with the Company’s discretionary share option 
plans and long term incentive plans. Upon its redomiciliation, the company changed the trustees to Bedell Trust Company 
Limited (also registered in Jersey). No shares were purchased by the trusts during the year. The market value of the 1,947,259 
shares held by the Employee Benefit Trusts at 31 July 2011, which have a nominal value of £0.2 million, was £35 million (2010: 
£28 million). Dividends due on shares held by the Employee Benefit Trusts are waived in accordance with the provisions of the 
trust deeds.  
Additional information about the parent company of the Group 
Until 22 November 2010, the parent company was Wolseley plc, a limited liability company incorporated in England and Wales 
and domiciled in the United Kingdom.  
On 23 November 2010, pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement under Part 26 of the UK Companies Act 2006, a new parent 
company was introduced which is now called Wolseley plc (the “Company”). The previous parent company has been renamed 
as Wolseley Limited (“Old Wolseley”). 
The Company is incorporated in Jersey under the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and is headquartered in Switzerland. 
It operates as the ultimate parent company of the Wolseley Group. Its registered office is 26 New Street, St Helier, Jersey, 
JE2 3RA, Channel Islands. 
The Group’s principal subsidiary undertakings are set on pages 156 and 157. 
  145
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
Independent auditors’ report  
to the members of Wolseley plc
We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Wolseley plc for the year ended 31 July 2011 which comprise the Group 
Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group Statement of 
Changes in Equity, the Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.  
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 71 the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Group Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit 
and express an opinion on the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Article 113A of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 July 2011 and of the Group’s profit and cash flows for the 
year then ended;  
• have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European 
Union; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters 
In our opinion:  
• the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the Group Financial Statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Group financial statements; and  
• the information given in the Corporate governance statement with respect to internal control and risk management systems 
and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the 
information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the directors’ statement in relation to going concern as set out in the Directors’ report;  
• the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and  
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board of directors’ remuneration. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Wolseley plc for the year ended 31 July 2011. 
 
 
 
Stuart Watson (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
4 October 2011  146
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Company proﬁt and loss account
For the period from 28 September 2010 to 31 July 2011
 
 Notes 
2011
£m 
Administrative expenses  (7)
Operating loss (7)
Investment income 3 50
Profit before tax  43
Tax expense  –
Profit for the period  43
The Company has no recognised gains and losses other than those included in the profit and loss account and therefore no 
separate statement of total recognised gains and losses has been presented. 
 
 
 
Company balance sheet 
At 31 July 2011 
 Notes 
2011
£m 
Fixed assets  
Investments 3 4,990
  4,990
Current assets  
Cash at bank and in hand  13
  13
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 4 (4)
Net current assets  9
Total assets less current liabilities  4,999
Capital and reserves  
Called up share capital 5 28
Share premium account 6 6
Profit and loss account 7 4,965
Total shareholders’ funds 8 4,999
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Company financial statements. 
The Company financial statements on pages 146 to 151 were approved by the Board of Directors on 4 October 2011 and were 
signed on its behalf by 
 
 
 
Ian Meakins John Martin 
Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 
  14 7
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements
Period ended 31 July 2011
1. Corporate information 
Wolseley plc (the ‘Company’) was incorporated and registered in Jersey on 28 September 2010 under the Jersey Companies 
Law as a public company limited by shares under the name Wolseley plc with registered number 106605. The principal 
legislation under which the Company operates is the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, as amended, and regulations made 
thereunder. The address of its registered office is 26 New Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RA, Channel Islands. It is 
headquartered in Switzerland. 
On 23 November 2010 the Company became the ultimate holding company of the then Wolseley plc (the former holding 
company of the Wolseley Group of companies (‘Old Wolseley’)), a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales, 
pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement under Part 26 of the UK Companies Act 2006 that was approved by the High Court of 
Justice in England and Wales and the shareholders of Old Wolseley (the ‘Scheme of Arrangement’). Pursuant to the Scheme 
of Arrangement, all of the ordinary shares of Old Wolseley were exchanged on a one-for-one basis for ordinary shares of the 
Company. The ordinary shares of the Company were then listed on the London Stock Exchange’s main market. Trading in 
these shares commenced on 24
 
November 2010. 
As a result of the scheme of arrangement Old Wolseley is now a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and it has since re-
registered as a private limited company. The Scheme of Arrangement did not involve any cash payment for ordinary shares.  
The principal activity of the Company is to act as the ultimate holding company of the Wolseley Group of companies. 
2. Company accounting policies 
Basis of accounting 
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented in compliance with the requirements for companies whose 
shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange’s main market. They have been prepared on a going concern basis and 
under the historical cost convention, and in accordance with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (‘UK GAAP’). 
The financial statements of the Company cover the period from incorporation on 28 September 2010 to 31 July 2011 and 
hence, no comparative information is presented. They are presented in pounds sterling as that is the functional currency of the 
Company. 
Note 9 (Dividends) on page 102, note 29 (Share capital) on page 120 and note 30 (Share-based payments) on page 121 of 
the Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements form part of these financial statements. 
Cash Flow statement  
Under Financial Reporting Standard 1 (revised 1996) the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare statements 
of cash flow as the consolidated statements have been published. 
Foreign currencies 
The cost of the Company’s investments in overseas subsidiary undertakings is translated into sterling at the rate ruling at the 
date of investment. 
Foreign currency transactions entered into during the year are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the 
dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of 
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All currency translation differences are taken to the profit and loss account. 
Investments 
Fixed asset investments are recorded at cost less provision for impairment. The Company assesses at each balance sheet 
date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is impaired. 
Taxation 
Current tax represents the expected tax payable (or recoverable) on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted 
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments arising from prior years. 
Provision is made for deferred taxation in so far as a liability or asset has arisen as a result of transactions that had occurred by 
the balance sheet date and have given rise to an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or the right to pay less tax in the future. 
An asset has not been recognised to the extent that the transfer of economic benefits in the future is uncertain. Deferred tax 
assets and liabilities recognised have not been discounted.  148
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements continued
Period ended 31 July 2011
2. Company accounting policies continued 
Financial instruments 
The Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 July 2011 contain financial instrument disclosures 
required by IFRS 7 (Financial Instruments: Disclosures and Presentation) and these would also comply with the disclosures 
required by FRS 29 (Financial Instruments: Disclosures and Presentation). Accordingly, the Company has taken advantage 
of the exemption in FRS 29 and has not presented separate financial instrument disclosures. 
Financial guarantees 
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at fair value as at the reporting date. Fair value 
is estimated by discounting expected cash flows at a market rate. Changes in fair value are recognised in the profit and loss 
account. 
Cash at bank and in hand 
Cash at bank and in hand includes cash in hand and deposits held at call with banks. Bank overdrafts are shown within 
borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet to the extent that there is no right of offset and practice of net settlement 
with cash balances. 
Share capital 
The Company has one class of shares, ordinary shares, which are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable 
to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax. 
Where the Company or the Company’s trust purchases the Company’s equity share capital, the consideration paid, including 
any directly attributable incremental costs (net of tax), is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders 
until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration 
received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related tax effects, is included in equity 
attributable to the Company’s equity holders. 
Borrowings 
Borrowings are recognised initially at the fair value of the consideration received net of transaction costs incurred. 
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost with any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) 
and the redemption value being recognised in the profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective 
interest method. 
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability 
for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. 
Share-based payments 
Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Company’s executive share option, long-term incentive and share 
purchase schemes. The Company recognises a compensation cost in respect of these schemes that is based on the fair value 
of the awards, measured using Black-Scholes, Binomial and Monte Carlo valuation methodologies. For equity-settled schemes, 
the fair value is determined at the date of grant and is not subsequently re-measured unless the conditions on which the award 
was granted are modified. For cash-settled schemes, the fair value is determined at the date of grant and is re-measured at 
each balance sheet date until the liability is settled. Generally, the compensation cost is recognised on a straight-line basis over 
the vesting period. Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period due to the failure 
to satisfy service conditions or achieve non-market performance conditions. 
Dividends payable 
Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in the Company’s financial statements in the period in which the dividends 
are approved by the shareholders of the Company (generally in the case of the final dividend) or paid (in the case of 
interim dividends).  149
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
3. Fixed asset investments 
 
 
 
 
 
Cost
£m 
On incorporation   –
Scheme of arrangement   4,989
Additions   2,545
Dividends in specie from Group undertakings   (2,544)
At 31 July 2011   4,990
All of the above investments are in unlisted shares. The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported 
by their underlying assets. 
Following the Scheme of Arrangement on 23 November 2010 the Company recorded the cost of its investment in Old 
Wolseley, which changed its name to Wolseley Limited, at the fair value at that date of £4,989 million. 
Other significant transactions since the date of incorporation include: 
On 1 December 2010, 100 per cent of the ordinary shares of Wolseley Finance sp.z o.o were transferred from Wolseley Limited 
to Wolseley plc as a dividend in specie at a value of £178 million. 
On 15 December 2010, the Company received a dividend in specie from Wolseley Limited comprising loans and loan notes to 
other Group companies and immediately contributed the loans and loan notes to Wolseley Finance sp.z o.o in exchange for 
shares valued at £2,358 million. 
On 25 March 2011, 100 per cent of the ordinary shares of Wolseley Insurance Limited were transferred from Wolseley Limited 
to Wolseley plc as a dividend in specie at a value of £8 million. 
The dividends in specie received from Wolseley Limited in the period have been considered to be a return of capital and have 
been allocated against the Company’s cost of investment in Wolseley Limited. 
The Company’s direct holdings in subsidiary undertakings as at 31 July 2011 were as follows: 
Company Country of registration and operation Principal activity 
Percentage
of ordinary
shares held 
Wolseley Finance sp.z o.o Poland Finance 100%
Wolseley Limited England and Wales Investment 100%
Wolseley Insurance Limited Isle of Man Insurance 100%
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company, including those that are held indirectly, are listed on pages 156 
and 157 of the Annual Report. 
During the period the Company received a dividend of £50 million from Wolseley Limited. 
4. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year  
 
 
 
2011
£m 
Bank overdraft  1
Amounts due to Group companies  3
  4
The fair value of amounts included in creditors approximates to book value. Amounts due to Group companies due within one 
year are not interest bearing and are payable on demand. 
5. Share capital 
Details of the Company’s share capital are set out in note 29, on page 120, to the Wolseley plc consolidated financial 
statements.  150
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements continued
Period ended 31 July 2011
6. Share premium account 
  £m 
On incorporation  –
Scheme of arrangement  4,961
Capital reduction  (4,961)
New share capital subscribed  6
At 31 July 2011  6
On 6 December 2010, the Royal Court of Jersey approved the capital reduction of the Company, whereby the share premium 
at that date was transferred to the profit and loss reserve. The effect of the capital reduction was to reduce share premium by 
£4,961 million and to increase the profit and loss reserve by £4,961 million. 
7. Profit and loss account 
  £m 
On incorporation  –
Capital reduction  4,961
Profit for the period  43
Dividends paid  (42)
Equity-settled employee share options  3
At 31 July 2011  4,965
8. Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds 
 
 
 
2011
£m 
On incorporation  –
Scheme of arrangement  4,989
New share capital subscribed  –
Share premium on new share capital subscribed  6
Profit for the period  43
Dividends paid  (42)
Equity-settled employee share options  3
Closing shareholders’ funds  4,999
9. Share-based payments 
Details of share options granted by Group companies to employees, and that remain outstanding, over the Company’s shares 
are set out in note 30 on page 121 to the Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements. The Company recognised an equity-
settled share-based payment charge of £nil in the year. 
10. Contingent liabilities 
Provision is made for the Directors’ best estimate of known legal claims and legal actions in progress. The Company takes legal 
advice as to the likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on 
that advice that the action is unlikely to succeed or a sufficiently reliable estimate of the potential obligation cannot be made. 
In addition the Company has given certain banks authority to transfer at any time any sum outstanding to its credit against or 
towards satisfaction of its liability to those banks of certain subsidiary undertakings. 
The Company has given indemnities and warranties to the purchasers of businesses from the Company and certain Group 
companies in respect of which no material liabilities are expected to arise. 
2011
2011 15 1
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Other information Financial statements Strategic overview
11. Employees, employee costs and auditors’ remuneration 
The average number of employees of the Company in the period ended 31 July 2011 was one. Other employees of Group 
companies were seconded or assigned to the Company in the period, in order to fulfil their duties or to carry out the work of 
the Company. Each of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company has an appointment letter with the Company, and the 
Executive Directors and certain other senior managers of the Group have assignment letters in place with the Company. 
Total employment costs of the Company for the period, including Non-Executive Directors and seconded employees, 
were £1 million. 
Fees payable to the auditors for the audit of the Company’s financial statements are set out in note 3, on page 99, to the 
Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements. 
12. Dividends 
Details of the Company’s dividends are set out in note 9, on page 102, to the Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements. 
13. Related party transactions 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under FRS 8 “Related party disclosures” to dispense with the 
requirement to disclose transactions with fellow subsidiaries, all of whose voting rights are held within the Group, and which are 
included in the consolidated financial statements of Wolseley plc. 
 
  152
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Independent auditors’ report  
to the members of Wolseley plc
 
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Wolseley plc for the year ended 31 July 2011 which comprises the 
Company profit and loss account, the Company balance sheet and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 71 the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Article 113A of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.  
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; 
and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the parent company financial statements: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 July 2011;  
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. 
Opinion on other matter 
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the parent company’s financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.  
At the request of the directors, we have also audited the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having 
been audited. In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 requires us to report to 
you if, in our opinion: 
• proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Wolseley plc for the year ended 31 July 2011. 
 
Stuart Watson (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
4 October 2011  153
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Financial statements Other information Strategic overview
Five year summary
 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m 
2009 
£m 
2008 
(restated) 
£m 
2007
 (restated)
£m 
Revenue    
USA 5,500 5,174 5,820 5,613 5,685
Canada 811 765 700 684 619
UK 2,404 2,466 2,699 3,203 3,171
Nordic 2,128 2,012 2,124 2,299 1,678
France 1,943 1,937 2,144 2,116 1,872
Central Europe 772 849 954 899 838
Group 13,558 13,203 14,441 14,814 13,863
Trading profit    
USA 314 239 309 389 401
Canada 39 41 32 39 42
UK 109 91 55 176 211
Nordic 113 101 97 160 103
France 53 30 32 103 101
Central Europe 30 9 (1) (1) 31
Central and other costs (36) (61) (77) (79) (61)
Group 622 450 447 787 828
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (75) (92) (105) (105) (88)
Impairment of acquired intangibles (39) (223) (490) (57) –
Exceptional items (51) (332) (458) (70) –
Operating profit/(loss)  457 (197) (606) 555 740
Net interest payable (66) (77) (145) (156) (119)
Associate – share of after tax loss – (13) (15) – –
Associate – impairment – (41) – – –
Profit/(loss) before tax  391 (328) (766) 399 621
Tax (charge)/credit (110) (38) 34 (157) (159)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities after tax from  
continuing operations 281 (366) (732) 242 462
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations (10) 26 (441) (168) 12
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity shareholders 271 (340) (1,173) 74 474
Ordinary dividends (42) – – (74) (211)
Net assets employed   
Intangible fixed assets 1,628 1,812 2,223 2,836 2,680
Property, plant and equipment 1,249 1,409 1,593 1,842 1,718
Other net assets, excluding liquid funds 1,022 184 519 1,150 1,520
 3,899 3,405 4,335 5,828 5,918
Financed by   
Share capital 28 241 241 165 165
Share premium 6 1,156 1,152 949 945
Foreign currency translation reserve 380 300 228 (52) (181)
Profit and loss account 2,962 1,362 1,755 2,297 2,522
Shareholders’ funds 3,376 3,059 3,376 3,359 3,451
Net debt 523 346 959 2,469 2,467
Net assets employed 3,899 3,405 4,335 5,828 5,918 154
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Five year summary continued
 
  
Continuing operations (unless stated) 2011 2010 2009 
2008 
 (restated) 
2007
 (restated) 
Like for like revenue growth  5.0% (6.0)% (13.9)% (2.3)% 5.1%
Gross margin  27.9% 27.7% 27.7% 28.2% 28.3%
Trading margin  4.6% 3.4% 3.1% 5.3% 6.0%
Headline earnings per share (note 1) 142.9p 74.1p 95.6p 240.3p 309.8p
Basic earnings/(loss) per share from continuing and 
discontinued operations (note 1) 95.9p (120.6)p (558.0)p 41.0p 266.7p
Dividends per share (in respect of the financial year) (note 1) 45.0p – – 40.8p 117.5p
Cover for ordinary dividends 3.2 – – 1.0 2.2
Net tangible assets per ordinary share (note 1) 613.3p 438.5p 406.2p 286.6p 423.2p
Return on capital employed (note 2) 25.4% 16.4% 14.4% 24.3% 26.9%
Return on gross capital employed (note 3)  10.6% 7.1% 6.9% 12.5% 15.6%
Average number of employees  46,246 48,226 55,132 62,774 63,136
Number of shares in issue at year end (million) (note 1) 285 284 284 182 182
Number of branches at year end   
Continuing operations 3,837 4,118 4,394 5,025 4,988
Discontinued operations – – – 285 308
Total branches 3,837 4,118 4,394 5,310 5,296
US dollar translation rate   
Income statement/profit and loss 1.60 1.57 1.57 2.00 1.95
Balance sheet 1.64 1.57 1.67 1.98 2.03
Canadian dollar translation rate   
Income statement/profit and loss 1.59 1.64 1.85 2.01 2.19
Balance sheet 1.57 1.61 1.80 2.03 2.16
Euro translation rate   
Income statement/profit and loss 1.16 1.14 1.16 1.35 1.48
Balance sheet 1.14 1.20 1.17 1.27 1.48
Note 1. Shares in issue and amounts per share for 2007 and 2008 have been restated to reflect the Group’s capital reorganisation in 2009. 
Note 2. Return on capital employed is the ratio of trading profit to the average year-end aggregate of shareholders’ funds and adjusted net debt excluding goodwill 
and other acquired intangible assets. Return on capital employed for 2011 has been calculated as follows: 
 
Capital 
employed
2011
£m
Capital 
employed
2010
£m
Average 
capital 
employed 
£m 
Trading profit
£m
Return on 
capital 
employed
Net debt 523 346 
Year-end working capital management  114 495 
Receivables factoring facilities 68 274 
Construction loan financing – 80 
Adjusted net debt 705 1,195 
Shareholders’ funds 3,376 3,059 
Goodwill and other acquired intangibles (1,598) (1,779) 
Goodwill in assets held for sale (54) – 
 2,429 2,475 2,452 622 25.4%
Note 3. Return on gross capital employed is the ratio of trading profit to the average year-end aggregate of shareholders’ funds, adjusted net debt and cumulative 
goodwill and other acquired intangibles written off. The cumulative goodwill and other acquired intangibles written off balance at 31 July 2011 is £1,659 million (2010: 
£1,766 million) and average gross capital employed for 2011 is calculated as £5,879 million. 
  155
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Financial statements Other information Strategic overview
Pro forma information in United States dollars
 
 
2011
$m 
2010
$m 
2009 
$m 
2008 
 (restated) 
 $m 
2007
 (restated)
$m 
Revenue   
USA 8,787 8,123 9,142 11,226 11,079
Canada 1,295 1,201 1,100 1,368 1,206
UK 3,840 3,871 4,240 6,406 6,179
Nordic 3,399 3,159 3,336 4,598 3,270
France 3,104 3,041 3,368 4,232 3,648
Central Europe 1,233 1,332 1,499 1,798 1,633
Group 21,658 20,727 22,685 29,628 27,015
Trading profit   
USA 501 375 485 778 781
Canada 62 64 50 78 82
UK 175 143 86 352 411
Nordic 181 159 152 320 201
France 85 47 50 206 197
Central Europe 48 14 (1) (2) 60
Central and other costs (57) (95) (121) (158) (119)
Group 995 707 701 1,574 1,613
Amortisation of acquired intangibles  (120) (144) (165) (210) (171)
Impairment of acquired intangibles (63) (350) (770) (114) –
Exceptional items (81) (521) (719) (140) –
Operating profit/(loss)  731 (308) (953) 1,110 1,442
Net interest payable (106) (121) (228) (312) (232)
Associate – share of after tax loss – (20) (24) – –
Associate – impairment – (64) – – –
Profit/(loss) before tax  625 (513) (1,205) 798 1,210
Tax (charge)/credit (175) (60) 53 (314) (310)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities after tax from  
continuing operations 450 (573) (1,152) 484 900
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations (17) 41 (693) (336) 23
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity shareholders 433 (532) (1,845) 148 923
Net assets employed   
Intangible fixed assets 2,673 2,842 3,716 5,625 5,437
Property, plant and equipment 2,051 2,210 2,663 3,654 3,485
Other net assets, excluding liquid funds 1,678 289 868 2,281 3,083
 6,402 5,341 7,247 11,560 12,005
Financed by   
Share capital 47 378 403 327 335
Share premium 10 1,813 1,926 1,882 1,917
Foreign currency translation reserve 623 471 381 (103) (367)
Profit and loss account 4,864 2,136 2,934 4,557 5,116
Shareholders’ funds 5,544 4,798 5,644 6,663 7,001
Net debt 858 543 1,603 4,897 5,004
Net assets employed 6,402 5,341 7,247 11,560 12,005
The above information has been extracted from the five year summary on pages 153 and 154. Income statement figures have 
been translated using the relevant year’s income statement/profit and loss US dollar translation rate as set out on page 154. 
Balance sheet figures have been translated at the relevant year’s balance sheet US dollar translation rate as set out on page 154.  156
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Austria
ÖAG AG, A-1 1 10 Wien
(Incorporated and operational in Austria)
Director: H-D Kus
Supervisory Board: E Cihlar, O M Jensen, E Walker, 
K Wingsted, T Zwettler
Canada
Wolseley Canada Inc, Burlington, Ontario
(Incorporated and operational in Canada)
Directors: G Petrin, F Roach, K VanderVennet
Czech Republic
Wolseley Eastern Europe a.s., Prague 8
(Incorporated and operational in the Czech Republic)
Directors: M Hlinecky, S Weirsøe
Supervisory Board: T Brophy, O M Jensen, N Parry, 
R Shoylekov
Denmark
DT Group A/S, Gladsaxe Mollevej, 5 DK-2860 Soborg 
(Incorporated and operational in Denmark)
Directors: K Borregaard, O M Jensen, C Jørgensen, 
B W Mortensen, R Shoylekov, S Villsen, S Weirsøe
France
Brossette SAS, 69007 Lyon
(Incorporated and operational in France)
Président-directeur général: P Gardies
PB & M SAS, 92400 Courbevoie
(Incorporated and operational in France)
Président-directeur général: P Gardies
Luxembourg
Comptoir des Fers et Métaux SA, L-1882 Luxembourg
(Incorporated and operational in Luxembourg)
Directors: P Broecker, O M Jensen, E Walker, K Wingsted
Netherlands
Wasco Holding B.V., 7391 AL Twello
(Incorporated and operational in the Netherlands)
Directors: O M Jensen, H A T van den Belt, E Walker, 
K Wingsted
Switzerland
T obler Haustechnik AG, 8902 Urdorf
(Incorporated and operational in Switzerland)
Directors: O M Jensen, A Ronchetti, E Walker, H Wiedmer, 
K Wingsted
United Kingdom
Wolseley UK Limited, Leamington Spa, 
Warwickshire CV31 3HH
(Incorporated and operational in the United Kingdom)
Directors: S Ashmore, D Harding, M Neville
USA
Ferguson Enterprises, Inc., Newport News, Virginia 23602
(Incorporated and operational in the United States of America)
Directors: L Byrd, J Cross, J Feltman, S Grosslight, 
T Hall, D Keltner, K Murphy, S Petock, J Posey, F Roach, 
S Roznowski, W Russell, D Strup, K VanderVennet, J Wilcox
Principal subsidiary undertakings and their directors 157
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Financial statements Other information Strategic overview
Service Companies
Jule B1 Limited
(Incorporated in Guernsey and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Jule B4 Limited
(Incorporated in Guernsey and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Ridgeﬂower Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the United Kingdom)
Wolseley Capital, Inc.
(Incorporated and operational in the United States of America)
Wolseley Capital Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the United Kingdom)
Wolseley Capital (Parkview) Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the United Kingdom)
Wolseley Central and Eastern Europe AG
(Incorporated and operational in Switzerland)
Wolseley Finance (Gibraltar) Limited
(Incorporated in Gibraltar and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Wolseley Finance (Isis) Limited
(Incorporated in Guernsey and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Wolseley Finance (Isle of Man) Limited
(Incorporated in the Isle of Man and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Wolseley Finance (Kennet) Limited
(Incorporated in Guernsey and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Wolseley Finance (Loddon) Limited
(Incorporated in Guernsey and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
*Wolseley Finance sp.z o.o
(Incorporated in Poland and operational in Switzerland)
Wolseley Finance (Thames) Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the United Kingdom)
Wolseley Finance (Theale) Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the United Kingdom)
Wolseley France SAS
(Incorporated and operational in France)
Wolseley (Group Services) Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the United Kingdom)
Wolseley Group Holdings Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the United Kingdom)
Wolseley Holdings Canada Inc.
(Incorporated and operational in Canada)
Wolseley Holdings Denmark A/S
(Incorporated and operational in Denmark)
Wolseley-Hughes Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the United Kingdom)
*Wolseley Insurance Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the Isle of Man)
Wolseley Investments, Inc.
(Incorporated and operational in the United States of America)
Wolseley Investments North America, Inc.
(Incorporated and operational in the United States of America)
*Wolseley Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the United Kingdom)
Wolseley Nordic Holdings AB
(Incorporated and operational in Sweden)
Wolseley Overseas Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the United Kingdom)
Wolseley Overseas Holdings Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the United Kingdom)
Wolseley UK Finance Limited
(Incorporated in Guernsey and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Wolseley UK Holdings Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the United Kingdom)
Associates
Saturn Acquisition Holdings, LLC
Los Angeles, California 90024
(Incorporated and operational in the United States of America)
All subsidiary undertakings have been included in 
the consolidation.
Shareholdings in companies marked * are held by Wolseley 
plc. All other shareholdings in the above mentioned 
companies are held by intermediate subsidiary undertakings.
Details of directors and ofﬁcers are reported as at 4 October 
2011.
All shareholdings in the above subsidiary undertakings 
are of ordinary shares or equity capital, plus the following 
preference shares in the case of:
Wolseley Finance (Isle of Man) Limited 100%
Wolseley Insurance Limited 100%
Wolseley Investments Inc. 100%
Wolseley Overseas Holdings Limited 100%
Wolseley UK Finance Limited 100%
Wolseley UK Holdings Limited 100% 158
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Shareholder information
New Holding Company
On 23 November 2010, pursuant to a scheme of 
arrangement (the “Scheme”) under Part 26 of the UK 
Companies Act, Wolseley plc (“Wolseley”), a public company 
limited by shares, incorporated in Jersey with number 
106605 and tax resident in Switzerland, became the new 
parent holding company of the Wolseley Group. The Scheme 
was approved by the High Court of Justice of England and 
Wales and by shareholders at a general meeting of the 
Company held on 2 November 2010. Wolseley was 
incorporated as Wolseley plc under the Companies (Jersey) 
Law 1991 on 28 September 2010. 
Under the terms of the Scheme, shareholders in Wolseley 
plc, incorporated in England and Wales with number 
28496 (“Old Wolseley”), received one share in the newly 
incorporated Wolseley for every share already held. Upon the 
Scheme becoming effective, Old Wolseley changed its name 
to Wolseley Limited and became a wholly-owned subsidiary 
of Wolseley. Further information on the terms of the Scheme 
is set out in the prospectus published by the Company on 
22 October 2010, which can be viewed on the Wolseley plc 
website at www.wolseley.com 
Further information on the Company’s share capitalisation 
and the rights issue of Old Wolseley, which was completed 
in April 2009, can also be found on the Wolseley plc website.
Access to shareholder information
All Wolseley plc shareholder information is available 
electronically. Shareview, a service offered by our registrars, 
Equiniti, allows shareholders online access to a range of 
shareholder information. It provides access to individual’s 
shareholding details in the Company and practical help 
on transferring shares or updating personal details. 
It also allows shareholders to decide how to receive their 
shareholder communications and to submit their votes 
for all shareholder meetings. 
To register, shareholders simply need to log on to  
www.shareview.co.uk\myportfolio using their 
shareholder reference number and complete the simple 
on-screen registration process. First-time users will need 
to enter certain information and to choose a personal 
identiﬁcation number before they are able to access their 
shareholding details. The Company can, at shareholders’ 
request, send an email notiﬁcation each time a new 
shareholder report or other shareholder communication is 
put on the website. Shareholders will then be able to read 
and/or download the information at their leisure, but will still 
be able to request paper copies of the documents should 
they so wish.
Share dealing
UK-based shareholders are also offered a simple and 
convenient telephone and internet share sale and 
purchase service by our Registrars. Equiniti Shareview 
dealing is available for telephone purchases and sales on 
0871 384 2020 (or if calling from outside the United Kingdom, 
dial +44 121 415 7560) between 8:30am and 4:30pm, 
Monday to Friday and for internet purchases and sales 
via www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. A postal dealing 
service is also available and a form together with terms 
and conditions can be obtained from Equiniti by calling 
0871 384 2934 (or if calling from outside the United Kingdom, 
dial +44 121 415 7011). Calls to these numbers are charged 
at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline. Other telephony 
providers’ costs may vary.
Stock Exchange Listings
The ordinary shares of 10 pence each of the Company 
are listed on the London Stock Exchange. The Company 
operates a Level I American Depositary Receipts (“ADR”) 
programme. ADRs are listed on the premier tier of the 
over-the-counter market “OTCQX”. Further information can 
be found at www.pinksheets.com or www.otcqx.com
Published information
Further copies of the Annual Report may be obtained 
from the Group Communications and Investor Relations 
Department, Wolseley Group Services, Parkview 1220, 
Arlington Business Park, Theale, Reading RG7 4GA, 
United Kingdom. Company information may also be 
viewed on the Wolseley plc website at www.wolseley.com
If you would like to receive a copy of the Annual Report 
in an appropriate alternative format, such as Braille or an 
audio version on CD, please contact +44 (0)118 929 8700.
Corporate timetable
29 November 201 1
Annual General Meeting.
30 November 201 1
Proposed ﬁnal dividend of 30 pence per share to be paid 
to shareholders who are on the Register of Members on 
14 October 2011.
6 December 201 1
Interim Management Statement released.
27 March 2012*
Announcement of Half Year Results for the period ending 
31 January 2012.
29 May 2012*
Interim Management Statement released.
31 July 2012
End of ﬁnancial year 2011/12.
2 October 2012*
Final results for the year ending 31 July 2012 announced.
*Dates are based on current expectations.
The Half Year and Annual Final Results announcements 
and the Interim Management Statements will be available 
on the Wolseley plc website at www.wolseley.com 
following their release. 159
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance Business and performance Financial statements Other information Strategic overview
Group information
Registered Ofﬁce
Wolseley plc
26 New Street
St Helier
Jersey
JE2 3RA
Channel Islands
Website: www.wolseley.com
Wolseley Corporate Head Ofﬁce
Wolseley plc
Grafenauweg 10
CH-6301
Zug
Switzerland
Telephone: +41 (0)41 723 2230 
Fax: +41 (0)41 723 2231
Wolseley Group Services Ofﬁce
Parkview 1220
Arlington Business Park
Theale
Reading RG7 4GA
Telephone: +44 (0) 118 929 8700 
Fax: +44 (0) 118 929 8701
Principal Committees of the Board 
as at 4 October 201 1
Audit Committee
Michael Wareing – Chairman
Tessa Bamford (with effect from 27 May 2011)
Michael Clarke (with effect from 22 March 2011)
Andrew Duff (with effect from 20 January 2011)
Remuneration Committee
Andrew Duff – Chairman
Tessa Bamford (with effect from 22 March 2011)
Michael Clarke (with effect from 27 May 2011)
Michael Wareing (with effect from 20 January 2011)
Nominations Committee
Gareth Davis – Chairman
Tessa Bamford (with effect from 22 March 2011)
Michael Clarke (with effect from 22 March 2011)
Andrew Duff
Michael Wareing
Major Announcements Committee
John Martin – Chairman
Gareth Davis
Mark Fearon
Ian Meakins
Richard Shoylekov
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Corporate brokers
Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch 
Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Solicitors
Freshﬁelds Bruckhaus Deringer LLP
Registrars
Equiniti (Jersey) Limited
26 New Street
St Helier
Jersey
JE4 8PP
Channel Islands
Telephone: 
within the UK: 0871 384 2934* 
outside the UK: +44 (0)121 415 7011
Website: www.equiniti.com
*  Calls to this number are charged at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline. 
Other telephony providers’ costs may vary.
American Depositary Receipts
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas
C/o American Stock Transfer & Trust Company
Peck Slip Station
P .O. Box 2050
New York, NY 10272-2050
Email queries: DB@amstock.com 
Telephone:
within the US toll free: +1-866-249-2593 
International + 1-718-921-8137
Website: www.adr.db.com 160
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Forward-looking statements
Certain information included in this Annual Report and 
Accounts is forward-looking and involves risks, assumptions 
and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ 
materially from those expressed or implied by forward-
looking statements. Forward-looking statements cover all 
matters which are not historical facts and include, without 
limitation, projections relating to results of operations and 
ﬁnancial conditions and the Company’s plans and objectives 
for future operations, including, without limitation, discussions 
of expected future revenues, ﬁnancing plans, expected 
expenditures and divestments, risks associated with changes 
in economic conditions, the strength of the plumbing and 
heating and building materials market in North America and 
Europe, ﬂuctuations in product prices and changes in 
exchange and interest rates.
Forward-looking statements can be identiﬁed by the use of 
forward-looking terminology, including terms such as 
“believes”, “estimates”, “anticipates”, “expects”, “forecasts”, 
“intends”, “plans”, “projects”, “goal”, “target”, “aim”, “may”, 
“will”, “would”, “could” or “should” or, in each case, their 
negative or other variations or comparable terminology. 
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future 
performance. All forward-looking statements in this Annual 
Report and Accounts are based upon information known to 
the Company on the date of this Annual Report and 
Accounts. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any 
particular expectation will be met and readers are cautioned 
not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, 
which speak only at their respective dates.
Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past 
trends or activities should not be taken as a representation 
that such trends or activities will continue in the future. Other 
than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations 
(including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority), the 
Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or 
revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of 
new information, future events or otherwise. Nothing in this 
Annual Report and Accounts shall exclude any liability under 
applicable laws that cannot be excluded in accordance with 
such laws. Credits
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.ry.com 
Board photography by Andy Wilson and Marcus Ginns  
Location photography by Andy Wilson
Paper
This report is printed on Amadeus 50 Silk paper and cover board, with 
Amadeus 100 offset used in the ﬁnancial section. Amadeus 50 Silk is made 
from 25% de-inked post-consumer waste, 25% unprinted pre-consumer 
waste and 50% virgin ﬁbre.
Amadeus 100 offset is made from 100 per cent de-inked post consumer waste. 
Both products are fully biodegradable and recyclable and produced in mills 
which hold IS0 9001 and ISO 14001 accreditation.
Printing
Printed by Pureprint Group. The printing inks are made with non hazardous 
vegetable oil from renewable sources. Over 90 per cent of solvents and 
developers are recycled for further use and recycling initiatives are in place 
for all other waste associated with this production. Pureprint Group is FSC
®
 with 
strict procedures in place to safeguard the environment through all processes.
The greenhouse gas emissions from the production and distribution of this 
Annual Report and Accounts have been neutralised through a reforestation 
project in Kenya. Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Wolseley plc
Registered Ofﬁce 
26 New Street 
St Helier 
Jersey 
JE2 3RA 
Channel Islands
Registration No. 106605 Jersey
Corporate Headquarters
Grafenauweg 10 
CH-6301 
Zug 
Switzerland
Telephone +41 (0)41 723 2230 
Fax +41 (0)41 723 2231
www.wolseley.com
