 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
W oolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
W oolworths Group plc
Address
Woolworth House
242–246 Marylebone Road
London NW1 6JL
T elephone
+44 (0)20 7262 1 222
Facsimile
+44 (0)20 7706 54 1 6
Website
www.woolworthsgroupplc.com Contents Woolworths
At a Glance
Contents
1 Financial and Operational Highlights
2 Chairman’ s Statement
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
4 Our Resources
8 Chief Executive’ s Report
14 Finance Director’ s Report
18 Risk Factors
19 Corporate Social Responsibility
20 Board of Directors
21 Corporate Governance 
25 Other Information
27 Directors’ Remuneration Report
36 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
37 Independent Auditors’ Report 
(the ‘Group’)
38 Group Income Statement
Group Statement of Recognised
Income and Expense
39 Group Balance Sheet
40 Group Cash Flow Statement
41 Notes to the Group Accounts
72 Five Y ear Record (Unaudited)
73 Independent Auditors’ Report
(the ‘Company’)
74 Company Balance Sheet
75 Notes to the Company Accounts
80 Shareholder Information (Unaudited)
Retail
Woolworths
The Mainchain stores comprise traditional Woolworths outlets located in small towns
and city suburbs, targeted at meeting basic everyday shopping requirements, as well
as larger stores located on prime shopping streets in major regional shopping centres. 
The product offer covers T oys, Children’ s Clothing, Events, Confectionery , Home and
Entertainment; larger stores include a more comprehensive range of Home and
Children’ s Clothing.
Woolworths out-of-town stores offer a wider selection of T oys, a babyshop, kids’
bedroom ranges and Entertainment products, all from a superstore format designed 
to meet demand for out-of-town shopping.
www.woolworths.co.uk
2 | Entertain
The Group holds a 40 per cent share in this joint venture, combining the former VCI
audio and video business with BBC Worldwide’ s video publishing arm. Recent video
titles include ‘Planet Earth’ and ‘Jeremy Clarkson – The Good, the Bad and the Ugly’
and on audio, ‘Ian Dury: Reasons to be Cheerful’.
www.2entertain.co.uk
Entertainment UK Limited (‘EUK’)
EUK is the UK’ s leading distributor of entertainment products, generating an annual
turnover in excess of £1.1 billion.
EUK’ s product portfolio covers all of the major entertainment formats – music, 
DVD, games and books – as well as mobile phones. In turn, these products are
supplied to some of the country’ s best known store groups and online retailers.
www.entuk.co.uk
Bertram Group Limited
Bertram Group consists of the following three divisions:
Bertram Books, the UK’ s leading book wholesaler with a growing number 
of international customers. 
Bertram Publisher Services provides distribution sevices to a wide range 
of client publishers.
Bertram Library Services an industry leading supplier of books, tapes, 
CDs, games and many other audio-visual products to public libraries, schools, 
universities and educational institutions in the UK and around the world. 
www.bertrams.com
T otal Home Entertainment (‘THE’)
THE is one of the UK’ s largest combined wholesalers and distributors of books, 
audio, video, multimedia and computer games. Since launching in 1972, THE 
has fast established itself as one of the most respected and effective players in
entertainment distribution.
Entertainment 
Wholesale and Publishing
2
|
Entertain THE
TOTAL HOME ENTERTAINMENT
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Shareholder Information
81
Shareholder Information (Unaudited)
continued
Payment of Dividends by BACS
Many shareholders have already arranged for dividends to be paid by mandate directly to their bank or building society account. The Company
mandates dividends through the BACS (Bankers’ Automated Clearing Services) system. The benefit to shareholders of the BACS payment method 
is that the Registrar posts the tax vouchers directly to them, whilst the dividend is credited on the payment date to the shareholder’s bank or building
society account. Shareholders who have not yet arranged for dividends to be paid direct to their bank or building society account and wish to benefit
from this service should request the Company’s Registrar (address below) to send them a Dividend/Interest mandate form or alternatively complete
the mandate form attached to any future dividend tax voucher .
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The Company provides a Dividend Reinvestment Plan enabling shareholders to apply their cash dividends to purchase additional ordinary shares in
the market at competitive dealing rates. Full details can be obtained from the Registrar . If you have previously completed a mandate form to join the
Plan, you need take no further action.
Shareholder Information on the Internet
The Company maintains an investor relations zone on its website (www.woolworthsgroupplc.com) which allows access to share price information,
management biographies, copies of Company reports and other useful investor information.
In addition, Computershare Investor Services PLC, the Company Registrar , has introduced a facility where shareholders are able to access details 
of their shareholding in the Company over the internet subject to complying with an identity check. This service can be accessed on their website,
www.computershare.com.
Woolworths Group plc is a company incorporated, domiciled and registered in England and Wales (Number 03855289). 
Registrar
Computershare
Investor Services PLC
PO Box 82
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 7NH
T el: 0870 889 3108
www.computershare.com
Registered and Head Office
Woolworth House
242–246 Marylebone Road
London NW1 6JL
T el: 020 7262 1222
www.woolworthsgroupplc.com
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
1 Embankment Place
London WC2N 6RH
Joint Brokers
UBS
1 Finsbury Avenue
London EC2M 2PP
JP Morgan Cazenove
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
Joint Financial Advisors
UBS
1 Finsbury Avenue
London EC2M 2PP
Credit Suisse First Boston
One Cabot Square
London E14 4QJ
Solicitors
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
65 Fleet Street
London EC4Y 1HS Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial and Operational Highlights
1
* Throughout this document, adjusted profit from continuing operations 
before taxation is calculated as set out on page 15.
** Throughout this document adjusted basic earnings per share is as 
calculated in note 10 to the financial statements.
Financial and Operational Highlights
Woolworths Group plc
Financial
Group revenue increased 
by 4.0 per cent to £2. 7 4 billion
Adjusted profit* before
taxation decreased 
£35.9 million to £2 1 .8 million
Profit before taxation
decreased £45.5 million 
to £1 6.0 million
Adjusted basic earnings 
per share** decreased 
57 . 1 per cent to 1 .2 pence 
per share
Basic earnings per share
increased to 0.9 pence 
per share
Net debt at the year-end 
of £1 03.3 million
Operational
Entertainment Wholesale
business strengthened 
by acquisition of THE and 
Bertram Group, and contract 
win to supply Virgin Retail
Woolworths like-for-like
sales down 6.6 per cent
Multichannel revenue
increased to £77 .2 million
Woolworths gross margin
increased by 1 05 basis points 
Successful launch of 
‘Big Red Book’ catalogue Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Chairman’s Statement
2
Chairman’ s Statement
Gerald Corbett
The year was difficult for W oolworths Group. Profits fell on the back 
of weak sales in Retail although significant advances were made
within our multichannel business. Within EUK, the acquisitions 
of THE and Bertram together with winning the contract to supply
Virgin Retail places the business on a stronger footing. Our 
40 per cent owned publishing joint venture with BBC W orldwide,
2entertain, continues to do well. 
Profit from continuing operations before tax and exceptional 
items fell from £43.7 million to £7.3 million. Adjusted profit 
(which is before tax, exceptional items, adjustment for fixed 
rental uplifts and amortisation of certain intangible assets) 
fell from £57.7 million to £21.8 million.
Basic earnings per share improved from 0.7 pence to 
0.9 pence. Adjusted earnings per share, which removes the 
effect of exceptional items, the adjustment for fixed rental uplifts
and amortisation of certain intangible assets fell from 2.8 pence 
to 1.2 pence. 
Average net debt was £113 million, an increase of £76 million 
on the previous year largely reflecting the acquisition of 
THE and the completion of the 10/10 and multichannel 
investment programmes.
In our retail business the rapid decline in the value of CD and 
DVD markets resulting from price deflation and the increase in
digital downloading made a profit decline inevitable. This was
compounded by the cost of completing the refit programme, 
the cost of the investment in multichannel retailing and stock
clearance activity in the first half, none of which should recur this
year . Gross margins in the year improved by 105 basis points and
stock was kept tightly under control, but a sales decline of 5.5 per
cent and the above factors pushed our Retail operation into an
adjusted loss of £12.9 million. 
Gerald Corbett
Much has changed during my
six years at the Woolworths
Group. I am pleased with the
business we have built in the
Publishing and Wholesaling
side, but Woolworths Retail’ s
recent performance has 
been disappointing. Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Chairman’s Statement
3
This performance is clearly not acceptable. The plan for this year 
is to return the division to profit by keeping costs under tight
control, improving the sales performance with a further expansion
of our multichannel capability and the launch of further ‘Big Red
Books’ (the Woolworths catalogue) during the year . 
A new brand called ‘Worth It’ of really competitive entry price 
point items will be launched across the chain to improve footfall
and value perception. Better buying and tighter management of
the sales mix should result in another year of margin improvement. 
It will not be an easy year and we expect a further decline in the
market for entertainment products. 
Third-party sales in our Entertainment Wholesaling and Publishing
divisions increased 29.7 per cent to £923.8 million although
adjusted profits fell by £3.3 million impacted by the change of
terms in our business with T esco which business ceases in April
this year and after a £2.4 million provision in relation to Music
Zone, a THE customer which went into administration in 
January 2007. 
However , the loss of the T esco contract, announced last year , 
will not be as damaging as once feared. The acquisition of THE
and with it the Sainsbury’ s account and the winning of the Virgin
Retail business should more than replace the lost T esco contract. 
The acquisition of Bertram makes the division the leading book
wholesaler in the UK. Books is a stable market and this division
can now look forward to a stable and positive future with a good
spread of business and a diversified customer base.
These acquisitions and the winning of the Virgin Retail business
with the consequential investment in working capital will increase
the Group’ s average debt. All these are profitable investments
which will improve the Group’ s financing ratios.
2entertain, our 40 per cent owned joint venture with BBC
Worldwide, continues to trade well, contributing a similar level 
as last year to Group profits. It is an excellent business with 
a leading market position benefiting from privileged access 
to all of the BBC’ s current and historic video content.
We have maintained the final dividend which gives a full year
dividend of 1.77 pence per share, an increase of 1.1 per cent 
on last year . 
I have decided to step down as Chairman on completion 
of my second three-year term at this year’ s AGM on 6 June. 
Richard North, who joined our Board in October , will take over 
as Chairman from that date. Richard has a wealth of business
experience having served during his career as a Chief Executive
for Intercontinental Hotels, Finance Director of Bass plc, Finance
Director of the Burton Group and as a non-executive director 
of Asda. I am sure he will work well with our Chief Executive,
T revor Bish-Jones and his team. During the year T ony Page,
formerly director of non-foods trading at ASDA, joined us as
Managing Director , Commercial & Marketing. 
Much has changed during my six years at the Woolworths 
Group. I am obviously pleased with the business we have built 
on the Wholesaling and Publishing side. Woolworths retail is a
challenging business, but although its recent performance has
been disappointing I believe the building blocks are in place 
for a better result.
I would like to thank my Board colleagues for their support 
and all our colleagues throughout the Group for their hard 
work and efforts during a difficult year and indeed during 
my whole period as Chairman.
Gerald Corbett
Chairman
27 March 2007
Chairman’ s Statement
Gerald Corbett Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Our Resources
Woolworths Group plc is principally 
a UK general retailer and entertainment
distributor focused on the home and
family . The Group is comprised of two
main divisions; Retail, and Entertainment
Wholesale and Publishing. The key assets
of these divisions are reviewed over the
next four pages.
The Directors are pleased to present 
their report and the consolidated financial
statements of the Company and its
subsidiaries for the financial year ended 
3 February 2007 .
Retail
Since opening its first store in 1909, Woolworths has become 
a familiar feature on the UK’s high streets. Over four million
people shop in our stores each week. There are today 801
Mainchain stores located in small towns and city suburbs,
targeted at meeting basic everyday shopping requirements, 
as well as larger stores located on prime shopping streets in 
major regional shopping centres. The product offer covers 
T oys, Children’s Clothing, Events, Confectionery, Home and
Entertainment. In Woolworths’ out-of-town stores, a wider
selection of T oys, Outdoor goods, kids’ bedroom ranges 
and Entertainment products can be found. With its rich 
and well-loved heritage, Woolworths continues to refresh 
its store formats and the shopping environment to meet its
customers’ requirements.
Mainchain Out-of town T otal
Number of stores: 801 17 818
Average sq ft: 8,462 54,941 9,428
Stores
The quality of Woolworths’ colleagues, in-store, in our distribution
centres and at Head Office is vital to the Group’ s success.
Employing around 30,000 people, we place an emphasis on 
high standards of customer care and service, so our colleagues’
development and training is a priority . We encourage and enable
our people to develop their knowledge, skills and career options
across all facets of our business. We offer high quality business
education and practical training in specific skills.
Woolworths offers a leadership programme for graduates
(Woolworths Group Leadership Programme). WGLP is a
development framework for people with potential to become
future business leaders. It develops people within chosen
functional areas, including Business Development, Marketing,
Commercial, Retail, Supply Chain and Distribution, Finance,
Human Resources or Management Information Systems.
For more information on a career at Woolworths, go to
www.woolworthscareers.co.uk.
Colleagues Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Our Resources
Castleton Warehouse 
Bedford Warehouse 
Swindon Warehouse 
Brands
Ladybird – Dating back to the 1950s, Ladybird-branded
Children’ s clothing is now synonymous with Woolworths, 
which secured exclusive rights to the brand in 1984. Ladybird
clothes are popular , modern and continue to appeal to today’s
parents and their children. 
Chad Valley – the Chad Valley brand first appeared on toys 
in around 1 920 and was acquired by Woolworths in 1 988. 
T oday it comprises an extensive range of high quality, 
value-for-money toys and games suitable for all children.
Licences
Through our focus on ‘Kids and Celebrations’, Woolworths 
strives to be the natural partner of choice for leading Children’s
brands from around the world. By developing bespoke
strategies with licensors, Woolworths has created exclusive
branded promotions and products which offer a clear point 
of difference to customers.
Supply Chain
Before products can reach our stores, they must be sourced,
purchased, transported and stored. As a general merchandise
retailer , this is a complex business involving buying and logistics
teams located at Head Office and at Woolworths Group Asia
Limited, our Hong Kong based buying facility. Separate buying
teams are in place for each product category and include
category planners, buyers, merchandisers, marketeers and
supply chain specialists. Our strategy is to reduce costs by
buying directly from suppliers or from low cost manufacturers 
in Asia, Eastern Europe and the Middle East. In addition, 
this means that new product innovation can be delivered 
more quickly through closer cooperation with manufacturers.
Woolworths’ distribution network principally consists of 
three core distribution centres through which merchandise 
is distributed to the individual stores. Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Our Resources
We add value through managing the retailer’s inventory 
and, using our detailed know-how and market research, 
assist our customers in determining the best range of 
product required. We then source this product, receive 
stock at our distribution sites, pick and aggregate orders 
and packages for individual customers.
We offer sale or exchange rights to customers, marketing 
or promotional management, store fixtures and point of sale
design, in-store merchandising and dedicated call centres
dealing with customer queries. We also provide technical
support and fulfilment to online retailers and digital distribution
solutions to support their multichannel strategies.
We value our long-standing and trusted relationships with 
the music, film, books and games publishing communities. 
We make it our business to understand their market, products
and priorities and strive to bring vision and innovation to the 
retail supply chain. All of our customers are important to us 
and we are structuring EUK, THE and Bertram to meet the
varied needs of independent stores, major entertainment 
and bookselling chains along with the supermarket sector . 
We are proud to include Sainsbury’s, Virgin, T esco and
Waterstone’s amongst our customers.
Through Entertainment UK, T otal Home Entertainment and
Bertram Group, we have leading positions in UK Entertainment
and Books wholesale distribution.
As intermediaries between suppliers and retailers we aggregate
entertainment hardware, software and books from the world’s
leading publishers and manufacturers into a single store
shipment for our customers. 
Customer and Supplier Relationships
Broad Market Reach
Value Added Services
Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing
THE
TOTAL HOME ENTERTAINMENT Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Our Resources
2entertain specialises in acquiring DVD publishing rights 
to core BBC productions along with those of the leading
independent production houses. Through Demon Music 
Group, and Banana Split Productions, the venture also 
has leading positions in recorded music and video 
production respectively. With extensive experience in 
packaged media, and as the UK’s largest independent 
video publisher/distributor , 2entertain brings industry 
leading expertise to the process of producing, selling, 
marketing and merchandising some of the UK’s best 
loved programming to retail. 
2entertain is a music and video publishing joint venture 
between Woolworths Group and BBC Worldwide Limited, 
the consumer commercial arm of the BBC. The Group 
holds a 40 per cent share in the venture. 
2entertain Video, is the UK’s largest independent video
publisher/distributor , a dynamic player in the UK market
championing British programmes and talent both at home 
and internationally. The video division has a key licensing
agreement with BBC Worldwide. In addition, the business 
enjoys many existing relationships with other key major 
talent and content providers in the entertainment industry.
Expertise in Packaged Media
BBC Worldwide’ s Partner of Choice
Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing 
2
|
Entertain Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Chief Executive
8
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Chief Executive’ s Report
In the 53 weeks ended 3 February 2007, total Group revenue 
from continuing operations was £2,737.0 million. This represents 
an increase of 4.0 per cent. There was a marked contrast 
between the performance of the Retail business and that of 
our Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing businesses. 
Overall Retail sales decreased by 5.5 per cent as we continued 
to experience decline in core markets and increasing competition.
Sales in the Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing businesses
increased by 29.7 per cent as our customer base outperformed
the market and we saw the benefit of acquisitions made during 
the year .
Adjusted profit from continuing operations (before taxation,
exceptional items, adjustment for fixed rental uplifts and
amortisation of certain intangible assets) was £21.8 million. 
The results have benefited from a review of accounting
methodologies, which improve profits by £9 million. In addition,
there have been a number of one-off costs and benefits, which
approximately offset each other . These changes are fully detailed
in the Financial Review.
The results reflect a highly challenging retail environment, a 
year of investment in our multichannel capability and store 
estate and a year of change for our Entertainment Wholesale 
and Publishing business. 
Retail
During the year , like-for-like Retail sales fell by 6.6 per cent. 
The adjusted loss from the continuing Retail operations was 
£12.9 million against a profit in the prior year of £1 7.1 million. 
It is obviously disappointing that Retail moved into a loss. The 
key driver was not failure to control margins or costs but rather the
underlying sales performance, which was worse than anticipated.
A combination of factors held back the sales performance, the
most material of which were: a marked decline in our share of the
music market, coupled with significant price deflation; continued
expansion of the supermarkets into non-food markets; and
declining levels of high street footfall particularly in the summer .
Across the categories, trading performance was variable. The
strongest area was the T oys and Stationery business unit. Here,
absolute sales increased year-on-year , reflecting a gain in market
share and evidencing the value of a differentiated product offer . 
Our Chad Valley brand continues to underpin performance.
T revor Bish-Jones
In the 53 weeks ended 
3 February 2007, total Group
revenue from continuing
operations was £2,737.0
million. This represents an 
increase of 4.0 per cent.  Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Chief Executive
9
The weakest sales performances were in the Entertainment
sectors and the Confectionery product categories. A recurrent
theme in these markets is the increasingly commoditised nature 
of the product. A chart CD or a Christmas tin of confectionery
provides a very visible price point to customers where retailers 
can offer little or no differentiation. As a consequence, these 
types of product are used selectively to give a headline price 
from which a retailer hopes to convey an overall perception 
of low prices. This dynamic has resulted in significant retail price 
deflation compounded by volume decline in some markets. 
The opportunity going forward is to reduce exposure to these
types of markets and further differentiate our product offering.
When considering the Entertainment markets it is important
however not to view all formats in the same way . The music
market is the most challenged not only because of increasing
commoditisation but also from the impact of digital downloading
and sales through internet retailers. The overall DVD market
continues to show volume growth and should benefit from the
stimulus of High Definition formats. In this market we accepted 
a loss in share as we chose to compete selectively on the major
new releases over the Christmas period.
At the start of the 2006/07 financial year , we expected that both 
Sony and Nintendo would launch new Games formats in the
autumn, with good product availability expected at Christmas.
This proved not to be the case, with Sony delaying PS3 until
March 2007 and Nintendo launching Wii in November with
insufficient product to meet demand. Despite these factors,
across the year our Games share has grown and gives us 
a good base from which to capitalise on what we expect 
to be a growth market in 2007.
Of all Entertainment markets, Books has been the most
predictable and less exposed to the vagaries of the technology
cycle, whilst consistently delivering annual sales growth of 2–3 
per cent. The Books offer in Woolworths was expanded during 
the year and produced good year-on-year sales increases off 
a small base.
Apart from T oys and Stationery , two other categories which
generated more cash profit than the prior year were Clothing 
and Electrical and Outdoor . The Clothing performance reflects 
the strength of the Ladybird brand which benefited from the
introduction of ‘Ladybird’ shops into 92 stores in the autumn.
Since the relaunch, volume market share on clothing has 
started to grow. In Electrical and Outdoor , it has been primarily 
the performance of Outdoor that led to the increased cash
contribution. This is due to a number of factors; firstly , the very 
hot weather over the summer and secondly the success of the
multichannel strategy , which enabled us to offer what can be 
very large items such as swing sets and trampolines. Sales of
Electricals were disappointing.
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Chief Executive’ s Report
2002/03
2003/04
2004/05
2005/06
2006/07
Group KPIs — Retail Margin
(basis points improvement)
50
50
50
50
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
50
20
50
50
20 105
50
50
50
2001/02
2002/03
2003/04
2004/05
2005/06
2006/07
Group KPIs — Retail Shrinkage
(£m)
36.5
36.3
42.2
41.8
47.7
53.2
Like-for-like Sales
-6.6%
Service Centre — Calls Received
846,000
90.0%
Service Level 
The Woolworths Customer Support department handles
all customer enquiries and complaints for all stores and 
also our websites. With the launch of the Big Red Book 
in autumn 2006 the number of contacts increased significantly
from over 200,000 in 2005/06 to over 800,000 in 2006/07, 
whilst a high level of service has been maintained. Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Chief Executive
10
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Chief Executive’ s Report
The Home area was relatively encouraging and is benefiting in
particular from higher availability levels in standard listed basic
lines, following work on the supply chain. During the year we 
have continued to invest in and develop the Retail business to
improve the underlying strength of our operational capability 
and customer offer , to set us up well for the future.
Multichannel
An area of particular focus continued to be the enhancement 
of our multichannel capability . During the year we introduced 
new capabilities which allow customers to have access to over
260,000 products which are now available to be ordered either 
at home or in-store with delivery to either the customer’ s home or
for collection in-store. This service has been very well received by
customers and in our peak week the service generated 155,000
orders and £6.4 million of sales. Sales were driven in particular 
by the first ‘Big Red Book’, our new catalogue that featured 5,000
products. As this part of the Woolworths proposition was new 
to customers, it was important to provide a good first experience
of the service. T o facilitate this, we incurred some additional costs
of circa £4–5 million on new warehouse capability and supporting
delivery lead times. These extra costs will not recur in 2007/08. 
For the full year , our multichannel sales were £77.2 million and 
it is on this base that we build in 2007/08.
Store Refurbishment
We have continued to make significant investment in the store
estate. This year saw the effective completion of the 10/10 store
refurbishment programme. During the year we refitted a further 93
stores bringing the total number of stores to 203. The sales uplift
from these 93 stores was 4 per cent ahead of the control group.
We have now reached a position where the majority of the larger 
and medium size stores in highly competed markets have been
refitted. This has been a necessary action as non-refitted stores
looked increasingly dated as the rest of the high street is
upgraded. Going forward, aside from the obvious customer
benefit of better looking, easier to shop stores, our performance
will benefit from reduced pre-opening costs of circa £5 million 
and reduced levels of maintenance capital reflecting the improved
condition of the estate.
The 5/5 programme for smaller stores continued to evolve during 
the year . Many of the learnings from the early 5/5 conversions
were introduced across the entire estate. Indeed the entry into
multichannel and the use of catalogues was the original basis 
for the  5/5 concept. The performance of the most recent
generation of 5/5 stores is delivering an uplift of 5.5 per cent
against the control stores. This is in part due to the introduction 
of intensified planograms and reallocation of space. As with 
the multichannel offer , we endeavour to identify ways to access
these benefits on a chain-wide basis that does not require
significant capital expenditure or time delay . 
2005/06
2006/07
Group KPIs — Store Self-audit
Compliance points score (out of 100)
77.4
74.9
2005/06
2006/07
Group KPIs — T ransport
Vehicle distance (kilometres millions)
27.2
30.5
2005/06
2006/07
Group KPIs — T ransport
Fuel consumed (litres millions)
8.0
8.8
2004/05
2006
2007
Group KPIs — Retail Stock
(£m)
290.6
298.6
2005/06
2006/07
Group KPIs — Mystery Shopper
Service standards (out of 100)
76.4
73.3
The store self-audit is a scheme to check that our stores 
are compliant with Company procedures and also external
factors such as trading standards and health and safety
issues. During 2006/07 the average store score has 
increased by 3.3 per cent to 77.4 as store standards 
continue to improve.
All stores receive regular visits from ‘mystery shoppers’. 
This allows us to gain a true reflection of how our stores are
performing and to benchmark our service standards. The
Christmas cycle is a key review to ensure the stores are ready
for the busy Christmas trading period, so an average increase 
of 4.2 per cent demonstrates improved customer service
during our busiest period.
In evolving the supply chain, vehicle mileage has been 
reduced by 10.8 per cent and fuel consumption has
decreased by 9.1 per cent. This has been achieved through
better vehicle utilisation and the use of double-deck trailers. Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Chief Executive
11
A further development of our customer proposition has been
trialled in four stores where we have completely focused the 
offer on Children’ s products. In what we term ‘Kids+’, we have
endeavoured to do this in a way that provides a more exciting
store environment. The trial has provided us with a lot of learning 
in terms of what customers respond to. As with 5/5, there are
some clear lessons which we plan to roll out to as many stores 
as possible during 2007. 
Evolving the Supply Chain
Given the changing demands of customers and the need to
deploy stock in the most effective manner , we continue to work
hard to evolve our physical distribution network. Ultimately , the
network will need to deliver , cost effectively , the ability to move 
an individual customer-ordered item alongside bulk replenishment
orders with increased frequency . We are beginning to see the
benefits of the systems and distribution network changes we 
have made. Stock levels have on average been £5.1 million below
the prior year whilst availability has been improved. We plan to
rationalise the network further and access some step changes 
in cost levels.
Keeping costs controlled during the year was an important theme
particularly as sales were weak. T otal comparable costs increased
by £12.4 million, reflecting cost increases in some areas such as
rents, rates and energy , where there was little management action
that could be taken to mitigate increases. These three cost lines
accounted for £12.5 million of the increase partly offset by net cost
savings in other areas. Stock levels were well controlled during the
year particularly in light of the sales shortfall. This was achieved on
the back of improved information systems and the introduction of
more robust control processes. It was not just the level of stock
that was improved but also stock quality .
Improved stock control was also a factor in helping to improve
gross margin delivery in the business. T otal gross margin improved
by 105 basis points following a series of initiatives across all
business units. Of the total gain, 19 basis points are due to the 
mix effect of reduced sales in Entertainment. The rest of the gain
reflects better cost price and other margin support negotiation,
sourcing more product from our established Hong Kong and
recently opened Shanghai offices and reducing exposure to
markdown through more accurate forecasting. 
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Chief Executive’ s Report Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Chief Executive
12
The phasing of the margin gain across the year saw margin flat in
the first half and an improvement in the second half of 190 basis
points. We thus enter the new year with the benefit of a higher 
run rate on our margin as compared to last year . Summarising 
our Retail performance, it has to be said that the underlying sales
and profit numbers are disappointing. It was a year in which we
radically enhanced our customer offer albeit with some attached
one-off costs. Looking forward, we can see further opportunity 
to enhance our efficiency but we will need to make progress on
driving the sales line. The investment in our multichannel capability 
will assist this, as will taking the lessons from the 5/5 stores and
the Kids+ initiative.
Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing
This has been a transformative year in the Entertainment
Wholesale and Publishing businesses where we have been able 
to enhance materially the underlying quality of and prospects for
the division. T otal adjusted profits for this part of the Group fell 
5.9 per cent. This reflects stable profitability from 2entertain, our
joint venture with BBC Worldwide and a similar level of releases 
of historic accruals to the prior year . The adjusted profits of
Entertainment UK together with THE and Bertram from their
respective dates of acquisition, after a £2.4 million provision 
in relation to Music Zone (a THE customer which went into
administration in January 2007) were down £2.7 million on the
previous year . This reflects a very active year in which the impact
of improved trading terms granted to retain the T esco business
until April 2007 were largely offset by growth and efficiency
improvements.
Entertainment UK (EUK)
At the start of the financial year EUK was grappling with the
confirmed termination of the core supply contract with T esco 
in April 2007. With T esco then representing over 40 per cent of
EUK’ s turnover there were potentially far reaching consequences
attached to this change. As a result, a key focus in the past year 
has been to replace the T esco business. We have sought to do
this by widening both the customer base and spread of markets 
in which we operate. Three pivotal actions now place us in a
position where we have succeeded in creating a much broader
customer base, a significant exposure to the growing Books
business and replaced all the T esco sales volume.
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Chief Executive’ s Report
Group KPIs — EUK Unit Handling Cost
-9.3%
reduction in 
pence per unit 
handling cost
Group KPIs — 2entertain DVD Rankings
(source British Video Association)
TV Genre Ranked 1 st
Sports and Fitness Genre Ranked 2nd
Special Interest Genre Ranked 2nd Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Chief Executive
13
Firstly , the acquisition of T otal Home Entertainment (THE) in
September 2006 gave access to a significant number of new
customers and an entrée into primary distribution. Secondly , the
acquisition of Bertram Group in January 2007. Bertram is a large
books wholesaler servicing most sectors of the market including
library services and international markets. Finally , securing 
a contract to buy and supply product for Virgin Retail for a 
three-year term with effect from May 2007.
The above acquisitions and contract win now offer the opportunity
to rationalise the physical infrastructure of the business and
thereby access an array of combination benefits. Planning for 
this is now well under way . 
This activity has required considerable management focus 
and it is to the credit of the EUK and THE operational teams 
that they have continued to maintain good levels of service to
existing customers. They have done this at a time when sales for
the year have continued to grow. T otal third-party EUK and THE
sales in 2006/07 were £861.4 million, an increase of 33 per cent
(8.3 per cent excluding THE). EUK continues to develop its 
digital capability and now has some 600,000 tracks on its digital
database. Revenues generated from digital downloading remain
small. The relationship with the jukebox network operator ,
Inspired, continues to develop with 1,290 boxes installed and
plans to increase this to 2,700 by 2008. The immediate challenge
facing EUK is the realisation of permissible combination benefits
from its acquisitions in a manner that protects customer service
levels. Over the longer term we will continue to build EUK’ s
position in providing retailers with supply chain solutions in
markets where there is a clear need for a point of consolidation.
2entertain
2entertain had another successful year . Sales have grown 
slightly to £194.9 million and dividend flow from the joint venture
increased to £11.6 million. There was a reduction in sales achieved
by the Demon Music Group business, where price erosion in the
full price new release market ate into Demon’ s core mid price
market. The Christmas DVD performance was evenly spread
across the release schedule without a clear ‘runaway success’.
The absence of a ‘runaway success’ exposes an attractive 
feature of the rights that 2entertain has access to. The business
has secured access to some enduring franchises that will sell over
a sustained period of time. Examples are ‘Dr Who’, the ‘Planet
Earth’ documentaries and ‘T op Gear’.
Now in its second full year of trading, the joint venture is well 
past its integration period and is increasingly looking to new
opportunities. We continue to forge relationships with the best 
of the independent production base. International sales and
revenues have also progressed well rising by 16.7 per cent. 
This remains an area of opportunity , particularly where broadcast
programming is reaching wider audiences and driving DVD sales.
Outlook
We enter 2007 having completed a number of major investments.
We can see opportunity both in the multichannel arena and in the
chain-wide deployment of learnings from our store development
work. With tight control of costs and a higher gross margin, this
provides the opportunity to drive improved financial performance
in the retail business, notwithstanding the challenging retail
environment which we expect to continue.
For EUK the agenda for the coming year is clear . It must 
manage the permitted integration of the acquired businesses, 
the Virgin contract and the departure of T esco. This will result 
in some one-off costs to deliver synergy benefits. 2entertain
continues to trade robustly . 
Sales for the short seven-week period to 24 March 2007 are
reasonably comparable to the prior year . In the period, Woolworths
like-for-like sales were up 0.8 per cent. We will provide a further
update on trading in our Interim Management Statement at the
time of our AGM in June.
T revor Bish-Jones
Chief Executive
27 March 2007
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Chief Executive’ s Report Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Finance Director
14
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Finance Director’ s Report
The results for the year are produced under International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and to aid understanding we show 
in the tables on page 15 the reconciliation of profit under IFRS 
to the Adjusted Profit numbers used by management and most 
of the analyst community .
Earnings per Share and Dividend
Basic earnings per share was 0.9 pence per share compared 
to 0.7 pence per share in the previous year . Adjusted basic
earnings per share (which removes the effect of fixed rental 
uplifts, amortisation of certain intangible assets and exceptional
items) was 1.2 pence per share compared with 2.8 pence per
share last year .
A maintained final dividend of 1.34 pence per share has been
recommended by the Board. This will be paid, subject to
shareholder consent, on 21 June 2007 to shareholders on the
register at close of business on 10 April 2007. This proposed
dividend together with the interim dividend of 0.43 pence per
share paid on 12 December 2006 brings the total dividend 
for the year to 1.77 pence per share, compared to a total of 
1.75 pence per share in the prior year . 
The results reflect a highly challenging retail environment, a year 
of investment in our multichannel capability and store estate and 
a year of change for our Entertainment Wholesale business. This
has resulted in a number of one-off costs which though are more
than offset by one-off and ongoing accounting benefits as well 
as enduring changes to the business.
Profit from Continuing Operations
Adjusted Retail profit of £17.1 million in the prior year became 
a loss of £12.9 million this year , reflecting the challenging retail
environment and a period of investment in the Retail business
including clearance activities, growth of its multichannel capability
and store refurbishments, all of which had a cost in the year but
help better position the business for the future. Further details 
of these and other initiatives are included in the Chief Executive’ s
Report on pages 8 to 13. Adjusted profits from Entertainment
Wholesale and Publishing amounted to £53.1 million compared 
to £56.4 million in the previous year . This reflects stable profitability
from 2entertain, our joint venture with BBC Worldwide and a
similar level to the prior year of releases of historic accruals 
no longer required. 
Stephen East
The results reflect a highly
challenging retail environment,
a year of investment in our
multichannel capability and
store estate and a year of
change for our Entertainment 
Wholesale business.  Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Finance Director
15
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Finance Director’ s Report
The adjusted profits of Entertainment UK together with THE and
Bertram from their respective dates of acquisition, after a £2.4
million provision in relation to Music Zone, a THE customer which
went into administration in January 2007, were down £2.7 million
on the previous year . This reflects a very active year in which the
impact of improved trading terms granted to retain the T esco
business until April 2007 were largely offset by growth and
efficiency improvements. Further details of the developments 
in the business are included in the Chief Executive’ s Report.
Balance Sheet
Overall Group stock increased by £32.9 million to £377.1 million.
This reflects the growth of EUK’ s business including the
acquisitions of THE and Bertram. The Woolworths retail stock 
was down £8 million. Overall, the quality of the Group stock
improved during the year , reducing the need for provisions.
During the year seven store freeholds were purchased at a 
cost of £9.3 million. Profits of £6.4 million were earned on the
assignment of three store leases during the year . A review of 
the expected life of tenant’ s fixtures and fittings was carried out 
in the light of experience and the store refurbishment programme.
This resulted in a reduction of depreciation of £5.8 million in the
second half of the year .
A review was also carried out of the liability for unredeemed gift
vouchers in the light of historic experience and this resulted in 
a reduction in creditors and a one-off credit to the income
statement of £3.2 million.
Cash Flow and Net Debt
The Group’ s average net debt increased to £113 million from 
£37 million in the prior year . The main drivers of this increase were
the growth of the Entertainment UK business whose working
capital requirements increased by approximately £50 million and
the acquisition of THE in September 2006 for £20 million. In the
Retail business, capital expenditure was £62.4 million, reflecting 
the acceleration of the store refit programme and investment 
in multichannel capability which together more than offset the
benefits from reduced stock levels. 
Reconciliation of Adjusted Profit
53 weeks to 52 weeks to
3 February 2007 28 January 2006
£m £m
Profit before tax
and exceptional items 7.3 43.7
Add back:
– amortisation of 
certain intangible assets* 3.9 3.0
– fixed rental uplifts 10.6 11.0
Adjusted profit before tax 21.8 57.7
Adjusted Segmental Analysis 
for the 53 weeks to 3 February 2007
Entertainment
Wholesale and
Continuing Retail Publishing Unallocated Interest T otal
Operations £m £m £m £m £m
Reported (loss)/profit
before taxation (14.8) 49.2 (7.7) (10.7) 16.0
Adjust for:
exceptional items (8.7)––– (8.7)
(Loss)/profit before 
exceptional items (23.5) 49.2 (7.7) (10.7) 7.3
Add back:
– amortisation of certain 
intangible assets* – 3.9 – – 3.9
– fixed rental uplifts 10.6––– 10.6
Adjusted (loss)/profit 
before tax (12.9) 53.1 (7.7) (10.7) 21.8
Adjusted Segmental Analysis 
for the 52 weeks to 28 January 2006
Entertainment
Wholesale and
Continuing Retail Publishing Unallocated Interest T otal
Operations £m £m £m £m £m
Reported profit/(loss)
before taxation 30.3 48.2 (7.6) (9.4) 61.5
Adjust for:
exceptional items (24.2) 5.2 1.2 – (17.8)
Profit before 
exceptional items 6.1 53.4 (6.4) (9.4) 43.7
Add back:
– amortisation of certain 
intangible assets* – 3.0 – – 3.0
– fixed rental uplifts 11.0––– 11.0
Adjusted profit/(loss) 
before tax 17.1 56.4 (6.4) (9.4) 57.7
* Excludes amortisation of certain intangible assets arising on consolidation, namely
underlying rights, customer relationships and trade names. Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Finance Director
16
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Finance Director’ s Report
The year-end net debt was £103.3 million compared to net cash 
of £147.7 million in the prior year . This reflects the effect of the 
53rd week, with approximately £100 million of supplier payments
which would not usually be due until after the balance sheet 
date; completion of the acquisition of Bertram Group Limited 
on 1 February 2007; the earlier acquisition of THE and the 
working capital needs of the Entertainment Wholesale business.
Woolworths’ capital expenditure in 2007/08 will be at a much
reduced level of approximately £35 million, reflecting the
completion of the 10/10 store refit programme. This, together with
working capital improvements in Entertainment UK and reduced
stocks in Woolworths, will partially offset the full-year effect on
average net debt of funding the THE and Bertram acquisitions.
Exceptional Items
Previously , no benefit has been taken in the actuarial estimates 
for commutation. The evidence, however , is that most people 
do commute as much of their pension as possible and we have
therefore changed the assumptions to make a prudent estimate 
of the likely level of commutation. This reduces the anticipated
cost of meeting the pension scheme’ s ongoing obligations. 
A £13.1 million reduction in the estimated pension fund liability
arising from this change in assumptions based on pre ‘A-Day’
commutation limits has been taken to the Statement of
Recognised Income and Expense.
The exceptional credit of £8.7 million reflects the effect of the 
‘A-Day’ reforms to pensions in relation to the increased amount 
of future pension which can be commuted into a lump sum 
on retirement.
T axation
The effective tax rate on current year profits from continuing
operations is 15 per cent compared to 32.8 per cent in the 
prior year . This was lower than usual because of the effect of 
a £5.6 million prior year tax credit which primarily arose as a
number of historic tax provisions were identified as no longer
required following agreement of a number of historic queries. 
This was slightly offset by the effect of a fixed level of non-
deductible expenses being spread over a lower level of Group
profits. Under existing tax legislation it is anticipated that the 
effect pre-exceptional Group tax rate will remain marginally 
above the main UK Corporation T ax rate.
Acquisitions
On 5 September 2006, the Group acquired AMP Enterprises
Limited, the holding company for T otal Home Entertainment
Distribution Limited (‘THE’) for £20.3 million. 
On 17 January 2007 the Group announced the proposed
acquisition of Bertram Group Limited for £28.9 million plus 
debt of £12.2 million. Completion in relation to all except a 
small balance of shares occurred on 1 February 2007 and the
compulsory acquisition of the remaining shares is expected 
to be completed by mid-April 2007. As required, the results of
Bertram Group Limited are consolidated from 17 January 2007 
at which time a binding commitment to acquire was in place.
Pensions
The Group retains a Final Salary Pension scheme open to all
employees who have been with the Group for a minimum 
period of 12 months.
The Scheme was created at the time of demerger and only
comprised active members at that time. It is therefore a much less
mature scheme than most. It has 5,638 active members, 3,304
deferred members but only 956 current pensioners and therefore
the Scheme receives more in contributions from the Group and
members than it pays out in pensions. This is likely to continue 
to be the case for approximately 12 years.
The assets of the Scheme are managed by external Fund
Managers and at 3 February 2007 were £316.0 million (2006:
£285.9 million). The allocation of Scheme assets is kept under
regular review by the T rustees of the Scheme. The liabilities
calculated at the current level of fixed rate bond yields were 
£400.0 million (2006: £416.8 million) giving an IAS 19 deficit of
£58.8 million (2006: £91.6 million) net of tax relief. However , the
proportion of current active members and the timescales until
pensions are due to be payable does not make the calculation
particularly relevant. The full triennial actuarial valuation at 31
March 2005 showed that the Scheme was 89 per cent funded
with a deficit of £28.9 million. Recent information indicates that 
this has continued to improve and on those assumptions the
Scheme would now be fully funded. The contribution rate paid by
participating companies remains at 13.5 per cent of pensionable
salaries. The next triennial actuarial valuation is due to be carried
out at 31 March 2008. Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Finance Director
17
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Finance Director’ s Report
T reasury Policy
The Group’ s T reasury Policy is structured to ensure that 
adequate financial resources are available for the development 
of its business whilst managing its currency , interest rate and
counterparty credit risks. The Group’ s T reasury strategy , policy
and controls are developed centrally and approved by the 
Board. The Group does not engage in speculative transactions. 
The main elements of T reasury activity are outlined below:
Funding
The T reasury function arranges sufficient secure financial
resources to enable the Group to meet its medium-term business
objectives whilst arranging facility maturities appropriate to its
projected needs.
During the year , the Group amended its existing committed bank
facilities updating certain terms and reducing slightly the amount
committed to £225 million. The amended facilities which mature 
in August 2009 were sufficient to refinance the £100 million Bond
in November 2006. THE and Bertram also have access to their
own invoice discounting facilities of £40 million and £20 million
respectively . In addition to core financing arrangements, the
T reasury function manages trade finance facilities to support the
import of product and overdraft facilities associated with its day-
to-day banking activities.
Since the year-end, the Group has obtained additional 
short-term committed facilities totalling £75 million maturing 
in December 2007.
Currency
The Group’ s main currency translation exposure is limited to
movements in exchange rates to the extent that they affect
balances held on its currency bank accounts and certain foreign
currency assets and liabilities in the books of its Hong Kong-
based product sourcing company , Woolworths Group Asia
Limited. Foreign currency bank balances are controlled by the
T reasury function and are actively managed to a level that
minimises currency translation exposures. The Group’ s 
main currency exposure is its transaction exposure through
movements in exchange rates on its purchases overseas that 
are not denominated in Sterling. These are mainly imports from
Asia denominated in US dollars and imports from Europe
denominated in Euros.
The T reasury Policy sets out a framework through which the
majority of the Group’ s forecast foreign currency transactions 
are hedged. 
Interest
The T reasury Policy requires that an interest hedging plan for 
each year is approved by the Finance Director at the time of 
the annual budget. The T reasury function is permitted to hedge 
in accordance with this plan using interest rate products such 
as swaps, options, forward rate agreements and futures.
The Group will keep under review the opportunity to hedge 
its interest exposure following the increase in its debt profile 
during the year .
T o date, the interest payable on drawings from the Group’ s
revolving credit facility has been at floating rates driven by the
relatively short borrowing period that the Group’ s businesses
require each year and the variation in amounts borrowed during
the period. Interest receivable on investments has also been 
at floating rates for short maturities given the seasonality of 
the Group’ s cash flows.
Counterparty Credit Risk
The Group actively manages its relationships with a panel of 
high quality financial institutions. Credit risk is controlled by the
T reasury function setting counterparty credit limits by reference 
to published rating agency credit ratings. The T reasury Policy
recognises that an exposure to a counterparty arises in relation 
to investments, derivatives and financial instruments.
Going Concern
The Directors confirm that, after making enquiries, they have a
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing these accounts.
Stephen East
Finance Director
27 March 2007 Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Risk Factors
18
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Risk Factors
Any business undertaking will involve risk. Many risk factors are
common to any business no matter what sector it operates in. 
The Group’ s approach to Financial Risk Management is set out 
in the Notes to the Group Accounts.
The Directors consider that certain key risks and uncertainties
however are more germane to Woolworths Group and the
markets in which its various businesses operate. As part of the
Business Review, an assessment of such factors is set out below:
1. Competition
The Group operates in highly competitive markets. In particular , in
recent years the retail landscape has seen significant changes and
trends in retail and consumer behaviour and spending which are
challenging for the Woolworths Mainchain. The Group has faced
and expects to face increased competition from existing UK
general and specialist retailers, food retailers that have expanded
and are further expanding into general merchandising, foreign
retailers entering the UK market and newly formed competitors.
Further , the growth of internet retailing and out-of-town shopping
has required and will require the Group to adopt and invest in 
new strategies to remain competitive. 
The Directors believe that where Woolworths offers customers
product innovation, exclusivity and value-for-money , it can
continue to combat these pressures. However , actions taken by
competitors as well as action taken by the Group to maintain its
competitiveness and its reputation for value, have placed and will
continue to place pressure on the Group’ s merchandise pricing,
margins and profitability , which have had in the past and could
have in the future, an adverse effect on the Group’ s business 
and financial condition. 
2. Growth of the Digital Entertainment Market
A key driver of footfall and sales within Woolworths stores and 
the core stock-in-trade for Entertainment UK, THE, Bertram 
and 2entertain is physical entertainment media ie CDs, DVDs, 
Books and Games. 
In recent years, technology advances and changing consumer
preferences have given rise to new markets providing delivery 
of music, films, games and books to portable players and to the
home via digital delivery , bypassing the purchase of traditional
physical media platforms. This trend may result in decreased
demand for such products in stores. Decreased sales of home
entertainment products at retail or wholesale level may have an
adverse effect on the Group’ s business and financial condition. 
The Directors believe that digital entertainment also offers
opportunities for the Group and it has developed strategies 
to participate including in Woolworths a multichannel retail offer 
and investment in digital rights and online delivery technology
within Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing.
However , the growth of digital markets and the increasing 
uptake of Broadband access will continue to place pressure 
on the Group’ s participation in traditional entertainment retail 
and distribution channels.
3. Seasonality
The Group’ s business is highly seasonal. Historically , the Group’ s
most important trading period in terms of sales, profitability and
cash flow has been the Christmas season. Lower than expected
performance in this period may have an adverse impact on 
results for the full-year which may also result in excess inventory ,
especially in seasonal merchandise that is difficult to liquidate. 
T o a lesser extent a lower than expected turnover over the Easter
period may also have an adverse effect on the Group’ s business
and financial condition.
4. Damage to Reputation or Brands
The Woolworths name is a key asset of the business and
maintaining the reputation of the brand is key to the success of the
Group. The many separate product lines of general merchandise
handled by the Group means the supply chain is complex and is
subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations governing
issues of health and safety , packaging and labelling, pollution and
other environmental factors.
The Group has a Quality Assurance team and legal and regulatory
control processes both in-house and externally to advise and take
action on existing and emerging risk management issues.
However , these systems cannot guarantee compliance or fully
protect against quality , regulatory , safety and environmental risk 
in the supply chain. The Group is therefore potentially vulnerable 
to an event or circumstances adversely affecting the supply 
chain or merchandise which gives rise to liability claims and/or
reputational damage. Substantial erosion in the value of the
Woolworths name could have an adverse effect on the Group’ s
business and financial condition. Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Corporate Social Responsibility
19
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Corporate Social Responsibility
I am pleased to report that we have made good progress with our
CSR activities this year . These are detailed in our fifth online CSR
report. At Woolworths Group plc we aim to ensure that CSR is
integral to our business agenda. Through our CSR Committee,
which is chaired by the Company Secretary , we are constantly
reviewing and considering issues to meet all our legal obligations
on this front. But we recognise that being a socially responsible
company is not only a question of legal compliance. It means
integrating socially responsible behaviour into our core values 
and into all our business operations, from sourcing our products 
to serving our customers. 
2006 has been a busy year for the business. Shopping today is a
far cry from the days when Woolworths opened its first UK store in
1909. With so much flexibility about how and when we shop,
multichannel retailing has again been at the forefront of our
activities. We launched our Big Red Book in October , allowing
customers to order goods and then pick them up from a store 
of their choice at their own convenience, or enjoy home delivery . 
Of course, innovations like these have an impact on the day-to-day
work of our colleagues. Ever mindful of the need to develop our
colleagues’ knowledge and skills, we have carried out extensive
training programmes throughout the year . These have equipped
them with the very best customer service skills as well as for new
regulations such as the introduction of the new age discrimination
regime. T urning to the wider environment, the challenge of climate 
change and what can be done to combat its effects is always 
in the news. In 2006 we began an important initiative, working in
partnership with the Carbon T rust, to review all energy and carbon
use issues in our stores. At Woolworths we like to encourage a
strong sense of local community . In many smaller towns, we are
often a key store that a community relies upon. Once again in 2006
our colleagues, customers and suppliers have given tremendous
support to our charity , Woolworths Kids First. This has enabled
Kids First to donate funds of over £650,000 for children in the UK,
including £15,000 to the Association of Children’ s Hospices.
One problem affecting our communities is of particular concern:
crime against the retail sector . This is not just about theft from
stores but also includes the graffiti and vandalism that destroys 
the fabric of a high street and demoralises shoppers and shop 
staff alike. The British Retail Consortium suggests that retail crime
costs every household in the UK around an extra £90 each year 
on their shopping bills. We are determined to fight back and are
supporting the BRC’ s ‘Stop Crime Against Retail’ campaign.
During 2006 we have continued to promote high ethical and
environmental standards in every part of our business. For a 
full report on the Group’ s activities in CSR, please refer to the
Company’ s website. Alternatively , for a hard copy of the 2007 
CSR report please contact the Company Secretary .
Y ours sincerely
T revor Bish-Jones
Chief Executive
27 March 2007
EUK
Woolworths Distribution
Woolworths Retail
Woolworths Offices
Human Resources – Staff Stability
86%
70%
89%
81%
2004/05
2005/06
2006/07
from Electricity Usage
(tonnes of CO 2)
Carbon Emissions 
90,930
89,968
Our business is built on a core team of dedicated staff with 
a stable team across all the key areas. During 2006/07 
all areas have increased stability rates despite a difficult
trading environment.
During the year the Group’s electricity usage has increased 
by 1.1 per cent. Electricity usage will form a major part of the
review with the Carbon T rust. A recent initiative has also
enabled significant reductions and savings to be achieved
through the use of timers on cold drink fridges.
Wherever possible, card and plastic materials, the major
packaging constituents in our business, are taken back 
to our Distribution Centres. The materials are then baled 
and passed to recycling businesses for reprocessing. 
During the year ending January 2007, 19,199 tonnes 
were recycled within Woolworths Group. This level is
comparable with previous years.
Recycling
19, 1 99
tonnes Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Board of Directors
20
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Board of Directors
1. Gerald Corbett (55), Chairman
Appointed in March 2001. Gerald led the demerger of Woolworths Group from
Kingfisher plc in August 2001. Previously Chief Executive of Railtrack from 1997–2000,
he was Finance Director of Grand Metropolitan plc from 1994–1997, and held the
same position at Redland plc from 1987–1994. Gerald is Non-Executive Chairman 
of Britvic plc, the soft drinks company , and of SSL International plc, the healthcare
products business. He is also a Non-Executive Director of Greencore Group plc. 
His retail experience includes five years as Group Financial Controller and Corporate
Finance Director of Dixons from 1982–1987. He has also been a Non-Executive
Director of Burmah Castrol plc and MEPC plc.
2. T revor Bish-Jones (46), Chief Executive
Appointed in March 2002. T revor held various senior positions at the Dixons Group plc
between 1994–2001, latterly as Managing Director of Currys. Prior to Dixons Group
plc, T revor was at Boots PLC for 13 years in a number of senior retail, buying and
marketing roles. T revor is a Non-Executive Director of Royal London, the mutual 
life and pensions business.
3. Stephen East (49), Finance Director
Appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director on 1 July 2005. Stephen was
formerly Finance Director of MEPC plc and previously held senior positions with
Redland plc including as Group T reasurer . He is currently a Non-Executive Director 
of Regus Group plc and Star Energy Group plc and is President of the Association 
of Corporate T reasurers.
4. Steve Lewis (42), Executive Director
Steve was appointed to the Board in June 2005. He has been Woolworths Operations
Director since 2001 and was previously Operations Director of the Dixons retail chain.
With over 20 years’ retail experience he has been instrumental in improving operating
standards and in-store disciplines throughout Woolworths.
5. Lloyd Wigglesworth (47), Executive Director
Lloyd was appointed to the main Board in June 2005. As Managing Director of
Entertainment UK he has successfully grown the business and added new customers.
He was previously a main board director of WH Smith plc and is a Non-Executive
Director of Crest Nicholson Plc.
6. T ony Page (40), Executive Director
Appointed in September 2006. T ony was previously Non-Food T rading Director 
of ASDA – Wal-Mart, having held a number of senior positions in that business 
since joining in 1994. Prior to joining ASDA, T ony had been a senior buyer with 
J. Sainsbury plc.
7. Andrew Beeson (62), Non-Executive Director
Appointed in July 2001. He was, until January 2003, Chairman of Evolution Group plc,
which merged with Beeson Gregory Group in 2002, the firm he founded in 1989. 
Prior to that he was a Director of ANZ McCaughan from 1987–1989, and a Director 
of ANZ Merchant Bank from 1985–1987 . Andrew is a Non-Executive Director of
Nelson Bakewell Holdings Limited and Schroders plc.
8. Fru Hazlitt (43), Non-Executive Director
Appointed in January 2006. Fru is Chief Executive of GCap Media PLC, having
previously held the same role at Virgin Radio (a division of SMG plc). Fru previously
held senior positions at the internet services business, Y ahoo! (including as Managing
Director UK and Ireland 2003–2005) and at Capital Radio (Sales Director 1997–2000).
She is a Non-Executive Director of Betfair , the online betting exchange.
9. Roger Jones (69), Non-Executive Director
Appointed in July 2001. Previously a Director of Kingfisher plc and Managing Director
of Woolworths plc from 1995 until his retirement in 1998. Prior to this he was Managing
Director of Superdrug from 1992. Roger has spent the majority of his career at
Woolworths, having joined F .W .Woolworth in 1958. Currently a member of the Council
for Barnados.
10. Richard North (56), Non-Executive Director
Appointed in October 2006. Richard was Chief Executive of InterContinental Hotels
Group plc and previously Group Finance Director of Bass plc and The Burton Group
plc. Previous Non-Executive Directorships include ASDA Group plc, and 
Logica CMG plc.
11. David Simons CBE (60), Non-Executive Director
Appointed in September 2005. David is Chairman of Littlewoods Shop Direct Group,
the UK’ s largest home and online shopping operator and PIPC, global management
consultants. He is a Non-Executive Director of Greencore Group plc, the food
manufacturer and supplier . Previously he held a number of senior retail positions
including Chief Executive of Somerfield Plc (1993–2000), Group Finance Director 
of Storehouse Plc (1991–1993) and Group Finance Director of House of Fraser Ltd
(1989–1991).
2 3
4 5
6 7
8 9
10 11
1 Corporate Governance – Combined Code Statement
The Company recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of Corporate Governance. During September and up to 9 October
2006, Non-Executive Directors made up less than half of the Board membership, although the selection process to appoint an additional Non-Executive
Director was well advanced. With the exception of the aforementioned period, during the financial year , the Group has complied with the main and
supporting principles of the 2003 Financial Reporting Committee (FRC) Combined Code. Compliance with the principles of good governance and the
specific provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code has been effected by the Company in the following way:
The Board of Directors
The Board comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director , three further Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors,
appointed for periods of three years. The Board is satisfied that, having considered the background and current circumstances of each of the Non-
Executive Directors, there are no relationships or other matters which could affect their respective judgement in carrying out their duties. Accordingly , 
the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management. Their biographies appear on page 20 and illustrate the
Directors’ range of backgrounds which provide an experienced and balanced Board to lead and control the Group. Andrew Beeson is the senior
independent Non-Executive Director . The Non-Executive Directors have disclosed to the Chairman and the Company Secretary their significant
commitments other than their directorship of the Company . Similarly , the Chairman has discussed with the Board the time commitment expected 
from his various roles outside the Group. For both the Chairman and the Non-Executives, it has been agreed that all are able to meet their respective
obligations to the Company , provided that any proposed changes or additional commitments are notified to the Board. All Directors have access to 
the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Company’ s expense. Each Director may also receive appropriate training
as necessary and a record of training undertaken is maintained by the Company Secretary . 
The Board meets not less than 11 times a year and has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its decision. The Board receives detailed proposal
papers in advance of meetings, together with management presentations to facilitate proper consideration and debate of matters brought before it.
The Board is primarily responsible for the strategic direction of the Group. Major strategic initiatives involving significant cost or perceived risk are only
undertaken following their full evaluation by the Board. Matters of an operational nature are delegated to the Group’ s management. Progress on key
initiatives is reported regularly and minuted, together with routine matters such as financial performance and current trading in each of the Group’ s
business divisions.
In accordance with Combined Code principles, the Board undertook a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance both as a board and 
on an individual basis (including the performance of the Chairman), and that of its core standing Committees. The process was administered by the
Company Secretary and commenced with completion by the Directors of a detailed questionnaire. This was based on the questions developed in the
prior year and sought views on the existing Board processes, and recommendations for areas to develop. Matters considered by the Directors included
the suitability and structure of the standard agenda, the quality of presentation and time apportioned for debate on issues of strategy , financial reporting,
and current trading.
The questionnaire also sought to measure the performance of the Directors in leading the Group toward its strategic and financial objectives, the
respective skills and competencies of each of the Directors and to formulate areas of potential development to further enhance the Board’ s ability to 
both challenge and support the Group. The Chairman met with each of the Directors to review their respective responses and the Board considered 
a summary paper , prepared by the Company Secretary , which set out the overall findings and the areas identified for development. As a consequence 
of the evaluation, a number of initiatives and recommendations to strengthen the effectiveness of the Board have been actioned.
During the year 11 Board meetings were held. The Directors attended as follows during the year or since appointment:
Board of Directors’ Attendance
Andrew Beeson 11
T revor Bish-Jones 11
Gerald Corbett 11
Stephen East 11
Fru Hazlitt 10
Roger Jones 11
Prue Leith OBE (resigned 14 June 2006) 5
Steve Lewis 11
Richard North (appointed 9 October 2006) 4
T ony Page (appointed 1 September 2006) 5
David Simons CBE 10
Lloyd Wigglesworth 11
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Corporate Governance
21 Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Corporate Governance
22
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Corporate Governance
The Board has established three core standing Committees, with defined terms of reference, as follows:
The Audit Committee 
Chaired by Roger Jones, the Committee comprises those independent Non-Executive Directors listed below. This Committee is responsible for 
providing the Board with independent and objective assurance on the control environment across the Group, for ensuring that the subsidiary companies
are subject to an internal audit of the required quality and for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of auditors and the audit fee. 
It also reviews the performance of the Group’ s auditors to ensure an independent, objective, professional and cost-effective relationship is maintained.
The Committee’ s terms of reference are available on the Group’ s website.
As well as reviewing the Company’ s published financial results, the Committee reviews the Group’ s corporate governance processes (including risk
analysis), accounting policies and procedures, reporting to the Board on any control issues identified.
Internal audit plans and the relationship between the internal audit function and the external auditors are routinely assessed at Committee meetings. 
The Audit Committee has also sponsored the development of arrangements throughout the Group to deal, in confidence, with complaints from
colleagues about any accounting or financial management impropriety or other questionable business practice or conduct. These arrangements 
are periodically reviewed.
T o ensure the independence of the Group’ s external auditors, the Committee has reviewed the relevant policies and practices of the external auditors.
The rotation of key partners at appropriate intervals, in accordance with guidance provided by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and 
Wales, and monitoring the extent of non-audit work and related fees are established principles which are implemented as necessary and regularly
reviewed by the Committee to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has, through their other business activities, significant experience in financial matters. In particular , David Simons
CBE, who is a qualified FCMA, Andrew Beeson (a Non-Executive Director of Schroders plc and former Chairman of Evolution Group plc, a leading
corporate finance and stockbroking business) and Richard North (who has held the position of Finance Director in two large businesses) have significant,
recent and relevant experience of financial and accounting issues.
The Committee is also responsible for the proper reporting of the financial performance of the Group and for reviewing financial statements 
before publication.
The meetings of the Audit Committee are also the forum used by the Non-Executive Directors to meet without the Executive Directors present 
to discuss the performance of the Group, its management and their ongoing stewardship of shareholders’ interests. The Non-Executive Directors 
and the external auditors have the opportunity at this time to raise and discuss any issues of concern in this regard.
During the year three Audit Committee meetings were held. The Directors attended as follows during the year or since appointment:
Audit Committee Attendance
Andrew Beeson 3
Roger Jones 3
Prue Leith OBE (resigned 14 June 2006) 0
David Simons CBE 3
Richard North (appointed 9 October 2006) 1 Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Corporate Governance
23
The Nominations Committee
Comprising the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, the Committee is chaired by Gerald Corbett and is responsible for monitoring and reviewing
the composition, balance and expertise of the Board and for reviewing and recommending appointments to the Board. Prospective appointments are
considered by the Committee which agrees a detailed job description and the capabilities required for the role. The Committee generally engages
external consultants to administer the search process, prepare a shortlist of potentially suitable candidates and to advise generally on prospective
appointees. Only after a rigorous interview process is any appointment recommended to the Board. The terms of reference of the Committee are
available on the Group’ s website. The meetings of the Nominations Committee are also the forum used by the Chairman to meet with the Non-Executive
Directors without the executives present to discuss any concerns about the running of the Company . During the year one Nominations Committee
meeting was held. The Directors attended as follows during the year or since appointment:
Nominations Committee Attendance
Andrew Beeson 1
Gerald Corbett 1
Fru Hazlitt 1
Roger Jones 1
Prue Leith OBE (resigned 14 June 2006) 1
David Simons CBE 1
Richard North (appointed 9 October 2006) N/A
The Remuneration Committee
Comprising the Non-Executive Directors, the Committee is chaired by Andrew Beeson. The Committee’ s terms of reference are available on the Group’ s
website. The Committee’ s aim is to ensure that the Executive Directors are rewarded for their contribution to the Group and motivated to enhance the
return to shareholders. The Remuneration Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for the Group’ s policy on the grant of share incentives to
Executive Directors and other senior management as well as the specific remuneration and benefits packages for Executive Directors.
During the year three Remuneration Committee meetings were held. The Directors attended as follows during the year or since appointment:
Remuneration Committee Attendance
Andrew Beeson 3
Fru Hazlitt 3
Roger Jones 3
Prue Leith OBE (resigned 14 June 2006) 2
David Simons CBE 3
Richard North (appointed 9 October 2006) N/A
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
The CSR Committee is chaired by the Company Secretary . Further details can be found on page 19 and in the 2007 CSR report available on the Group’ s
website, www.woolworthsgroupplc.com.
Accountability and Audit
Going Concern
A statement in accordance with the going concern principle is included in the Finance Director’ s Report on page 17.
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Corporate Governance Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Corporate Governance
24
Relations with Shareholders 
The Company maintains an active dialogue with its investors through a planned programme of investor relations activities. This is a key component of 
its corporate communications programme and is headed by the Finance Director . The Chairman and Chief Executive also attend the majority of these
shareholder meetings.
The investor relations programme includes formal presentations in the UK and overseas (where appropriate) on full-year and interim results. One-to-one
meetings between institutional investors and senior management are also held regularly .
Feedback from these meetings (including the non-attributed views of major institutional shareholders) is reported back to the Board. The Company
Secretary is also charged with bringing to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Company’ s stakeholders, including
private investors.
Communication with investors also takes place through the Annual and Interim Reports and via the Group website, www.woolworthsgroupplc.com. 
In addition, the Annual General Meeting provides an important opportunity for communication with both institutional and private shareholders.
Internal Control
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness throughout the Group. However ,
such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The effectiveness of the Group’ s systems of internal control is reviewed by the Audit
Committee on behalf of the Board.
The Board considers risk assessment and control to be fundamental to achieving its corporate objectives within an acceptable risk/reward profile, and
confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness of related controls.
The Board confirms that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from that process.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and accords with the T urnbull guidance (2005). The key procedures in place to enable this
responsibility to be discharged are:
The Board of Directors
— has approved a set of policies, procedures and frameworks that are designed to facilitate the operation of effective internal control and which 
include the provision of quality internal and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. These are periodically 
reviewed and updated;
— regularly reviews the Group’ s strategy and the strategies of the subsidiary companies;
— reviews and assesses the Group’ s key risks at least annually;
— reviews performance through a comprehensive system of reporting, based on an annual budget with monthly business reviews against actual
results, analysis of variances, key performance indicators and regular forecasting;
— has well defined policies governing appraisal and approval of capital expenditure and treasury operations;
— seeks assurance that effective control is being maintained through regular reports from the Audit Committee and the Internal and External 
Audit functions.
Each Operating Company Board
— maintains systems for the continuous identification and evaluation of significant risks resulting from their strategies and their areas of the business;
— self certifies that it is clearly accountable for establishing and monitoring internal controls within its business, that processes are in place to provide
reasonable assurance that material business risks are identified and managed appropriately , that internal controls have been effected and that they
comply with the Group’ s policies; and reports on any control weaknesses or breakdown considered as material to the Group;
— reviews and monitors the effectiveness of the system of internal control through reports from the Group Internal and External Audit functions.
The Internal Audit Function
— is responsible for providing the Board with independent and objective assurance on the control environment across the Group and for ensuring 
that the subsidiary companies are subject to internal audit of the required quality .
These processes and organisational procedures enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of 
internal control.
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Corporate Governance Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Other Information
25
Principal Activities
The Group trades principally as a UK-based General Merchandise retailer and Entertainment wholesaler and publisher .
Review of Activities
A detailed review of the Group’ s activities and of future plans is contained within the Chief Executive’ s Report on pages 8 to 13.
Results and Dividends
The profit from continuing operations of the Group before taxation amounted to £16.0 million (2006: profit of £61.5 million) and the profit from continuing
operations after taxation amounted to £13.6 million (2006: profit of £41.3 million).
During the year the Company paid the prior year final dividend of 1.34 pence per share. The interim dividend for the current year of 0.43 pence per
ordinary share was paid on 12 December 2006, making a total paid for the year of 1.77 pence per ordinary share. This has absorbed £25.6 million 
of shareholders’ funds. The Directors are proposing a final dividend for the current year of 1.34 pence per share. This will be paid on 21 June 2007, 
to shareholders on the register at close of business on 10 April 2007 subject to shareholder approval. Hence, it is not recognised in these financial
statements. The Company provides a Dividend Reinvestment Plan enabling shareholders to apply their cash dividends to purchase additional ordinary
shares in the market at competitive dealing rates. Full details can be obtained from the Registrar . If you have previously completed a mandate form to
join the Plan you need take no further action.
Directors
The Directors of the Company are shown on page 20. The following have been Directors of the Company during the financial year ended 3 February
2007: Andrew Beeson, T revor Bish-Jones, Gerald Corbett, Stephen East, Fru Hazlitt, Roger Jones, Prue Leith OBE, Steve Lewis, Richard North, 
T ony Page, David Simons CBE and Lloyd Wigglesworth.
Directors’ Interests
The Directors’ interests in shares of the Company are shown within the Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 35. No Director has any other interest in
any shares or loan stock of any Group company . No Director was or is materially interested in any contract other than his/her service contract, subsisting
during or existing at the end of the financial year which was significant in relation to the Group’ s business. As at the date of this report, indemnities are 
in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted by law and the Company’ s Articles of Association, 
in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities, as Directors of the Company or 
any of its subsidiaries.
Re-election of Directors
The Articles of Association require one-third of the Directors who are subject to retirement by rotation to retire and submit themselves for re-election 
each year . T revor Bish-Jones and Steve Lewis will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and being eligible offer themselves for re-election. 
The Articles of Association also require any Directors appointed by the Board to retire at the next Annual General Meeting. Any such Director may , if
willing to act, be re-elected. Accordingly , Andrew Beeson, Roger Jones, Richard North and T ony Page hold office until the Annual General Meeting 
and, being eligible offer themselves for re-election. Details of Directors submitting themselves for re-election are shown on page 20.
Directors’ Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, has adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the Directors needed to run the Group
successfully . The Directors’ Remuneration Report is shown on pages 27 to 35.
Annual General Meeting
Details of the Company’ s forthcoming Annual General Meeting are set out in a separate circular that has been sent to all shareholders with the 
Annual Report and Accounts.
Employee Involvement
The Board seeks to instill high standards of customer care and service in each subsidiary company and the commitment of every employee to this
business requirement is considered to be critical. Accordingly , the Corporate Centre has established a communication framework for employees
concerning Group-wide business performance, community involvement, company benefits, people and innovation. Each subsidiary company has, 
in addition, its own communication strategies concerning their brands, company performance and people issues. 
T raining and links with the educational sector reinforce the Group’ s commitment to employee involvement and development. The Woolworths Group
Leadership Programme (WGLP) is the development framework for managers at all levels of seniority who have the potential to be our future leaders. 
A brochure describing the programme and a micro site specifically for graduates have been produced. Employees are represented on the T rustee Board
of the Group’ s pension schemes. Over 4,000 colleagues in the Group participate in the Woolworths Group ShareSave Scheme.
Equal Opportunities
The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment and to ensuring that no applicant or employee receives less favourable
treatment on the grounds of gender , marital status, race, colour , nationality , ethnic or national origin, religion, HIV status, disability , sexuality , or unrelated
criminal convictions and without arbitrary restrictions in respect of age, or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown to 
be justified.
The Group applies employment policies which are fair and equitable and which ensure entry into and progression within the Group. Appointments 
are determined solely by application of job criteria, personal ability and competency . The Group gives full and fair consideration to the possibility of
employing disabled persons wherever suitable opportunities exist.
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Other Information Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Other Information
26
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Other Information
Supplier Payment Policy
The Group’ s policy , in relation to all of its suppliers, is to negotiate its terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transactions, to ensure that those
suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by those terms provided that it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods 
or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions. The Group does not follow any universal code or standard on payment practice 
but subsidiary companies are expected to establish payment terms consistent with local procedures, custom and practice. Woolworths Group plc, 
the parent company , has no trade creditors. It is therefore not appropriate to provide creditor day statistics for the Company . However the number 
of days purchases outstanding for payment by the Group at the year-end was 45 (2006: 47).
Political Contributions
During the year the Company made no political contributions (2006: £nil).
Charitable Donations
During the year the Group has contributed £119,000 (2006: £151,000) to communities in the UK.
Major Shareholders
As at 27 March 2007, the Company had been notified of the following interests in 3 per cent or more of the Company’ s shares.
Number of 
ordinary shares Voting interest
Unity Investments ehf 146,000,000 10.01%
Resolution Asset Management Limited 98,870,257 6.78%
AXA S.A. 71,333,490 4.89%
Cantor Fitzgerald Europe 56,550,604 3.88%
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 51,534,518 3.53%
ABN AMRO Bank NV 48,966,000 3.36%
Authority to Purchase Own Shares
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 14 June 2006, the Company was given authority to purchase up to £18,211,702.52 nominal
value of its ordinary shares in the market. This authority , which has not been used, expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held 
in 2007 and a resolution will be put to that meeting to provide a similar authority for a further year .
Disclosure of Information to the Auditors
Each of the Directors has confirmed that, so far as he or she is aware, as at 27 March 2007, there is no relevant audit information (that is, information
needed by the Company’ s auditors in connection with preparing their report) of which the Company’ s auditors are unaware and that the Director has
taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to
establish that the Company’ s auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have indicated their willingness to accept reappointment as auditors of the Company and a resolution proposing their
reappointment is contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and will be put to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board
Jonathan Bloom 
Company Secretary
27 March 2007 The following is a report by the Remuneration Committee which has been approved by the Board for submission to shareholders.
Composition and T erms of Reference
The Remuneration Committee consists of the independent Non-Executive Directors who are Andrew Beeson (Chairman), Prue Leith OBE (until 
her resignation), Roger Jones, David Simons CBE, Richard North and Fru Hazlitt. Its composition and terms of reference are in line with the Combined 
Code. The Company complies with Section B of the Combined Code provisions on Directors’ remuneration and in respect of the Remuneration 
Report content.
The Committee’ s aim is to ensure that the Executive Directors are rewarded for their contribution to the Group and are motivated to enhance the 
return to shareholders. The Remuneration Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for setting the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
In addition, they have regard to pay and conditions for other employees in the Group especially the arrangements for directors of subsidiaries who are
not Directors of the Company .
The Committee is advised internally by the Human Resources Director and the Head of Group Reward. External advice was provided during the 
year by T owers Perrin in relation to salary benchmarking and the overall levels of remuneration packages in comparative companies. T owers Perrin was
appointed by the Head of Group Reward on behalf of the Remuneration Committee. In addition to data provided by T owers Perrin, the Committee also
took into account information from other remuneration surveys. The Committee also took advice from Deloitte in respect of long-term incentive plans.
Remuneration Policy
The Committee continues to maintain a policy consistent with Group Reward Principles applied for all employees throughout the Group and in line with
the Company’ s business objectives which:
— attracts, retains and motivates high calibre Directors;
— is appropriate to the Company , taking into account information from independent sources and from within the retail sector as well as other
companies of a comparable size;
— aligns the interests of Directors and shareholders by linking share and cash incentives to performance;
— complies with best practice and comprises a mix of fixed and variable pay with longer-term incentives.
When comparing remuneration packages with those in other companies, particular regard is taken of companies in the FTSE 250 and other retailers.
The reward principles applied throughout the Group provide for basic salaries to be set at the median for a range of comparative companies with 
reward for performance aimed at delivering an overall package that is competitive. For the Chief Executive, the variable, performance-related
remuneration represents 58 per cent of the total package for ‘on target’ performance. For other Executive Directors, the variable, performance- 
related remuneration represents 44 per cent of the total package for ‘on target’ performance.
Components of Remuneration
Basic Salary
Basic salary for each Director is reviewed each year in the context of market conditions affecting executive remuneration, affordability and the level 
of increases awarded to staff throughout the Group. Basic salary levels are generally set at not more than the median for a range of comparative
companies. During the year ended 3 February 2007, Directors and colleagues in the Group generally received a salary increase of 3 per cent except 
for increases awarded on promotion. Salaries for Directors will next be reviewed in August 2007.
Benefits
In addition to salaries and the items described below, the Company provides a range of competitive benefits including pension, a fully-expensed 
car (or non-pensionable cash allowance) and private medical insurance.
Service contract
The policy of the Committee is that notice periods should be set at not more than 12 months. The service contract for T ony Page provides for the
Company to give a greater notice period during the first year of his employment. The initial notice period of 24 months reduces each month so that 
at the end of the first year of employment it becomes, and remains at, 12 months. No other Executive Director has a service contract with a notice 
period longer than 12 months.
Bonus
Executive Directors and directors of subsidiaries participated in the Woolworths Group Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) during the year (see page 28). 
Gerald Corbett, the Chairman, does not participate in any incentive plans. For this year , T ony Page was entitled to a fixed payment of £150,000, 
which was agreed at the time he joined the Company , partly to compensate for incentives he lost when he resigned his previous employment. 
For all Directors, bonuses are non-pensionable.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
for the financial year ended 3 February 2007
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Remuneration Report
27 Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Remuneration Report
28
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
for the financial year ended 3 February 2007
Share Options
Executive Share Option Schemes
The Company no longer grants share options under the Woolworths Group plc 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme. 
For options granted in earlier years, the performance targets declared in the 2003 Directors’ Remuneration Report apply . Fully diluted, adjusted 
Earnings Per Share, as calculated in accordance with the Scheme rules (‘Scheme EPS’), must increase by 6 per cent per annum (commencing with 
the Company’ s financial year immediately prior to the date of grant) plus RPI over a three-year period in order for the option to be exercised in full. If this
is not achieved, growth in Scheme EPS of 5 per cent per annum plus RPI over the same period is required in order for up to 50 per cent of the option to
be exercised. If either of these targets is not met after the first three-year period there will be a retest one year later over a four-year period, from the same
base, and the same proportion of the option will be available for exercise. If neither of the targets has been achieved after four years the option will lapse. 
In the event of a change of control of the Company the performance conditions will not be automatically waived. A minimum target of an increase in
Scheme EPS of 2 per cent per annum plus RPI will normally have to be met. The option will normally be exercisable only in proportion to the number 
of months that have elapsed from grant to the date of early exercise against a total of 36 months.
The performance targets for options granted in March 2003 and September 2003 have not been achieved and the options have lapsed. There is one
retest of the performance target for the options granted in March 2004, but it now appears unlikely that this target will be met. 
A limit of 5 per cent (of the total issued share capital) on the number of new shares that can be issued to satisfy executive options granted under
Executive Share Schemes applies over a ten-year period. At the year-end, outstanding share options represented 4 per cent of the total issued 
share capital.
Savings-Related Share Options
A savings-related share option scheme (‘ShareSave’) is open to all eligible employees in the UK. The sixth grant of options under ShareSave was made
in May 2006 and it is intended that options will be granted annually under this arrangement provided the scheme continues to provide a cost-effective
method of enabling employees to share in the success of the Group. 
Incentives and Bonuses
Calculation of EPS in respect of share-based incentive plans is in accordance with the individual plan rules.
Woolworths Group Incentive Plan
The Woolworths Group Incentive Plan (WIP) was replaced by the Annual Incentive Plan (described below) in 2004. Executive Directors previously 
had an opportunity to defer receipt of their declared bonus for three years, at the completion of which it is matched by 25 per cent in shares which 
are purchased in the market at the time of the election to defer . The outstanding share awards made to Executive Directors are shown on page 34. 
The Woolworths Group Annual Incentive Plan
Executive Directors, directors of subsidiaries and other senior employees participate in the Plan. It operates on an annual basis and participants do 
not participate in any other annual bonus scheme.
The Plan provides for two types of Award:
— a Cash Award, which is paid after the end of the financial year and which, for Executive Directors, is based on the achievement of financial targets
and meeting personal objectives. The Cash Award for the Chief Executive will be 60 per cent at target rising to a maximum of 120 per cent. For
other Executive Directors, the Cash Award will be 40 per cent at target rising to a maximum of 80 per cent. The main financial targets are Group
profit, operating company profit, sales, cash targets, stock, margin and costs;
— a Share Award, which is made after the end of the financial year and which is based on the achievement of Group financial targets. For Executive
Directors the Share Award for achieving target performance is 20 per cent of salary rising to a maximum of 40 per cent for exceptional performance.
Shares comprised in a Share Award will be held in an employee share trust for a vesting period of three years. At the end of the vesting period 
a multiplier will be applied if a performance target is met. For on target performance the multiplier for Executive Directors will be 1.3 rising to a
maximum of two for exceptional performance. If a participant leaves the Company during the vesting period no multiplier will apply . On a change 
of control of the Company the Committee will determine whether the multiplier will apply taking into account the performance from the Award 
date to the date on which the change of control occurs.
The Committee considers it important that Directors and senior employees focus on delivering annual targets set each year . Cash Awards and Share
Awards are based on the achievement of these targets. The performance measure for the multiplier is growth in adjusted, fully diluted Earnings Per 
Share from continuing operations (‘Plan EPS’).
Awards for the Y ear Ended 3 February 2007
Awards are earned both for the achievement of profit targets based on budgets and compared with broker estimates as well as for meeting personal
objectives for the year . The Group profit was below the lower end of expectations and the performance of operating companies was mixed. 
The Cash Award for the Chief Executive reflects the achievements at Entertainment UK Limited where, by the end of the financial year , new business
secured during the year compensated for the loss of the T esco contract and profits exceeded budget. In a range of measures, the Chief Executive’ s
targets for Entertainment UK Limited, 2entertain and growth in online sales in Woolworths were achieved. One-third of the potential Cash Award
depended on Group profit and accordingly no bonus is due for this. Other measures included cash, where the average net debt target was not achieved,
stock, which was well controlled, gross margin, which increased by more than target and sales in refurbished stores. 
The range of measures for other Executive Directors included profit targets for their respective operating companies. The outcome in Entertainment 
UK is a Cash Award of 58.5 per cent of salary for the Managing Director . At Woolworths, the Managing Director , Retail and Distribution received a Cash
award of 24 per cent of salary due to costs being substantially lower than target and online sales exceeding target. The Cash Awards for Executive
Directors range between 24 per cent and 58.5 per cent of salary . 
No Share Awards are due as the lower end of the targets set last year have not been met.  Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Remuneration Report
29
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
for the financial year ended 3 February 2007
Awards for the Y ear Ending 2 February 2008
The Cash Award will again be based on the achievement of financial targets and meeting personal objectives. The main financial targets are Group profit,
operating company profit, sales, cash targets, stock, margin and costs. The Cash Award for the Chief Executive will be 60 per cent at target rising to a
maximum of 120 per cent. For other Executive Directors, the Cash Award will be 40 per cent at target rising to a maximum of 80 per cent. 
Share Awards, to be made after the end of the financial year , will also be based on the achievement of Group profit targets with additional shares awarded
on the basis described above. For Executive Directors, the target Share Award will be 20 per cent of salary rising to a maximum of 40 per cent. Matching
shares will also be subject to Plan EPS performance targets to be set when the Share Award is made.
In the event of a change of control of the Company , the Committee may consider it appropriate to waive the performance targets for the Chief Executive’ s
Awards so that the Chief Executive receives a cash bonus of up to 100 per cent of salary in lieu of any other Cash or Share Awards that may be payable
for that year under the Plan.
The Woolworths Group Performance Share Plan
Executive Directors and Directors of subsidiaries participate in this Plan. It provides for participants to receive an Award of Shares every six months, 
after the announcement of annual and half-yearly results. For Executive Directors the value of the shares comprised in each Award will be equal in 
value to 20 per cent of basic salary at the date the Award is made. The shares will be held in an employee trust for a vesting period of three years. 
For exceptional performance the Award may increase to 50 per cent of salary .
Awards made to Executive Directors during the year to 3 February 2007 are shown on page 34.
For Awards to be made during the financial year ending 2 February 2008, there will be two performance criteria. One half of the Awards will vest if 
Plan EPS targets are met and one half will be dependent on the T otal Shareholder Return (TSR) performance. The minimum increase in Plan EPS will 
be 2 per cent per annum (in addition to the increase in the Retail Prices Index). TSR will be measured against the FTSE General Retailers Index with
vesting only if the Company is at the median or above. The following tables illustrate the targets.
Increase in EPS Award (as a % of salary)
Less than 2% nil
2% 5%
3% 10%
4% 15%
5% 20%
6% 25%
TSR performance Award (as a % of salary)
Below median nil
Median – 60th percentile 5%
61st – 70th percentile 10%
71st – 80th percentile 15%
Upper quintile 25%
Special Arrangements for the Chief Executive
In 2005, the Company introduced special incentive arrangements for the Chief Executive. These included a three-year share-based Plan which could
deliver shares equal in value to three times salary (as at 30 June 2005) in June 2008. T wo-thirds of the total award is linked to the Company’ s TSR
performance vs the General Retailers Index. No vesting will occur unless this performance is at least at the median with a maximum award if the
Company performs in the top 20 per cent of this peer group. The remaining one-third of the total award will vest provided that the Chief Executive is 
still employed by the Company on 30 June 2008 and conditional on him retaining his existing shareholding in the Company until that date. The number 
of shares awarded was based on a price of 36.2p per share being the average share price over the period of one month prior to 30 June 2005. No new
shares will be issued in respect of this Plan. Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Remuneration Report
30
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
for the financial year ended 3 February 2007
Special Share Award for T ony Page
As part of the package agreed when T ony Page joined the Company , he received an Award of shares equal in value to £300,000. The number of shares
awarded was based on a share price of 31.5p per share being the share price on 1 September 2006. This Award will vest on 31 August 2009, provided
that he remains in employment with the Company . This Award, and the cash payment of £150,000 made in April 2007, were made partly to compensate
Mr Page for incentives with his previous employer which he forfeited when he joined the Company . No new shares will be issued in respect of this Plan.
Management Investment Plan for Senior Executives
A Management Investment Plan was established in June 2005, which provides the directors of subsidiary companies and selected members of senior
management (52 individuals in total) with an opportunity to invest their own money in the Company’ s shares. No Executive Directors participate in the
Plan. The maximum investment for each individual was dependent on their grade and the highest amount that a director of a subsidiary company could
invest was £20,000. Over £500,000 was invested in total and participants will become entitled to awards of matching shares each year for three years,
provided that profit targets are met and that the participant does not dispose of any of the purchased shares. At the first anniversary of the initial
investment a matching share award of 50 per cent of the shares purchased was made which will vest on 30 June 2008. The profit targets set in 2005 
and 2006 have not been met but a further matching award will become due on 30 June 2008, if a target for the year ending 2 February 2008 is met. 
All the share allocations will be released to participants who remain employed in the Group after three years and the Company will not issue any new
shares in respect of this Plan. 
Performance Graph
The Committee is required to include a graph showing the T otal Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) for the Company against an appropriate index. The
Committee has decided that the General Retailers Index is appropriate and for further comparison, the TSR for companies in the FTSE 250 
is also shown.
Average taken over 30 trading days prior to each year-end for the last five years.
£60
£80
£100
£120
£140
£160
£180
£200
£220
£240
Woolworths Group plc FTSE General Retailers Index FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts)
Feb 02 Feb 03 Feb 04 Feb 05 Feb 06 Feb 07
Value of hypothetical £100 holding Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Remuneration Report
31
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
for the financial year ended 3 February 2007
Service contracts
Provision for
Effective Notice Notice compensation
date of period from period from on early
Summary contract Director Company termination
Director
Gerald Corbett (Chairman) 01/07/02 6 months 12 months see below
T revor Bish-Jones 18/03/02 6 months 12 months see below
Stephen East 27/07/01 6 months 12 months see below
Steve Lewis 01/07/05 6 months 12 months see below
Lloyd Wigglesworth 10/06/05 6 months 12 months see below
T ony Page 01/09/06 6 months 19 months reducing see below
to 12 months after 
one year’ s service
Mr Corbett is the Chairman of the Company working on a part-time basis and receives an annual fee of £165,000 plus the use of a company car . 
The service agreement of Mr Corbett can be terminated by the Company giving 12 months’ written notice and by Mr Corbett giving six months’ written
notice. There are no special terms that apply on early termination.
The service agreement of Executive Directors can be terminated by the Company giving 12 months’ written notice and by the Director giving six months’
written notice. There are no special terms that apply on early termination.
The service agreements of Executive Directors also contain post-termination restrictive covenants and a provision which permits the Company 
either to require the Director to perform duties outside the Director’ s normal duties or not to provide the Director with work during the notice period. 
During the year , three Executive Directors served as Non-Executive Directors elsewhere. T revor Bish-Jones has retained his earnings in respect of this
service of £44,000, Stephen East has retained earnings of £64,350 and Lloyd Wigglesworth has retained earnings of £36,500.
Auditable Information
The following information has been audited by the Company’ s auditors, as required by Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration consists of an annual fee for their services as members of the Board and of selected Committees. They do 
not have service contracts but instead have letters of appointment for a three-year period. For Andrew Beeson and Roger Jones, the three-year 
period ends on 31 May 2010. David Simons CBE was appointed on 1 September 2005 for three years until 31 August 2008, Fru Hazlitt was appointed 
on 17 January 2006 for three years until 16 January 2009 and Richard North was appointed on 9 October 2006 for three years until 8 October 2009. 
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration is determined by the Board. Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Remuneration Report
32
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
for the financial year ended 3 February 2007
Directors’ Interests in Shares
2007 2006
Ordinary shares Ordinary shares
Andrew Beeson 202,115 202,115
T revor Bish-Jones 462,402 416,666
Gerald Corbett 500,000 500,000
Stephen East 100,000 100,000
Fru Hazlitt nil nil
Roger Jones 153,585 145,375
Prue Leith OBE (resigned 14 June 2006) n/a 15,350
Steve Lewis 39,245 27,294
Richard North nil n/a
T ony Page 10,000 n/a
David Simons CBE nil nil
Lloyd Wigglesworth 17,000 17,000
Directors’ Remuneration – for year or from date of appointment
Pension 2007 2006
Salary supplement Bonus Benefits T otal T otal
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive
Gerald Corbett (Chairman) 165 14 21 200 219
T revor Bish-Jones 486 96 192 23 797 770
Christopher Rogers (resigned 24 March 2005) –––– – 72
Stephen East (appointed 1 July 2005) 305 54 78 21 458 254
Steve Lewis (appointed 10 June 2005) 274 30 72 21 397 234
Lloyd Wigglesworth (appointed 10 June 2005) 265 21 160 27 473 272
T ony Page (appointed 1 September 2006) 125 23 150 78 376 –
T otal 1,620 238 652 191 2,701 1,821
Non-Executive
Andrew Beeson 41 41 36
Roger Jones 41 41 36
Prue Leith OBE (resigned 14 June 2006) 13 13 36
David Simons CBE 36 36 15
Fru Hazlitt 36 36 2
Richard North (appointed 9 October 2006) 11 11 –
T otal 178––– 178 125
Notes
Benefits incorporate all taxable benefits and expense allowances arising from employment and relate mainly to the provision of a company car , the 
cost of medical insurance and relocation expenses of £69,277 for T ony Page. Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Remuneration Report
33
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
for the financial year ended 3 February 2007
Directors’ Share Options
Number of options
Option
exercise Date from
At start Granted Exercised Lapsed At end price which Expiry
Executive Share Option Schemes Date of grant of year during year during year during year of year pence exercisable date
T revor Bish-Jones 24/4/02 60,000 60,000 50.0 24/4/0523/4/12
24/4/02 2,040,000 2,040,000 50.0 24/4/0523/4/12
11/9/02 595,238 595,238 31.5 11/9/0510/9/12
27/3/03 655,738 655,738 30.5 27/3/0626/3/13
11/9/03 505,747 505,747 43.5 11/9/0610/9/13
25/3/04 530,120 530,120 41.5 25/3/0724/3/14
T otal 4,386,843 – – – 4,386,843
Steve Lewis 26/9/01 63,360 63,360 30.5 26/9/0425/9/11
26/9/01 285,246 285,246 30.5 26/9/0425/9/11
24/4/02 127,500 127,500 50.0 24/4/0523/4/12
11/9/02 222,619 222,619 31.5 11/9/0510/9/12
27/3/03 257,787 257,787 30.5 27/3/0626/3/13
11/9/03 185,632 185,632 43.5 11/9/0610/9/13
25/3/04 204,819 204,819 41.5 25/3/0724/3/14
T otal 1,346,963 – – – 1,346,963
Lloyd Wigglesworth 25/3/04 72,289 72,289 41.5 25/3/0724/3/14
25/3/04 168,373 168,373 41.5 25/3/0724/3/14
T otal 240,662 – – – 240,662
Number of options
Option
exercise Date from
At start Granted Exercised Lapsed At end price which Expiry
ShareSave Date of grant of year during year during year during year of year pence exercisable date
T revor Bish-Jones 27/5/03 10,956 10,956 – 34.5 1/8/06 31/1/07
28/5/04 9,308 9,308 40.5 1/8/07 31/1/08
27/5/05 5,263 5,263 36.0 1/8/08 31/1/09
2/6/06 11,333 11,333 33.0 1/8/09 31/1/10
Total 25,52711,333–10,95625,904
Stephen East 2/6/06 11,333 11,333 33.0 1/8/09 31/1/10
Total –11,333––11,333
Steve Lewis 27/5/03 10,956 10,956 – 34.5 1/8/06 31/1/07
28/5/04 9,308 9,308 40.5 1/8/07 31/1/08
27/5/05 5,263 5,263 36.0 1/8/08 31/1/09
2/6/06 11,333 11,333 33.0 1/8/09 31/1/10
Total 25,52711,333–10,95625,904
Lloyd Wigglesworth 27/5/05 10,527 10,527 36.0 1/8/08 31/1/09
2/6/06 11,333 11,333 33.0 1/8/09 31/1/10
Total 10,52711,333––21,860 Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Remuneration Report
34
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
for the financial year ended 3 February 2007
Number of shares
Award Date from
At start Awarded Vested Lapsed At end price per which
Woolworths Group Incentive Plan Date of award of year in year during year during year of year share restrictions lift
T revor Bish-Jones 31/3/03 77,519 77,519 – 32.25 31/3/06
31/3/04 119,563 119,563 40.5 31/3/07
T otal 197,082 – 77,519 – 119,563
Steve Lewis 31/3/03 19,380 19,380 – 32.25 31/3/06
31/3/04 24,259 – – – 24,259 40.5 31/3/07
T otal 43,639 – 19,380 – 24,259
The market price of a share at the date of vesting, 31 March 2006, was 35 pence. The aggregate gain for awards shown above was £33,914.
Number of shares
At start of year/ Award Date from
date of Awarded Lapsed At end price per which
Woolworths Group Performance Share Plan Date of award appointment in year during year of year share restrictions lift
T revor Bish-Jones 9/9/04 218,182 218,182 44.00 9/9/07
19/4/05 249,351 249,351 38.50 19/4/08
20/10/06 288,889 288,889 36.00 20/10/09
T otal 467,533 288,889 – 756,422
Stephen East 28/9/05 175,182 175,182 34.25 28/9/08
27/4/06 182,353 182,353 34.00 27/4/09
20/10/06 172,222 172,222 36.00 20/10/09
T otal 175,182 354,575 – 529,757
Steve Lewis 9/9/04 34,943 34,943 44.00 9/9/07
19/4/05 127,273 127,273 38.50 19/4/08
28/9/05 143,066 143,066 34.25 28/9/08
27/4/06 160,588 160,588 34.00 27/4/09
20/10/06 166,667 166,667 36.00 20/10/09
T otal 305,282 327,255 – 632,537
T ony Page 20/10/06 166,667 166,667 36.00 20/10/09
T otal – 166,667 – 166,667
Lloyd Wigglesworth 9/9/04 41,761 41,761 44.00 9/9/07
19/4/05 137,662 137,662 38.50 19/4/08
28/9/05 154,745 154,745 34.25 28/9/08
27/4/06 160,588 160,588 34.00 27/4/09
20/10/06 151,667 151,667 36.00 20/10/09
T otal 334,168 312,255 – 646,423 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
for the financial year ended 3 February 2007
Number of shares
Award Date from
At start Awarded Lapsed At end price per which
Woolworths Group Annual Incentive Plan Date of award of year in year during year of year share restrictions lift
T revor Bish-Jones 19/4/05 124,675 124,675 38.50 19/4/08
Total 124,675––124,675
Stephen East 27/4/06 98,471 98,471 34.50 27/4/09
T otal – 98,471 – 98,471
Steve Lewis 19/4/05 63,636 63,636 38.50 19/4/08
27/4/06 86,718 86,718 34.50 27/4/09
Total 63,63686,718–150,354
Lloyd Wigglesworth 19/4/05 68,831 68,831 38.50 19/4/08
27/4/06 86,718 86,718 34.50 27/4/09
Total 68,83186,718–155,549
Pensions
Pensions and life assurance benefits are provided under the Woolworths Group Pension Scheme (a defined benefit arrangement). During the year ended 
3 February 2007 life assurance in excess of the earnings cap was provided for the Executive Directors. Contributions at 22 per cent of the difference
between his basic annual salary and the earnings cap were made directly to the Woolworths Group Supplementary Pension Scheme for T revor Bish-
Jones, a funded unapproved retirement benefits scheme, until 31 March 2006. A total of £14,003 was paid. Since April 2006, a cash supplement of 
30 per cent of salary in excess of the earnings cap has been paid to T revor Bish-Jones. Steve Lewis and Lloyd Wigglesworth are members of the
Woolworths Group Pension Scheme and receive cash supplements at 17 per cent and 13 per cent respectively on earnings in excess of the earnings
cap. Stephen East joined the Woolworths Group Pension Scheme after completion of one year’ s service and currently receives a pension supplement 
at 22 per cent of salary in excess of the earnings cap, which is paid directly into a personal pension arrangement. Benefits accrue at one sixtieth 
of salary for all Executive Directors, and they are all subject to the earnings cap, which remains in force in the Woolworths Group Pension Scheme after 
6 April 2006.
T ony Page will become entitled to participate in the Woolworths Group Pension Scheme after completion of one year’ s service and currently receives 
a pension supplement at 18 per cent of salary . Gerald Corbett is not entitled to participate in the Woolworths Group Pension Scheme but was provided
with a supplement of 20 per cent of his basic annual salary until June 2006. 
The table below shows, as at the year-end, the accrued pension should the Director leave employment; the increase in the accrued pension during the
year; the increase excluding inflation and member contributions; the transfer value of accrued pension and any increase/(decrease) in this value assessed
on the transfer value basis of the Woolworths Group Pension Scheme. This disclosure is in compliance with both the Stock Exchange Listing Rules and
the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
T ransfer value
T ransfer value T ransfer of accrued Increase in
Director’ s Increase in Increased in of increase (net value of pension at 28 transfer value
Accrued annual contributions accrued accrued of inflation pension at January 2006/ (net of
pension at during pension during pension and Director’ s 3 February date of Director’ s
Age 3 February 2007 the year the year (net of inflation) contributions) 2007 appointment contributions)
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
T revor Bish-Jones 46 9 – 2 2 15 77 57 21
Stephen East 48 1 – 1 1 6 6 – 6
Steve Lewis 42 10 – 2 2 12 73 54 19
Lloyd Wigglesworth 47 3 – 2 2 10 19 9 10
On behalf of the Board
Andrew Beeson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
27 March 2007
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Remuneration Report
35 Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
36
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Group and the parent company financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year . Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company
financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). The Group and parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view
of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
— select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
— make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
— state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent company financial
statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements; and
— prepare the Group and parent company financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will
continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary . 
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation and the parent company financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud
and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’ s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By Order of the Board
Stephen East
Finance Director
27 March 2007
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report,
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Independent Auditors’ Report
37
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the Members of Woolworths Group plc (the ‘Group’)
We have audited the Group financial statements of Woolworths Group plc for the year ended 3 February 2007 which comprise the Group Income
Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Woolworths Group plc for the year ended 3 February 2007 and on the
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’ s members as a body in accordance
with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent 
in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion 
the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified
by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Company’ s compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2003
specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority , and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether 
the Board’ s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’ s corporate governance
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements. 
The other information comprises only the Directors’ Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Chairman’ s Statement. We consider the
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements. 
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of Audit Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’ s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us 
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or other irregularity or error . In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group
financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
— the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Group’ s
affairs as at 3 February 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
— the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
— the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
27 March 2007 53 weeks to 3 February 2007 52 weeks to 28 January 2006
Before Exceptional Before Exceptional
exceptional items exceptional items
items (note 6) T otal items (note 6) T otal
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 1 2,737.0 – 2,737.0 2,630.7 – 2,630.7
Cost of goods sold (2,045.8) – (2,045.8) (1,940.7) 6.0 (1,934.7)
Gross profit 691.2 – 691.2 690.0 6.0 696.0
Selling and marketing costs (571.6) 3.9 (567.7) (534.1) – (534.1)
Administrative expenses (125.1) 4.8 (120.3) (124.7) 11.8 (112.9)
Other operating income 23.5 – 23.5 21.9 – 21.9
Operating profit 18.0 8.7 26.7 53.1 17.8 70.9
Finance cost 2 (14.5) – (14.5) (13.7) – (13.7)
Finance income 3 3.8 – 3.8 4.3 – 4.3
Profit before taxation 1 7.3 8.7 16.0 43.7 17.8 61.5
T axation 8 0.2 (2.6) (2.4) (13.3) (6.9) (20.2)
Profit for the year from continuing operations after taxation 7.5 6.1 13.6 30.4 10.9 41.3
Discontinued operations
Loss after taxation for the year from discontinued operations 7 ––– (5.1) (26.0) (31.1)
Profit/(loss) for the year 4 7.5 6.1 13.6 25.3 (15.1) 10.2
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders 7.4 6.1 13.5 25.2 (15.1) 10.1
Minority interest 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
30 7.5 6.1 13.6 25.3 (15.1) 10.2
Earnings per share attributable to the 
ordinary equity holders (pence) 10
Basic 0.9 0.7
Diluted 0.9 0.7
Earnings per share attributable to the ordinary 
equity holders from continuing operations (pence) 10
Basic 0.9 2.8
Diluted 0.9 2.8
53 weeks to 3 February 2007 52 weeks to 28 January 2006
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items T otal items items T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Profit/(loss) for the year 7.5 6.1 13.6 25.3 (15.1) 10.2
Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit scheme net of tax 27.7 – 27.7 (21.8) – (21.8)
Deferred tax on share-based payments (0.1) – (0.1) (0.2) – (0.2)
Cash flow hedges:
— Fair value (losses)/gains net of tax (6.2) – (6.2) 2.9 – 2.9
— T ransfer to stock net of tax 4.1 – 4.1 (1.5) – (1.5)
Net gains/(losses) not recognised in income statement 25.5 – 25.5 (20.6) – (20.6)
T otal gains/(losses) recognised in the year 33.0 6.1 39.1 4.7 (15.1) (10.4)
Adoption of IAS 32 and 39 – – – (4.1) – (4.1)
Of the total recognised gain/(loss) for the year £39.0 million (2006: loss £10.5 million) is attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent company. 
Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
for the 53 weeks ended 3 February 2007 and 52 weeks ended 28 January 2006
Group Income Statement
for the 53 weeks ended 3 February 2007 and 52 weeks ended 28 January 2006
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Group Income Statement/Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
38 3 February 28 January
2007 2006
Note £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill 11 60.7 31.9
Other intangible assets 12 84.0 63.8
Property , plant and equipment 13 311.7 274.2
Fixed asset investments 14 0.2 0.2
Deferred tax assets 24 1.0 22.8
457.6 392.9
Current assets
Inventories 16 377.1 344.2
T rade and other receivables 17 303.5 211.0
Financial assets
— Derivative financial instruments 18 – 1.0
Cash and cash equivalents 19 28.4 247.3
709.0 803.5
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
— Borrowings 20 (129.8) (98.6)
— Derivative financial instruments 18 (27.5) (22.1)
T rade and other payables 21 (490.4) (524.6)
Current tax liabilities 22 (1.4) (12.8)
Provisions 23 (8.5) (12.2)
(657.6) (670.3)
Net current assets 51.4 133.2
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities 
— Borrowings 20 (1.9) (1.0)
T rade and other payables 21 (72.4) (61.8)
Retirement benefit obligations 25 (84.0) (130.9)
Provisions 23 (33.1) (29.8)
(191.4) (223.5)
Net assets 317.6 302.6
Shareholders’ equity
Ordinary shares 26 182.4 182.1
Share premium 27 9.7 9.3
Other reserves 28 22.0 24.1
Retained earnings 29 103.5 87.0
T otal shareholders’ equity 317.6 302.5
Minority interests – 0.1
T otal equity 30 317.6 302.6
The financial statements on pages 38 to 71 were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 March 2007 and were signed on its behalf by:
Stephen East Gerald Corbett
Finance Director Chairman
Group Balance Sheet
at 3 February 2007 and 28 January 2006
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Group Balance Sheet
39 53 weeks to 52 weeks to
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
Note £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash (utilised by)/generated from operations 31 (39.6) 129.5
Interest paid (12.6) (10.5)
Interest received 2.5 4.5
T ax paid (13.4) (16.6)
Net cash (utilised by)/generated from operating activities (63.1) 106.9
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired) (63.0) –
Purchase of intangible assets (7.3) (10.6)
Purchase of property , plant and equipment (69.1) (49.0)
Cost associated with the formation of joint venture – (0.1)
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary (net of costs) – 3.5
Cash foregone with sale of subsidiary – (0.4)
Purchase of minority (2.8) –
Net cash used in investing activities (142.2) (56.6)
Cash flows from financing activities
Net proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 0.7 6.8
Repayment of senior notes (97.8) (1.8)
Proceeds from bank borrowings 109.7 –
Debt issue costs – (0.4)
Finance lease principal repayments (1.2) (0.1)
Net transactions in own shares held in T rust (0.1) 1.0
Dividends paid to Company’ s shareholders 9 (25.6) (24.3)
Net cash used in financing activities (14.3) (18.8)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (219.6) 31.5
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 246.7 215.2
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 32 27.1 246.7
Cash and cash equivalents consist of:
Cash 28.4 247.3
Bank overdrafts (1.3) (0.6)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 32 27.1 246.7
Group Cash Flow Statement
for the 53 weeks ending 3 February 2007 and 52 weeks ending 28 January 2006
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Group Cash Flow Statement 
40 Accounting Policies for the Y ear Ended 3 February 2007
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently
applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. An explanation is provided where changes have been made to previous policies on the
adoption of new accounting standards in the year .
Basis of Preparation
The financial statements of the Group are made up to the nearest Saturday to 31 January. The financial year for 2007 represents the 53 weeks ended
3 February 2007. The comparative financial year for 2006 was the 52 weeks ended 28 January 2006.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the International Financial
Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations endorsed by the European Union, together with those parts of the Companies Act 1985
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial
assets and financial liabilities (derivative financial instruments). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use 
of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting
policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the
consolidated financial statements, are disclosed on page 46 as critical accounting judgements and estimation uncertainty and in note 23.
Standards, Amendments and Interpretations Effective in 2006 but not relevant 
The following standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 
29 January 2006 but they are not relevant to the Group’s operations:
— IAS 21 (Amendment), ‘Net investment in a foreign operation’;
— IAS 39 (Amendment), ‘Cash flow hedge accounting of forecast intragroup transactions’;
— IAS 39 (Amendment), ‘The fair value option’;
— IAS 39 and IFRS 4 (Amendment), ‘Financial guarantee contracts’;
— IFRS 1 (Amendment), ‘First-time adoption of international financial reporting standards’; 
— IFRS 6, ‘Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources’;
— IFRIC 4, ‘Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease’;
— IFRIC 5, ‘Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and environmental rehabilitation funds’; and
— IFRIC 6, ‘Liabilities arising from participating in a specific market – Waste electrical and electronic equipment’.
New Standards and Interpretations of Existing Standards that are not yet Effective and have not been Early Adopted by the Group
The following interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the Group’s accounting periods beginning on 
or after 4 February 2007 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted:
— IFRS 7, ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’, (effective from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007) and the complementary amendment
to IAS 1,’Presentation of financial statements – Capital disclosures’, were not early adopted. IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures relating to financial
instruments. This standard does not have any impact on the classification and valuation of the Group’ s financial instruments;
— IFRIC 8, ‘Scope of IFRS 2’, (effective from annual periods beginning on or after 1 May 2006). IFRIC 8 requires consideration of transactions involving
the issuance of equity instruments – where the identifiable consideration received is less than the fair value of the equity instruments issued – to
establish whether or not they fall within the scope of IFRS 2. The Group will apply IFRIC 8 from 4 February 2007, but it is not expected to have any
impact on the Group’ s financial statements;
— IFRIC 10, ‘Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment’, (effective from annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006). IFRIC 10 prohibits
the impairment losses recognised in an interim period on goodwill and investments in equity instruments and in financial assets carried at cost to
be reversed at a subsequent balance sheet date. The Group will apply IFRIC 10 from 4 February 2007 but it is not expected to have any significant
impact on the Group’s accounts;
— IFRS 8, ‘Operating segments’, (effective from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010) replaces IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting
with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131, ‘Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information’. The new standard uses
a ‘management approach’, under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes; and
— IFRIC 11, ‘IFRS 2 – Group and treasury share transactions’, (effective from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009) provides
guidance on whether share-based transactions involving treasury shares or involving Group entities (for instance, options over a parent’s shares)
should be accounted for as equity-settled or cash-settled. This is not expected to have any impact on the Group’s accounts.
Interpretations to Existing Standards that are not yet Effective and not Relevant for the Group’s Operations 
The following interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the Group’s accounting periods beginning on 
or after 4 February 2007 or later periods but are not relevant for the Group’s operations: 
— IFRIC 7 ‘Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29, Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies’. 
— IFRIC 9 ‘Re-assessment of embedded derivatives’.
— IFRIC 12, ‘Service concession arrangements’.
Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and 
associated undertakings. 
Notes to the Group Accounts
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
41 Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
42
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a
shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are de-consolidated from the date on which control ceases.
The Group has used the purchase method of accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries. Under the purchase method of accounting the cost of 
an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets acquired, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and
liabilities are measured initially at their fair values. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Associates
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20 and
50 per cent of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Group’s share of its associate’s post acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post acquisition
movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
Joint Ventures
Joint ventures are jointly controlled entities in which the Group has an interest. 
The Group’s interests in joint ventures are accounted for by proportionate consolidation. The Group combines its share of the joint ventures’ individual
income and expenses, assets and liabilities and cash flows on a line-by-line basis with similar items in the Group’s financial statements.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the Group’s
activities. Revenue is shown net of value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
a) Sales of goods – Entertainment, Wholesale and Publishing
The Group sells a range of entertainment products as a publisher and distributor . Sales of goods are recognised when a Group entity has delivered 
a product to a customer and there is no unfulfilled obligation that could affect the acceptance of the products. Delivery does not occur until the
products have been shipped to the specified location, the risks of obsolescence and loss have been transferred to the customer , and the customer
has accepted the products.
The entertainment products are often sold with volume discounts and with a right to return products. Sales are recorded based on the price specified
in the sales contracts, net of the estimated volume discounts and returns at the time of sale.
Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for the discounts and returns. No element of financing is deemed present as the sales are
made with a credit term which is consistent with market practice.
b) Sales of goods – Retail
The Group operates a chain of retail outlets. Sales of goods are recognised when a Group entity sells or delivers a product to the customer . Retail sales
are usually in cash or by credit card.
It is the Group’s policy to sell its products to the retail customer with a right to return within 28 days. Accumulated experience is used to estimate and
provide for such returns at the time of sale. The Group does not operate any loyalty programmes.
c) Other
Revenue arising on the sale of credit vouchers represents third party commission arising on these transactions.
Licensing royalties are recognised as revenue when the following criteria are met:
— the licence agreement has been executed by all parties;
— the licence term has commenced; and
— the collection of royalties is reasonably assured.
All licence royalties received in advance are included within deferred income until the above criteria are met.
Segment Reporting
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are
different from those of other business segments.
Other Income
Other income, including sales commission, is recognised on an accruals basis to match the provision of the related goods or services.
Interest income is recognised on a time-apportioned basis using the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
43
Foreign Currencies
The functional and the presentational currency of the Group is Pounds Sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into Sterling using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates
of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except where hedge accounting is applied.
The results and financial position of all the Group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that have a functional currency
different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
— assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
— income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of
the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the
transactions); and
— all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity .
Dividend Payment Policy
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which the
dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders or , in the case of interim dividends, when paid.
Exceptional Items
Items that are material in size, unusual and infrequent in nature are presented as exceptional items in the income statement. The Directors 
are of the opinion that the separate recording of exceptional items provides helpful information about the Group’s underlying business performance.
Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired
subsidiary or joint venture at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment
losses. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Intangible Assets
Brands are stated at cost less amortisation, with amortisation on a straight-line basis over 20 years. Underlying rights and trade names are stated at
fair value at acquisition less amortisation, with amortisation on a straight-line basis over ten years.
Purchased copyrights and licences are stated at cost less amortisation and are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the underlying
legal agreements, which typically range from three to ten years. 
Customer relationships are stated at fair value determined on acquisition and are amortised on a straight-line basis ranging from three to ten years.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software. Incremental
employee costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software controlled by the Group, and that will generate
economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year , are recognised as intangible assets. Computer software is amortised over five years.
Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment based on the ongoing benefit derived from their use, with provision made where required.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the
acquisition of the items. 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated by the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual values over their useful
economic life as follows:
Land and buildings
Freeholds — 2 per cent
Long leaseholds — 5 per cent
Short leaseholds — over the life of the lease
Fixtures, fittings and equipment
T enants improvements — shorter of ten years and the remaining life of the lease
Fixtures and fittings — between 5 per cent and 15 per cent
Computers and electronic equipment — between 20 per cent and 50 per cent
Motor cars — 25 per cent
Commercial vehicles — 33 per cent
The Group has adopted a policy of not revaluing freehold properties.
During the year ended 3 February 2007 the Group revised the useful economic lives of certain store fixtures and fittings from ten years to 20 years.
During the prior year the Group revised the useful economic lives of certain computers and electronic equipment. The impact of these changes has
been quantified in note 13.
The assets’ carrying values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. An asset’s carrying amount is
written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Disposal of Land and Buildings
Profits and losses on the disposal of land and buildings represent the difference between the net proceeds and the net carrying value at the date 
of sale. 
Sales are accounted for when there is an unconditional exchange of contracts or where the completion cannot be reasonably withheld. Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
44
Finance Leases
Assets funded through finance leases are capitalised as fixed assets and depreciated in accordance with the policy for the class of asset concerned. 
The resulting lease obligations are included in creditors net of finance charges. Interest costs on finance leases are charged to the income statement.
Operating Leases
Operating lease payments, including fixed rental uplifts, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Lease incentives are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Inventories
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Provisions are made for obsolescence, mark-down and shrinkage. Costs of inventories
include the transfer from equity of any gains/losses on qualifying cash flow hedges on purchases.
Obsolescence and mark-down provisions against stocks identified as residual to the business are calculated by reference to the tracking of 
historic recovery rates. Shrinkage provisions are calculated by reference to the stock loss rates derived from the store and distribution centre stock
count programmes.
Rebates Receivable from Suppliers
Volume-related rebates receivable from suppliers are credited to the carrying value of the stock to which they relate. Where a rebate agreement with 
a supplier covers more than one year , the rebates are recognised in the period in which they are earned.
Marketing contributions
Marketing contributions receivable from suppliers are credited to the income statement as a reduction to cost for sales in the period in which they 
are earned.
T rade Receivables
T rade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less provision for impairment. A provision for
impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to
the original terms of the receivables. This provision represents the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated
future cash flows. The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement as a reduction to cost of sales.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits at call with banks, other liquid investments with original maturities of three months 
or less and bank overdrafts where these are set-off against cash to the extent these reduce available cash to nil. Bank overdrafts where there is no
right of set-off are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of transaction costs incurred.
Provisions
Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past
events, where it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably
estimated. Restructuring provisions comprise the expected costs of the reconfiguration of the out-of-town stores. Provisions are not recognised for
future operating losses.
Provisions are measured at the present value of management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the
balance sheet date.
Current T axation
The taxation charge for current tax is based on the results for the year , as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed. It is calculated
using the tax rates that have been enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred T axation
Deferred taxation is provided in full using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their
carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. The deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted by the balance
sheet date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences
can be utilised.
Pensions
All employees are entitled to join the Woolworths Group Pension Scheme (‘WGPS’) after completion of one year’s service. The WGPS is a defined
benefit pension scheme. The Company also facilitates a Stakeholder pension arrangement for employees and makes contributions to a defined
contribution pension scheme (the Woolworths Group Retirement T rust), which was closed to new entrants in June 2003 and currently has 63 active
members. The Woolworths Group Retirement T rust is in the process of being wound up. Employees of T otal Home Entertainment Distribution Limited
participate in the T otal Home Entertainment Group Pension Scheme, a defined contribution scheme. Employees of Bertram Group Limited participate
in the Bertram Group Personal Pension Scheme, a defined contribution scheme.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the WGPS is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date
less the fair value of scheme assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service costs. The defined benefit
obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is
determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity
approximate to the terms of the pension liability.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension scheme are conditional on the employees remaining 
in service for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the 
vesting period. Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
45
Pensions continued
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in the
Statement of Recognised Income and Expense (‘SoRIE’) in the period in which they arise.
For defined contribution schemes, the Group pays contributions on an agreed basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the
contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are
recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Share-based Payments
The Company no longer grants share options under its Executive Share Option Schemes. Instead, Share Awards are made to senior management
which vest dependent in part on performance targets being met. A Savings Related Share Option Scheme, which is open to all UK employees,
continues to operate. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the share awards/options is recognised as an
expense. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the share awards/options granted,
excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions. Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of share
awards/options that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of share awards/options that
are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to
equity. The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium when
the options are exercised.
Share Capital
Ordinary shares are shown as equity. Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital the consideration paid, including any
directly attributable incremental costs (net of income tax), is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are
cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued any consideration received, net of any directly attributable
incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders.
ESOP
The Group’s Employee Share Ownership Plan (‘ESOP’) is a separately administered T rust. The assets of the ESOP mainly comprise shares in the
Company. The purchase or sale of shares in the T rust are accounted for as treasury share transactions and are shown as movements in 
retained earnings.
Derivative Financial Instruments
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature 
of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as either: a firm commitment (fair value hedge); or hedges of highly probable
forecast transactions (cash flow hedge).
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk
management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception
and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or
cash flows of hedged items.
a) Fair value hedge
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
b) Cash flow hedge
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity. The gain
or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods in which the hedged items affect the income statement.
However , when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset (for example, inventory) or a liability, the 
gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss
existing in equity at the time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur , the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the
income statement.
c) Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Certain derivative instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting. Such derivatives are classified as at fair value through the income statement,
and changes in the fair value are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair Value Estimation
The fair values of short-term deposits, loans, and overdrafts with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to be approximate to their book values.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of credit vouchers in issue is the face value of the instruments potentially redeemable outside the Group, that remain unredeemed and
unextinguished at the balance sheet date. Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
46
Financial Risk Management
Financial risk factors
The Group’s operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, market interest
rates, counterparty credit risk and its liquidity position. The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit adverse effects on
the financial performance of the Group by using foreign currency financial instruments. In addition other instruments were used during the year to
manage the Group’s interest rate exposure.
The Board of Directors has approved a Group T reasury Policy that sets out the financial risk management policies applied by the Group. 
A central Group T reasury function manages the Group’s financial risk in accordance with this policy, receiving regular information (including forecast
information) from all the operating companies in the Group to prompt identification of financial risks so that appropriate actions may be taken. 
A procedures manual is maintained that reflects this policy and sets out specific guidelines to manage foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk,
counterparty credit risk, liquidity risk and the use of financial instruments.
a) Foreign exchange risk
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risks against Sterling primarily on transactions in US dollars. It enters into forward currency contracts 
to hedge the cash flows of its product sourcing operation (ie it buys US dollars forward in exchange for Sterling) and looks forward 12 months on 
a rolling basis at forecasted purchase volumes. The policy framework requires hedging between 50 per cent and 80 per cent of anticipated import
purchases that are denominated in US dollars. All of the forward contracts entered into by the Group qualified as highly probable purchases for
which hedge accounting was used.
b) Interest rate risk
The Group has a seasonal cash flow that moves between net cash and net debt in the course of each year . The Group repaid its £97.8 million
Senior Note in November 2006. This Senior Note was issued at fixed rates of interest, with all remaining borrowings (excluding finance leases) and
deposits of cash being at floating rates of interest. The Group also settled an interest rate swap at the same time as the Senior Note was repaid.
This had been used as a cash flow hedge of future interest payments related to part of the Senior Note principal that had the effect of increasing
the proportion of the Group’s floating interest rate debt. Other than a small proportion of finance lease borrowing at fixed interest rates the Group’s
borrowings are at floating rates, partially hedged by floating rate interest on deposits reflecting the seasonality of its cash flow.
c) Counterparty credit risk
The Group has some significant concentrations of credit risk within its business. Policies have been implemented that require appropriate credit
checks on potential customers before sales commence and on potential suppliers before orders can be raised. T rade credit insurance is employed
as appropriate to protect a proportion of the Group’s debtors. Financial instrument and investment counterparties are subject to pre-approval by
the Board in accordance with Group T reasury policy. Exposure to counterparties is managed through a framework that limits amounts invested
together with amounts contracted through financial instruments according to the counterparty’s public credit rating.
d) Liquidity risk
The Group T reasury function is required to ensure the Group has sufficient committed debt facilities to cover its liquidity requirements for at least
the next 12 months. During the year , the Group entered into an amendment of its existing committed bank facilities reducing the amount
committed to £225 million and revising certain terms. At the year-end £155 million remained undrawn. In addition to its committed bank facilities
the Group has access to a £40 million facility providing receivables discounting financing through its subsidiary THE Distribution Limited. Current
facilities were sufficient to refinance the £97.8 million Senior Note (note 32) in November 2006 and to cover the Group’s projected remaining
liquidity requirements for the next 12 months and beyond, the committed facilities maturing in 2009.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Estimation Uncertainty
Impairment of assets
Goodwill is considered for impairment at least annually. Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are considered for impairment if there is 
a reason to believe that an impairment may be necessary. Factors taken into consideration in reaching such a decision include the economic viability
of the asset itself and where it is a component of a larger economic unit, the viability of that unit.
Future cash flows expected to be generated by the assets are projected, taking into account market conditions and the expected useful lives of the
assets. The present value of these cash flows, determined using an appropriate discount rate, is compared to the current net asset value and, if lower ,
the assets are impaired to the present value.
Pension assumptions
Post-retirement defined benefits are provided for certain existing and former employees. Actuarial valuations are based on assumptions which include
employee turnover , mortality rates, the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return of retirement plan assets, healthcare inflation cost and
rates of increase in compensation costs. Full details are contained in note 25. The main accounting judgement is the real discount rate, ie the excess
of the discount rate over inflation. If this assumption increased/decreased by 0.1 per cent, the pension obligation would decrease/increase by
approximately £9.7 million (before tax) and the annual service cost would decrease/increase by approximately £0.6 million.
Valuation of intangible assets on acquisition
Estimates are used in the course of acquisitions to determine the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. If any intangible assets are identified,
depending on the type of asset and the complexity of determining its fair value the Group either consults with an independent external valuation
expert or develops the fair value internally, using an appropriate valuation technique which is generally derived from a forecast of the total expected
future net cash flows. Assets may be valued using methods based on cost, market price or net present value, depending on the type of asset and the
availability of information. Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
47
1. Segmental Analysis
The Group considers that business segmental analysis is its primary reporting basis. The Group’s business is divided into a Retail segment and an
Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing segment. Woolworths plc, WMS Jersey Limited and Flogistics Limited are included within the Retail segment,
with Entertainment UK Limited, THE Distribution Limited (‘THE’), Bertram Group Limited (‘Bertram’), Disc Distribution Limited and 2entertain Limited
being the constituents of Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing. MVC Entertainment Limited was disposed of on 30 July 2005 and was shown 
as a discontinued operation in the year ending 28 January 2006. No material trading is undertaken outside the UK and consequently no geographic
segmentation has been shown. 
53 weeks to 3 February 2007 52 weeks to 28 January 2006
Entertainment Entertainment 
Wholesale Wholesale
and and
RetailPublishingUnallocated Total RetailPublishingUnallocated Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Group
— Gross sales 1,813.2 1,331.7 – 3,144.9 1,918.5 1,184.3 – 3,102.8
— Intersegment – (407.9) – (407.9) – (472.1) – (472.1)
Revenue 1,813.2 923.8 – 2,737.0 1,918.5 712.2 – 2,630.7
Operating profit after exceptional items (14.8) 49.2 (7.7) 26.7 30.3 48.2 (7.6) 70.9
Finance costs (14.5) (13.7)
Finance income 3.8 4.3
Profit before taxation 16.0 61.5
T axation (2.4) (20.2)
Profit for the year from continuing 
operations after taxation 13.6 41.3
Discontinued operations
Revenue – external sales – ––– 41.4 – – 41.4
Loss before taxation – – – – (33.9) – – (33.9)
T axation – ––– 2.8 – – 2.8
Loss after taxation for the year from 
discontinued operations – – – – (31.1) – – (31.1)
Profit for the year 13.6 10.2
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders 13.5 10.1
Minority interest 0.1 0.1
13.6 10.2
Included within the amounts shown above for continuing operations are the following amounts in respect of joint ventures:
53 weeks to 3 February 2007 52 weeks to 28 January 2006
Entertainment Entertainment 
Wholesale Wholesale
and and
RetailPublishingUnallocated Total RetailPublishingUnallocated Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue – 62.4 – 62.4 – 63.4 – 63.4
Expenses – (43.4) – (43.4) – (44.8) – (44.8)
Operating profit – 19.0 – 19.0 – 18.6 – 18.6
Finance income 0.6 0.5
Profit before taxation 19.6 19.1
T axation (5.0) (5.8)
Share of post tax profits 14.6 13.3 Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
1. Segmental Analysis continued
Intersegment transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
At 3 February 2007 At 28 January 2006
Entertainment Entertainment 
Wholesale Wholesale
and and
Retail Publishing Unallocated T otal Retail Publishing Unallocated T otal 
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
T otal assets 785.9 614.9 560.3 1,961.1 804.9 468.6 588.3 1,861.8
T otal liabilities 822.4 505.1 316.0 1,643.5 802.5 394.3 362.4 1,559.2
Included within the amounts shown above are the following balances in respect of joint ventures:
Current assets – 43.5 – 43.5 – 41.7 – 41.7
Non-current assets – 3.6 – 3.6 – 3.1 – 3.1
Current liabilities – (33.1) – (33.1) – (34.1) – (34.1)
Net assets – 14.0 – 14.0 – 10.7 – 10.7
Other segment items (including discontinued operations)
Capital expenditure:
— Property , plant and equipment 58.8 8.7 9.3 76.8 47.0 2.3 0.4 49.7
— Intangible assets 3.6 61.2 – 64.8 7.2 3.4 – 10.6
Depreciation of property , plant and equipment 35.0 5.6 – 40.6 39.4 5.7 – 45.1
Impairment of property , plant and equipment (3.0) – – (3.0) 6.1 – – 6.1
Amortisation of intangible assets 8.1 7.5 – 15.6 9.2 6.1 – 15.3
Impairment credit on inventories (2.7) (3.4) – (6.1) (1.4) (0.3) – (1.7)
Impairment of trade receivables (1.1) 0.4 – (0.7) 1.9 1.1 – 3.0
Other non-cash expenses:
— Share-based payments – – 1.2 1.2 – – 1.2 1.2
Unallocated costs represent corporate expenses. Segment assets include property, plant and equipment, goodwill, inventories, debtors and operating
cash. Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities.
Unallocated total assets predominantly consist of cash and bank deposits, and the unallocated total liabilities predominantly represent corporate
borrowings and other sundry creditors.
Segment assets and liabilities for the comparative period have been restated to present them in a consistent manner with the current year .
2. Finance Cost 
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Interest expense:
— Senior Notes (note 20) (6.8) (8.6)
— Bank borrowings (5.7) (1.7)
— Amortisation of Bond and credit facility fees (0.8) (0.9)
— Interest payable on finance leases (0.1) (0.1)
— Net pension funding costs – (2.4)
— Provisions – unwinding of discount (1.1) –
(14.5) (13.7)
3. Finance Income
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Interest income: 
— Cash deposits and liquidity fund instruments 2.5 4.3
— Net pension funding credit 1.3 –
T otal 3.8 4.3
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
48 Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
49
4. Profit for the Y ear
The following items have been charged/(credited) in arriving at the profit/(loss) for the year (including discontinued operations):
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Staff costs (note 5) 296.5 305.2
Depreciation of property , plant and equipment:
— Owned assets 40.4 44.9
— Under finance leases 0.2 0.2
Impairment of property , plant and equipment (3.0) 6.1
Amortisation of intangible assets 15.6 15.3
Loss on disposal of fixed assets 1.7 0.9
Other operating lease rentals payable 
— Plant and machinery 5.4 4.6
— Property 165.6 159.4
Net income from property portfolio transactions, including rental income (8.9) (4.6)
Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property , plant and equipment 17.4 14.9
Inventory impairment (6.1) (1.7)
T rade receivables impairment (0.7) 3.0
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following 
services from the Group’ s auditors at costs as detailed below:
Audit services
— Fees payable to the Company’ s auditors for the audit of parent company and consolidated accounts 0.1 0.2
Non-audit services
Fees payable to the Company’ s auditor and its associates for other services:
— The audit of the Company’ s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation (including that of countries
and territories outside Great Britain) 0.3 0.2
— Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 0.1 0.1
— T ax services – 0.1
— All other services 0.1 0.3
5. Employee Benefit Expense
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Wages and salaries 267.2 270.5
Social security costs 15.7 16.7
Share-based payments 1.2 1.2
Pension costs (note 25) 12.4 16.8
T otal employment costs 296.5 305.2
The prior year comparative for wages and salaries expense has been reduced by £18.9 million to correctly reflect the wages and salaries charge. 
This change has no impact on the prior year result.
Average monthly number of people (including Executive Directors) employed
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
Number Number
Retail 28,546 30,629
Entertainment, Wholesale and Publishing 1,641 1,096
Central 22 29
30,209 31,754
Key management compensation
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Salaries and short-term employee benefits 5.3 5.2
Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.4
Share-based payments 0.3 0.2
T ermination benefits – 0.4
T otal employment costs 5.9 6.2 Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
50
5. Employee Benefit Expense continued
Included in the above amounts are 12 Directors (2006: 11) and 8 employees (2006: 12) who are considered to be key management.
Directors
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Aggregate emoluments 2.9 1.9
Aggregate amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes – –
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes 0.1 0.1
T otal 3.0 2.0
Full disclosure of Directors’ remuneration is given on page 32 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report, which forms part of these financial statements.
6. Exceptional Items
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Continuing operations
‘A-day’ pension credit (note 25) 8.7 –
Reorganisation of big W – 28.1
Other restructuring costs – (3.9)
Cost associated with aborted Apax approach – (1.2)
Recognition of liability arising from joint venture guarantee – (5.2)
8.7 17.8
T axation (2.6) (6.9)
Exceptional items after taxation 6.1 10.9
Discontinued operations
Loss on disposal of MVC business – (25.6)
Costs associated with store closures – (2.7)
T axation – 2.3
Exceptional items after taxation – (26.0)
T otal exceptional items after taxation 6.1 (15.1)
The exceptional credit of £6.1 million (net of tax) reflects the effect of the ‘A-day’ reforms to pensions in relation to the increased amount of future pension
which can be commuted into a lump sum on retirement. This reduces the anticipated cost of meeting the pension scheme’ s ongoing obligations.
Previously , no benefit had been taken in the actuarial estimates for commutation. The evidence, however , is that most people do commute as much of
their pension as possible and therefore the underlying assumptions have been changed to make a prudent estimate of the likely level of commutation. 
Discontinued operations in the prior year relate to the conclusion of the sale of MVC Entertainment Limited to a group of retail investors on 30 July
2005 for a cash consideration of £5.5 million. The pre-tax exceptional item relating to this discontinued operation was £28.3 million, which consisted 
of a £25.6 million loss on disposal of the business (after deducting the £5.5 million proceeds, and providing for stock losses) and £2.7 million of costs
associated with the closure of a number of MVC stores before completion of the disposal.
7. Discontinued Operations
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Revenue – 41.4
T otal costs excluding exceptional items – (47.0)
T rading loss before taxation – (5.6)
T axation – 0.5
T rading loss after taxation from discontinued operations – (5.1)
Exceptional item, analysed as:
Loss on disposal – (25.6)
Costs associated with store closures – (2.7)
T axation – 2.3
T otal exceptional items – (26.0)
Loss after taxation for the year from discontinued operations – (31.1)
Cash flows before exceptional items:
Cash flows from operating activities – (1.8)
Cash flows from investing activities – (0.3) Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
51
7. Discontinued Operations continued
On 30 July 2005, the Group sold MVC Entertainment Limited (MVC), a wholly owned subsidiary to a group of retail investors for £5.5 million in 
cash. The cash was paid following completion. In addition there was a £2.6 million cash outflow from the exceptional store closure programme
undertaken prior to this sale, and a further cash outflow of £2.2 million from disposal costs. The store closure programme and the subsequent 
sale of MVC created an exceptional loss after taxation of £26.0 million. 
On disposal of MVC an agreement was entered into with the acquirer to transfer to Woolworths Group a share of the benefit of tax losses for the 
year ended 28 January 2006 based on the relevant period of ownership of the company. Based on the information provided from the administrators 
of MVC, the Group has recognised the potential benefit of £1.5 million in the current year in respect of further losses to be transferred.
8. T axation
Analysis of charge in period
53 weeks to 3 February 2007 52 weeks to 28 January 2006
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items T otal items items T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Current tax
— Continuing operations (1.4) – (1.4) (15.6) (7.8) (23.4)
— Discontinued operations ––– 0.5 2.3 2.8
(1.4) – (1.4) (15.1) (5.5) (20.6)
Deferred tax – continuing operations 1.6 (2.6) (1.0) 2.3 0.9 3.2
T axation 0.2 (2.6) (2.4) (12.8) (4.6) (17.4)
The taxation charge comprises:
T otal taxation (charge)/credit – continuing operations 0.2 (2.6) (2.4) (13.3) (6.9) (20.2)
T otal taxation credit – discontinued operations ––– 0.5 2.3 2.8
T axation 0.2 (2.6) (2.4) (12.8) (4.6) (17.4)
T ax on items (charged)/credited to equity
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Deferred tax charge on share-based payments (0.1) (0.2)
Deferred tax (charge)/credit on pension scheme actuarial losses (11.9) 9.3
Deferred tax credit/(charge) on movement in derivatives 0.1 (0.6)
T otal deferred tax (charge)/credit (11.9) 8.5
The taxation charge for the year is lower than the standard rate of Corporation T ax in the UK (30 per cent). The differences are explained below:
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Profit before taxation – continuing operations 16.0 61.5
Profit multiplied by rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% (2006: 30%) (4.8) (18.4)
Effects of:
Adjustments to tax in respect of prior periods 5.6 2.6
Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates (0.5) (0.5)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes (2.7) (3.9)
T otal taxation – continuing operations (2.4) (20.2)
9. Dividends
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Final paid 2005/06: 1.34 pence (2004/05: 1.26 pence ) 19.4 18.4
Interim paid 2006/07: 0.43 pence (2005/06: 0.41 pence ) 6.2 5.9
25.6 24.3
The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ending 3 February 2007 of 1.34 pence (2006: 1.34 pence) per share which 
will absorb an estimated £19.4 million of shareholders’ funds. Subject to shareholder approval, it will be paid on 21 June 2007 to members registered 
at the close of business on 10 April 2007. These financial statements do not reflect this recommended dividend.  Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
52
10. Earnings per Share
Basic
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares in issue during the year , excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares (including shares 
held by a trust which are accounted for as treasury shares (note 29).
Diluted
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive
potential ordinary shares. The Company has only one category of dilutive potential shares – share options. For the share options, a calculation is undertaken
to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value (determined as the average annual market share price of the Company’ s
shares) based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to the outstanding share options. The number of shares calculated is then
compared with the number of shares that would have been issued assuming the exercise of the share options to arrive at the number of dilutive shares.
Adjusted
Adjusted earnings per share excludes the effect of exceptional items, the amortisation of certain intangible assets and the fixed rental uplift adjustment.
An IFRIC pronouncement in September 2005 required the total minimum payments across the entire lease term to be recognised on a straight-line
basis across the life of the lease.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below:
2007 Weighted 2006 Weighted
average average
number of Per share number of Per share
Earnings shares amount Earnings shares amount
£m m (pence) £m m (pence)
Basic EPS
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 13.5 1,448.9 0.9 10.1 1,445.3 0.7
Effect of dilutive securities – 0.8 – – 6.7 –
Diluted EPS 13.5 1,449.7 0.9 10.1 1,452.0 0.7
Earnings per share from continuing operations
Basic EPS 13.5 1,448.9 0.9 10.1 1,445.3 0.7
Loss on sale of subsidiary ––– 26.0 – 1.8
Pre-tax losses from discontinued operations ––– 5.6 – 0.3
T ax relating to discontinued operations ––– (0.5) – –
Basic EPS from continuing operations 13.5 1,448.9 0.9 41.2 1,445.3 2.8
Diluted EPS 13.5 1,449.7 0.9 10.1 1,452.0 0.7
Loss on sale of subsidiary ––– 26.0 – 1.8
Pre-tax losses from discontinued operations ––– 5.6 – 0.3
T ax relating to discontinued operations ––– (0.5) – –
Diluted EPS from continuing operations 13.5 1,449.7 0.9 41.2 1,452.0 2.8
Earnings per share from discontinued operations
Basic EPS
Loss on sale of subsidiary – 1,448.9 – (26.0) 1,445.3 (1.8)
Pre-tax losses from discontinued operations ––– (5.6) – (0.3)
T ax relating to discontinued operations ––– 0.5 – –
Basic EPS from discontinued operations – 1,448.9 – (31.1) 1,445.3 (2.1)
Diluted EPS
Loss on sale of subsidiary – 1,449.7 – (26.0) 1,452.0 (1.8)
Pre-tax losses from discontinued operations ––– (5.6) – (0.3)
T ax relating to discontinued operations ––– 0.5 – –
Diluted EPS from discontinued operations – 1,449.7 – (31.1) 1,452.0 (2.1)
Adjusted earnings per share
Earnings per share from continuing operations
Basic EPS 13.5 1,448.9 0.9 10.1 1,445.3 0.7
Fixed rental adjustment (net of tax) 7.4 – 0.5 7.7 – 0.6
Amortisation of certain intangible assets (net of tax) 2.7 – 0.2 1.8 – 0.1
Exceptional items (net of tax) (6.1) – (0.4) (10.9) – (0.7)
T otal loss on discontinued operations (net of tax) ––– 31.1 – 2.1
Adjusted basic EPS from continuing operations 17.5 1,448.9 1.2 39.8 1,445.3 2.8
Diluted EPS 13.5 1,449.7 0.9 10.1 1,452.0 0.7
Fixed rental adjustment (net of tax) 7.4 – 0.5 7.7 – 0.6
Amortisation of certain intangible assets (net of tax) 2.7 – 0.2 1.8 – 0.1
Exceptional items (net of tax) (6.1) – (0.4) (10.9) – (0.7)
T otal loss on discontinued operations (net of tax) ––– 31.1 – 2.1
Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations 17.5 1,449.7 1.2 39.8 1,452.0 2.8 Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
53
11. Goodwill 
Goodwill on
Goodwill on acquisition 
acquisition of of joint
subsidiaries ventures T otal
£m £m £m
Cost
At 29 January 2006 31.2 38.5 69.7
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 33) 29.0 – 29.0
Adjustment to purchase consideration – (0.2) (0.2)
At 3 February 2007 60.2 38.3 98.5
Impairment
At 29 January 2006 and at 3 February 2007 (31.2) (6.6) (37.8)
Net book amount 
At 3 February 2007 29.0 31.7 60.7
Goodwill on
Goodwill on acquisition
acquisition of of joint 
subsidiaries ventures T otal
£m £m £m
Cost
At 30 January 2005 31.2 38.4 69.6
Additions – 0.1 0.1
At 28 January 2006 31.2 38.5 69.7
Impairment
At 30 January 2005 and at 28 January 2006 (31.2) (6.6) (37.8)
Net book amount 
At 28 January 2006 – 31.9 31.9
The acquired goodwill arising on the acquisition of the joint venture has been tested for impairment with reference to its value in use, in accordance
with IAS 36. This calculation was based on the specific five-year projected cash flows of the underlying business approved by management of the
joint venture, and discounted using an applicable post-taxation rate of return of 7.50 per cent (2006: 8.11 per cent). No impairment charges have 
been made.
During the year , the Group acquired goodwill in respect of the THE and Bertram acquisitions. The goodwill arising on the acquisition of THE has 
been tested for impairment and in the opinion of the Directors no adjustment is necessary. This calculation was based on the five-year projected 
cash flows of the underlying business approved by management and included Entertainment UK Limited as part of the cash generating unit. These 
cash flows have been discounted using an applicable post-taxation rate of return of 7.50 per cent. The Directors are of the opinion that there is no
impairment of goodwill in respect of the Bertram acquisition as the fair value equals the purchase consideration given the proximity of the acquisition
to the year end.
The goodwill above is split into the following cash generating units:
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
2entertain 31.7 31.9
EUK/THE 10.7 –
Bertram 18.3 –
60.7 31.9 Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
54
12. Other Intangible Assets
Trade Purchased T otal
Customer name and Underlying copyrights Computer intangible 
relationships brand rights and licences software assets 
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 29 January 2006 – 15.0 30.1 4.1 99.7 148.9
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 33) 22.9 4.9 – – 0.7 28.5
Additions – – – 2.3 5.0 7.3
At 3 February 2007 22.9 19.9 30.1 6.4 105.4 184.7
Amortisation
At 29 January 2006 – (3.7) (4.0) (2.2) (75.2) (85.1)
Charge for the year (0.9) (0.8) (3.0) (1.7) (9.2) (15.6)
At 3 February 2007 (0.9) (4.5) (7.0) (3.9) (84.4) (100.7)
Net book amount
At 3 February 2007 22.0 15.4 23.1 2.5 21.0 84.0
T rade Purchased T otal
Customer name and Underlying copyrights Computer intangible 
relationships brand rights and licences software assets
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 30 January 2005 – 15.0 30.1 2.6 90.6 138.3
Additions – – – 1.5 9.1 10.6
At 28 January 2006 – 15.0 30.1 4.1 99.7 148.9
Amortisation
At 30 January 2005 – (3.0) (1.0) (0.6) (65.2) (69.8)
Charge for the year – (0.7) (3.0) (1.6) (10.0) (15.3)
At 28 January 2006 – (3.7) (4.0) (2.2) (75.2) (85.1)
Net book amount –
At 28 January 2006 – 11.3 26.1 1.9 24.5 63.8
Amortisation of £12.7 million (2006: £12.8 million) is included within administrative expenses, and £2.9 million (2006: £2.5 million) is included 
within cost of goods sold.
Of the other intangible assets, £56.6 million (2006: £31.9 million) is held within the Entertainment, Wholesale and Publishing segment and £27.4 million 
within Retail (2006: £31.9 million).
The customer relationships acquired as a result of the THE acquisition have been valued based on specific customer contracts and customer
relationships with no written contracts with an assessed life of two to five years. There are a number of large contracts which have been separately
identified with an average length of two to three years. Customer relationships are stated at cost less amortisation. Amortisation is calculated on a
straight-line basis over the period of the underlying contract term. A review of impairment has been undertaken. No provision is considered necessary
based on the benefit that will be derived from the ongoing use of these intangible assets.
Intangible assets acquired as a result of the Bertram acquisition relate to customer relationships, a trade name and computer software. These assets
are stated at cost less amortisation with amortisation calculated on a straight-line basis over the useful economic life. The trade name useful economic
life is ten years, the useful economic life of the customer relationships are between five to ten years and software has a useful economic life of five
years. No impairment provision is considered necessary as the fair value equals the purchase consideration given the proximity of the acquisition to
the year end.
The principal brand name within the Retail segment is Ladybird and this is being amortised over 20 years. Underlying rights relate to 2entertain’s
access to the BBC Worldwide archive, which is being amortised over ten years. The purchased copyrights and licences relate to production rights 
for music and video, which are being written off over three to ten years. Computer software is being amortised over five years, with internally
generated software costs representing £3.3 million of additions in the year (2006: £3.4 million) and £11.8 million of the closing net book amount 
(2006: £10.7 million). Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
55
13. Property, Plant and Equipment
Fixtures,
Land and fittings and
buildings equipment T otal
£m £m £m
Cost
At 29 January 2006 7.3 651.8 659.1
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 33) 2.4 5.3 7.7
Additions 9.4 59.7 69.1
Disposals – (23.4) (23.4)
At 3 February 2007 19.1 693.4 712.5
Depreciation
At 29 January 2006 (2.5) (382.4) (384.9)
Charge for the year (0.2) (40.4) (40.6)
Reversal of impairment – 3.0 3.0
Disposals – 21.7 21.7
At 3 February 2007 (2.7) (398.1) (400.8)
Net book amount
At 3 February 2007 16.4 295.3 311.7
Fixtures,
Land and fittings and
buildings equipment T otal
£m £m £m
Cost
At 30 January 2005 11.4 710.1 721.5
Additions 0.4 49.3 49.7
Disposals (4.5) (107.6) (112.1)
At 28 January 2006 7.3 651.8 659.1
Depreciation
At 30 January 2005 (2.3) (432.0) (434.3)
Charge for the year (0.2) (44.9) (45.1)
Impairment – (6.1) (6.1)
Disposals – 100.6 100.6
At 28 January 2006 (2.5) (382.4) (384.9)
Net book amount
At 28 January 2006 4.8 269.4 274.2
Depreciation expense of £4.1 million (2006: £4.4 million) has been charged in costs of sales, £35.0 million (2006: £39.2 million) in selling and marketing
costs, and £1.5 million (2006: £1.5 million) in administrative expenses. Exceptional impairment costs have arisen from a review of the carrying value 
of fixed assets following the reconfiguration of the Woolworths out-of-town estate.
During the year ended 3 February 2007 the Group revised the useful economic lives of certain store fixtures and fittings from ten years to 20 years. 
This revision reduced the depreciation charge for the year by £5.8 million.
During the prior year the Group revised the useful economic lives of certain computers and electronic equipment. This revision reduced the
depreciation charge for the prior year by £0.8 million. 
Assets held under finance leases have the following net book amount:
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Cost 4.3 1.3
Accumulated depreciation (0.5) (0.2)
Net book amount 3.8 1.1 Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
56
14. Fixed Asset Investments
Fixed asset
investments
£m
At 28 January 2006 and 3 February 2007 0.2
Following the issue of additional share capital by DX3 T echnologies Limited, the Group’s shareholding has fallen from 8.25 per cent at 28 January 2006
to 4.0 per cent at 3 February 2007.
15. Investments in Subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost and eliminated on consolidation. All subsidiaries are consolidated. The Directors consider that to give 
full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length. The following information relates to those subsidiary
undertakings and joint ventures whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the figures of the Group and have
been disclosed in accordance with Section 231(5)(6) of the Companies Act 1985. Woolworths Group plc does not hold direct investments in any of the
principal subsidiaries noted below. A full list of investments will be attached to the Annual Return:
Country of Description 
incorporation % owned and of share and
Company and operation voting rights classes owned Main activity
Principal subsidiaries
Entertainment UK Limited Great Britain 100 Ordinary Wholesaling
T otal Home Entertainment Distribution Limited Great Britain 100 Ordinary and preference Wholesaling
Bertram Group Limited* Great Britain 100 Ordinary and preference Wholesaling
Woolworths Media plc (formerly VCI plc) Great Britain 100 Ordinary Holding company
Woolworths Group Finance Limited Great Britain 100 Ordinary Finance
Woolworths plc Great Britain 100 Ordinary Retailing
Flogistics Limited Great Britain 100 Ordinary Sale of gift vouchers
WMS Jersey Limited Jersey 100 Ordinary Internet retailing
WMS Card Services Limited Great Britain 100 Ordinary Card handling services
Woolworths Group Asia Limited Hong Kong 100 Ordinary Product sourcing
Woolworths Insurance (Guernsey) Limited Guernsey 100 Ordinary Insurance
Principal joint venture
2entertain Limited Great Britain 40 Ordinary Publishing
* On 17 January 2007, the Group entered into an irrevocable offer to acquire Bertram Group Limited (‘Bertram’) for £28.9 million, to be paid in cash 
on completion for the share capital. Completion took place on 1 February 2007 following which the Group held all of the Bertram issued share
capital, save certain ‘B’ and ‘C’ ordinary shares together representing less than 0.01 per cent of the total Bertram issued share capital. Following
the year-end, the Group acquired the outstanding ‘B’ ordinary shares and expects, through the statutory ‘squeeze out’ process, to acquire the
outstanding ‘C’ ordinary shares by the middle of April 2007.
16. Inventories
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Raw materials 1.8 1.7
Work in progress 0.3 0.1
Finished goods 375.0 342.4
377.1 344.2
The cost of inventories recognised as expense and included in ‘cost of sales’ amount to £2,545.4 million (2006: £2,469.5 million). Within finished
goods inventories, £80.6 million (2006: £77.1 million) are carried at fair value less costs to sell being lower than cost. 
17. T rade and Other Receivables
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
T rade receivables 249.4 149.6
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (7.6) (8.3)
T rade receivables – net 241.8 141.3
Receivables from joint venture 2.0 –
Other receivables 22.9 33.1
Prepayments and accrued income 36.8 36.6
303.5 211.0
Management has reviewed concentrations of credit risk within trade receivables with reference to the status of the underlying debtors. The only 
credit risk provision identified in excess of the normal requirement for doubtful receivables is a £2.4 million provision in respect of Music Zone Limited
that entered into administration during January 2007 (2006: £2 million provision in respect of Choices Limited, a voucher company that entered into
administration in January 2006).
Certain subsidiaries of the Group have facilities of £40 million (2006: £nil) which enable the Company to receive funds in respect of receivable balances.
The transaction has been accounted for as a collateralised borrowing (note 20). In case of default under the loan agreement, the borrower has the right to
receive the cash flows from receivable cash receipts. Without default the entities will collect the receivables and allocate new receivables as collateral. Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
57
18. Derivative Financial Instruments
Numerical financial instruments disclosures are set out below. Additional disclosures are set out in the accounting policies relating to risk management. 
3 February 2007 28 January 2006
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Interest rate swaps –– ––
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges – (4.0) 1.0 (0.6)
Credit vouchers – (23.5) – (21.5)
T otal – (27.5) 1.0 (22.1)
Current portion – (27.5) 1.0 (22.1)
Forward foreign exchange contracts
The net fair value losses at 3 February 2007 on open forward foreign exchange contracts that hedge the foreign currency risk of anticipated future
purchases are £4.0 million (2006: £0.4 million gain). These will be transferred to the income statement when the related purchases are realised as cost
of goods sold.
Credit vouchers
The fair value of outstanding credit vouchers at 3 February 2007 is the unredeemed face value of all credit vouchers issued and redeemable outside 
of the Group that have not been extinguished, as these are all payable on demand if presented for redemption.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption in respect of short-term debtors and creditors. The disclosure in respect of non-current borrowings
is included in note 20.
19. Cash and Cash Equivalents
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand – 49.7
Short-term bank deposits 4.3 74.8
Short-term liquidity fund investments 24.1 122.8
28.4 247.3
Short-term liquidity fund investments are held in AAA rated funds that give instant access to cash. 
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits was 5.15 per cent (2006: 4.42 per cent), reflecting a 75 basis point increase in the base rate 
year on year . These deposits have an average maturity of three days (2006: 1.5 days). Included within the short-term liquidity fund investments 
is £10.9 million held by Woolworths Insurance (Guernsey) Limited (2006: £9.2 million) which is subject to restrictions.
20. Borrowings
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Current
Bank loans and overdrafts due within one year or on demand:
Unsecured
Bank overdraft 1.3 0.6
Senior Note – 97.8
Bank borrowings 115.4 –
Secured:
Obligations under finance leases 1.1 0.2
Collateralised borrowing (note 17) 12.0 –
T otal due within one year 129.8 98.6
Non-current
Secured:
Obligations under finance leases 1.9 1.0
T otal due after more than one year 1.9 1.0
T otal borrowings 131.7 99.6
Bank borrowings includes drawings from the Group’s committed revolving credit facility, together with uncleared cheques. The terms of the credit
facility were amended during the year with the £225 million facility maturing in August 2009.
The Senior Notes were repaid in November 2006. The Notes were fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by all of the
Company’s material subsidiaries (the Company’s material subsidiaries are as defined in the Offering Circular dated 8 November 2001). The Senior
Notes were denominated in Sterling and bore interest based on a fixed coupon of 8.75 per cent per annum. Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
58
20. Borrowings continued
As part of the interest rate management strategy, the Company entered into an interest rate swap for a notional principal amount of £30 million that
matured in November 2006. Under this swap, the Company received interest on a fixed basis at a rate of 8.75 per cent per annum and paid interest 
on a variable basis.
Finance leases are held at fixed rates of interest.
The exposure of the Group to interest rate changes when borrowings are repriced is as follows:
1 year 1–5 years 5 years T otal
As at 3 February 2007
T otal borrowings 129.8 1.9 – 131.7
Fixed rate borrowings (1.1) (1.9) – (3.0)
Net exposure to interest rate changes (including effect of interest swap) 128.7 – – 128.7
1 year 1–5 years 5 years T otal
As at 28 January 2006
T otal borrowings 98.6 0.8 0.2 99.6
Fixed rate borrowings (68.0) (0.8) (0.2) (69.0)
Net exposure to interest rate changes (including effect of interest swap) 30.6 – – 30.6
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet dates were as follows:
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
% %
Bank overdraft 6.25 5.25
Bank borrowings 6.68 –
Senior Note – 8.75
Collatelarised borrowing 6.25 –
Finance leases 7.80 6.21
The carrying amount of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Sterling 131.7 99.0
Dollar – 0.6
Maturity of Financial Liabilities
The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the Group’s non-current liabilities at 3 February 2007 was as follows:
3 February 2007 28 January 2006
Finance Finance 
Debt leases T otal Debt leases T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
In more than one year but not more than two years – 0.6 0.6 – 0.2 0.2
In more than two years but not more than five years – 1.2 1.2 – 0.7 0.7
In more than five years – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1 0.1
– 1.9 1.9 – 1.0 1.0
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows:
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Not later than one year 1.1 0.2
Later than one year but not more than five 2.1 1.1
More than five years 0.1 0.1
Future finance charges on finance leases (0.3) (0.2)
Present value of finance lease liabilities 3.0 1.2
Fair value of non-current borrowings
3 February 2007 28 January 2006
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m
Obligations under finance leases 1.9 1.9 1.0 1.0
The fair value of current borrowings equals their carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not significant. Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
59
20. Borrowings continued
Borrowing facilities
After the impact of uncleared cheques the Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 3 February 2007 in respect 
of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date:
3 February 28 January 
2007 2006
£m £m
Floating rate
— Expiring between one and two years – –
— Expiring in more than two years 109.6 250.0
109.6 250.0
The facilities incur commitment fees at market rates.
21. T rade and Other Payables
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Current:
T rade creditors 255.3 251.3
Amounts owed to joint ventures – 0.3
Other tax and social security 80.9 91.2
Other creditors 77.3 69.3
Accruals 76.9 112.5
490.4 524.6
Non-current:
Accruals 72.4 61.8
72.4 61.8
Non-current accruals relate to the fixed rental uplifts on property leases, which are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term.
During the year the redemption rate of gift vouchers issued by Flogistics Limited was reviewed in the light of historic experience. This resulted 
in a £3.2 million credit to the income statement during the year .
22. Current T ax Liabilities
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Current tax liabilities 1.4 12.8
23. Provisions
Guarantees Onerous
arising on property
Restructuring Insurance joint venture contracts T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
At 29 January 2006 28.3 7.9 5.2 0.6 42.0
Charged to income statement 3.0 2.6 – 0.1 5.7
Unwinding of discount 1.1 – – – 1.1
Utilised during the year (4.7) (2.5) – – (7.2)
Balance at 3 February 2007 27.7 8.0 5.2 0.7 41.6
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Current 8.5 12.2
Non-current 33.1 29.8
41.6 42.0 Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
60
23. Provisions continued
Restructuring 
The £27.7 million provision remaining at 3 February 2007 has been set up to recognise the expected costs of the reconfiguration of the out-of-town
stores and the majority of this is expected to crystallise within the next three years. 
Insurance
This includes self-insurance provisions, which represent the aggregate of outstanding claims plus a projection of losses incurred but not reported. 
Self-insurance provisions are expected to be utilised over a two to three year period.
Guarantees arising on joint venture
A provision of £5.2 million has been recognised in respect of additional capital contributions for shares issued by 2entertain Limited on formation of
the joint venture, relating to the guaranteed value of the business transferred to 2entertain Limited. The potential liability will be finalised during 2007/08
after the guarantee period ends in September 2007.
Onerous property contracts
Within the onerous property contracts provision, the Group has provided against future liabilities for all long-term idle properties and properties sublet
at a shortfall. The provision is based on the discounted value of future cash outflows relating to rent, rates and service charges based on the remaining
period of the leases, which at 3 February 2007 range between one and 11 years.
24. Deferred T ax
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 30 per cent (2006: 30 per cent).
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when
the deferred taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. 
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below:
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
Note £m £m
At 29 January 2006 22.8 9.4
Deferred tax asset on adoption of IAS 32 and 39 – 1.7
Income statement (charge)/credit (1.0) 3.2
T ax (charged)/credited to equity 8 (11.9) 8.5
Acquisition of subsidiary 33 (8.9) –
At 3 February 2007 1.0 22.8
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of temporary differences, where it is probable that these assets will be recovered. 
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year , without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax
jurisdiction, is as follows:
Property Financial
Pensions leases instruments Other T otal
Deferred tax assets £m £m £m £m £m
At 29 January 2006 39.3 24.7 1.3 3.4 68.7
(Charged)/credited to the income statement (2.2) 3.3 0.9 0.5 2.5
Charged to equity (11.9) – – – (11.9) 
At 3 February 2007 25.2 28.0 2.2 3.9 59.3
Accelerated 
T rade name Computer Revaluation Customer tax Underlying Rolled over
and brand software of property relationships depreciation rights gains T otal
Deferred tax liabilities £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 29 January 2006 – – – – (22.4) (7.8) (15.7) (45.9)
Arising on acquisition of subsidiary (note 33) (1.5) (0.2) (0.3) (6.9) – – – (8.9)
Credited/(charged) to the income statement – – – 0.3 0.7 0.9 (5.4) (3.5)
At 3 February 2007 (1.5) (0.2) (0.3) (6.6) (21.7) (6.9) (21.1) (58.3)
Included within deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are amounts of £58.9 million (2006: £68.7 million) and £53.5 million (2006: £45.0 million)
respectively, for amounts expected to reverse after more than one year .
Bertram had losses brought forward at the time of acquisition by the Group which have not been recognised as a deferred tax asset, as recoverability
is considered uncertain. At 3 February 2007 this asset amounts to £3.2 million. Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
61
24. Deferred T ax continued
The deferred tax credited to equity during the year is as follows:
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Deferred tax charge on share-based payments (0.1) (0.2)
Deferred tax (charge)/credit on pension scheme actuarial losses (11.9) 9.3
Deferred tax credit/(charge) on movement in derivatives 0.1 (0.6)
(11.9) 8.5
The Chancellor’ s Budget Statement of 21 March 2007 announced the reduction in the rate of Corporation T ax from 30 per cent to 28 per cent with effect
from 1 April 2008. It is estimated that this change will reduce the future benefit of the deferred tax asset by £0.1 million.
25. Retirement Benefit Obligations
A number of pension schemes operate within the Group. These are the Woolworths Group Pension Scheme (a defined benefit scheme), the
Woolworths Group Retirement T rust (a defined contribution scheme) and the Legal & General Stakeholder Plan for Woolworths Group employees.
Colleagues who joined after 3 June 2003 are no longer eligible to join the Woolworths Group Retirement T rust, although existing membership is
allowed to continue at present. Employees of T otal Home Entertainment Distribution Limited participate in the T otal Home Entertainment Group
Pension Scheme, a defined contribution scheme. Employees of Bertram Group Limited participate in the Bertram Group Personal Pension Scheme, 
a defined contribution scheme.
The pension costs for the defined contribution scheme are as follows:
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Defined contribution schemes 0.3 0.3
The most recent valuation of the Woolworths Group Pension Scheme was performed by Hewitt Associates as at 3 February 2007. The principal
assumptions made are:
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
% per annum% per annum
Discount rate 5.5 4.9
Expected return on plan assets 7.7 7.7
Future salary increases 3.5 3.3
Future pension increases 
— Pre April 2006 service 2.9 2.7
— Post April 2006 service 2.3 2.1
Inflation assumption 2.9 2.7
The main financial assumption is the real discount rate, ie the excess of the discount rate over inflation. If this assumption increased/decreased 
by 0.1 per cent, the pension obligation would decrease/increase by approximately £9.7 million (before tax) and the annual service cost would
decrease/increase by approximately £0.6 million.
The assumptions used for future life expectancy for members have changed since the last accounting disclosures were produced. The mortality
tables adopted for this year are PM/FA92C2017 for current pensioners and PM/FA92C2027 for future pensioners. Further allowances for improving
longevity are included, in the form of ‘short cohort’ mortality improvements: 
— the assumed average age at death for a current 60-year-old pensioner is 85.6 for a male (previously 83.8) and 88.5 for a female (previously 86.0);
— the assumed average age at death for current active and deferred members when they reach age 60 is 86.4 for a male (previously 83.8) and 
89.2 for a female (previously 86.0).
An allowance has been made for commutation (members taking tax-free cash rather than pension at retirement). This has been allowed 
for in the following way:
— the effect of introducing an allowance for commutation at pre 6 April 2006 levels has been incorporated on to the balance sheet via the SoRIE. 
For this purpose, we have assumed that 15 per cent of the retirement pension is converted to lump sum with the remaining 85 per cent taken 
as pension; and
— the effect of allowing for the increased commutation lump sums after 6 April 2006 has been incorporated on to the balance sheet via the income
statement (note 6). For this purpose, we have assumed that the amount of retirement pension taken as lump sum increases to 25 per cent with 
the remaining 75 per cent taken as pension.
The majority of scheme assets are invested in equities with an expected rate of return of 8.5 per cent per annum (2006: 8.25 per cent per annum). 
The expected return on scheme assets is based on market expectation at the beginning of the period for returns over the entire life of the 
benefit obligation. Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
62
25. Retirement Benefit Obligations continued
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows:
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Present value of funded obligations (400.0) (416.8)
Fair value of scheme assets 316.0 285.9
Present value of unfunded obligations (gross) (84.0) (130.9)
Deferred tax (see note 24) 25.2 39.3
Net deficit (58.8) (91.6)
The major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets are as follows:
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
% %
Equities 72.0 82.4
Bonds 18.2 17.0
Other 9.8 0.6
The pension scheme assets include ordinary shares issued by Woolworths Group plc with a fair value of £nil (2006: £nil).
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Current service cost 22.1 14.1
Past service credit (8.7) –
Expected return on scheme assets (21.1) (15.3)
Interest cost 19.8 17.7
T otal included in staff costs (note 5) 12.1 16.5
Employer pension contributions have increased as most pension scheme members have agreed to sacrifice part of their salary with a corresponding
amount paid directly to the pension scheme by their employing company.
Of the total charge, £13.4 million (2006: £14.1 million) is included in selling, marketing and administrative expenses, with £1.3 million credit (2006: 
£2.4 million charge) included in interest payable and similar charges. The past service credit of £8.7 million reflects the effect of the ‘A-day’ reforms to
pensions in relation to the increased amount of future pension which can be commuted into a lump sum on retirement. This reduces the anticipated
cost of meeting the pension scheme’s ongoing obligations.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows:
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Opening present value of obligation (416.8) (320.8)
Service cost (22.1) (14.1)
Interest cost (19.8) (17.7)
Net benefits paid out 9.6 4.6
Contributions by scheme participants (1.2) (5.5)
Past service cost 8.7 –
Actuarial gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities 41.6 (63.3)
Present value of obligation at 3 February 2007 and 28 January 2006 (400.0) (416.8) Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
63
25. Retirement Benefit Obligations continued
Changes in the fair value of the scheme assets are as follows:
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Opening fair value of scheme assets 285.9 223.3
Expected return on scheme assets 21.1 15.3
Contributions by the employer 19.5 14.2
Contributions by scheme participants 1.2 5.5
Benefits paid (9.6) (4.6)
Actuarial (losses)/gains on scheme assets (2.1) 32.2
Fair value of scheme assets at 3 February 2007 and 28 January 2006 316.0 285.9
The movement in the liability recognised in the balance sheet is as follows:
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Beginning of the year (130.9) (97.5)
Net actuarial gains/(losses) on scheme assets/liabilities 39.5 (31.1)
T otal expenses charged in the income statement (12.1) (16.5)
Contributions paid by employer 19.5 14.2
End of the year (84.0) (130.9)
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense:
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Beginning of year (31.7) (0.6)
Net actuarial gains/(losses) in the year 39.5 (31.1)
End of the year 7.8 (31.7)
The actual return on scheme assets was £19.0 million (2006: £47.5 million).
History of experience gains and losses:
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 52 weeks to
3 February 28 January 29 January
2007 2006 2005
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets:
Amount (£m) (2.1) 32.2 2.7
Percentage of scheme assets 0.7% 11.2% 1.2%
Experience adjustment arising on scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m) 1.1 (13.5) 5.8
Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities 0.3% 3.2% 1.8%
Y ear-end position
Present value of scheme liabilities (£m) (400.0) (416.8) (320.8)
Fair value of scheme assets (£m) 316.0 285.9 223.3
Deficit (£m) (84.0) (130.9) (97.5)
The contribution expected to be paid during the financial year ending January 2008 amounts to £21.4 million. Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
64
26. Ordinary Shares
Number Nominal 
of shares value
m£m
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each at 30 January 2005, 28 January 2006 and 3 February 2007 1,600.00 200.00
Called up and fully paid
At 30 January 2005 1,435.1 179.4
Allotted under share option schemes 21.8 2.7
At 29 January 2006 1,456.9 182.1
Allotted under share option schemes 2.1 0.3
At 3 February 2007 1,459.0 182.4
The number of ordinary shares issued during the year was 2,053,239 with a nominal value of £0.3 million relating to the Executive and ShareSave
options exercised for a cash consideration of £0.7 million.
Potential issues of ordinary shares
Certain current and former senior executives hold options to subscribe for shares in the Company at prices ranging from 30.5 pence to 50 pence
under the Executive Share Option Schemes approved by shareholders in 2001 and 2002. In addition, 4,012 employees hold options to subscribe 
for shares in the Company at prices ranging from 33 pence to 40.5 pence under the ShareSave Plan. Options over 2,053,239 new issue shares were
exercised in the 53 weeks ending 3 February 2007. The number of shares which may potentially be issued on exercise of options, the periods in which
they were granted and the periods in which they may be exercised are given below:
Potential Potential
Exercise share issues share issues
Date of price 2007 2006
grant (pence) Exercise period (number) (number)
Executive Share Options 26/09/01 30.5 26/09/04 – 25/09/11 394,966 423,326
24/04/02 50.0 24/04/05 – 23/04/12 4,076,878 5,153,686
11/09/02 31.5 11/09/05 – 10/09/12 2,336,165 4,837,182
27/03/03 30.5 27/03/06 – 26/03/13 4,150,162 5,898,355
11/09/03 43.5 11/09/06 – 10/09/13 4,780,171 5,614,283
25/03/04 41.5 25/03/07 – 24/03/14 4,628,747 5,489,765
ShareSave Options 06/06/02 51.0 01/08/05 – 31/01/06 – 3,820,184
27/05/03 34.50 01/08/06 – 31/01/07 292,731 8,187,948
28/05/04 40.50 01/08/07 – 31/01/08 6,118,714 7,613,077
27/05/05 36.0 01/08/08 – 31/01/09 9,359,301 11,895,117
02/06/06 33.0 01/08/09 – 31/01/10 9,719,818 –
45,857,653 58,932,923
Senior Executives also hold share awards made under the Woolworths Group Annual Incentive Plan and Performance Share Plan. No new shares
have been or will be issued in respect of these awards.
Employee share-based payment plans
The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans was £1.2 million (2006: £1.2 million), all of which related to equity-settled,
share-based payment transactions. After deferred tax, the total charge was £1.0 million (2006: £1.9 million). Further details of the share-based payment
plans are provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Share options
Under the Executive Share Option Schemes, participants were granted options on a half-yearly basis depending on their position in the Group. 
The option exercise price was the market price at the time of the grant. Subject to the attainment of performance targets, options are capable of
exercise after at least three years and within ten years of the date of grant. For options granted after September 2001, the performance target is
growth in Earnings per Share (EPS) as defined in the relevant scheme rules. For full vesting, EPS must increase by a minimum of 6 per cent per annum
(in addition to the increase in the Retail Prices Index). There is a facility for one retest at the fourth anniversary of grant. No further options have been
granted since 25 March 2004.
Under the ShareSave Plan, eligible UK employees can enter into an Inland Revenue approved savings contract for a period of three years whereby
shares may be acquired with repayments under the contract. The option exercise price is the average market price over three days shortly before an
offer is made. No discount has been applied and the options are exercisable within a six-month period from the date the savings contract matures.
The rules of the Executive Share Option Schemes and ShareSave Plan include provision for the early exercise of options in certain circumstances. Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
65
26. Ordinary Shares continued
Options were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations. 
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years. The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The 
risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. Options for ShareSave
participants who cease their savings contracts are treated as having been forfeited. The fair value per option granted during the year and the
assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
ShareSave options
Grant date 2007 2006
Share price at grant date 33.0p 36.0p
Exercise price 33.0p 36.0p
Shares under option
Vesting period (years) 3.18 3.18
Expected volatility 30% 40%
Option life (years) 3.6 3.6
Expected life (years) 3.3 3.3
Risk-free rate 4.7% 4.3%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 5.6% 4.7%
Fair value per option 5.6p 8.6p
Possibility of ceasing employment before vesting 46% 56%
Expectations of meeting performance criteria 100% 100%
A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 3 February 2007 is shown below:
2007 2006
Weighted Weighted 
Number average Number average 
of options exercise of options exercise 
(000’s) price (000’s) price
At start of the year 60,813 38.6 87,904 36.9p
Granted 10,547 33.0 12,934 36.0p
Forfeited (22,086) 38.8 (15,281) 39.0p
Exercised (2,346) 31.3 (24,744) 31.0p
Expired –– ––
Outstanding at end of year 46,928 37.6 60,813 38.6p
Exercisable at end of year 10,556 41.4 20,376 41.5p
The table above includes 1,070,000 options outstanding at the end of the year which will be satisfied by shares held in the Employee Share Ownership
Plan T rust (ESOP) should they be exercised.
2007 2006
Weighted Weighted 
Weighted average Weighted average
Range of average contractual Range of average contractual
exercise exercise Number remaining exercise exercise Number remaining
price price of shares life price price of shares life
30.5p – 50p 37.6p 46,928 4.0 years 30.5p – 51p 38.6p 60,813 4.4 years
The weighted average share price during the period for options exercised over the year was 35.1 pence (2006: 51.1 pence). 
Share Awards
Share Awards have been made under six different Incentive Plans, with further details of these Plans given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report:
— the Performance Share Plan, under which awards are made every six months to Directors of operating companies in the Group. The awards 
will vest dependent on the achievement of Earnings Per Share (EPS) targets and T otal Shareholder Return (TSR) targets.
— the Annual Incentive Plan, under which awards are made to Directors and Senior Executives following the announcement of the annual results.
Awards vest after three years with no further performance targets;
— the Share Award Plan, under which awards were made in June 2005 to over 1,000 managers in the Group. Awards vest after two years with 
no performance targets;
— the Long T erm Incentive Plan for T revor Bish-Jones, under which awards were made in September 2005. In June 2008 one-third of the award 
will vest with no performance target and the remaining two-thirds will vest if TSR targets are met;
— the Share Investment Plan for Senior Executives, under which awards were made in June 2006; and
— the Long T erm Incentive Plan for T ony Page, under which an award was made in October 2006. The award will vest in August 2009 with no
performance target. Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
66
26. Ordinary Shares continued
The fair value for all Share Awards has been determined as the share price at the award date less the expected dividends to be paid over the life 
of the award. For awards where there is a TSR performance condition the Group have adjusted the fair value used to reflect the likelihood of this
condition being achieved for awards made in the current year . The assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
2007 2006
Performance Performance 
Share Plans Share Plans
Date of award 27/4/06 20/10/06 20/10/06 19/04/05 28/09/05
Share price at award date 34.0p 36.0p 36.0p 38.5p 34.25p
Shares subject to the award 2,335,382 1,691,014 1,691,014 2,572,182 2,249,781
Vesting period (years) 333 33
Award life (years) 333 33
Expected life (years) 333 33
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 5.26% 4.95% 4.95% 4.70% 4.90%
Fair value per award 29.0p 31.0p 31.0p 33.0p 29.2p
Expectations of meeting performance criteria 22.5% 22.5% 11.25% 0% 0%
2007 2006
Annual Annual 
Incentive Incentive 
Plan Plan
Date of award 06/04/06 27/04/06 19/04/05
Share price at award date 34.5p 34.0p 38.5p
Shares subject to the award 992,525 271,907 1,748,205
Vesting period (years) 33 3
Award life (years) 33 3
Expected life (years) 33 3
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 4.93% 5.26% 4.70%
Fair value per award 29.8p 29.0p 33.0p
Expectations of meeting performance criteria N/A N/A N/A
2007 2006
Share
Investment T Page Share T Bish-Jones T Bish-Jones
Plan L TIP Award Awards L TIP Award L TIP Award
Date of award 30/06/06 31/08/06 28/06/05 28/09/05 28/09/05
Share price at award date 31.0p 32.5p 36.5p 34.25p 34.25p
Shares subject to the award 602,353 923,076 2,580,000 1,325,967 2,651,934
Vesting period (years) 23 2 2.75 2.75
Award life (years) 23 2 2.75 2.75
Expected life (years) 23 2 2.75 2.75
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 5.56% 4.95% 4.70% 4.70% 4.70%
Fair value per award 27.7p 28.00p 33.1p 31.15p 31.15p
Expectations of meeting performance criteria N/A 100% N/A 100% 25% Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
67
27. Share Premium
£m
At 30 January 2005 5.2
Premium on shares issued during the year under the share option schemes 4.1
At 28 January 2006 9.3
Premium on shares issued during the year under the share option schemes 0.4 
At 3 February 2007 9.7 
28. Other Reserves
Other Merger
reserves reserves T otal
£m £m £m
At 30 January 2005 – 24.1 24.1
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 for hedged financial instruments (net of tax) (1.4) – (1.4)
At 30 January 2005 (1.4) 24.1 22.7 
Cash flow hedges:
— Fair value gains net of tax 2.9 – 2.9
— T ransfer to stock net of tax (1.5) – (1.5) 
At 28 January 2006 – 24.1 24.1
Cash flow hedges:
— Fair value gains net of tax (6.2) – (6.2)
— T ransfer to stock net of tax 4.1 – 4.1
At 3 February 2007 (2.1) 24.1 22.0
29. Retained Earnings
Shares Total
Retained held retained
earnings by T rust earnings
£m £m £m
At 30 January 2005 125.1 (4.1) 121.0
Profit for the year 10.1 – 10.1
Dividends (24.3) – (24.3)
Actuarial loss arising on defined benefit scheme (21.8) – (21.8)
Share-based payments 1.0 – 1.0
Sale of own shares held by T rust – 1.0 1.0
At 28 January 2006 90.1 (3.1) 87.0
Profit for the year 13.5 – 13.5
Dividends (25.6) – (25.6)
Actuarial profit arising on defined benefit scheme 27.7 – 27.7
Share-based payments 1.0 – 1.0
Sale of own shares held by T rust – (0.1) (0.1)
At 3 February 2007 106.7 (3.2) 103.5
Shares held by T rust
Interests in own shares held by T rust represents the cost of 8,838,926 (2006: 9,335,846) of the Company’s ordinary shares. The nominal value is 
£1.1 million (2006: £1.2 million). These shares were acquired by a T rust in the open market using funds provided by Woolworths Group plc to meet
obligations under the Employee Share Schemes and they are accounted for as treasury shares. The costs of funding and administering the scheme
are charged to the income statement of the Company in the period to which they relate. The market value of the shares at 3 February 2007 
was £3.0 million (2006: £2.8 million). The T rust has waived its rights to dividends.  Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
68
30. Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Share Share Other Shares held Retained Minority T otal
capital premium reserves by T rust earnings T otal interest equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 30 January 2005 179.4 5.2 22.7 (4.1) 125.1 328.3 – 328.3 
Profit for the year – – – – 10.1 10.1 0.1 10.2 
Dividends – – – – (24.3) (24.3) – (24.3)
Issue of shares 2.7 4.1 – – – 6.8 – 6.8
Cash flow hedges:
— Fair value of gains net of tax – – 2.9 – – 2.9 – 2.9
— T ransfer to stock net of tax – – (1.5) – – (1.5) – (1.5)
Actuarial loss arising on defined benefit scheme – – – – (21.8) (21.8) – (21.8)
Share-based payments – – – – 1.0 1.0 – 1.0
Sale of own shares held by T rust – – – 1.0 – 1.0 – 1.0
At 28 January 2006 182.1 9.3 24.1 (3.1) 90.1 302.5 0.1 302.6
Profit for the year – – – – 13.5 13.5 0.1 13.6
Dividends – – – – (25.6) (25.6) – (25.6)
Issue of shares 0.3 0.4 – – – 0.7 – 0.7 
Cash flow hedges:
— Fair value of gains net of tax – – (6.2) – – (6.2) – (6.2)
— T ransfer to stock net of tax – – 4.1 – – 4.1 – 4.1
Actuarial loss arising on defined benefit scheme – – – – 27.7 27.7 – 27.7
Share-based payments – – – – 1.0 1.0 – 1.0
Purchase of minority interest – ––––– (0.2) (0.2)
Net transaction in own shares held by T rust – – – (0.1) – (0.1) – (0.1)
At 3 February 2007 182.4 9.7 22.0 (3.2) 106.7 317.6 – 317.6
During the year , as part of the joint venture with BBC Worldwide Ltd, the Group funded a £2.8 million acquisition of the minority interest in Banana Split
Productions Limited by 2entertain Limited.
31. Cash Generated from Operations
Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities:
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Continuing operations
Profit for the year 13.6 41.3
Adjustments for:
— T axation 2.4 20.2
— Depreciation, amortisation and impairments 53.2 65.6
— Share-based payments 1.2 1.0
— Loss/(profit) on sale of property , plant and equipment 1.7 (0.1)
— Interest income (3.8) (4.3)
— Interest expense 14.5 13.4
— ‘A-day’ pension credit (8.7) –
Changes in working capital (excluding the effect of acquisitions):
— Inventories 7.4 (19.3)
— T rade and other receivables (37.9) (14.0)
— T rade and other payables and provisions (83.2) 29.9
T otal cash (utilised in)/generated from continuing operations (39.6) 133.7
Discontinued operations – excluding loss on disposal
Loss for the year – (5.5)
Adjustments for:
— T axation – (2.8)
— Depreciation – 0.9
— Loss on sale of property , plant and equipment – 1.0
— Interest expense – 0.3
Changes in working capital (excluding the effect of business disposal):
— Inventories – 9.1
— T rade and other receivables – 2.8
— T rade and other payables and provisions – (10.0)
T otal cash utilised in discontinued operations – (4.2)
Cash (utilised in)/generated from operations (39.6) 129.5 Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
69
32. Net (Debt)/Funds
Group net (debt)/funds comprise the following:
At At
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 28.4 247.3 
Bank overdrafts (1.3) (0.6)
Finance leases (3.0) (1.2)
Senior notes – (97.8)
Bank borrowing (115.4) –
Collatoralised borrowing (12.0) –
Net (debt)/funds at end of year (103.3) 147.7
33. Acquisitions 
T otal Home Entertainment Distribution Limited (THE)
On 5 September 2006 the Group acquired the entire share capital of AMP Enterprises Limited, the holding company for T otal Home Entertainment
Distribution Limited (THE), for £20.3 million from 3i. From the date of acquisition to 3 February 2007 THE contributed £153 million to turnover , £1.6 million
loss before amortisation and interest, and £2.3 million loss before amortisation, but after interest. THE consumed £7.4 million of the Group’s net
operating cash flows, paid £0.3 million in respect of interest, £0.6 million in respect of taxation and utilised £nil for capital expenditure.
The assets and liabilities as at 5 September 2006 arising from the acquisition were as follows:
Carrying values Provisional
pre-acquisition fair value
£m £m
Intangible fixed assets – customer relationships – 9.2
Property , plant and equipment 1.3 1.3
T rade and other receivables 34.3 34.3
Inventories 23.6 23.6
T rade and other payables (28.3) (28.3)
Deferred tax liability – (2.8)
Overdraft (8.5) (8.5)
Collateralised borrowing (17.7) (17.7)
Fair value of net assets acquired 11.1
Goodwill 10.7
T otal purchase consideration 21.8
Consideration satisfied by:
Cash 20.3
Direct costs relating to the acquisition 1.5
Purchase consideration settled in cash 21.8
Overdraft in subsidiary acquired 8.5
Cash outflow on acquisition 30.3 
The goodwill is attributable to the workforce of the acquired business and the significant synergies expected to arise after the Group’s acquisition.
A fair value review has been carried out on the assets and liabilities of the business, resulting in identification of intangible assets (note 12) and 
a deferred tax liability. No further adjustments have been required to the carrying values, however the provisional fair values will be finalised within 
12 months of the acquisition date. Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
70
33. Acquisitions continued
Bertram Group Limited (‘Bertram’)
On 17 January 2007 the Group entered into an irrevocable offer for Bertram Group Limited (Bertram) and by 3 February 2007 had acquired the vast
majority of the share capital, for £28.9 million, paid in cash.
From the date of acquisition to 3 February 2007 Bertram contributed £5.9 million to turnover , £0.1million to profit before interest and amortisation, 
and £nil to profit before amortisation, but after interest. Bertram consumed £8.7 million of the Group’s net operating cash flows, paid £nil in respect 
of interest, £nil in respect of taxation and utilised £nil for capital expenditure. 
The assets and liabilities as at 17 January 2007 arising from the acquisition were as follows:
Carrying values Provisional
pre-acquisition fair value
£m £m
Property , plant and equipment 5.0 6.4
Intangible fixed assets – 19.3
T rade and other receivables 20.3 20.3
Inventories 16.7 16.7
T rade and other payables (27.8) (27.8)
Corporation tax liability (0.6) (0.6)
Deferred tax liability – (6.1)
Overdraft (2.5) (2.5)
Borrowings (13.7) (13.8)
Fair value of net liabilities acquired 11.9
Goodwill 18.3
T otal purchase consideration 30.2
Consideration satisfied by:
Cash 28.9
Direct costs relating to the acquisition 1.3
Purchase consideration settled in cash 30.2
Overdraft in subsidiary acquired 2.5
Cash outflow on acquisition 32.7
The goodwill is attributable to the workforce of the acquired business and the significant synergies expected to arise after the Group’s acquisition.
A fair value review has been carried out on the assets and liabilities of the business, resulting in identification of intangible assets (note 12) and a
deferred tax liability. An adjustment has also been made to the carrying value of the freehold property which has been increased from £0.9 million 
to £2.3 million and a £0.1 million adjustment to borrowings. The provisional fair values will be finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition of Bertram can be analysed as follows:
£m
Customer relationships 13.7
Computer software 0.7
T rade name 4.9
T otal 19.3
The pro forma consolidated results of the Group if the acquisition of THE and Bertram had been made at the beginning of the period would have been:
53 weeks to 
3 February 
2007
£m
Revenue 3,065
Operating profit 30
The pro forma consolidated results include adjustments to give effect to amortisation of acquired intangible assets other than goodwill and certain
other adjustments together with their related tax effects. This information is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that would have
occurred had the purchase been made at the beginning of the period presented or the future results of the combined operations. Notes to the Group Accounts
continued
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Group Accounts
71
34. Operating Lease Commitments 
The Group leases various retail outlets, offices, warehouses and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have
varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, analysed by the expiry date of the underlying lease
agreements, are as follows:
3 February 2007 28 January 2006
Land and Plant and Land and Plant and
buildings equipment buildings equipment
£m £m £m £m
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring:
Within one year 149.2 4.4 146.7 3.9
Later than one year and not later than five years 599.7 9.0 592.8 8.7
After five years 1,812.7 0.8 1,948.8 1.1
35. Contingent Liabilities
On the formation of 2entertain Limited, the Group agreed to guarantee the value of the business transferred to 2entertain Limited for a period of three
years to September 2007. No liability was incurred in respect of the first year and a provision of £5.2 million has been recognised during 2005/06 
in respect of the second and third years. During 2006/07 the second year liability has been calculated as £3.5 million and will be settled in 2007/08.
The balance of the provision, £1.7 million, is felt to be sufficient to cover the third year liability.
36. Capital and Other Financial Commitments
Capital commitments
Capital commitments contracted but not provided for by the Group amounted to £nil (2006: £nil).
37. Related Party T ransactions 
The following transactions were carried out with related parties:
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Provision of management services to joint ventures
2entertain Limited 0.1 0.3
0.1 0.3
Purchases of goods and services from joint ventures
2entertain Limited 39.0 33.3
39.0 33.3
Y ear-end balances arising from sales/purchases of goods
Receivable/(payable) to joint ventures:
2entertain Limited 2.0 (0.3) Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Five Y ear Record
72
Five Y ear Record (Unaudited)
Goods are bought on an arm’s length basis.
IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m
Income statement
Continuing operations
Revenue 2,737.0 2,630.7 2,742.4 2,774.7 2,690.5
Cost of goods sold (2,045.8) (1,934.7) (2,015.5) (1995.9) (1,934.2)
Gross profit 691.2 696.0 726.9 778.8 756.3
Selling and marketing costs (567.7) (534.1) (560.2) (578.8) (565.0)
Administrative expenses (120.3) (112.9) (177.5) (138.4) (146.7)
Other operating income 23.5 21.9 19.0 14.1 11.1
Operating profit 26.7 70.9 8.2 75.7 55.7
Share of operating profit and loss in joint venture – – – 1.2 (1.6)
Operating profit/(loss) including joint ventures 26.7 70.9 8.2 76.9 54.1
Non-operating exceptional items – – – – (5.5)
Profit before interest 26.7 70.9 8.2 76.9 48.6
Net finance costs (10.7) (9.4) (11.1) (10.2) (10.6)
Profit/(loss) for the year before taxation 16.0 61.5 (2.9) 66.7 38.0
T axation (2.4) (20.2) (4.6) (20.6) (12.7)
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 13.6 41.3 (7.5) 46.1 25.3
Discontinued operations – (31.1) (0.6) – –
Profit /(loss) for the year 13.6 10.2 (8.1) 46.1 25.3
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 13.5 10.1 (8.3) 46.1 25.2
Minority interests 0.1 0.1 0.2 – 0.1
Earnings/(loss) per share (pence)
Basic 0.9 0.7 (0.6) 3.3 1.8
Diluted 0.9 0.7 (0.6) 3.3 1.7
Balance sheet
Goodwill 60.7 31.9 31.8 45.9 49.0
Intangible assets 84.0 63.8 68.5 12.8 14.7
Property , plant and equipment 311.7 274.2 287.2 323.7 332.6
Investments 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2
Deferred tax assets 1.0 22.8 9.4 – –
T otal fixed assets 457.6 392.9 397.1 382.6 396.5
Net current assets 51.4 133.2 202.4 201.0 159.9
Non-current liabilities (191.4) (222.5) (167.5) (27.8) (27.3)
Non-current borrowings – (1.0) (99.6) (98.5) (98.0)
Net assets 317.6 302.6 332.4 457.3 431.1
T otal shareholders’ equity 317.6 302.5 332.4 457.1 430.8
Minority interest in equity – 0.1 – 0.2 0.3
T otal equity 317.6 302.6 332.4 457.3 431.1
Notes:
1. The five-year record has been restated for the reclassification of advertising contributions from suppliers between cost of sales and selling expenses and the impact of UITF 38 ‘Accounting for ESOP T rusts’.
2. Earnings per share have been restated to reflect the effect of dilutive shares.
3. 2006 and 2005 have been restated for the effect of the disposal of MVC.
4. 2006 and 2005 have been restated for the effect of IFRS, primarily the adjustments arising on the application of IAS 19 on pensions, SIC 15 on leases and the IFRIC fixed rentals uplift pronouncement. Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Independent Auditors’ Report
73
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Woolworths Group plc for the year ended 3 February 2007 which comprise the Balance
Sheet and the related notes. These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have
also audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Woolworths Group plc for the year ended 3 February 2007.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent company financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out 
in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been
prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our opinion, the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent
company financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors’ Report, the unaudited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Chairman’s Statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company
financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of Audit Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the 
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by 
the Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with
sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error . In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
— the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, 
of the state of the Company’ s affairs as at 3 February 2007; 
— the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
— the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
27 March 2007
Independent Auditors’ Report 
to the Members of Woolworths Group plc (the ‘Company’) Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Company Balance Sheet
74
Company Balance Sheet
At 3 February 2007 and 28 January 2006
3 February 28 January 
2007 2006
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
T angible fixed assets 3 – –
Investment in subsidiaries 4 205.0 204.0
Current assets
Debtors 5 443.8 286.3
Cash at bank and in hand 6 2.7 195.6
446.5 481.9
Current assets
Creditors due within one year 7 (331.2) (385.0)
Financial instruments 9 (3.2) (3.5)
(334.4) (388.5)
Net current assets 112.1 93.4
Net assets 317.1 297.4
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 10 182.4 182.1
Share premium 11 9.7 9.3
Merger reserve 11 24.1 24.1
Profit and loss account 11 100.9 81.9
Equity shareholders’ funds 317.1 297.4
The financial statements on pages 74 to 79 were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 March 2007 and were signed on its behalf by:
Stephen East Gerald Corbett
Finance Director Chairman Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Company Accounts
75
Notes to the Company Accounts
Accounting Policies for the Y ear Ended 3 February 2007
The financial statements of the Company are prepared under the historical cost convention and are prepared in accordance with applicable
accounting standards in the United Kingdom and the Companies Act 1985. The principal accounting policies adopted in the presentation of these
financial statements are set out below, together with an explanation of where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new
accounting standards in the year . These policies have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of Preparation
The financial statements of the Company are made up to the nearest Saturday to 31 January each year . The financial year for 2007 represents the 
53 weeks ended 3 February 2007. The comparative financial year for 2006 was the 52 weeks ended 28 January 2006.
A separate Company Profit and Loss Account, dealing with the results of Woolworths Group plc (the Company) has not been presented, 
as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Dividends
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Investment in Subsidiaries
Investment in subsidiaries includes the cost of share-based payments in respect of the ordinary shares of Woolworths Group plc that have been
granted to employees of companies of which Woolworths Group plc is the ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying 
a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment. An impairment review is performed if and when required by Directors.
Fixtures, Fittings and Equipment
T angible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is provided where it is necessary to reflect
a reduction from book value to the estimated residual value over the estimated useful life of the asset to the Company.
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is calculated by the straight-line method and the annual rates applicable to the principal categories are between
10 per cent and 50 per cent.
Current T axation
The taxation charge for the current year is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed. 
It is calculated using the rates that have been enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred T axation
Deferred taxation is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their
carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. The deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted by the balance
sheet date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences
can be utilised.
Pensions
The Company is a member of the Woolworths Group Pension Scheme (‘WGPS’) and the defined contribution scheme of Woolworths Group plc, 
the Woolworths Group Retirement T rust (‘WGRT’).
All employees are entitled to join the WGPS after completion of one year’s service. The WGPS is a defined benefit pension scheme. The Company also
facilitates a Stakeholder pension arrangement for employees and makes contributions to a defined contribution pension scheme, the WGRT , which was
closed to new entrants in June 2003 and currently has 63 active members (2006: 122 active members).
As the Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of WGPS on a measurable and consistent basis, the exemption
allowed under FRS 17 has been taken so that the pension costs charged to the income statement of the Company is the contribution payable to the
WGPS. Recognition of all the Scheme assets and obligations under FRS 17 has been included in the financial statements of Woolworths plc, the
company in the Group that employs the majority of active members of the Scheme. Detailed disclosures in respect of the WGPS are also included 
in the financial statements of Woolworths plc.
Share-based Payments
The Company no longer grants share options under its Executive Share Option Schemes. Instead, Share Awards are made to senior management
which vest dependent in part on performance targets being met. A Savings Related Share Option Scheme, which is open to all UK employees,
continues to operate. The fair value of all share-based payments is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in the profit
and loss account reserve over the vesting period. The proceeds received on the exercise of share options, net of any directly attributable transaction
costs, are credited to the share capital and share premium accounts. Costs incurred in respect of share-based payments to employees of subsidiary
undertakings are recognised as a cost of investment in subsidiaries in the Company financial statements. Disclosures in respect of Share Options 
are given within the notes to the Group accounts.
ESOP
The Employee Share Ownership Plan (‘ESOP’) is a separately administered T rust. Liabilities of the ESOP are guaranteed by the Company and the
assets of the ESOP mainly comprise shares in the Company. The purchase of shares for the T rust is shown as a movement in retained earnings.
Financial Risk Management
Disclosure of financial risk management factors and practices are included within the accounting policies outlined in the Group financial statements.
Financial Instruments
The fair values of short-term deposits, loans, and overdrafts with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their book values.
The fair value of credit vouchers in issue is the face value of the instruments that remain unredeemed and unextinguished at the balance sheet date.
Going Concern
Going concern has been reviewed as part of the Group consolidated accounts. Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Company Accounts
76
Notes to the Company Accounts
continued
1. Loss on Ordinary Activities Before T axation
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Loss on ordinary activities before taxation is stated after charging:
Fee payable to Company auditors for the audit of parent company and consolidated accounts 0.1 0.2
2. Employee Benefit Expense
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Wages and salaries 2.7 2.9
Social security costs 0.3 0.3
Pension costs 0.3 0.2
Share-based payments 0.3 0.2
3.6 3.6
As noted in the accounting policies, the Company has taken the exemption allowed under FRS 17 to account for the pension cost in respect 
of the defined benefit scheme in accordance with the contributions payable. Detailed disclosures in respect of this scheme are included in the 
financial statements of Woolworths plc. The present value of the defined benefit obligation of the scheme at 3 February 2007 was £400.0 million 
(2006: £416.8 million) and the total market value of assets at 3 February 2007 was £316 million (2006: £286 million).
The employee benefit expense given above includes Directors.
Directors
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Aggregate emoluments 1.6 1.4
Aggregate amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes – –
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes 0.1 0.1
T otal 1.7 1.5
Full disclosure of Directors’ remuneration is given on page 32 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report, which forms part of these financial statements.
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
Number Number
Headcount
Average monthly headcount 22 25 Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Company Accounts
77
Notes to the Company Accounts
continued
3. Fixed Assets
Fixtures, fittings
and equipment
£m
Cost
At 28 January 2006 and 3 February 2007 0.1 
Depreciation
At 28 January 2006 and 3 February 2007 (0.1) 
Net book amount
At 28 January 2006 and 3 February 2007 – 
4. Investment in Subsidiary
In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 20, ‘Share-based Payment’ the Company has recognised as an expense, the fair value of any 
share-based payments made to its employees. 
The fair value attributable to share-based payments made to the employees of its subsidiary undertakings has been capitalised as an investment
in subsidiary. The Directors believe the net book value of the subsidiary is not less than the value of the underlying assets.
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
At start of year 204.0 203.0
Addition in the year 1.0 1.0
At end of year 205.0 204.0
Description 
Country of % of share 
incorporation owned and and classes 
Company and operation voting rights owned Main activity
Sandelcroft Limited Great Britain 100 Ordinary Holding company
A more comprehensive list of companies of which Woolworths Group plc is the ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party is included in the
consolidated financial statements (note 15).
5. Debtors
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Owed by subsidiary undertakings 442.5 280.9
Corporation tax 0.2 3.7
Other debtors 0.4 1.6
Prepayments and accrued income – –
Deferred tax 0.7 0.1
443.8 286.3
The deferred taxation asset has increased by £0.6 million due to deferred tax on the credit vouchers. The Directors consider that it is more likely 
than not that there will be sufficient taxable profits in future such as to realise the deferred tax asset and therefore an asset of £0.6 million has 
been recognised in these financial statements.
Within amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings, £211 million carries an interest rate of base rate plus 1.25 per cent.
6. Cash at Bank and in Hand
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 2.7 18.6
Short-term bank deposits – 177.0
2.7 195.6 Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Company Accounts
78
Notes to the Company Accounts
continued
7. Creditors Due Within One Y ear
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Owed to joint ventures – 0.1
Owed to subsidiary undertakings 259.4 283.0
Other creditors 1.5 3.6
Accruals 0.6 0.5
Bank borrowings (note 8) 69.7 –
Senior Notes (note 8) – 97.8
331.2 385.0
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings carries an interest rate of base rate less 0.5 per cent.
8. Borrowings
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Bank borrowings 69.7 –
Unsecured Senior Notes due within one year – 97.8
Bank borrowings include drawings from the Group’s committed revolving credit facility. The terms of the credit facility were amended during the year
with the £225 million facility maturing in August 2009. The effective interest rate at 3 February 2007 was 6.68 per cent.
The Senior Notes were repaid in November 2006. They were denominated in Sterling and bore interest based on a fixed coupon of 8.75 per cent per
annum. As part of the interest rate management strategy, the Company entered into an interest rate swap for a notional principal amount of £30 million
which also matured in November 2006. Under this swap, the Company received interest on a fixed basis at a rate of 8.75 per cent per annum and paid
interest on a variable basis. 
All of the Company’s borrowings are denominated in Sterling.
The fair value of borrowings due after more than one year at 3 February 2007 and at 28 January 2006 was £nil.
The Company, as borrower on behalf of the Group, has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 3 February 2007 that incur
commitment fees at market rates in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date.
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Floating rates
— Expiring between one and two years – –
— Expiring in more than two years 155.3 250.0
155.3 250.0
9. Financial Instruments
Numerical financial instruments disclosures are set out below. Additional disclosures are set out in the accounting policies relating to 
risk management.
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Credit vouchers – (3.2) – (3.5)
Current portion – (3.2) – (3.5)
The fair value of outstanding credit vouchers at 3 February 2007 and at 28 January 2006 is the unredeemed face value of all credit vouchers issued
that have not been extinguished, as these are all payable on demand if presented for redemption. Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the Company Accounts
79
Notes to the Company Accounts
continued
10. Share Capital
Number Nominal
of shares value
m£m
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each at 3 February 2007 and 28 January 2006 1,600.0 200.0
Called up and fully paid
At 29 January 2006 1,456.9 182.1
Allotted under share option schemes 2.1 0.3
At 3 February 2007 1,459.0 182.4
The number of ordinary shares issued during the year was 2,053,239 with a nominal value of £0.3 million relating to the Executive and ShareSave
share options exercised for a cash consideration of £0.7 million.
Details of share options are shown within the consolidated section of these financial statements. 
11. Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders’ Funds
Profit and 
Share Share Merger loss 
capital premium reserve account T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
At 30 January 2005 179.4 5.2 24.1 108.4 317.1
Loss for the year – – – (4.4) (4.4)
Dividends – – – (24.3) (24.3)
Share-based payments net of tax – – – 1.2 1.2
Issue of shares 2.7 4.1 – – 6.8
Net movement of shares held – – – 1.0 1.0
At 29 January 2006 182.1 9.3 24.1 81.9 297.4
Retained profit for the year – – – 43.7 43.7
Dividends – – – (25.6) (25.6)
Share-based payments net of tax – – – 1.0 1.0
Issue of shares 0.3 0.4 – – 0.7
Net movement of shares held* – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Balance at 3 February 2007 182.4 9.7 24.1 100.9 317.1
* Shares held by T rust
Interests in own shares held by the T rust represent the cost of 8,838,926 (2006: 9,335,846) of the Company’s ordinary shares The nominal value 
is £1.1 million (2006: £1.2 million). These shares were acquired by the T rust in the open market using funds provided by Woolworths Group plc 
to meet obligations under the Employee Share Schemes and are accounted for as treasury shares. The costs of funding and administering the
Scheme are charged to the profit and loss account of the Company in the period to which they relate. The market value of the shares at 3 February
2007 was £3.0 million (2006: £2.8 million). The T rust has waived its rights to dividends.
12. Dividends
53 weeks to 52 weeks to
3 February 28 January
2007 2006
£m £m
Final paid 2005/06: 1.34 pence (2004/05: 1.26 pence ) 19.4 18.4
Interim paid 2006/07: 0.43 pence (2005/06: 0.41 pence ) 6.2 5.9
25.6 24.3
The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ending 3 February 2007 of 1.34 pence (2006: 1.34 pence) per share which
will absorb an estimated £19.4 million of shareholders’ funds. Subject to shareholder approval, it will be paid on 21 June 2007 to members registered
at the close of business on 10 April 2007. These financial statements do not reflect this recommended dividend.
13. Operating Lease Commitments 
The Company had no operating lease commitments as at 3 February 2007 (2006: £nil). 
14. Contingent Liabilities
The Company had no contingent liabilities as at 3 February 2007 (2006: £nil).
15. Capital and Other Financial Commitments
Capital commitments contracted but not provided for by the Company amounted to £nil (2006: £nil).
16. Related Parties
T ransactions with other Group companies have not been disclosed as permitted by FRS 8. No disclosure is necessary in the parent’s own financial
statements as these statements are presented together with the consolidated financial statements. Shareholder Information (Unaudited)
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Shareholder Information
80
Analysis of Shareholders
Geographic breakdown as at 3 February 2007
Number % of total
Region of shares shares
United Kingdom 1,447,131,024 99.18
North America 76,874 0.01
Europe 11,239,530 0.77
Australia and New Zealand 89,083 0.01
Rest of world 452,930 0.03
T otal 1,458,989,441 100.00
Issued capital 1,458,989,441
Range of Shares at 3 February 2007
a) All origins
Number % of total Number % of total 
Range of holders holders of shares shares
1 – 1,000 19,163 54.90 8,046,815 0.55
1,001 – 5,000 10,733 30.75 25,605,849 1.76
5,001 – 10,000 2,544 7.29 19,276,524 1.32
10,001 – 100,000 2,041 5.84 53,754,978 3.68
100,001 + 425 1.22 1,352,305,275 92.69
Subtotals 34,906 100.00 1,458,989,441 100.00
Register totals 34,906 1,458,989,441
b) Certified
Number % of total Number % of total 
Range of holders holders of shares shares
1 – 1,000 18,618 57.78 7,783,694 8.05
1,001 – 5,000 10,069 31.25 23,757,726 24.56
5,001 – 10,000 2,178 6.76 16,374,846 16.93
10,001 – 100,000 1,300 4.04 30,280,798 31.30
100,001 + 56 0.17 18,530,423 19.16
Subtotals 32,221 100.0 96,727,487 100.00
Register totals 34,906 1,458,989,441
c) Crest
Number % of total Number % of total
Range of holders holders of shares shares
1 – 1,000 545 20.30 263,121 0.02
1,001 – 5,000 664 24.73 1,848,123 0.14
5,001 – 10,000 366 13.63 2,901,678 0.21
10,001 – 100,000 741 27.60 23,474,180 1.72
100,001 + 369 13.74 1,333,774,852 97.91
Subtotals 2,685 100.00 1,362,261,954 100.00
Register totals 34,906 1,458,989,441 Contents Woolworths
At a Glance
Contents
1 Financial and Operational Highlights
2 Chairman’ s Statement
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
4 Our Resources
8 Chief Executive’ s Report
14 Finance Director’ s Report
18 Risk Factors
19 Corporate Social Responsibility
20 Board of Directors
21 Corporate Governance 
25 Other Information
27 Directors’ Remuneration Report
36 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
37 Independent Auditors’ Report 
(the ‘Group’)
38 Group Income Statement
Group Statement of Recognised
Income and Expense
39 Group Balance Sheet
40 Group Cash Flow Statement
41 Notes to the Group Accounts
72 Five Y ear Record (Unaudited)
73 Independent Auditors’ Report
(the ‘Company’)
74 Company Balance Sheet
75 Notes to the Company Accounts
80 Shareholder Information (Unaudited)
Retail
Woolworths
The Mainchain stores comprise traditional Woolworths outlets located in small towns
and city suburbs, targeted at meeting basic everyday shopping requirements, as well
as larger stores located on prime shopping streets in major regional shopping centres. 
The product offer covers T oys, Children’ s Clothing, Events, Confectionery , Home and
Entertainment; larger stores include a more comprehensive range of Home and
Children’ s Clothing.
Woolworths out-of-town stores offer a wider selection of T oys, a babyshop, kids’
bedroom ranges and Entertainment products, all from a superstore format designed 
to meet demand for out-of-town shopping.
www.woolworths.co.uk
2 | Entertain
The Group holds a 40 per cent share in this joint venture, combining the former VCI
audio and video business with BBC Worldwide’ s video publishing arm. Recent video
titles include ‘Planet Earth’ and ‘Jeremy Clarkson – The Good, the Bad and the Ugly’
and on audio, ‘Ian Dury: Reasons to be Cheerful’.
www.2entertain.co.uk
Entertainment UK Limited (‘EUK’)
EUK is the UK’ s leading distributor of entertainment products, generating an annual
turnover in excess of £1.1 billion.
EUK’ s product portfolio covers all of the major entertainment formats – music, 
DVD, games and books – as well as mobile phones. In turn, these products are
supplied to some of the country’ s best known store groups and online retailers.
www.entuk.co.uk
Bertram Group Limited
Bertram Group consists of the following three divisions:
Bertram Books, the UK’ s leading book wholesaler with a growing number 
of international customers. 
Bertram Publisher Services provides distribution sevices to a wide range 
of client publishers.
Bertram Library Services an industry leading supplier of books, tapes, 
CDs, games and many other audio-visual products to public libraries, schools, 
universities and educational institutions in the UK and around the world. 
www.bertrams.com
T otal Home Entertainment (‘THE’)
THE is one of the UK’ s largest combined wholesalers and distributors of books, 
audio, video, multimedia and computer games. Since launching in 1972, THE 
has fast established itself as one of the most respected and effective players in
entertainment distribution.
Entertainment 
Wholesale and Publishing
2
|
Entertain THE
TOTAL HOME ENTERTAINMENT
Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Shareholder Information
81
Shareholder Information (Unaudited)
continued
Payment of Dividends by BACS
Many shareholders have already arranged for dividends to be paid by mandate directly to their bank or building society account. The Company
mandates dividends through the BACS (Bankers’ Automated Clearing Services) system. The benefit to shareholders of the BACS payment method 
is that the Registrar posts the tax vouchers directly to them, whilst the dividend is credited on the payment date to the shareholder’s bank or building
society account. Shareholders who have not yet arranged for dividends to be paid direct to their bank or building society account and wish to benefit
from this service should request the Company’s Registrar (address below) to send them a Dividend/Interest mandate form or alternatively complete
the mandate form attached to any future dividend tax voucher .
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The Company provides a Dividend Reinvestment Plan enabling shareholders to apply their cash dividends to purchase additional ordinary shares in
the market at competitive dealing rates. Full details can be obtained from the Registrar . If you have previously completed a mandate form to join the
Plan, you need take no further action.
Shareholder Information on the Internet
The Company maintains an investor relations zone on its website (www.woolworthsgroupplc.com) which allows access to share price information,
management biographies, copies of Company reports and other useful investor information.
In addition, Computershare Investor Services PLC, the Company Registrar , has introduced a facility where shareholders are able to access details 
of their shareholding in the Company over the internet subject to complying with an identity check. This service can be accessed on their website,
www.computershare.com.
Woolworths Group plc is a company incorporated, domiciled and registered in England and Wales (Number 03855289). 
Registrar
Computershare
Investor Services PLC
PO Box 82
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 7NH
T el: 0870 889 3108
www.computershare.com
Registered and Head Office
Woolworth House
242–246 Marylebone Road
London NW1 6JL
T el: 020 7262 1222
www.woolworthsgroupplc.com
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
1 Embankment Place
London WC2N 6RH
Joint Brokers
UBS
1 Finsbury Avenue
London EC2M 2PP
JP Morgan Cazenove
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
Joint Financial Advisors
UBS
1 Finsbury Avenue
London EC2M 2PP
Credit Suisse First Boston
One Cabot Square
London E14 4QJ
Solicitors
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
65 Fleet Street
London EC4Y 1HS Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
W oolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
W oolworths Group plc
Address
Woolworth House
242–246 Marylebone Road
London NW1 6JL
T elephone
+44 (0)20 7262 1 222
Facsimile
+44 (0)20 7706 54 1 6
Website
www.woolworthsgroupplc.com
