 acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2011
europe’s leading
supplier of specialist
technologies
annual report and accounts
for the year ended 31 March 2011
2 Chancellor Court
Occam Road
Surrey Research Park
Guildford
Surrey GU2 7AH
Telephone +44 (0)1483 544500
Fax +44 (0)1483 544550
Email info@acalplc.co.uk
www.acalplc.co.uk Acal is a European specialist provider of technology products
and services. With operations in eleven countries across
Western Europe, and in South Africa, the business operates
in clearly deﬁned market niches where customers appreciate
the added value that comes from high levels of technical
support and customised solutions.
contents
ﬁnancial highlights 01
chairman’s statement 02
directors and secretary 04
overview
strategic and operational review 05
group overview 09
strategic focus
supporting the green economy 10
supporting manufacturing efﬁciency 11
supporting medical science 12
supporting service organisations 13
acal’s markets 14
group executive committee 16
business review
ﬁnancial review 17
corporate information and ﬁnancial calendar 20
governance
directors’ report 21
board report on corporate governance 25
directors’ remuneration report 29
corporate social responsibility 34
statement of directors’ responsibilities 35
ﬁnancial statements
group ﬁnancial statements 36
report of the auditors, group 37
consolidated income statement 38
consolidated statement of comprehensive income 39
consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 40
consolidated statement of changes in equity 41
consolidated cash ﬂow statement 42
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements 43
company ﬁnancial statements 78
report of the auditors, company 79
company balance sheet 80
notes to the company ﬁnancial statements 81
ﬁve year record 84
principal locations
Acal is a European specialist provider of technology products
and services. With operations in eleven countries across
Western Europe, and in South Africa, the business operates
in clearly deﬁned market niches where customers appreciate
the added value that comes from high levels of technical
support and customised solutions.
Country Company/division Locations
electronics
United Kingdom Acal BFi UK Ltd Wokingham, Milton Keynes
Acal BFi Central Procurement UK Ltd Wokingham
Stortech Electronics Ltd Harlow
Compotron UK Ltd Swindon
Belgium Acal BFi Belgium NV/SA Brussels
France Acal BFi France SAS Evry
Germany Acal BFi Germany GmbH Dietzenbach, Munich
Compotron GmbH Munich
Italy Acal BFi Italia Srl Milan
Netherlands Acal BFi Netherlands BV Eindhoven, Alphen an den Rijn
Sweden Acal BFi Nordic AB Stockholm, Uppsala
Hectronic AB Uppsala
Norway Acal BFi Nordic AB Honefoss
Finland Acal BFi Nordic AB Helsinki
Denmark Acal BFi Nordic AB Copenhagen
Spain Acal BFi Iberia SLU Madrid
supply chain
United Kingdom Acal Supply Chain Ltd Warrington, Nottingham
Germany EAF Computer Service Supplies GmbH Goch
medical
United Kingdom Vertec Scientiﬁc Ltd Silchester
South Africa Vertec Scientiﬁc SA (pty) Ltd Johannesburg
Further details of the Group’s locations can be found on the Acal plc website
www.acalplc.co.uk
principal locations 01
ﬁnancial highlights
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
highlights
•
Revenues increase 46%
– Group like for like sales
**
up 21% (Electronics 27%)
• Strong return to overall profitability
– H2 underlying profitability up 64% from H1 to £4.6m
•
Gross margins up 0.8ppts to 28.4%
•
Working capital efficiency increases to 12% of sales (2009/10: 12.7%)
•
Cashflow pre exceptionals and acquisitions of £2.6m
•
Successful integration of BFi Optilas – annualised synergies of £4.4m delivered
•
Acquisition of Compotron for £7.1m, enhancing German specialist electronics business
• Final dividend increased by 10% to 5.14p (2010: 4.67p)
post period-end highlights
•
£1.2m acquisition of Hectronic AB strengthening the Nordic specialist electronics business
** Like for like sales are at constant exchange rates, including acquisitions for the whole of the comparative period and excluding the ATM Parts business
(effective disposal date 30 September 2010), a material non-core Supply Chain contract terminated at the end of the previous financial year-end and
Compotron, which was acquired in January 2011.
“The year has seen a signiﬁcant improvement in sales and operating proﬁtability.
Market conditions improved, driven by a recovery in high technology manufacturing,
and the strategy of specialisation, combined with our European market leading position
in specialist electronics, continues to make good progress on all fronts.”
Nick Jefferies Group Chief Executive
FY 2011 FY 2010
Revenue £265m £182m
Underlying operating proﬁt/(loss)* £7.4m £(0.7)m
Underlying proﬁt/(loss) before tax* £7.1m £(0.9)m
Profit/(loss) before tax £1.9m £(6.3)m
Underlying diluted EPS* 18.6p (6.3)p
Fully diluted EPS 5.7p (24.5)p
Dividend per share 7.47p 7.0p
* These are non-IFRS financial measures used by the Directors to assess the underlying performance of the Group. They exclude exceptional costs,
earn-out remuneration, amortisation of acquired intangibles and IAS19 pension charge relating to a legacy defined benefits scheme. They are not
defined by or presented in accordance with IFRS and should not be considered as an alternative to operating profit/(loss), profit/(loss) before tax, fully
diluted EPS or any other measures of performance under IFRS. These non-IFRS measures are not intended to be a projection or forecast of future results.
operating performance 02
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report a year of significant progress with a strong
return to overall profitability following the Group’s shift in strategic
focus to a specialist model. The return to profitability has been
achieved through a combination of strong sales growth, increasing
gross margins, better operational efficiency and delivery of the
planned integration synergies arising from the acquisition of BFi
Optilas (“BFi”) in December 2009.
Strategy and acquisitions
The Group strategy of Electronics specialisation has made
significant progress over the last two years. The Board believes
that this strategy will continue to provide further opportunities
for growth and increased shareholder value, adding market share
through a combination of organic growth and selective value
enhancing acquisitions.
The first acquisition since BFi was acquired in December 2009 was
completed in January 2011, with the acquisition of CompoTRON
GmbH (“Compotron”). Compotron has enhanced the Group’s
position in the German specialist electronics market and its
performance since acquisition has been very encouraging.
On 1 June 2011 the Board was pleased to announce the
acquisition of Hectronic AB, a Swedish specialist electronics
business, for a consideration of £1.2m. Hectronic is a specialist
provider of embedded computing technology to industrial
electronic markets and generates revenues across the Nordic
region. We are delighted to welcome them into the Group.
Results
Group revenue for the year increased by 46% to £264.8m (2009/10:
£181.6m) driven by strong like for like sales growth, up 21% over
last year.
Underlying profit before tax was £7.1m, compared to a loss of £0.9m
in the prior year. The second half of the year saw underlying profit
before tax increase 73% sequentially to £4.5m (H1 2010/11: £2.6m).
Exceptional costs for the year totalled £4.4m (2009/10: £4.7m)
comprising £3.6m in respect of the BFi integration, and other net
costs of £0.8m principally related to the completion of the Supply
Chain division integration and the acquisition of Compotron.
Including exceptional items, earn-out costs, amortisation of
acquired intangibles and IAS 19 pension finance charge, IFRS
reported profit before tax was £1.9m (2009/10: loss of £6.3m).
Underlying diluted earnings per share were 18.6 pence
(2009/10: loss per share of 6.3 pence). Including underlying
adjustments, fully diluted earnings per share were 5.7 pence
(2009/10: loss per share of 24.5 pence).
The balance sheet remains robust with net assets at the year end
of £51.3m (2009/10: £51.9m) including net cash of £6.7m (2009/10:
£13.9m). Year end cash balances reduced primarily due to the
acquisition of Compotron and the cost of restructuring and
integrating BFi. The Group has in place committed long term
working capital facilities to manage the inter-month working
capital movements which resulted in net average borrowings
during the final quarter of £0.5m. At the year end, these facilities
amounted to approximately £20m. 03
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
chairman’s statement continued
Integration of BFi
The integration of BFi was completed during the year, delivering
the planned annualised synergies of £4.4m (€5.3m). Operations in
the Electronics division are now on one common infrastructure
with a single management information system, common logistics
and purchasing, while central warehouses have been reduced from
three to two. Offices have been rationalised where appropriate,
with five closures, and management teams have been combined.
There is now one principal legal entity in each country, securing
long term access to approximately £18m of tax losses. Exceptional
costs for the integration totalled £6.0m (£3.6m this year and £2.4m
in 2009/10), in line with the amount originally anticipated.
Dividend
The Board continues to keep dividend policy under review and is
cognisant of the importance of dividends to shareholders. In
setting future dividends, the Board will take account of available
financial resources, current trading conditions, the prospects for
the Group and the level of dividend yield and cover.
At the half year, the Directors declared an interim dividend of
2.33 pence per share (H1 2009/10: 2.33 pence per share). The
Board is now recommending an increased final dividend of
5.14 pence per share being a 10% increase compared to the prior
year final dividend of 4.67 pence per share, and providing a
dividend for the year of 7.47 pence per share, a 6.7% increase
overall. The dividend is payable on 29 July 2011 to shareholders on
the register as at 17 June 2011.
Board and employees
As reported at the time, Simon Gibbins joined the Board in July
2010 as Group Finance Director. Prior to joining Acal, Simon was
Global Head of Finance and Deputy CFO of Shire plc. Simon’s
experience in a specialist business that achieved rapid organic and
acquisitive growth, positions the Group well to address the
opportunities and risks it faces as the Group continues to develop.
This year has seen employees face an enormous integration and
restructuring workload as well as the positive pressures of strong
sales growth. They have managed both admirably, being a credit
to both themselves and the Company. On behalf of the Board, I
would like to thank them for their significant effort and
contribution.
The year ahead
Our strategy remains unchanged as we continue to build Europe’s
leading specialist electronics distributor. Against a backdrop of
improving global economic conditions and a recovering industrial
manufacturing marketplace, the Board remains confident of
further opportunities for both organic and acquisitive growth.
Richard Moon
Chairman
1 June 2011
The Group strategy of Electronics
specialisation has made signiﬁcant
progress over the last two years
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements Richard Moon
Non-Executive Chairman
Aged 60, Richard joined the
Board in September 2004 and
became Chairman in April 2005.
Formerly a Director of Racal
Electronics plc and Chief
Executive of Thales plc, he now
holds Non-Executive Chairman
positions with Planit Holdings
Limited and OBS Medical
Limited and is a Director of
Synergie Business Limited.
Simon Gibbins ACA
Group Finance Director
Aged 44, Simon was appointed
as Group Finance Director in
July 2010. A Chartered
Accountant, he was previously
Global Head of Finance and
Deputy CFO at Shire plc. Prior to
joining Shire in 2000, he spent 6
years with ICI plc in various
senior finance roles, both in the
UK and overseas. His earlier
career was spent with Coopers
& Lybrand in London.
Eric Barton MA
Senior Non-Executive Director
Aged 66, Eric was appointed as
a Non-Executive Director in
September 2002. Previously, he
was a Director of 3i plc for 13
years. An experienced Non-
Executive Director of both
public and private companies,
Eric has acted as Chairman of
the Audit Committee of three
publicly listed companies,
namely Morse plc, Informa plc
and Telecity plc.
Graham Williams MBA CA
Non-Executive Director
Aged 68, Graham was
appointed to the Board in
December 2003. His early
business experience was
gained in private equity with
Charterhouse and Barclays
Private Equity, both in the UK
and France. A board member of
Hays plc for 19 years, and now
on their pension fund’s
investment committee, he is
also a schools’ governor.
Ian Fraser MBA MA
Non-Executive Director
Aged 56, Ian became a Non-
Executive Director in January
2010. He is the Group Chief
Executive of Brammer plc. Prior
to joining Brammer in 1998, he
was Group Managing Director
of Reliance Security Group plc.
His earlier career was mainly
spent with Raychem
Corporation.
Gary Shillinglaw FCIS
Group Company Secretary
Aged 61, Gary joined Acal as
Group Company Secretary in
August 2008. A qualiﬁed
Chartered Secretary, he has
previously held that position in
a number of listed and non-
listed public companies,
including Countryside Properties
plc, B&Q plc and First Leisure
Corporation plc.
Nick Jefferies
Group Chief Executive
Aged 45, Nick joined Acal as
Group Chief Executive in
January 2009. Formerly General
Manager for Electronics globally
at Electrocomponents plc, and
having previously held senior
positions at Arrow Electronics,
he started his career as an
Electronics Design Engineer
for Racal Defence (now part
of Thales plc).
directors and secretary
04
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
committees
Audit Committee
E A Barton (Chairman)
G J Williams
I R Fraser
Remuneration Committee
G J Williams (Chairman)
E A Barton
R J Moon
I R Fraser
Nomination Committee
R J Moon (Chairman)
E A Barton
G J Williams
N J Jefferies strategic and operational review
Strategy
Acal is the leading specialist Electronics distributor in Europe, and
the only such company with operations in all of the main countries
across Europe. The business operates in clearly defined market
niches, where customers appreciate the added value that comes
from high levels of technical support and customised solutions.
Two years into the strategy of specialisation, the Group continues to
concentrate on the following key areas to drive future performance:
• Grow presence in key European markets
• Expand the specialist product offering
• Increase operational efficiency
Grow presence in key European markets
The Group plans to continue to build its position in the key
European markets through both organic growth and the
acquisition of complementary value enhancing businesses.
Over the last financial year, strong organic growth in all markets,
led by Germany, combined with the acquisition of Compotron in
January 2011, resulted in 70% of the Group’s Electronics sales
coming from European countries other than the UK.
Expand the specialist product offering
The Group plans to continue to grow its range of specialist
technologies and products on offer both through the appointment
of new suppliers, the creation of additional technology units and the
addition of complementary products to existing technology units.
This financial year saw the addition of eleven new Electronics
suppliers, expanding our customer offering in five technology units.
The acquisition of Compotron brings with it new communication
technologies and suppliers, the sales of which are being expanded
into other territories. Likewise, the acquisition of Hectronic,
announced on 1 June 2011, brings with it new embedded
computing technologies, the sales of which are also planned to
be expanded into other territories.
Increase operational efﬁciency
The Group expects to continue to improve its operational
efficiency through increasing sales of highly differentiated, higher
margin products, combined with tight control of operating
expenses and working capital.
The operational savings of £3.0m in the year (£4.4m annualised)
gained from the merger of Acal Technology and BFi have enabled
a further improvement in operational efficiency during the year.
Additionally, working capital efficiency improved in the second
half to 12% of sales (H1: 12.7%).
Performance
The year has seen a significant improvement in sales and operating
profitability. Market conditions improved, driven by a recovery in
high technology manufacturing, and the strategy of specialisation,
combined with our European market leading position in specialist
electronics, continues to make good progress on all fronts.
Reported Group revenues grew by 46%, (21% on a like for like basis),
being driven by the Electronics division with reported sales growth
of 80%, (like for like growth of 27%). The Electronics customer order
book, representing in total around three months worth of sales, was
20% higher at the end of the year (like for like) than the prior year
and 46% higher than two years earlier. Sales in both the Supply
Chain and Medical divisions grew by 5% on a like for like basis.
Underlying operating profitablility was £7.4m compared to a loss
of £0.7m in the previous year. The second half saw an increase of
64% sequentially to £4.6m (H1: £2.8m) being the result of sales
growth combined with increasing gross margins, tight control of
operating costs and the delivery of the BFi integration synergies.
Gross margins continued to improve as we developed our focus
on selling highly differentiated products, from which customers
derive real value. For the full year, gross margins increased by
0.8 percentage points to 28.4%, with the second half being 28.5%.
Despite the strong growth in sales, we have been controlled in
adding back costs as sales have risen. Group operating expenses
increased by 5.3% on a like for like basis, partially reflecting the
synergy benefits from the integration of BFi. The integration
has resulted in annualised savings of £4.4m (€5.3m), representing
a 10% reduction of the combined cost base, in line with the
forecast given at the time of the acquisition. Second half
operating margins increased to 3.3% (H2 2009/10: 1.0%),
delivering 2.8% for the year as a whole.
05
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 06
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
strategic and operational review continued
Working capital continues to be tightly controlled. Despite the
strong recovery in demand, overall working capital as a percentage
of sales reduced to 12%, a 0.7% reduction in sales ratio from last
year. In the Electronics division, our specialist model mainly serves
customers on a project basis, and therefore is not generally reliant
on immediate availability of stock to support sales. Project design
cycles vary in length from a few months to two to three years
before customers enter production. This gives greater visibility of
forward demand, and reduces the need to hold uncommitted
inventory. As a result, Group net stock turns have increased to
7.9x from 7.4x in H2 2009/10 and 5.3x in H2 2008/09.
Divisional performance
The divisional performance for the years ended 31 March 2011 and
2010, together with the second half performance in each year, are
set out above.
Electronics
The Electronics division supplies a range of specialist electronic,
photonic (laser), and imaging components and sub systems across
Europe into a broad range of technically demanding industrial
electronic manufacturing and system applications.
Products are characterised by the combination of their technically
demanding sales requirements and the need for a customer
specific configuration. As such, these products are generally
difficult to source and require specialist input.
The Group enjoys a significant position in the European market
place, being the only specialist distributor to have operations in all
the major countries throughout Europe. This is attractive to our
suppliers who depend on the high level of technical and market
knowledge in each country, and who appreciate the efficient
combination of a single point of interface and management. With
the main economies of Western Europe continuing to be leading
centres internationally for technology innovation and product
development, we are particularly attractive to suppliers from other
continents who seek to serve these markets but do not have the
local knowledge or infrastructure to do so.
Many of the solutions we sell are specific to one customer, and
often new to the market. Our customers are seeking technically
challenging, often bespoke solutions that are not readily available
elsewhere. They choose us because of the high technical capability
of our staff and our ability to develop with them a bespoke
solution, or our ability to modify the product for them (value add),
or because the product is not available elsewhere. Often a
combination of all three applies.
With strong local management and financial control in each country,
the division operates through a number of specialist technology
units. These operate across Europe with dedicated resource in each
country under the leadership of technology unit heads.
Throughout the year we signed contracts with eleven new
suppliers across five new technology units. Of these, we expect
around two thirds to grow into significant generators of revenue
over a two to three year period. The nature of our business means
that there will always be a degree of churn as established products
become commoditised, and replaced by new technologies. We
continue to seek well established suppliers that are looking to
expand either into Europe or into a broader industrial customer
base. With the rate of technology innovation and proliferation
into a wider range of applications continuing apace, we remain
optimistic for future opportunities.
With the Electronics division accounting for nearly 80% of Group
revenues and profits, we see opportunities to further develop
both our existing areas of specialisation and to create new ones,
both through organic development and selective value enhancing
acquisitions.
The acquisition of BFi in December 2009 and subsequent
integration has transformed the shape and performance of the
Group as well as firmly establishing our leadership position within
the specialist electronics distribution market. Electronics division
revenues have grown from around 50% of Group revenues prior
to the BFi acquisition to nearly 80%. At the same time, underlying
operating profitability in the division has improved from a loss
making position to an underlying operating profit of £9.1m for this
year and £5.6m for the second half (4.5% and 5.3% underlying
operating margins respectively).
FY 2010/11 FY 2009/10 H2 2010/11 H2 2009/10
Operating Operating Operating Operating
Revenue profit
1
Revenue profit
1
Revenue profit
1
Revenue profit
1
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Electronics 202.8 9.1 112.4 (0.2) 106.3 5.6 73.0 1.3
Supply Chain 54.3 1.2 62.0 1.3 27.1 0.7 32.8 0.7
Medical 7.7 1.2 7.2 0.8 4.1 0.7 4.3 0.5
Unallocated – (4.1) – (2.6) – (2.4) – (1.4)
264.8 7.4 181.6 (0.7) 137.5 4.6 110.1 1.1
1 Underlying operating profit excludes exceptional items, earn-out remuneration and amortisation of acquired intangibles
divisional performance 07
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
strategic and operational review continued
Additionally, the acquisition of BFi has enabled us to create a
strong position in Germany, the largest electronics market in Europe
by a significant margin, as well as throughout continental Europe,
building on Acal’s already strong positions in the UK, Belgium and
the Netherlands. 70% of divisional revenues now come from
outside the UK, of which Germany is the largest followed by France.
The merger of the two businesses enabled us to create a more
efficient operating infrastructure for the division. The integration
involved the merging of back office and support functions, essentially
two into one, while maintaining separate sales and marketing
channels and brand names (Acal Technology and BFi).
The integration has gone well, being delivered on time and with
the planned benefits and savings. The division now operates on
one common infrastructure and under one management
organisation, comprising members from both businesses as well
as new recruits.
The single operating infrastructure has been achieved through the
installation of a common IT system, being an enhanced version of
the Oracle JD Edwards platform in use in Acal for several years. This
enabled the creation of one common finance, operations and back
office support organisation. Of three European warehouses, one
was closed (Eindhoven), leaving one central hub in Germany
(Frankfurt) and one in the UK (Basingstoke).
Of twenty one offices across Europe, five duplicated offices
(Munich, Stuttgart, Paris, Milan and Madrid) were closed through
consolidation into nearby facilities. With the exception of
Stuttgart, which was consolidated into Frankfurt, the closures
enabled customer facing staff to be retained, being relocated
to nearby facilities.
Overall, annualised synergies of £4.4m (€5.3m) per annum have
been delivered, in line with the synergy forecast at the time of
acquisition and representing approximately 10% of the Electronics
division combined cost base. £3.0m of synergies has been
reported for the full year, being a reflection of the phased
implementation throughout the year. With all synergies achieved
by the year end, the full annualised benefit of the savings will be
seen in the next financial year, 2012.
The acquisition in January 2011 of Compotron brings to the Group
a leading position in specialist filter and microwave transceiver
components for the radio frequency (RF) and Microwave (MW)
markets. The business is a natural complement to our existing
communications technology unit.
Based in Munich, and with sales of £8.7m in the twelve months to
31 December 2010 (FY 2009: £6.1m), Compotron employs twenty
two staff, of whom seventeen are based in Germany, three in the
UK and two in Denmark. Operating margin in the calendar year
2009 was 14%. Compotron continues to operate as a standalone
business, but within the Electronics division. Our opportunity lies
in expanding the sales of their products throughout Acal’s
European organisation.
The performance of the Electronics division in the year has been
robust, driven by strong sales growth combined with the delivery
of the planned merger synergies. Year on year sales grew by 80%
reported, 27% on a like for like basis. Order intake was strong
throughout the year, with the customer order book ending the
year 20% ahead of the prior year.
Sales of products manufactured in Japan and which represent
approximately 4% of Group revenues, were not significantly
impacted by the earthquake in mid-March and we have continued
to meet our customers’ needs.
Underlying operating profit and margin was £9.1m and 4.5% of
revenue for the full year (prior year operating loss of £0.2m, and
-0.2% respectively).
Supply Chain
The Supply Chain division provides service parts and inventory
solutions to IT service providers, as well as aftermarket warranty
services in the UK and Germany to original equipment
manufacturers (“OEM”).
The parts supply business provides new and in-house refurbished
parts for IT systems including servers, mainframes, PCs and printers.
The inventory solutions business offers customers access to a
range of parts with guaranteed availability levels that they would
otherwise previously have held in their own stock.
The year has seen a signiﬁcant
improvement in sales and
operating proﬁtability 08
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
strategic and operational review continued
Much has been achieved during the past financial year. A major
new customer contract was won in the fourth quarter providing
inventory management solutions to a major European IT hardware
and services provider. This is a significant win, coming as it does
from a highly regarded and major player in its field, and serves as
a demonstration of the value of our customer proposition.
Operationally, the infrastructure for the UK business has been
simplified. The UK business now operates on one common
infrastructure and a single IT platform. This enabled the
consolidation of warehousing with one being closed, taking
the total from three to two.
The loss making ATM Parts business was sold on 12 October 2010
for £0.7m, enabling the division to focus on its core business.
While reported sales for the year declined by 12%, like for like sales
(excluding the disposal of ATM Parts and a non-core contract
terminated in March 2010), grew by 5%.
Underlying operating profitability was £1.2m for the full year
(2010: £1.3m) and constant for the second half at £0.7m. Included
in the year is approximately £0.2m of investment in a new
contracts division, the benefits of which are expected to be seen
in the coming financial year.
Medical
The Medical division is based in the UK and South Africa, where it
supplies and maintains specialist capital medical equipment to
medical institutions, mainly the National Health Service in the UK
and private clinics in South Africa.
Exclusively representing its suppliers, Vertec products are
characterised by their technically demanding sales requirements
and long sales cycles.
Reported sales for the year increased by 7% (5% at constant
exchange rates) to £7.7m, being driven by demand for new
mammography equipment in South Africa, and offsetting softness
in spending in the UK particularly within the National Health
Service. Tight operating cost management has contributed to a
significant growth in operating profitability, up 50% to £1.2m.
Going forward, Medical’s results will be included within Electronics.
Summary and outlook
This has been a year of significant progress. In addition to sales
and profitability growth, both the Electronics and Supply Chain
businesses have been restructured to make them more efficient
and effective.
While there is still much to do, we have a strong platform from
which to continue the development of Europe’s leading specialist
electronics distributor through a combination of organic growth
and targeted acquisitions.
The market environment remains encouraging. With recovering
global economies and a clear strategy that is delivering results,
we remain optimistic for the future and the opportunities that
lie ahead.
Nick Jefferies
Group Chief Executive
1 June 2011
We have a strong platform from
which to continue the development
of Europe’s leading specialist
electronics distributor group overview
working capital
Net working capital, at 12% of sales in the second-half, improved by
0.7% year-on-year, with stock turns up to 7.9x from 7.4x (FY2010)
and the same inventory as two years before on £100m more sales.
underlying operating proﬁt
Underlying operating proﬁt in the second-half increased
to £4.6m, from £2.8m in the ﬁrst-half, achieving a 3.3%
operating margin (2.8% operating margin for the full year).
sales
The sales increase of 46% year-on-year was driven by the
Electronics division, whose full-year sales increased by
27% on a like for like basis.
H1
2010
H2
2010
H1
2011
H2
2011
40
30
20
10
0
£m
-2.5%
H1
2010
£1.1m
£2.8m
H2
2010
H1
2011
£4.6m
H2
2011
6.0
5.0
4.0
3.0
2.0
1.0
0.0
-1.0
-2.0
-3.0
-4.0
£m
4.0
2.0
0.0
-2.0
-4.0
% of sales
14.0
13.0
12.0
11.0
10.0
% of sales
Underlying operating profit excludes exceptionals, the Compotron earn-out
remuneration and the amortisation of acquired intangibles, but includes LTIPs.
Underlying operating profit UOP % of sales
72
H1
2010
110
H2
2010
127
H1
2011
138
H2
2011
150
125
100
75
50
25
0
£m
Sales growth continues, driven by the Electronics division, with
further improvements in operating proﬁtability, an increase in gross
margin and a reduction in the ratio of working capital to sales.
09
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
1.0%
2.2%
3.3%
Net working capital NWC % of sales
-£1.8
gross margin
The gross margin increased 0.8% points year-on-year
to 28.4%, compared to 27.6% for the previous year,
reﬂecting the Group’s strategy of specialisation.
27.4%
H1
2010
27.7%
H2
2010
28.3%
H1
2011
28.5%
H2
2011
29.0
28.5
28.0
27.5
27.0
26.5
26.0
%
Net working capital is defined as net inventory, trade receivables and other
receivables less trade payables and other payables. 10
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
strategic focus: Acal BFi Germany
supporting the green economy
voltwerk electronics GmbH
The “Green Economy” is often stated to be at
the forefront of our fight to reduce reliance on
carbon technologies.
Acal BFi GmbH has been working with Voltwerk
to make this a reality. Voltwerk are one of the
leading designers and manufacturers of
photovoltaic inverters, an essential ingredient in
any grid-connect photovoltaic power system.
One of the many challenging components
within the inverter is the power choke as it’s an
expensive component that directly impacts the
conversion efficiency of the system.
Acal BFi, using its specialist technical knowledge
of magnetic materials, designed and
subsequently manufactured a power choke
tailored to the specific needs of the Voltwerk
system, producing an extremely competitive
solution that improved system efficiency.
“The design of chokes for this application is
challenging and has an impact on the efﬁciency of
the system. By using the technical expertise of Acal
BFi, we were able to achieve an inductor design that
was not only cost-efﬁcient but out-performed other
solutions we had tried. It allowed us to optimize
efﬁciency while reducing cost. ”
Dr Peter Knaup
Head of Product Development Electronics
voltwerk electronics GmbH
Germany 11
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
strategic focus: Acal BFi UK
supporting manufacturing efﬁciency
Rolls Royce
Acal BFi UK helps customers to improve their
manufacturing processes.
A recent collaboration with Rolls Royce is one
example of how this operates in practice. Part of
the process of manufacturing jet engines
requires holes to be drilled in certain
components with pinpoint accuracy. Due to the
nature of the materials involved, laser machining
is used for this purpose. In order to ensure that
every hole is drilled with precision, thereby
minimising waste, Rolls Royce and Acal BFi
worked together to develop a solution that
would enable the laser power to be measured
both before and after each machinery cycle. The
resultant solution was to use a laser power meter
from Ophir, together with a wireless interface,
that allowed the meter to remain inside the
laser drilling machinery yet readable in safety.
“Our laser drilling and cutting process is governed
by a strict adherence to parameters on a data card
which means that we need the ability to monitor the
laser output power at regular intervals. Previously, this
has been a major problem to both our maintenance
and production teams. The introduction of the
wireless power meter recommended by Acal BFi
enables us to check the health of the optics within
the laser before and after each cycle with little or no
risk to the component. ”
David Shield
N/C Systems Engineer
Rolls Royce 12
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
strategic focus: Vertec South Africa
Vertec Scientiﬁc is a leading supplier of equipment
for the medical imaging and radiotherapy markets
in the UK and has become the market leader in
the supply of bone densitometry equipment.
Vertec SA, the South African subsidiary, was
established in 2006 to replicate the success
achieved in the UK market. Following earlier
success with digital mammography equipment
in the South African market, Vertec SA recently
won the tender to supply Universitas Hospital
in Bloemfontein.
Building on an already strong relationship,
Vertec SA won the contract to supply Hologic
Selenia Dimensions digital mammography
equipment.
Vertec SA’s local presence in Bloemfontein
ensures the provision of customer support
that is second to none.
“Universitas Hospital acquired a Hologic
Selenia Dimensions mammography and
tomosynthesis unit from Vertec SA in January
2011. We have received excellent service and
ongoing support from Vertec and look forward
to our future relationship. ”
Dr Susan Otto
Radiologist
Universitas Hospital
Bloemfontein
supporting medical science
Universitas Hospital, Bloemfontein 13
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
strategic focus: Acal Supply Chain UK
supporting service organisations
Getronics Nederland BV
Acal Supply Chain Limited (ASC), the leading
independent provider of service part supply
chains in Europe, has signed a three-year
contract with Getronics in the Netherlands to
manage the supply and processing of spare
IT parts for their service organisation.
Building on a ten year trading relationship
across Europe, the contract covers the supply
and management of spare parts inventory and
the processing and repair of returns from the
field (“reverse logistics”).
With a diverse customer base, Getronics
Nederland BV’s service organisation maintains
and repairs a wide range of IT-based products.
ASC adds value by providing the appropriate
parts at the right time.
“Managing the availability of spare parts
inventory without overstocking is a constant
challenge. To be able to provide a lean ‘just in
time’ ﬁnancial model will reduce our internal
costs and aid our growth ambitions. ASC have
simplified this process for us by managing both
supply and logistics while improving the
availability of parts and reducing our stocks. ”
Dipak Guha
Global Supply Chain Director
Getronics Division 14
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
Acal operates in multiple
niche markets. Each
country has dedicated
sales, engineering and
marketing teams speciﬁc
to each business unit
reporting to the General
Manager with a remit to
implement locally the
strategy agreed with the
Business Unit Director.
communications
The surge in wireless communications is
driving major innovations such as smart
metering, worldwide digital adverting
networks and car parking/charging meters
for electric vehicles. Central to this new
generation of machine-to-machine (M2M)
applications is the range of specialist
components offered by the
Communications business unit, in addition
to the expert design support and
manufacturing services which are crucial
for customers adopting new technologies.
electromechanical
The specialist in-house engineering team
at the Electromechanical business unit has
provided support for high-profile projects
such as the Galileo space probe. The broad
range of products provides customers with
the choice of off-the-shelf and custom
components combined with
manufacturing services for custom heater,
connector and fibre-optic assemblies for
safety-critical systems where robust design
and reliability are crucial.
photonics
Light is used in markets as diverse as
advanced scientific and medical
instruments, industrial manufacturing
and consumer applications. As one of
Europe’s leading specialists, the Photonics
business unit provides customers with
light sources and products for light
detection and manipulation, as well as
in-house calibration and expertise in
set-up and installation at both local and
European level.
microsystems
The Microsystems business unit
understands the demands of embedded
and network computing. With experience
in applications ranging from telemetry
systems, to graphics and IP telephony,
the team’s expertise spans single-board
computing to enterprise networking.
This diversity supports customers with
component selection to full custom
systems integration for some of the most
demanding applications.
power
Flexibility is crucial to enable the Power
business unit’s customers to address the
most difficult challenges of power design
in commercial, industrial, medical and
military markets. The combination of a
strong portfolio of standard and
customisable power products and
specialist design support is backed by
in-house manufacturing. This provides
an end-to-end service which includes
fast prototyping and cost-effective
manufacturing for low to medium volume
production of power supplies.
electronics
acal’s markets 15
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
imaging
The Imaging and Electro-Optics business
unit provides specialist support to military
and security OEMs operating in vertical
sectors such as force protection, homeland
security, border protection and critical-
asset surveillance. State-of-the-art
components are combined with specialist
engineering support for high-security
applications, as well as after-sales service
to maintain 24/7 operability of products in
the field.
medical imaging
The Medical division, with operating
companies in the UK and South Africa,
provides products and an after sales
service to third parties engaged in the
medical and scientific sectors. It is the UK
market leader in the supply of bone
densitometry scanning equipment but is
also involved in delivering and supporting
products concerned with radiotherapy
treatment positioning, computed
tomography and digital radiography.
semiconductors
For customers, the Semiconductor
business unit offers high-technology
solutions and support; whilst for chip
manufacturers it offers a totally dedicated
sales and marketing team, with a thorough
understanding of customers, markets and
applications. Solutions range from low-
level data processing applications, right
up to the most advanced processing
platforms which help customers to reduce
cost and be first to market with innovative
new products.
IT parts
The Supply Chain division provides IT parts
and inventory solutions to field service
organisations throughout Europe. Outside
of Germany, it is engaged in reactive spares
services, proactive inventory solutions and
OEM authorised parts supply across multi-
vendor Enterprise products and printer
platforms and all major OEMs for portable,
desktop PC and Wintel platforms. Inside
Germany, it is engaged in aftermarket
services, including OEM parts distribution
and warranty support for OEMs.
medical
supply chain
magnetics
The Magnetic Components business unit
is the only European distributor to provide
customers with a single source for every
magnetic component used in power-
supply manufacturing. The product range
spans standard current transformers for
power monitoring, capacitors, filters,
Electromagnetic Interference (EMI)
shielding and heat dissipation materials, as
well as customised chokes, transformers
and filters which are developed and
manufactured in-house.
sensors
The Sensors business unit provides the
expertise, components and assemblies
which enable next-generation intelligent
motion control and sensing. Sensors are
used to measure every aspect of the world
including carbon dioxide, pressure,
temperature and movement. Accurate
sensing and measurement are crucial
for automating products as diverse as
unmanned drones, motion-controlled
games, smart phones, home appliances
and industrial manufacturing processes. Nick Jefferies
Group Chief Executive
Aged 45, Nick joined Acal as
Group Chief Executive in
January 2009. Formerly General
Manager for Electronics globally
at Electrocomponents plc, and
having previously held senior
positions at Arrow Electronics,
he started his career as an
Electronics Design Engineer
for Racal Defence (now part
of Thales plc).
Philippe Gruson
President, Electronics Division
Aged 53, Philippe joined Acal
when it acquired the BFi Optilas
Group (of which he was
President) in December 2009.
Philippe is President of the
Electronics Division of Acal and
has over 20 years experience in
specialist distribution, including
time spent with Avnet, Inc
when it owned BFi Optilas.
P H Neville ACA
Group Commercial Director
Aged 44, Paul was appointed
Group Commercial Director in
March 2009. A Chartered
Accountant, he has over 15
years experience of working in
senior management positions
for listed public companies,
including Wincanton plc and
Uniq plc. Prior to joining Acal,
he was Group Chief Executive
of an AIM listed software
development company.
Martin Pangels
Group Strategy and
Development Director
Aged 43, Martin is Group
Strategy and Development
Director. He joined Acal in July
2010 after working as an
advisor to the business. Prior
to joining Acal, Martin spent 9
years at Electrocomponents plc,
where he was Regional General
Manager for Europe, and 6
years with Bain & Company as
a strategy consultant.
Gary Shillinglaw FCIS
Group Company Secretary
Aged 61, Gary joined Acal as
Group Company Secretary in
August 2008. A qualiﬁed
Chartered Secretary, he has
previously held that position in
a number of listed and non-
listed public companies,
including Countryside Properties
plc, B&Q plc and First Leisure
Corporation plc.
Simon Gibbins ACA
Group Finance Director
Aged 44, Simon was appointed
as Group Finance Director in
July 2010. A Chartered
Accountant, he was previously
Global Head of Finance and
Deputy CFO at Shire plc. Prior to
joining Shire in 2000, he spent 6
years with ICI plc in various
senior finance roles, both in the
UK and overseas. His earlier
career was spent with Coopers
& Lybrand in London.
group executive committee
16
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011 ﬁnancial review
Strong growth in revenue
Group revenue for the year increased by 46% to £264.8m (2009/10:
£181.6m) with strong like for like sales growth up 21% over last
year. This growth is principally driven by the Electronics division
which represented 77% of Group revenue during the year and
delivered like for like sales up 27% over last year. Second half Group
revenue increased 25% to £137.5m (H2 2009/10: £110.1m), and
was up 17% on a like for like basis. Like for like growth in the
second half was less than the first half growth of 25% due to much
higher second half comparatives as the Group recovered from the
recessionary lows experienced in H1 last year. Reported revenue
for the second half was up 8% over the first half sales performance
(up 6% on a like for like basis), with the second half representing
52% of total annual revenues in line with historic trends.
A review of the divisional results for the year is set out in the
Strategic and Operational Review.
Improving gross margins and operational efﬁciency
Gross margins improved to 28.4% compared to 27.6% last year
reflecting the shift in strategy away from fulfilment orders to a more
specialised, value add, higher margin business. The Group has now
delivered incremental sequential growth in gross margins over the
last four half years from 27.4% in H1 2009/10 to 28.5% in H2 2010/11.
Over the same period, the Group also delivered improving
operational efficiency with underlying operating expenses as a
percentage of sales reducing from 29.9% in H1 2009/10 to 25.2% in
H2 2010/11. This represents sequential improvement in each of the
last four half years including 0.9 percentage points improvement in
the last six months (H1 2010/11 operating expenses as a
percentage of sales: 26.1%).
This improvement is the result of tight cost control during a year of
strong sales growth together with the realisation of synergies
generated from the integration of BFi. The Group delivered its BFi
acquisition synergy plan with £3.0m of synergies arising in the year,
annualising at 31 March 2011 to £4.4m (€5.3m), in line with the
synergy forecast at the time of the acquisition.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items for the year totalled £4.4m (2009/10: £4.7m) of
which £3.6m related to the BFi integration. Other exceptional costs
comprised £0.6m in relation to the restructure and integration of
the Supply Chain division, £0.2m in relation to other Group
restructuring, £0.4m for the write down of assets relating to the
disposal of the ATM Parts business and £0.2m in respect of the
acquisition of Compotron. Partially offsetting this was a £0.6m
credit relating to potential obligations no longer applying to
disposal transactions from earlier years.
Total exceptional costs for the BFi integration were £6.0m (£3.6m this
year and £2.4m in 2009/10), in line with the originally anticipated
cost. Total integration costs comprised £2.4m on redundancies
(£1.7m this year), £3.1m on commercial, IT and legal integration
(£1.4m this year) and £0.5m on onerous leases (£0.5m this year).
Growing operational proﬁtability
Underlying operating profits for the year were £7.4m or 2.8% as a
percentage of sales. This marks a transformational turnaround in
the business from an underlying operational loss of £0.7m in the
prior year. Through the combination of improving gross margins
and better operational efficiency, the Group has delivered
increasing underlying operating performance over each of the last
four half years, rising from an underlying operational loss in H1
2009/10 of £1.8m (-2.5% of sales) to an underlying operational
profit in H2 2010/11 of £4.6m (3.3% of sales), a swing of 5.8% of
sales within 18 months.
Reported operating profits (including exceptional items of £4.4m,
earn-out costs of £0.2m and amortisation on acquired intangibles
of £0.3m) were £2.5m compared with a loss last year of £5.5m.
This is the first reported operating profit since the year ended
31 March 2008 as the Group’s specialisation strategy starts to
deliver. Reported operating profits for H2 2010/11 were £2.6m
(H2 2009/10: loss of £3.3m).
Lower ﬁnance costs
Total finance costs for the year of £0.6m (2009/10: £0.8m)
comprised a net interest charge and an IAS 19 pension finance
charge relating to a legacy defined benefit pension scheme.
The net interest charge of £0.3m was up £0.1m from last year and
comprises interest and fixed charges arising from the operation of
the Group’s committed and uncommitted facilities. The increase
reflects the cost of extending the Group’s committed working
capital facilities (up to £20m from £8m reported at 31 March 2010)
and the increased use of those facilities during the year to fund
inter month working capital outflows.
The IAS 19 charge was £0.3m for the year (2009/10: £0.6m), with the
reduction primarily related to a higher than expected return on assets.
17
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 18
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
ﬁnancial review continued
Taxation
The underlying effective tax rate at 23% is lower than the UK tax rate
of 28% mainly due to the utilisation of tax losses in certain territories
which are now profitable. This compares favourably to an underlying
effective rate in 2009/10 of -38% due to losses before tax in the year
combined with unrecognised tax losses. At the year end, the Group
still had access to approximately £18m of tax losses in Europe.
The overall effective tax rate was 11% (FY 2009/10: -5%). This rate is
lower than the underlying effective tax rate due to the higher rate
of tax relief anticipated on exceptional costs.
Return to bottom line proﬁtability
Strong underlying proﬁts and a better underlying tax rate
combined to achieve an underlying diluted earnings per share for
the year of 18.6 pence (2009/10: loss of 6.3 pence). Of this,
underlying earnings per share of 11.8 pence were generated in the
second half building on ﬁrst half underlying earnings per share of
6.8 pence, an increase of 74%.
Including underlying adjustments, the fully diluted earnings per
share for the year were 5.7 pence (2009/10: loss per share of 24.5
pence). This marks a return to overall profitability for the ﬁrst time
since the year ended 31 March 2008.
Increase in dividend
For the year ended 31 March 2011, the Board has recommended
a final dividend of 5.14 pence per share (2009/10: 4.67 pence per
share), an increase of 10%. An interim dividend of 2.33 pence per
share was paid in January 2011 (2009/10: 2.33 pence per share),
making the total dividend for the year 7.47 pence per share
(2009/10: 7.0 pence per share), an increase of 6.7%.
Continuing acquisition strategy
On 11 January 2011, the Group acquired 100% of Compotron for a
maximum amount of €8.5m (£7.1m) comprising an upfront cash
payment of €6.2m (£5.2m), a working capital settlement of €0.6m
(£0.5m) paid in April 2011 and an earn-out of up to €1.7m (£1.4m)
payable in January 2013 subject to the business achieving agreed
performance targets over the next two years. £0.9m of cash was
acquired with the business. The owner managers of Compotron
have remained with the business and purchased new ordinary
shares in Acal plc for £0.1m in total.
Under IFRS 3 (revised), the expected cost of the earn-out must be
recognised through the income statement over the two year earn-
out period of which £0.2m was accrued for the first three months
of Group ownership ending 31 March 2011. The balance of £1.2m
will be accrued across the remaining 21 months of the earn-out
period subject to any deterioration in performance. The cost of this
earn-out is being treated as an underlying profit adjustment.
Compotron’s revenues for its year ended 31 December 2009 were
€7.3m (£6.1m) generating a pre tax profit of €1.0m (£0.8m).
Revenues for its year ended 31 December 2010 were €10.2m
(£8.7m).
Disposal of non core assets
On 12 October 2010, the Group sold its loss-making subsidiary,
ATM Parts Company Limited (“ATM Parts”) for a consideration of
£0.7m on a debt free, cash free basis. The disposal gave rise to an
exceptional charge of £0.4m being the value impairment of the
net assets sold.
Working capital
During the year, like for like sales have increased by 21%. Despite
this overall growth in sales and acquisitions activity, net working
capital increased by only 5% to end the year at £33.0m leading to a
reduction in the working capital ratio from 12.7% at 31 March 2010
to 12.0% at 31 March 2011 as management continue to optimise
working capital investment.
Further improvement has been made in inventory management
with net stock turns increasing from 7.4x to 7.9x reflecting the shift
in the Electronics business strategy towards specialisation focussed
on more back to back ordering and less fulfilment stock holding.
Trade debtors outstanding at the year end were 55 days (31 March
2010: 51 days). Working capital creditors outstanding at the year
end improved to 52 days (31 March 2010: 48 days).
Cash ﬂow and ﬁnancing
Underlying operating cash flow generated in the year was £9.1m
being underlying operating profit of £7.4m adjusted for key non-
cash items of £1.7m comprising depreciation of £1.1m, amortisation
(excluding amortisation on acquired intangibles) of £0.3m and
share based payments of £0.3m.
The Group invested a net £4.4m related to acquisitions and
disposals during the year, all in the second half. The Company paid
an upfront amount of £5.2m for the acquisition of Compotron in
A strong return to proﬁtability and
pre exceptional cash generation
positions us well for the future ﬁnancial review continued
the last quarter of the year. Acquired with the company was £0.9m
of cash making a net payment in the year of £4.3m. Future cash
payments of up to €2.3m (£1.9m) are payable at the year end
comprising a working capital settlement of €0.6m (£0.5m) which
was paid in April 2011, and earn-out remuneration of up to €1.7m
(£1.4m) payable in January 2013.
In October 2010, the Company received a net £0.6m for the sale
of its ATM Parts business (proceeds of £0.7m less costs of £0.1m)
while in March 2011 it paid £0.7m to Avnet Technology Solutions,
being the final working capital payment due in respect of the sale
to Avnet of the IT Solutions business in September 2007.
Other investment and funding cash outflows for the year mainly
comprised the exceptional cash cost of restructuring and integration
of £5.2m (primarily related to the integration of BFi), the payment
of dividends of £2.0m and capital expenditure of £1.3m.
The resulting net cash outflow for the year was £7.0m. Excluding
exceptional cash costs of £5.2m and net acquisition cash cost of
£4.4m, the Group generated cash of £2.6m in the year.
The net overall cash flow for the year of £7.0m, together with a
foreign exchange loss arising on translation of £0.2m, reduced
net cash balances from £13.9m at 31 March 2010 to £6.7m at
31 March 2011.
In the second half of the year, stronger operational cash flow
(£5.4m for H2 2010/11 compared to £3.7m for H1 2010/11) and
improved working capital management helped deliver cash flow
(before exceptional payments and acquisitions) of £2.8m for the
half year. Together with exceptionals (£1.8m) and net cash outflow
for acquisitions and disposals of £4.4m (detailed above), there was
a net cash outflow in the second half of £3.4m.
At 31 March 2011, the Group had access to committed working
capital facilities of £19.7m which it requires from time to time to
fund inter-month outflows of working capital. Such inter-month
outflows resulted in net average borrowings across the final quarter
of the year of £0.5m.
Net assets
Net assets at 31 March 2011 of £51.3m were marginally below net
assets at the end of last year (£51.9m) with net after tax profits for
the year of £1.7m being offset by the cost of dividends in the
period of £2.0m.
Pension deﬁcit
The Group has a legacy defined benefit scheme that relates to the
acquisition of Sedgemoor Limited in 1999. The scheme has been
closed to both new entrants and new contributions since 2000.
Assets of the defined benefit scheme were valued at £29.1m at 31
March 2011 (31 March 2010: £29.3m). Scheme liabilities under
International Accounting Standard No 19 (IAS19) were valued by
the actuaries at £34.6m (31 March 2010: £34.8m), giving a deficit of
£5.5m (31 March 2010: £5.5m).
The most recent funding valuation, conducted at 31 March 2011,
showed a deficit of £8.8m. A funding plan was agreed between the
Fund’s Trustees and Sedgemoor Limited in May 2010 comprising
annual payments by the Group of £0.7m for each of the years
ended 31 March 2011 and 2012, then increasing by 3% per annum
from a base of £1.5 million in 2013 for a further 10 years.
For existing and new Acal employees, the Group operates a
defined contribution scheme.
Risks and uncertainties
The risks and uncertainties which may have the largest impact on
performance are described in the Director’s Report on page 21 to 23.
In summary these are:
• Commercial risks – product demand, competition, product
liability, loss of contracts, supply chain disruption and loss of key
personnel.
• Financial risks – liquidity, foreign currency, interest rates and credit
risks, retirement benefits funding and acquisitions.
Acal’s risk management processes cover identification, impact
assessment, likely occurrence and mitigation actions. Some level
of risk, however, will always be present.
Simon Gibbins
Group Finance Director
1 June 2011
Continuing improvements in
operating margins and working
capital optimisation reﬂect our
specialisation strategy
19
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 20
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
Registered ofﬁce
Acal plc
2 Chancellor Court
Occam Road
Surrey Research Park
Guildford
Surrey GU2 7AH
Telephone 01483 544500
Incorporated in England
and Wales with
registered number 2008246
Stockbrokers
Oriel Securities Limited
Principal bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP
Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Annual General Meeting 28 July 2011
Results
Interim report for the six
months to 30 September 2011 Late November 2011
Preliminary announcement for
the year to 31 March 2012 Early June 2012
Annual report 2012 Late June 2012
Dividend payments
Final dividend 2010/2011 29 July 2011
Interim dividend 2011/2012 Late January 2012
Final dividend 2011/2012 Late July 2012
governance
directors’ report 21
board report on corporate governance 25
directors’ remuneration report 29
corporate social responsibility 34
statement of directors’ responsibilities 35
ﬁnancial statements
group ﬁnancial statements 36
report of the auditors, group 37
consolidated income statement 38
consolidated statement of comprehensive income 39
consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 40
consolidated statement of changes in equity 41
consolidated cash ﬂow statement 42
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements 43
company ﬁnancial statements 78
report of the auditors, company 79
company balance sheet 80
notes to the company ﬁnancial statements 81
ﬁve year record 84
principal locations
contents
corporate information ﬁnancial calendar 2011/2012
corporate information
and ﬁnancial calendar 
overview business review governance financial statements
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
The Directors present their Annual Report with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011. This report is the
“management report” for the purpose of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules. The Business Review referred to below is to be
treated as being part of this Report.
Results
The results of the Group for the year to 31 March 2011 are set out in detail in the consolidated income statement on page 38.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.14p per share (2010: 4.67p). The final dividend together with the interim dividend of 2.33p
(2010: 2.33p) makes a total dividend for the year of 7.47p per ordinary share (2010: 7.00p). The total dividends on ordinary shares will
absorb £2,126,000 (2010: £1,989,000).
Principal activities and business review
Acal plc is the parent company of a sales, marketing and services group with three divisions: Electronics, Supply Chain and Medical. During
the year the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of CompoTRON GmbH, a specialist provider of electronic communication
components. Further details of the acquisition are set out in note 11 to the financial statements. The Group also disposed of 100% of the
share capital of ATM Parts Company Limited. Further details of this disposal are set out in note 12 to the financial statements. There were
no other major changes to the Group’s activities during the year under review. On a regular basis the Board reviews all businesses within
the Group to ensure that its strategy is being delivered and to examine other opportunities to enhance shareholder value. At the date of
this Report the Board has taken no decisions which could result in any significant changes in activities during the current financial year.
During the year the Group’s turnover increased by 46% over the prior year whilst underlying profit before tax was £7.1 million compared
to a loss of £0.9 million in the prior year. The balance sheet as at the year-end and the equivalent statement as at 31 March 2010 are
shown on page 40. A review of the business and future developments of the Group is presented in the Chairman’s Statement, in the
Strategic and Operational Review and in the Financial Review on pages 2 to 3, 5 to 8 and 17 to 19.
The Group does not have contractual or other arrangements with any contractors, customers or suppliers that are critical to the business.
Key performance indicators
Our progress on our strategic objectives is monitored by the Board of Directors by reference to the following key performance indicators
applied on a Group-wide basis:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 2011 31 March 2010
Underlying operating profit/(loss)* £7.4m £(0.7)m
Underlying profit/(loss) before tax* £7.1m £(0.9)m
Gross margin 28.4% 27.6%
Underlying operating margin 2.8% (0.4)%
Underlying diluted earnings per share* 18.6p (6.3)p
Working capital to sales 12.0% 12.7%
Days sales outstanding 55 51
Stock turns 7.9 7.4
* Underlying profits and earnings are defined in note 2 to the financial statements on page 44.
Acquisition of Hectronic AB
On 1 June 2011 the Company announced the acquisition of 100% of Hectronic AB (“Hectronic”), for cash consideration of £1.2m (sek12m)
before expenses and net debt acquired. Hectronic has been acquired from the majority shareholder, Verdane Capital III AS, a Private Equity
Company in the Nordic region. The cash consideration will be paid from the Group’s existing cash resources. Hectronic is a specialist provider
of embedded computing technology to industrial electronic markets. Based in Sweden, it generates revenues across the Nordic region.
The company will form a separate business unit within Acal’s Electronics division and will retain its strong independent brand identity.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risks and uncertainties affecting the Group’s electronics, supply chain and medical equipment markets could have a material impact on the
Group’s performance and cause actual results to differ significantly from expected and historic performance. Acal’s risk management processes
cover identification, impact assessment, likely occurrence and mitigation actions. Some level of risk, however, will always be present.
Financial risks
• Liquidity
This is the risk that the Group could have insufficient resources to meet its financial liabilities as they fall due. The Group addresses this
risk by maintaining adequate banking facilities and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows to ensure that liquidity
requirements will be met. The Group regularly discusses its requirements with its principal bankers and it is considered unlikely that the
Group will face any significant funding issues in the foreseeable future.
• Foreign currency
The Group’s main foreign exchange exposures relate to the translation of results and net assets denominated in overseas currencies into
sterling (translational exposure), and the occurance of transactions in currencies other than the operational currencv of the transacting
directors’ report 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
company (transactional exposure). The policy of the Group is to use hedges to reduce the foreign currency risk associated with
transactional exposures. These hedges are achieved through forward currency contracts and currency borrowings. No hedging
of translational exposure takes place.
• Interest rates
Fluctuations in rates affect the interest the Group receives on its cash deposits and the amount payable on external borrowings. At
31 March 2011, the Group had no such hedges against its interest rate risk.
• Credit
Credit risk exists in relation to customers, banks and insurers. These risks are mitigated by maintaining rigorous credit control procedures
across a wide customer base.
Credit risk attributable to trade and other receivables is minimised by dealing with recognised creditworthy third parties who have been
through a credit verification process. The maximum exposure to credit risk is limited to the carrying value of trade and other receivables.
As well as credit risk exposures inherent within the Group’s outstanding receivables the Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk
arising from the placing of deposits and entering into derivative financial instrument contracts with banks and financial institutions.
The Group manages this credit risk by entering into financial instrument contracts only with highly credit-rated counterparties which
are reviewed and approved annually by the Board. The Group has Board approved maximum counterparty exposure limits for specified
banks and financial institutions based on the long term credit ratings of Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s.
Counterparties’ positions are monitored on a regular basis to ensure that they are within the approved limits and that there are no
significant concentrations of credit risk.
• Retirement benefits funding
The funding position of the Group’s post-retirement benefit scheme (the Sedgemoor Scheme – see note 33 to the financial statements
on page 74), may be adversely affected by poor investment performance, changes in interest and inflation rates, improved mortality
rates and changes in the regulatory environment. The income statement, and the level of cash contributions required to be made to
the scheme, may be positively or negatively affected by the amount of the retirement benefits obligations.
The Sedgemoor Scheme has been closed to new members since 1999 and shortly thereafter future service benefits ceased to accrue
to existing members. Deficit recovery plans are agreed with the Trustee of the scheme based on actuarial advice and the results of
scheme valuations.
• Acquisitions
The Group considers acquisitions as part of its growth strategy. Such acquisitions may not realise the benefits anticipated. The Group
undertakes due diligence and obtains representations, warranties and indemnities from vendors where possible. The Group implements
comprehensive business integration processes.
Commercial and other risks
• Product demand
A significant or prolonged downturn, due to recession, would decrease demand for the Group’s products and adversely affect Group
revenue. The Group spreads its activities across the Electronics, Supply Chain and Medical markets to reduce its exposure to any one
business and constantly reviews its costs to partially mitigate any reduction in demand.
• Loss of major suppliers or customer(s)
As with any business, the loss of one or more major suppliers or customers can be a material risk. The nature of the Group’s businesses,
however, ensures that there is not a high level of dependence on any individual suppliers or customers. No supplier represents more
than 4.2% of total Group revenue with the next largest at 2.4%. No customer represents more than 2% of total Group revenue.
• Technological change
The Group’s businesses operate in specialised markets offering products which are technical in nature. As a result, there is always the risk
that a technological change will make specific products less competitive or in the worst case, obsolete. In addition to the write-off of
unsaleable inventory, this can impact the sales performance of the business if replacement products are not available. The Group’s
exposure to this risk is reduced by the spread of businesses and technologies.
The operating businesses monitor the key technologies to ensure early warning of changes in product competitiveness. Also, the
businesses, with sufficient lead time, mostly have the opportunity to change suppliers in the event of a major technology shift.
• Competition
The Group competes in a highly competitive global market that has experienced significant consolidation in recent years. Losing
contracts to competitors, many of whom have greater financial and marketing resources, or being forced to accept lower margins,
would have an adverse impact on the Group’s results. The Group mitigates this risk by diversifying its operations across divisions,
geographies and product types.
• Product liability
There is a risk that products supplied may fail in service, which could lead to a claim under product liability. To offset this risk, technically
qualified personnel and control systems are in place to ensure products meet quality requirements. Further, the Group has established
Group-wide product liability insurance.
• Contracts
The Supply Chain division enters into significant long-term contracts for the outsourcing of parts services. There is a risk that the Group
could suffer losses on such contracts through incorrect pricing, through an inaccurate assessment of the costs associated with such
contracts or through weak business processes. To mitigate this risk, major contracts must go through a Board approval process to
ensure that risks associated with such contracts have been properly evaluated.
directors’ report continued 
overview business review governance financial statements
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
• Supply chain
The Group relies on independent suppliers for the products which it distributes, some of which may be available from a limited number
of suppliers or distributed under agreement with a specific supplier. Any disruption to the supply chain could have an impact on the
Group’s ability to meet customer requirements and adversely affect the Group’s results. The Group maintains significant investment in
logistics facilities and subjects business continuity plans to regular testing to manage the risk of a loss of a major facility or supplier.
• Major damage to premises
The Electronics business has two central warehouse facilities. Major damage to either of these facilities from fire, malicious damage or
natural disaster would impact the business for a period until the damage is repaired or alternative facilities have been established.
The businesses have developed plans to prevent incidents, and business contingency plans in the event such an incident occurred.
Insurance policies are also in place including property, contents and business interruption cover which would mitigate the financial impact.
• Loss of information technology (“IT”) systems
Computer systems are critical to the businesses since their success is built on high levels of customer service and quick response. A
complete failure of IT systems, with the loss of trading and other records, could be very damaging. IT system failure could have a
number of causes including power failure, fire and viruses. Business interruption insurance cover is held across the Group and
contingency plans have been drawn up in all businesses.
• People
The success of the Group depends upon the efforts, experience and expertise of certain senior and specialist employees. Failure to
retain them or recruit suitable replacements would have an adverse effect. To mitigate this risk, the Group maintains competitive
remuneration packages and good communications at all levels.
Employee involvement
The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment. Employment policies are fair, equitable and consistent
with the skills and abilities of its employees and the needs of the Group’s business. These policies ensure that everyone is accorded equal
opportunity for recruitment, training and promotion. The Group remains supportive of the employment and advancement of disabled
persons, in relation to which further information is included in the Corporate Social Responsibility statement on page 34.
It is Group policy to communicate with employees on major matters to encourage them to take an interest in the affairs of their
employing company and the Group. Each of the Group’s operating companies is responsible for developing effective arrangements in
this regard, including the creation of a common awareness by employees of the financial and economic factors affecting their employing
company’s performance.
Acal recognises the importance of its responsibilities in relation to the environment, to social and community issues and to business
ethics, as well as to its employees. Further information is included in the Corporate Social Responsibility statement on page 34.
Directors
The current Directors of the Company are detailed in the Board Report on Corporate Governance on pages 25 to 28 which is publicly
available on the Company’s website at www.acalplc.co.uk. Directors’ remuneration, service contracts and Directors’ interests are disclosed
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 33.
The Articles of Association of the Company contain an indemnity in favour of the Directors which is a Qualifying Third Party Indemnity
within the meaning of s. 236 of the Companies Act 2006 and is in force at the time of approval of this Annual Report. Also, Directors of
associated companies are subject to this Qualifying Third Party Indemnity.
In addition, each Director of the Company has entered into a Deed of Indemnity with the Company which operates only in excess of any
right to indemnity which a Director may enjoy under any such other indemnity or contract of insurance.
Additional information for shareholders
The following provides the additional information required for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the Takeover Directive
into UK Law.
As at 31 March 2011 the Company’s issued share capital consisted of 28,479,804 ordinary shares of 5p each. On a show of hands at a
general meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares present in person is entitled to vote and on a poll every member
present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held. There are no restrictions on the transfer of
ordinary shares in the Company other than those that may be imposed by law or regulation from time to time.
The Company’s Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders. Directors are
appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders. The Board can appoint a Director but anyone so appointed
must be elected by an ordinary resolution at the next general meeting. Any Director who has held office for more than three years since
their last appointment must offer themselves for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Directors have the power to manage the Company’s business subject to the provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association, law
and applicable regulations. The Directors have the power to issue and buy-back shares in the Company pursuant to the terms and
limitations of resolutions passed by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company are shown in the table on page 32. Substantial shareholder interests of which the
Company has been notified are shown below.
directors’ report continued 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
The Company is party to a number of commercial agreements which, in line with normal practice in the industry, may be affected by a
change of control following a takeover bid. There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for
compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid (but see “Special Awards: Mr N J Jefferies and
Mr S M Gibbins” on pages 30 to 31).
Issue of shares under share option and long-term incentive schemes
No shares were issued during the year under the Group’s executive share option and long-term incentive schemes.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 1 June 2011 the Company has been notified of the following major shareholdings equal to or in excess of three per cent of the
issued share capital:
Holdings of %
ordinary shares (5p) holding
Aberforth Partners LLP 5,118,200* 18.0
Henderson Global Investors Limited 2,830,823 9.9
Mr & Mrs J A H Curry 2,443,500 8.6
M&G Investment Management Ltd 2,141,224 7.5
Mr & Mrs A J Laughton 1,384,900 4.9
Herald Investment Management Ltd 1,339,992 4.7
Polar Capital European Forager Fund Ltd 1,188,343 4.2
Aviva plc & Subsidiaries 923,524 3.2
* Includes 1,165,700 shares in relation to which Aberforth have no access to the voting rights.
Acquisition of company’s own shares
At the end of the year, the Directors had authority to purchase through the market up to 2,841,835 of the Company’s ordinary shares,
being approximately 10% of the Company’s issued share capital as at 25 June 2010, at prices ranging between the nominal value and
an amount equal to the higher of (a) 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from
the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is
purchased and (b) that stipulated by Article 5(i) of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulations 2003.
The authority expires at the conclusion of the 2011 Annual General Meeting or on 28 October 2011, whichever is the earlier. The Directors
will seek to renew this authority at the next Annual General Meeting.
No shares were purchased under this authority during the year.
Donations
During the year £nil (2010: £nil) was donated by Group companies for charitable purposes. No contributions (2010: £nil) were made for
political purposes.
Auditors
A resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of
the Company.
Disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors have taken all necessary steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Group’s
auditors are aware of that information. As far as the Directors are aware there is no relevant audit information of which the Group’s
auditors are unaware.
Supplier payments
The Group makes arrangements for payment of suppliers in the ordinary course of its business, taking into account good practice locally.
It is the Group’s policy to adhere to agreed arrangements, which can vary from supplier to supplier and territory to territory, when goods
or services have been delivered satisfactorily.
Trade creditors of the Group at 31 March 2011 were equivalent to 52 days purchases (2010: 48).
Use of derivative ﬁnancial instruments
A statement in relation to the use of derivative financial instruments by the Group is shown in note 2 to the financial statements on page 48.
By order of the Board
G P Shillinglaw 2 Chancellor Court
Group Company Secretary Occam Road
1 June 2011 Surrey Research Park
Guildford
Surrey GU2 7AH
directors’ report continued 
overview business review governance financial statements
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
The Acal Group is committed to effective corporate governance and continues to operate principles and procedures that are appropriate
to its business. This statement describes how Acal applies the principles of the Financial Reporting Council’s Combined Code on
Corporate Governance (2008 edition) (the ‘Code’) by considering each of the main headings included within the Code. Acal complied
with all provisions of the Code throughout the year to 31 March 2011.
As disclosed in the Director’s Report on page 23, this statement is publicly available on the Company’s website at www.acalplc.co.uk.
The board
Acal is led by a strong and experienced Board with a broad range of business and financial skills. Throughout the year under review it
consisted of Mr R J Moon as Non-Executive Chairman, together with Messrs E A Barton, G J Williams and I R Fraser as Non-Executive
Directors, and Mr N J Jefferies as Group Chief Executive.
Mr S M Gibbins was appointed as Group Finance Director of the Company on 20 July 2010. The size and composition of the Board is
considered to be appropriate to the Group’s business at present although this is kept under review by the Nomination Committee.
The Board operates within a framework of controls used to minimise the adverse impact of any risks, including a formal schedule of
matters reserved for its decision. These are important matters and include the determination of the Group’s overall strategy and
management, the approval of financial statements, dividends, business plans, financing and treasury matters, major capital expenditure
and any litigation of a material nature. The schedule is reviewed on a regular basis. The Non-Executive Directors challenge management
proposals where appropriate and carefully monitor management performance and reporting throughout the year.
As detailed below, certain matters are delegated to the Group Executive Committee and to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination
Committees. The Board also has a General Purposes Committee consisting of any two Directors of the Company which has delegated
authority to approve certain defined and routine matters between Board meetings. There were fourteen meetings of the full Board
during the year to 31 March 2011, with all Directors attending all meetings with the exception of one meeting which Mr G J Williams was
unable to attend and one meeting which Mr I R Fraser was unable to attend. All Directors attended the meetings of all Committees on
which they served, with the exception of one meeting of the Audit Committee and one meeting of the Nomination Committee which
Mr G J Williams was unable to attend.
The Group maintains appropriate Directors’ and Officers’ Liability insurance.
Chairman and group chief executive
The Company has both a Chairman and a Group Chief Executive. There is a clear division of responsibilities which has been agreed by the
Board and is available from the Company on request. The Chairman is responsible for running the Board which includes the operation of
the Board’s overall procedures, providing a forum for constructive discussion and ensuring receipt of clear and timely information. The
Group Chief Executive is responsible for the management of the Group’s businesses and reporting their progress to the Board. Major
decisions have to be made by the Board as a whole, and no one individual has unfettered power of discretion.
Board balance and independence
As noted above the Board currently comprises two Executive Directors and, including the Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors. Each
Director has a role, and no individual or small group of individuals determines the Board’s decision-making.
No Non-Executive Director who served during the year:
• has been an employee of the Group within the last five years;
• has, or has had within the last three years, a material business relationship with the Company, either directly or indirectly;
• receives remuneration, other than a Director’s fee, participates in the Companys share incentive schemes or is a member
of the Company’s pension scheme;
• has close family ties with any of the Group’s advisers, Directors or senior employees;
• holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other Directors through involvement in other companies or bodies;
• represents a significant shareholder; or
• has served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their appointment to the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company are, therefore, considered to be independent.
Mr E A Barton is the Senior Independent Director and is available to shareholders should they have concerns that cannot be resolved
through other channels.
The Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors, but without Executive Directors present, as and when required. The Non-Executive
Directors meet when required without the Chairman present and, as stated below, the Senior Independent Director leads the process of
appraising the Chairman’s performance in conjunction with the other Non-Executive Directors.
Appointments to the board
The Nomination Committee has a duty to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills is retained on the Board and appropriate succession
planning is in place.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr R J Moon. Messrs E A Barton and G J Williams, as Non-Executive Directors, and Mr N J Jefferies,
as Group Chief Executive, are the other members of the Committee.
board report on corporate governance 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
Before any appointment to the Board is considered, a job specification is prepared and agreed by the Nomination Committee. Unless the
appointment is as an Executive Director for which a suitable candidate is available from within the Group, appropriate executive search or
other organisations with databases of candidates are consulted before a short-list of suitable candidates is produced for agreement by
the Nomination Committee. Candidates meet all members of the Nomination Committee which then makes recommendations to the
Board. All members of the Board would usually meet with the relevant candidate before an appointment is finally made.
On the appointment of Mr R J Moon as Chairman an assessment was made of the time commitment expected and of Mr Moon’s other
significant commitments. Mr Moon continues to hold non-executive Chairman positions with Planit Holdings Limited and OBS Medical
Limited. He is also a Director of Synergie Business Limited.
The Nomination Committee met formally three times during the year. The terms of reference for the Nomination Committee are available
on request and are on the Company’s website at www.acalplc.co.uk.
Information and professional development
Papers are circulated in advance of Board and Committee meetings, and Directors are invited to request such further information as they
may require, thereby ensuring that proper consideration can be given to all matters. Between meetings, Directors are kept abreast of
progress by the circulation of monthly reports together with ad hoc meetings and briefings as and when required. A procedure is in
place whereby Directors may have access to independent professional advice at the Company’s expense and Directors have access to the
advice and services of the Company Secretary. The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary would be a matter for the Board
as a whole. An induction process is in place for any new Director joining the Board which includes meeting with the Group’s senior
management and visits to key locations as well as a comprehensive briefing pack.
Performance evaluation
During the year the Board repeated the process of evaluating its own performance, together with that of its Committees and individual
Directors, including the Chairman. Each Director is asked to prepare an appraisal of each of these areas. The Chairman co-ordinates
discussion with individual Directors on their performance and the Senior Independent Director co-ordinates discussion with the
Chairman on the Chairman’s performance. The results of the process are then summarised for presentation to and discussion by the
Board and the actions to be taken (if any) are identified.
Election and re-election of directors
The Company’s Articles of Association require that, at every Annual General Meeting, each Director who (a) was appointed since the
previous Annual General Meeting or (b) was appointed or last re-appointed at or before the Annual General Meeting held at least three
years before the current year or (c) being a Non-Executive Director, as at the date of the Meeting, has held office with the Company for a
continuous period of nine years or more, must retire from office.
At the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, resolutions will be proposed for the election of Mr S M Gibbins and for the
re-election of Mr E A Barton. Having taken into account the formal evaluation of their performance, the Board believes that each makes
an effective contribution to the Board, demonstrates commitment to their role and can be recommended for election and re-election
respectively. Biographical details are shown on page 4.
The level and make-up of directors’ remuneration
The level and make-up of the Directors’ remuneration is set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. As this shows, a proportion of an
Executive Director’s overall remuneration is performance-related through annual bonus and share incentive schemes.
Procedure on board remuneration
The remuneration of Executive Directors is the responsibility of the Executive Directors’ Remuneration Committee, as is more fully
described in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Non-Executive
Directors’ Remuneration Committee which consists of the Executive Directors. No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
Financial reporting
The Directors have acknowledged in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities their responsibility for preparing the financial statements
of the Company and the Group. The Auditors have included in their report a statement of their responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for the publication of the interim report of the Group, covering the first six months of the year, which in
their opinion provides a balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s financial performance and position. In accordance with
the requirements of The Financial Services Authority’s Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, the Directors also issue an Interim
Management Statement twice in each financial year.
Internal controls
The Code includes a requirement that the Board maintains a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders’ investment and
the Company’s assets. This requirement covers all controls including operational, compliance and risk management as well as financial
controls. Formal guidance for Directors on internal controls was published by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales
in September 1999 and subsequently revised in October 2005 by The Financial Reporting Council, following which the Board approved a
framework for the implementation of this guidance. The relevant procedures have been in place throughout the year ended 31 March
2011 and up to the date of this Annual Report.
board report on corporate governance continued 
overview business review governance financial statements
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
While no system of controls can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Group’s system is designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss. In establishing and reviewing the system of internal controls, the Audit Committee, on
behalf of the Board, has regard to the significance of the risks involved, the likelihood and severity of a loss being incurred and the costs
of the relevant controls.
The foundation of the Group’s system of internal controls is the value which it places on the quality and integrity of its employees. Its
principal components are:
• a clearly defined organisation structure with short and clear reporting lines;
• an ongoing process for the identification, regular review and management of the principal risks and issues affecting the business,
both at Group and operating levels;
• a regular review of the principal suppliers and customers of the Group, and how each impacts upon the Group’s business;
• a comprehensive planning process which starts with a strategic plan and culminates in an annual budget and a long term plan;
• regular forecasting throughout the year of orders, sales, profitability, cash flow, working capital and balance sheets;
• a regular review of actual performance against budget and forecasts;
• clearly defined procedures for the authorisation of major new investments and commitments;
• a requirement for each operating company to maintain a system of internal controls appropriate to its own local business
environment.
The Finance Department is responsible for ensuring that the process for producing financial information delivers accuracy and is in
accordance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, it is responsible for the timely distribution of financial information, both
internally and externally. Key financial and operational performance is reported on a weekly and/or monthly basis and measured against
both budget and rolling forecasts approved by the Board and/or management. A review of the financial statements is completed by
management to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected. All financial information published
externally by the Group is approved by the Board.
In addition to the above, and on an annual basis, all operating companies undertake a comprehensive review of the effectiveness of their
internal controls. The results of these reviews are then consolidated before being considered by the Audit Committee and the Board.
The above procedures encompass Acal plc and its subsidiary companies.
The Board receives regular submissions from management concerning the matters set out above and other matters relevant to internal
controls and the identification, evaluation and management of risk. In addition, the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has
conducted a specific annual review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls, including financial, operational and
compliance controls and risk management systems. The Group has embedded internal control and risk management into the operations
of the business and continues to deal with areas of improvement which come to the attention of management and the Board.
The Company has effective procedures in place to deal with conflict situations.
Audit committee and auditors
The Audit Committee is comprised of Mr E A Barton, who is the Chairman, together with Mr G J Williams and Mr I R Fraser. The Group
Finance Director attends meetings although no Executive Director has a right of attendance. The Board is satisfied that the members of
the Committee have recent and relevant financial experience. In addition, Mr G J Williams is a qualified chartered accountant.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the scope and results of the audit, the accounting policies and systems of internal control of
the Group as well as the effectiveness and cost-efficiency of the audit. In addition, it considers and monitors the independence and
objectivity of the auditors as well as the extent of any non-audit services provided by the auditors and the need or otherwise for an
internal audit function. The interim statement, the preliminary announcement of results and the annual financial statements are
considered by the Audit Committee prior to their approval by the Board. The Chairman of the Audit Committee maintains direct
communication with the external auditors, independently of the management of the Company.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year and its principal activities during the period included:
• a review of the interim and full year results;
• a review of the internal control and risk management systems of the Company;
• a review of the scope and results of the external audit;
• ensuring the continued independence and objectivity of the external auditors, including an understanding of the external auditors’
own standards and procedures for maintaining their independence and reviewing the level of non-audit services provided by the
auditors in order to ensure that these were not significant enough to prejudice their independence and objectivity;
• a review of the need for an internal audit function;
• reviewing the performance of the external auditors and making a recommendation as to their re-appointment;
• a review of arrangements whereby staff may raise, in confidence, any concern they may have about possible improprieties.
board report on corporate governance continued 28
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
With regard to recommending the re-appointment of the external auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended that the Board
presents a resolution to shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of the external auditors. This followed
an assessment of the quality of service provided, including the qualification of the external auditors, the expertise and resources made
available to the Group, auditor independence and the effectiveness of the audit process. The decision was based on the consideration of
reports issued by the external auditors and feedback from executive management.
Part of at least one Audit Committee meeting a year is held with only representatives from the external auditors present providing an
opportunity for any concerns to be raised without executive management present.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on any significant matters arising from the activities of the Committee.
Tax advice is provided by KPMG LLP , Deloitte LLP and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP .
The Audit Committee has written terms of reference which are available on request and are on the Company’s website at www.acalplc.co.uk.
Group executive committee
The Group Executive Committee is comprised of Mr N J Jefferies, who is the Chairman, together with Mr S M Gibbins, Mr P R Gruson,
Mr M F Pangels, Mr P H Neville and Mr G P Shillinglaw, who is also the Secretary. For their biographies see page 16. During the year to
31 March 2011 the Committee met monthly, except in August and December. Other senior managers attend the Committee’s meetings
for specific topics.
The Committee is responsible for developing and implementing the Group’s medium-term strategy and for driving its overall
performance. The powers delegated to the Committee are contained in its written terms of reference which are available on request and
are on the Company’s website at www.acalplc.co.uk
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Board believes that it is an important part of its responsibilities to maintain effective and timely communications with the Company’s
shareholders and institutional investors. The Company’s Annual Report includes a statement from the Chairman, plus reviews by the
Group Chief Executive and by the Group Finance Director. At the half year an Interim Report is published.
Throughout the year meetings are held with institutional shareholders as well as stockbroking analysts. These meetings include
discussion of governance and strategy as required. It is the responsibility of the Chairman to ensure that shareholder views are
communicated to the Board as a whole. Investor relations information, as well as presentations and news releases, are made available on
the Company’s website (address: www.acalplc.co.uk). Members of the Board and the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit
Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions. The Company responds to any questions from
shareholders generally as they arise.
In order to ensure that members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the Company, any
feedback received by the Company from meetings with institutional shareholders and stockbroking analysts is discussed internally and
raised with the Board, as appropriate. Periodically, the Company’s stockbrokers and public relations advisers follow up meetings held with
institutional investors and stockbroking analysts in order to try and obtain feedback on these meetings which may not have been
provided directly to the Company. The results of such follow-up discussions are circulated to the Board.
Annual general meeting
The level of proxy voting, together with the number of votes cast for and against each resolution and abstention, will be made available
at the AGM after voting is completed on a show of hands and will be published on the Company’s website. A separate resolution has
been presented on each substantially separate issue and the Chairman of each Board Committee will attend the AGM. The proxy form
relating to the AGM includes an option for votes to be withheld. Notice of the Meeting will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working
days before the Meeting.
Approval
This Board Report on Corporate Governance has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
G P Shillinglaw
Group Company Secretary
1 June 2011
board report on corporate governance continued 29
overview business review governance financial statements
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
This Report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and the ABI Remuneration Guidelines. It also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing
Rules of the UK Listing Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles of Good Governance relating to the Directors’
remuneration. As required by regulation, a resolution to approve the Report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the
Company at which the financial statements will be approved.
Unaudited information
Remuneration committee
The Remuneration Committee (“the Committee”) comprises Mr G J Williams as Chairman of the Committee, Mr E A Barton, Mr R J Moon
and Mr I R Fraser. For their biographies see page 4. The Committee determines the remuneration of Executive Directors on behalf of the
Board. Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, and the Group’s overall employment costs, are taken into account by the
Committee in determining the remuneration packages for Executive Directors. The incentive structure for senior management does not
raise environmental, social and governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour. The Committee held four formal
meetings during the year to 31 March 2011, and its terms of reference are available on request.
The Committee takes advice from external consultants as and when it is deemed necessary. During the year under review the Committee
took advice from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP who they appointed for this purpose. Since the year end, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has
also provided a tax specialist on secondment to the Company.
The remuneration of Executive Directors centres on ensuring that packages are sufficiently competitive in both fixed and variable terms
to attract, retain and motivate senior management of the right calibre. To achieve this, it is necessary to provide packages that reflect
individual experience and performance as well as taking account of remuneration paid by companies of similar size and complexity,
operating internationally. The Committee has the discretion to consider corporate performance on environmental, social and governance
issues when setting the remuneration of Executive Directors. The ability to recruit high quality staff in new and higher technology areas is
critical to the Group’s growth. The four main elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors and senior management are:
• Basic annual salary and benefits
• Annual bonus payments (short-term incentives)
• Equity incentive schemes (long-term incentives)
• Pension arrangements
Each of the above is described in detail below.
Executive Directors may accept non-executive appointments outside the Company with the consent of the Board. The Board requires to
be satisfied that the time commitment involved is consistent with the responsibilities of the relevant Executive Director. Where fees from
such appointments are not required to be accounted for to the Company, the time commitment is taken into account in determining the
Director’s remuneration. None of the Executive Directors who served during the year held any non-executive appointments outside the
Company.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined on behalf of the Board by the Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration
Committee comprised of the Executive Directors. Fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are set out in the audited section below.
It is not envisaged that the Company’s policy on Directors’ remuneration for the year to 31 March 2012 will differ materially from that
which applied during the year under review.
Salaries, fees and benefits
An Executive Director’s basic salary is reviewed by the Committee prior to the beginning of each financial year and when an individual
changes position or responsibility. In deciding appropriate levels, the Committee considers the role and responsibilities of the relevant
Director as well as his experience and performance and, if considered necessary, takes appropriate external advice. In addition to basic
salary, Executive Directors receive certain benefits-in-kind, principally comprising a car allowance, life assurance and private medical
insurance.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration Committee having regard to fees paid to
Non-Executive Directors in other similarly sized UK quoted companies, the time commitment and the responsibilities of the role. Non-
Executive Directors cannot participate in any of the Company’s share incentive schemes.
Short-term incentive arrangements
The Company’s policy is that a substantial proportion of an Executive Director’s overall remuneration should be performance-related. The
Committee reviews and determines the financial objectives that must be met around the start of each financial year.
While the principal long-term measure of shareholder interests is total shareholder return, the Company believes that, for the purposes of
determining annual bonuses, account has to be taken of those aspects of trading performance which senior management can influence
by their actions. Thus, annual bonuses depend on specific targets including turnover and profit as well as the achievement of other non-
financial objectives which may be relevant for the year in question. Bonus payments to Executive Directors are capped at a level agreed
by the Remuneration Committee from time to time, currently 100% of basic salary.
directors’ remuneration report 30
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
Share incentive schemes
(a) Approved and unapproved executive share option schemes
The Group operates an approved and an unapproved executive share option scheme, the rules of which are similar in all material
respects. These schemes were adopted by the Company in 1998 and are now closed to the grant of further options. The exercise of
options under them is subject to the meeting of performance targets set by the Committee. Although there have been variations in
numbers of options granted from year to year depending upon circumstances, it has always been Acal’s policy to grant options to
employees on a phased and regular basis and not in one block. However, at certain times, particularly when recruiting new people or
to reward major achievements, it has been necessary to apply the policy flexibly. It has also been Acal’s policy not to grant executive
share options at a discount to market price.
The performance criterion that must be met before options can be exercised was determined when the two schemes were
established. It requires that the growth in the Company’s earnings per share in any three-year period before exercise must have
exceeded the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period plus two per cent per annum. This criterion has
been kept under review.
During the year to 31 March 2011, the Company adopted a new, approved share option scheme, known as the Acal plc 2010
Company Share Option Plan (“the CSOP”). On the grant of an option under the CSOP , the Committee may impose a performance
target and any further condition on the exercise of an option that the Committee determines to be appropriate. For the CSOP
options granted to date, their exercise is dependent upon the option holder’s continued employment for a three-year holding period
from the date of grant and the satisfaction by the Company of the same performance conditions over that period as currently apply
to the release of an award under the Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan (see (b) below).
(b) Long term incentive plan (“LTIP”)
At the Annual General Meeting on 24 July 2008, shareholders approved the LTIP which involves a conditional award of shares on
grant of a nil-cost option. In the opinion of the Committee, the LTIP provides a strong link between management performance and
reward while encouraging key executives to build and maintain a shareholding.
In each year, Executive Directors and senior managers, selected by the Committee on the basis of such factors as their contribution to
the Group’s success, are eligible to receive an award of shares worth up to 150 per cent of base salary. Subject to this limitation, actual
grant levels will be determined by the Committee.
The release of an award is dependent upon the individual’s continued employment for a three-year holding period from the date of
grant and the satisfaction by the Company of certain performance conditions over that period as follows:
• 50% of the award is based on the Company’s comparative total shareholder return against a comparator group made up of the
constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index with vesting as follows: Median = 25% vesting; Upper Quartile = 100% vesting; and
• 50% of the award is based on the Company’s absolute total shareholder return as measured against the Retail Price Index (“RPI”)
with vesting as follows: RPI + 15% = 25% vesting; RPI + 30% =100% vesting.
These performance conditions are kept under review by the Committee to ensure that they are supportive of the Company’s strategy.
Therefore, they may be subject to change for future grants to better reflect this strategy. Any change might require prior consultation
with the Company’s major shareholders.
Special award: Mr N J Jefferies
Movements in Mr Jefferies’s option holding under his special award (details below) during the year were as follows:
Movements
Number held at during the year Number held at Exercise price When
01.04.10 Granted Exercised Lapsed 31.03.11 Date of grant (nil-cost option) exercisable
620,498 ––– 620,498 March 2009 – April 2012 to
March 2019
On 31 March 2009, Mr Jefferies was granted an award in the form of a nil-cost option over 620,498 shares in the Company. The Company
agreed as a condition of Mr Jefferies accepting the appointment of Group Chief Executive on 25 November 2008 to grant him an award
over the Company’s shares having a market value equivalent to 200% of his base salary at the date of the grant. The number of shares
under the award was determined using a share price of 90.25 pence per share being the closing price of the Company’s shares on
30 March 2009, the last business day prior to the date of grant.
Mr Jefferies’s award was made under LR9.4.2(2) of the Listing Rules in order to facilitate his appointment as Group Chief Executive. The
Board considered that it was important to the success of the recruitment process, and to maximise shareholder value going forward, to
make such an award to him. Mr Jefferies’s award is on similar terms to awards granted under the Acal plc 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan
(the “LTIP”) (see “Share incentive schemes” above). The award will become exercisable between April 2012 and March 2019 dependent
upon certain performance conditions being achieved by the Company during the three-year holding period ending on 31 March 2012.
directors’ remuneration report continued 
overview business review governance financial statements
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
The award differs in three main respects from similar awards under the LTIP . First, if there is a change of control of the Company before the
end of the three-year holding period mentioned above, the award will become exercisable immediately. In such event, the number of
shares available for exercise will not be pro-rated for time and the satisfaction by the Company of performance conditions will not apply.
Second, the award is in respect of shares with a value of 200% of base salary on the date of grant. The maximum value of awards
permitted under the LTIP is 150% of base salary each financial year. Third, 100% of the award is based on the Company’s comparative total
shareholder return against a comparator group made up of the FTSE Small Cap Index. The Board considers that this properly reflects a
good measure of the Company’s performance over the three-year holding period.
Special award: Mr S M Gibbins
On 20 July 2010, Mr Gibbins was granted an award in the form of a nil-cost option over 179,447 shares in the Company. The Company
agreed as a condition of Mr Gibbins accepting the appointment of Group Finance Director on 10 June 2010 to grant him an award over
the Company’s shares having a market value equivalent to 150% of his base salary at the date of the grant. The number of shares under
the award was determined using a share price of 163 pence per share being the closing price of the Company’s shares on 19 July 2010,
the last business day prior to the date of grant.
Mr Gibbins’s award is on similar terms to awards granted under the Acal plc 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan (the “LTIP”) (see “Share
incentive schemes” above). The award will become exercisable between July 2013 and July 2020 dependent upon certain performance
conditions being achieved by the Company during the three-year holding period ending on 20 July 2013.
The award differs in one main respect from similar awards under the LTIP . If there is a change of control of the Company before the end of
the three-year holding period mentioned above, the award will become exercisable immediately. In such event, the number of shares
available for exercise will not be pro-rated for time and the satisfaction by the Company of performance conditions will not apply.
Pension arrangements
The Group’s pension scheme is a defined contribution (money purchase) scheme. Members are required to contribute at a minimum rate
of 2.5% of contributory salary (i.e. basic salary plus bonuses, overtime and other fluctuating payments) but can pay at a higher rate in
0.5% steps. The Company’s contribution depends upon the level of contribution the member has chosen to pay but is capped at 6.5% of
contributory salary. In accordance with best practice, no fluctuating payments made to the Executive Directors and to the other
members of the Group Executive Committee are pensionable.
Performance graph
The following graph compares the Company’s performance, measured by total shareholder return, with the performance of the FTSE
Small Cap Index also measured by total shareholder return. Total shareholder return measures share price growth with dividends deemed
to be reinvested gross on the ex-dividend date and the data points are shown using a moving one-month average. Although Acal plc is
not currently a member of the FTSE Small Cap Index, it is considered to be a reasonable comparator in terms of the Company’s size and
its share liquidity.
Total shareholder return for period  April  to  March 
directors’ remuneration report continued
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
Acal plc
FTSE Small Cap Index
31 March 06 31 March 07 31 March 08 31 March 09 31 March 10 31 March 11
TSR index at 1.4.06 = 100
source Thomson Datastream 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
Directors’ contracts
It is the Company’s policy that Executive Directors should have service contracts incorporating a maximum notice period of one year.
However, it may be necessary occasionally to apply this policy flexibly and offer longer initial notice periods to new Directors. Under the
terms of their service contracts, any termination payments are not pre-determined but are determined in accordance with the Director’s
contractual rights taking account of the circumstances and the Director’s duty to mitigate loss. The Company’s objective is to protect
itself from exposure to the risk of a termination payment in the event of failure.
Mr N J Jefferies has a service contract with a company within the Acal Group dated 26 November 2008 incorporating a notice period of
one year on a rolling basis. Mr S M Gibbins has a service contract with a company within the Acal Group dated 10 June 2010
incorporating a notice period of one year on a rolling basis. The following letters of appointment are in place in relation to the Chairman
and Non-Executive Directors:
(i) An agreement with Synergie Business Limited for the provision of the services of Mr R J Moon dated 31 March 2005 which expires on
31 March 2012 and which may be terminated by six months’ notice.
(ii) An agreement with Mr E A Barton for his services dated 18 July 2002 which expires on 30 June 2012 and which may be terminated by
three months’ notice.
(iii) An agreement with Mr G J Williams for his services dated 29 September 2003 which expires on 30 June 2012 and which may be
terminated by three months’ notice.
(iv) An agreement with Mr I R Fraser for his services dated 1 October 2009 which expires on 31 December 2011 and which may be
terminated earlier.
Other than their service contracts, no contract of significance to which any member of the Acal Group is a party and in which a Director
is or was materially interested, subsisted at the end of, or during, the year.
Directors’ interests
The interests of the Directors who held office as at 31 March 2011 (including family interests) in the shares of the Company were as follows:
At 31 March 2011 At 31 March 2010
Ordinary shares (5p) fully paid Ordinary shares (5p) fully paid
Beneficial Non-beneficial Beneficial Non-beneficial
N J Jefferies 31,672 – 15,492 –
S M Gibbins –– ––
R J Moon 65,100 – 65,100 –
E A Barton 21,000 – 21,000 –
G J Williams 1,000 – 1,000 –
I R Fraser –– ––
The interests of Directors in the shares of the Company at 1 June 2011 are unchanged from those at 31 March 2011.
Audited information
The total amounts for Directors’ remuneration were as follows:
2011 2010
£ £
Fees 199,000 169,000
Salary and benefits 434,532 427,717
Performance-related bonuses – –
Other – –
Money purchase pension contributions 28,487 29,780
Termination payment – 105,000
Compensation for loss of office or employment – 145,114
662,019 876,611
directors’ remuneration report continued 33
overview business review governance financial statements
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
Details of the remuneration of Directors who served during the years ended 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010 are as follows:
Total emoluments Pension contribution
Salary Termination
or fees Bonus Other Benefits payment 2011 2010 2011 2010
££ £££ £ £ £ £
Executive Directors
N J Jefferies 289,000 280,000 – 1,501 – 570,501 269,536 19,600 19,600
S M Gibbins
1
141,090 136,724 – 2,941 – 280,755 – 8,887 –
M H Cooper
2
–– ––– – 231,546 – 8,277
S C Sydes
3
–– ––– – 31,635 – 1,903
A J Laughton
4
–– ––– – 145,114 – –
Non-Executive Directors
R J Moon 101,000 –– –– 101,000 101,000 – –
E A Barton 35,000 –– –– 35,000 31,250 – –
G J Williams 33,000 –– –– 33,000 29,250 – –
I R Fraser 30,000 –– –– 30,000 7,500 – –
629,090 416,724 – 4,442 – 1,050,256 846,831 28,487 29,780
1 Appointed a Director on 20 July 2010.
2 Left the Company and the Board on 2 February 2010. Total emoluments include a termination payment of £105,000.
3 Left the Company and the Board on 5 June 2009.
4 Left the Company and the Board on 24 July 2008 but, in accordance with the terms of his service contract dated 21 March 2002, remained employed
by the Company until 24 July 2009. A legal claim brought by him against the Company was withdrawn on 11 August 2009 and a settlement reached.
Of the Directors who held office as at 31 March 2011, Mr N J Jefferies was the highest paid Director during the year under review
(2010: Mr N J Jefferies).
No Director made any gain on the exercise of share options during the year under review, or in the previous year.
Acal plc executive share option schemes (“the Schemes”)
The performance criteria for the Schemes are disclosed in this Report on page 30. Movements in the Directors’ holdings of options under the
Schemes during the year under review were all related to the Acal plc 2010 Company Share Option Plan (“the CSOP”) and were as follows:
Number Movements Number
held at during the year held at Date of Exercise
Director 1.04.10 Granted Exercised Lapsed 31.03.11 grant price When exercisable
N J Jefferies – 14,705 –– 14,705 Sept 2010 204.0p Sept 2013
S M Gibbins – 9,090 –– 9,090 Mar 2011 330.0p Apr 2014
Acal plc 2008 long term incentive plan (“the LTIP”)
The performance criteria for the LTIP are disclosed in this Report on page 30. Movements in the Directors’ holding of options under the
LTIP during the year were as follows:
Exercise
Number Movements Number price
held at during the year held at Date of (nil-cost
Director 1.04.10 Granted Exercised Lapsed 31.03.11* grant option) When exercisable
N J Jefferies 269,230 –– – 269,230 Mar 2010 – Mar 2013 to Mar 2020
N J Jefferies – 131,818 –– 131,818 Mar 2011 – Mar 2014 to Mar 2021
S M Gibbins – 54,545 –– 54,545 Mar 2011 – Mar 2014 to Mar 2021
*Mr Jefferies and Mr Gibbins also hold options over 14,705 and 9,090 shares respectively granted under the CSOP . If they exercise these CSOP options, the
value of their LTIP shares will be reduced by an amount equal to the gain on their CSOP options.
The market price of the shares at 31 March 2011 was 342.0p and the range during the year ended on that date was 147.5p to 367.0p. The
performance conditions in relation to the Schemes and to the LTIP are described in the unaudited section of the Report above.
Approval
This Directors’ Remuneration Report has been prepared on behalf of and approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
G P Shillinglaw
Group Company Secretary
1 June 2011
directors’ remuneration report continued 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
While the management of Acal is primarily accountable to its shareholders, in managing the business it takes into account all stakeholders
in Acal including employees, customers and suppliers, as well as the local communities and environment in which it operates. In a
balanced way, without unnecessarily restricting the optimisation of returns, it endeavours to identify and manage any risks to the value
of Acal’s business from social, environmental and ethical matters, and to take any opportunities presented by a sensible and considerate
approach to such matters to enhance shareholder value. The Board of Acal has adopted policies in relation to corporate social matters
that take into account the interests of the Group’s employees; the need to foster business relationships with suppliers, customers and
others; the impact of the Group’s operations on the community and the environment; and the desirability of the Group maintaining a
reputation for high standards of business conduct. Day-to-day responsibility for implementation of these policies is delegated to the
management of Acal’s operating companies. In implementing these policies the Group endeavours to ensure that the cost of managing
risks is proportionate to their significance to Acal and its business partners. More specifically, Acal’s policies cover the following:
General
Management at all levels in the organisation is committed to taking account of its corporate social responsibility in its actions and
endeavours to show due respect for human rights and works to high standards of integrity and ethical propriety. As an international
organisation, Acal takes account of cultural differences between the various territories in which it operates.
Employees, health and safety
Acal provides equal opportunities to all employees and prospective employees, and does not discriminate on grounds of colour, ethnic
origin, gender, age, religion, political or other opinion, disability or sexual orientation.
Clear and fair terms of employment, as well as a fair and competitive remuneration policy, are put in place. Employees are encouraged to
develop their knowledge and skills and to progress their careers to the mutual benefit of themselves and the companies they work for. It
is the responsibility of management to ensure that they comply with all local regulations, including those relating to the employment of
underage staff. Local business units are responsible for developing and implementing effective arrangements for employee
communication.
A great deal of importance is attached to the provision of clean, healthy and safe working conditions. In addition to compliance with all
local regulations, Acal promotes working practices which protect the health and safety of its employees and other persons who come
onto its premises. The Group endeavours to protect employees from, and does not tolerate, any sexual, physical or mental harassment.
Heath and safety matters are kept under regular review by local management and at Group level. The Group’s statement of intent on
health and safety matters can be found on its website (www.acalplc.co.uk).
The Group operates a ‘whistle-blowing’ policy whereby employees may report in confidence any suspected wrongdoing. This policy can
be found on its website (www.acalplc.co.uk).
Disabled employees
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the candidate’s particular aptitudes and
abilities are consistent with adequately meeting the requirements of the job. Opportunities are available to disabled employees for
training, career development and promotion.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Group’s policy to provide continuing employment wherever practicable in the same
or an alternative position and to provide appropriate training to achieve this aim.
Business ethics
All Acal Group companies seek to be honest, fair and competitive in their relationships with customers and suppliers. Every attempt is
made to ensure that products and services are provided to the agreed standards and all reasonable steps are taken to ensure the safety
and quality of the goods and services provided. Payment is made to suppliers in accordance with the agreed terms, the relevant goods or
services having been satisfactorily delivered. It is Acal’s policy that no one in the Group should offer or accept any bribes or other corrupt
payments, engage in any anti-competitive practices or knowingly be involved in any fraud or money laundering.
So far as it is able to, and taking into account local cultural and regulatory differences, Acal encourages the organisations and people with
whom it does business to abide by principles of good practice in relation to their corporate social responsibility.
The Group’s statement of intent on business ethics can be found on its website (www.acalplc.co.uk).
Community and environment
Community and environmental matters are important to the Group because it is sensitive to the local community’s cultural, social and
economic needs. It seeks to ensure that its activities do not harm the communities as places in which to work and live. The Group
endeavours to ensure that its operations do not have a negative impact on the environment. Apart from compliance with all local
environmental regulations, Group companies try earnestly to promote the effective management of natural resources and encourage
energy efficiency as well as waste minimisation and recycling where economically viable means of doing so are available. Although the
vast majority of products Acal deals with are non-hazardous, where such products are involved it minimises the environmental risks by
use of appropriate labelling and technical information in conjunction with proper training and procedures for the handling, storage and
disposal of such products. The Group has implemented procedures to ensure compliance with the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous
Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations 2004 (RoHS), the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations
2006 (WEEE), the Producer Responsibility Obligations (Packaging Waste) Regulations 2005 and the Waste Batteries and Accumulators
Regulations 2009.
corporate social responsibility 35
overview business review governance financial statements
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare the Annual Report and financial statements for each financial year which
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss and cash flows of the Group for that
period. In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements; and
• use the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
To the best of the knowledge and belief of the Directors:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Acal plc and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the management reports include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and
uncertainties that they face.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006,
and for the Group, Article 4 of the IAS Regulations. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them
to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the
Directors’ Report on pages 21 to 24. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are
described in the Financial Review on pages 17 to 19. In addition note 27 to the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives,
policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging
activities and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources, well established distribution contracts with a number of suppliers and a broad and stable
customer base. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite
any uncertain economic conditions.
After making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the Annual Report and Accounts.
This statement is made in accordance with the Financial Reporting Council’s Going Concern Guidance.
statement of directors’ responsibilities 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
acal plc
group ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 31 march 2011 37
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
report of the auditors
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Acal plc
We have audited the group financial statements of Acal plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the Consolidated Income
Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 36. The financial reporting framework that has been
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone
other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 35, the directors are responsible for the preparation of
the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an
opinion on the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the
financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report and accounts to identify
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the group financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at 31 March 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with
the financial statements; and
• the information given in the Board report on Corporate Governance with respect to internal control and risk management systems
in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the directors’ statement, set out on page 35, in relation to going concern; and
• the part of the Board report on Corporate Governance relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June
2008 Combined Code specified for our review; and
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Acal plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 and on the
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Andy Glover (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor
London
1 June 2011
Notes:
1. The maintenance and integrity of the Acal plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial
statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions. 38
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
2011 2010
notes £m £m
Revenue 4 264.8 181.6
Cost of sales (189.6) (131.5)
Gross profit 75.2 50.1
Selling and distribution costs (39.1) (28.4)
Administrative expenses (including exceptional items) 6 (33.2) (27.2)
Other operating expenses 6 (0.4) .–
Operating profit/(loss) 7 2.5 (5.5)
Finance costs 9 (0.9) (1.2)
Finance revenue 9 0.3 0.4
Profit/(loss) before tax 1.9 (6.3)
Taxation 10 (0.2) (0.3)
Profit/(loss) after taxation for the year 1.7 (6.6)
Earnings/(loss) per share 14
Basic 6.0p (24.5)p
Diluted 5.7p (24.5)p
supplementary income statement information
2011 2010
Underlying performance measure notes £m £m
Operating profit/(loss) 7 2.5 (5.5)
Add: Exceptional items 6 4.4 4.7
Earn out remuneration 0.2 .–
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 0.3 0.1
Underlying operating profit/(loss) 7.4 (0.7)
Profit/(loss) before tax 1.9 (6.3)
Add: Exceptional items 6 4.4 4.7
Earn out remuneration 0.2 .–
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 0.3 0.1
IAS 19 charge for pension finance cost 0.3 0.6
Underlying profit/(loss) before tax 7.1 (0.9)
Underlying earnings/(loss) per share 14
Basic 19.3p (6.3)p
Diluted 18.6p (6.3)p
The results for the year and prior year relate wholly to continuing operations.
consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 March 2011 39
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
consolidated statement of
comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 March 2011
2011 2010
notes £m £m
Profit/(loss) for the year 1.7 (6.6)
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme 33 (0.4) (0.5)
Deferred tax relating to pension scheme 10 (0.2) 0.1
Foreign currency translation differences (0.1) (0.6)
Other comprehensive loss for the year net of tax (0.7) (1.0)
Total comprehensive profit/(loss) for the year net of tax 1.0 (7.6) 40
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
2011 2010
notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 15 3.8 3.9
Intangible assets – goodwill 16 17.4 13.9
Intangible assets – other 18 3.7 2.1
Deferred tax assets 10 2.8 2.7
27.7 22.6
Current assets
Inventories 20 25.3 23.7
Trade and other receivables 21 59.3 53.7
Current tax assets 0.1 0.2
Cash and cash equivalents 22 13.6 17.3
98.3 94.9
Total assets 126.0 117.5
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 29 (51.6) (46.1)
Short-term borrowings 23 (5.1) (3.4)
Current tax liabilities (4.3) (2.9)
Provisions 26 (2.9) (4.2)
(63.9) (56.6)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 23 (1.8) .–
Pension liability 33 (5.5) (5.5)
Deferred tax liabilities 10 (0.2) (0.2)
Provisions 26 (3.3) (3.3)
(10.8) (9.0)
Total liabilities (74.7) (65.6)
Net assets 51.3 51.9
Equity
Share capital 30 1.4 1.4
Share premium 40.7 40.6
Merger reserve 3.0 3.0
Currency translation reserve 2.8 2.9
Retained earnings 3.4 4.0
Total equity 51.3 51.9
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 1 June 2011 and signed on its behalf by:
N J Jefferies S M Gibbins
Chief Executive Finance Director
consolidated statement of
ﬁnancial position
at 31 March 2011 41
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company
Currency Non
Share Share Merger translation Retained controlling Total
capital premium reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2009 1.3 38.0 3.0 3.5 12.4 58.2 0.4 58.6
Loss for the year –– –– (6.6) (6.6) – (6.6)
Other comprehensive income–– – (0.6) (0.4) (1.0) – (1.0)
Total comprehensive income –– – (0.6) (7.0) (7.6) – (7.6)
Share based payment
transactions –– –– 0.2 0.2 – 0.2
Acquisition of non controlling
interests –– –––– (0.4) (0.4)
Issue of share capital 0.1 2.6 –– – 2.7 – 2.7
Equity dividends –– –– (1.6) (1.6) – (1.6)
At 31 March 2010 1.4 40.6 3.0 2.9 4.0 51.9 – 51.9
Profit for the year –– –– 1.7 1.7 – 1.7
Other comprehensive income–– – (0.1) (0.6) (0.7) – (0.7)
Total comprehensive income –– – (0.1) 1.1 1.0 – 1.0
Share based payment
transactions –– –– 0.3 0.3 – 0.3
Issue of share capital .– 0.1 –– – 0.1 – 0.1
Equity dividends –– –– (2.0) (2.0) – (2.0)
At 31 March 2011 1.4 40.7 3.0 2.8 3.4 51.3 – 51.3
Nature and purpose of other reserves:
Merger reserve
The merger reserve arose as a consequence of the acquisition in 1987 of Centre Industries Limited and Acal Auriema Limited.
Currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of
foreign subsidiaries and other foreign currency investments.
consolidated statement
of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 March 2011 42
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
consolidated cash ﬂow statement
for the year ended 31 March 2011
2011 2010
notes £m £m
Net cash flows from operating activities 25 0.4 1.5
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of shares in subsidiaries 11 (5.2) (11.7)
Net cash/(debt) acquired with subsidiaries 11 0.9 (1.0)
Disposal of shares in subsidiaries (net of disposal costs) 12 0.6 .–
Proceeds from sale of other financial assets .– 1.0
Revision to proceeds from sale of business (0.7) .–
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (1.1) (0.7)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangibles .– 1.4
Purchase of intangible assets – software (0.2) (0.4)
Interest received 0.3 0.4
Net cash outflow from investing activities (5.4) (11.0)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issuance of shares 0.1 .–
Increase/(decrease) in borrowings 2.6 (0.2)
Dividends paid to company’s shareholders 13 (2.0) (1.6)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities 0.7 (1.8)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (4.3) (11.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April 13.9 24.8
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations (0.2) 0.4
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 9.4 13.9
Reconciliation to cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet
Cash and cash equivalents shown above 9.4 13.9
Add back overdrafts 4.2 3.4
Cash and cash equivalents shown within current assets in the balance sheet 22 13.6 17.3 43
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
1 authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS
The consolidated financial statements of Acal plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on
1 June 2011. Acal plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. The Company’s ordinary shares are
traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted for
use in the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The format of the consolidated income statement has been changed from prior years to simplify the presentation and aid the users of
the accounts. Exceptional items are now included within the appropriate income or expense category and a reconciliation is provided to
arrive at the underlying performance measures used by the Directors. Further information relating to underlying performance measures is
provided in note 2.
The significant accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
2 accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of Acal plc and all its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRSs), as adopted for use in the European Union.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand
except when otherwise indicated.
Comparative numbers have been restated for the completion of the purchase price allocation in relation to the acquisition of BFi Optilas.
Further detail is provided in note 11.
Basis of consolidation
The Group’s financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Acal plc, entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) and
include the Group’s share of the results of associates.
Subsidiaries and associates
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be
consolidated until the date such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the
investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or
presently convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity. All intra-Group transactions, balances,
income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
An associate is an undertaking in which the Group has significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
Significant influence is the power and the ability to participate in its financial and operating policy decisions, but not control or joint
control of those decisions.
Acal’s investments in its associates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, investments in
associates are carried in the Group balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate,
less distributions received and less any impairment in value.
Non controlling interests
Non controlling interests represent the interests of non-Group shareholders in subsidiaries not wholly owned by the Group. Non
controlling interests are presented within equity in the Group balance sheet, separately from the parent shareholders’ equity.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows:
The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as at 1 April 2010:
IFRS 3 (revised), ‘Business combinations’ applies to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of
the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009. Amongst other changes, the revisions effected by the new standard
require subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration payable in respect of an acquisition to be recognised in the
income statement rather than against goodwill, and require transaction costs attributable to an acquisition to be recognised immediately
in the income statement. These changes have been applied for acquisitions during the year.
IFRIC 14 – The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirement and their Interaction.
IFRIC 14 addresses three issues:
• how entities should determine the limit placed by IAS 19 Employee Benefits on the amount of a surplus in a pension plan they can
recognise as an asset
• how a minimum funding requirement affects that limit and
• when a minimum funding requirement creates an onerous obligation that should be recognised as a liability in addition to that
otherwise recognised under IAS 19.
Following adoption of IFRIC 14 the Group has recognised a liability as a result of the minimum funding requirement creating an onerous
IAS 19 obligation. 44
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
notes to the group financial statements continued
2 accounting policies continued
IAS 27 (amended) ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ and IFRS 2 (amended) ‘Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment
Transactions’ are both effective in this financial year however neither of these amendments had any impact on the financial position or
performance of the Group.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in
the Strategic and Operational Review. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are
described in the Financial Review.
The Group has considerable financial resources, well established distribution contracts with a number of suppliers and a broad and stable
customer base. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the annual report and accounts.
Underlying profits and earnings
The Group uses a number of alternative (non Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (“non GAAP”) financial measures which are not
defined within IFRS. The Directors use these measures in order to assess the underlying operational performance of the Group and as
such, these measures are important and should be considered alongside the IFRS measures. The following non GAAP measures are
referred to in this Annual Report:
Underlying operating profit/(loss)
“Underlying operating profit/(loss)” is defined as operating profit/(loss) excluding exceptional items, earn out remuneration and
amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Underlying profit/(loss) before tax
“Underlying profit/(loss) before tax” is defined as profit/(loss) before tax excluding exceptional items, earn out remuneration, amortisation
of acquired intangibles and IAS 19 pension finance charge.
Underlying effective tax rate
“Underlying effective tax rate” is defined as the effective tax rate on profit/(loss) before tax excluding the impact of tax on exceptional
items, earn out remuneration, amortisation of acquired intangibles and IAS 19 pension finance charge.
Underlying earnings/(loss) per share
“Underlying earnings/(loss) per share” is calculated as the total of underlying profit/(loss) before tax reduced by the underlying effective
tax rate, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares (for diluted earnings per share purposes) in issue during the period.
Underlying operating cash flow
“Underlying operating cash flow” is defined as underlying operating profit/(loss) with depreciation, amortisation and equity settled share
based payment s expense added back.
Like for like basis
Reference to ‘like for like’ basis included in the Chairman’s statement, Strategic and Operational review and Finance review, means
including acquisitions for the whole of the comparative period, excluding the ATM Parts business (effective disposal date 30 September
2010), a material non-core Supply Chain contract terminated at the end of the last financial year and Compotron which was acquired in
January 2011, and at constant exchange rates.
Business combinations and goodwill
Business combination since 1 April 2010
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the
consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The
choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets
is determined on a transaction by transaction basis. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation
in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent
changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance
with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not
be remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred
and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest (and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-
date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree) over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired
and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to
the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements are
accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs. Identifiable intangible
assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criterion are recognised separately from goodwill. Contingent liabilities
representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be measured reliably. 45
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
notes to the group financial statements continued
2 accounting policies continued
If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling
interest (and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity
interest in the acquiree) is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing
interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing,
goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units (or groups
of cash generating units) that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree
are assigned to those units. Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the entity at
which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated
with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the
operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the
portion of the cash generating unit retained.
Business combination prior to 1 April 2010
Business combinations were accounted for using the purchase method. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition formed
part of the acquisition costs. The non controlling interest was measured at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the business combination over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable assets
less liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for
impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
At the acquisition date, goodwill acquired is recognised as an asset and is allocated to each of the cash generating units expected to
benefit from the combination’s synergies. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually by assessing the recoverable amount of
the related cash generating units monitored by management. Where the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the
carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed. Goodwill arising on the
acquisition of associates is included within the carrying value of the investment.
Any intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are recognised separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or
arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 2004 (the date of transition to IFRS) has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts
having been tested for impairment at that date.
Intangible assets – software
Implementation costs of IT systems, and computer software, are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives at rates
of 12.5-33% per annum. Software is assessed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, when there are events or
changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to write off the cost, less residual value, over the estimated useful life of the asset at the
following rates:
Freehold land nil
Freehold buildings 2-3% per annum
Leasehold improvement costs 10-20% per annum or over the life of the lease
Plant, equipment and IT hardware 10-33% per annum
All property, plant and equipment assets are reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, when there are
events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment of assets
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying value of its assets to determine whether there is any indication that the assets
have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, or when annual testing for an asset is required, the recoverable amount of
the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash generating
unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash generating unit) is reduced to its
recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no
longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, an impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the asset’s carrying value
does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had
been recognised. Such reversals are recognised in the income statement. Impairment charge recognised on goodwill is not reversed. 46
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
notes to the group financial statements continued
2 accounting policies continued
Financial assets
Investments are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given and including directly attributable transaction
costs associated with the investment.
After initial recognition, investments in equity shares are treated as available for sale financial assets and are measured at their fair value
with any gains or losses recognised in equity. When the investment is derecognised or impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously
reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value can not be reliably
valued are measured at cost.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments. They are included in current assets, except
for those with maturities greater than twelve months after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets. Loans and
receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Financial assets are assessed for impairment in accordance with IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement, when there
are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Inventories
Inventories comprise goods held for resale and are stated at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value after making
allowance for any obsolete or slow moving items. Cost includes inward carriage incurred.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts. An estimate for
doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. The decision to make a provision for doubtful debts is
determined by using profiles, based on past practice in addition to assessment of the credit worthiness of each customer and related
aging of overdue balances. Bad debts are written off when identified.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of
three months or less. For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and cash
equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of any associated issue costs. Borrowings are subsequently recorded at amortised cost,
with any difference between the amount initially recorded and the redemption value recognised in the income statement using the
effective interest rate method.
Provisions
Provisions for warranties, onerous contracts and restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive
obligation as a result of a past event; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and a reliable
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. In relation to provision for onerous contracts an assessment is made for
impairment of any related assets.
Provisions are discounted to present value where the effect is material using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the
time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The amortisation of the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
Exceptional items
The Group discloses as exceptional items those items which are exceptional by virtue of their size or incidence so as to allow a better
understanding of the underlying trading performance of the Group. The Group includes the profit or loss on disposal of property,
investments or businesses and other financial assets, impairments and significant restructuring and integration charges or credits in
exceptional items.
Foreign currency translation
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date
and gains or losses on translation are included in the income statement.
Currency gains and losses arising from the retranslation of the opening net assets of foreign operations are recorded as a movement on
reserves, net of tax. The differences that arise from translating the results of overseas businesses at average rates of exchange, and their
assets and liabilities at closing rates, are dealt with in a separate currency translation reserve. All other currency gains and losses are dealt
with in the income statement.
Revenue recognition
Revenue represents the invoiced value of goods, commission and other services provided to third parties, after deducting discounts, VAT
and similar taxes levied overseas. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the
Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. In particular:
a Revenue from the sale of products is recognised upon transfer to the customer of the significant risks and rewards of
ownership. This is generally when goods are despatched to customers. 47
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
2 accounting policies continued
b Revenue from maintenance and outsourcing contracts is recognised over the life of the contract reflecting performance
of the contractual obligations to the customer.
c Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues using the effective interest method.
d Dividend income is recognised when the shareholders’ right to receive the payment is established.
Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker. The
chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments has
been identified as the Board.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised when they meet the criteria for recognition as a liability. In relation to final dividends, this is when approved
by the shareholders in general meeting, and in relation to interim dividends, when paid.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to
the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum
lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet
as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligations so as to
achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, in accordance with the effective interest rate method.
Pensions
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
In respect of defined benefit pension schemes, the obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the
defined benefit obligation as adjusted for any unrecognised past service cost, reduced by the fair value of the scheme assets. The cost
of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised
in full in the period in which they occur in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Share-based payments
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted,
calculated using an option pricing model, and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the
relevant employees become fully entitled to the award. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of non-market vesting
conditions.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period
has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and hence the number of
equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised
in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption permitted under IFRS 1 in respect of equity-settled awards and IFRS 2 has only been
applied to options awarded on or after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005.
The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured initially at fair value at the grant date using a predicted future value model. The fair
value is expensed over the period until the vesting date with recognition of a corresponding liability. The liability is remeasured to a fair
value at each balance sheet date up to and including the settlement date, with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
Taxation
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on
tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying
amounts in the financial statements, with the following exceptions:
• where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a
business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
• in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, where the timing of the
reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the
foreseeable future; and
• deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the
deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related
asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
notes to the group financial statements continued 48
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
notes to the group financial statements continued
2 accounting policies continued
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise income tax is
recognised in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group principally uses forward currency contracts to hedge risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations.
Forward currency contracts covering assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a contract is entered
into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when
the fair value is negative.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity
profiles. For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is required, the hedging relationship is documented
at its inception. This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being
hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration. Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that
is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a probable forecast transaction.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the income
statement.
For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the
ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a
forecast sale or purchase occurs. Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are
transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer meets the
criteria for hedge accounting. Any amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs. If a
forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity or as an asset or liability are transferred to
profit or loss.
Significant accounting judgements and estimates
Estimation uncertainty
Key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, have a significant risk
of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year. The most significant areas
in which assumptions are made and estimates used are in determining:
Goodwill impairment
The group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated on page 44 to
45. The recoverable amounts of cash generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations
require the use of estimates (note 17).
The quantification of provisions
Judgement is used in determining the value of provisions carried. For onerous contracts this is primarily based around assumptions on
rent and property related costs for the period the property is vacant and then assumptions over future rental incomes or potential
reverse lease premiums paid. Other provisions are estimated based on factors such as historical experience and expectations of future
events that management believe to be reasonable. Note 26 provides details of the value of the provision carried.
Fair value of assets acquired in a business combination
Judgements and estimates are required in the identification of separable assets and liabilities upon acquisition, particularly in the case of
the valuation and identification of intangible assets such as brand, supplier contracts and customer databases. Note 11 provides details of
business combinations in the current year.
Retirement benefits
The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number
of assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net expense for pensions include the discount rate. Any changes in these
assumptions will impact the carrying amount of retirement benefit obligations. Note 33 details the actuarial assumptions used in
determining the carrying amount at 31 March 2011.
Taxation
The Group operates in a number of tax jurisdictions around the world. Tax regulations generally are complex and in some jurisdictions
agreeing tax liabilities with local tax authorities can take several years. Consequently, at the balance sheet date tax liabilities and assets are
based on management’s best estimate of the future amounts that will be settled. While the Group aims to ensure that the estimates
recorded are accurate, the actual amounts could be different from those expected. 49
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
3 new accounting standards and financial reporting requirements
New standards and interpretations not applied
The following standards and interpretations, which have been issued by the IASB and are relevant for the Group, become effective after
the current year end and have not been early adopted by the Group:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS/IFRIC) effective date
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Amendment 1 January 2011
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 1 January 2013
IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement Amendment 1 January 2011
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities and Equity Instruments 1 July 2010
Improvements to IFRS (issued May 2010) 1 January 2012
IAS 12 (A) Amendment to IAS12 – Recovery of Underlying Assets 1 January 2013
IFRS 10 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2013
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements 1 January 2013
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2013
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of theses standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s
financial statements in the period of initial application.
4 revenue
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
Sale of goods 255.1 173.5
Rendering of services 9.7 8.1
Total revenue 264.8 181.6
5 operating segment information
For management purposes, the Group is organised into three business units based on their products and services and has three
reportable operating segments as follows:
• Electronics – specialist distribution of electronic and photonic products to industrial manufacturing and design companies.
• Supply Chain – service parts, inventory optimisation and outsource solutions to leading IT service providers.
• Medical – supply of advanced medical equipment to public and private healthcare providers.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource
allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is reported and evaluated based on operating profit or loss earned by
each segment without allocation of central administration costs including directors’ salaries, investment revenue and finance costs, and
income tax expense. There are immaterial sales between business segments.
Segment revenue and results
Electronics Supply Chain Medical Unallocated Total operations
2011 £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 202.8 54.3 7.7 – 264.8
Result
Underlying operating profit/(loss) 9.1 1.2 1.2 (4.1) 7.4
Exceptional items – integration restructuring (3.6) ––– (3.6)
Exceptional items – other restructuring .– (0.6) – (0.2) (0.8)
Exceptional items – write back of unutilised provisions
for retained obligations ––– 0.6 0.6
Exceptional items – acquisition costs (0.2) –– .– (0.2)
Exceptional items – asset impairment – (0.4) – .– (0.4)
Earn out remuneration (0.2) –– .– (0.2)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (0.2) (0.1) – .– (0.3)
Operating profit/(loss) 4.9 0.1 1.2 (3.7) 2.5
notes to the group financial statements continued 50
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
5 operating segment information continued
Electronics Supply Chain Medical Unallocated Total operations
2010 £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 112.4 62.0 7.2 – 181.6
Result
Underlying operating (loss)/profit (0.2) 1.3 0.8 (2.6) (0.7)
Exceptional items – goodwill impairment .– (0.3) –– (0.3)
Exceptional items – integration restructuring (2.4) .–– .– (2.4)
Exceptional items – other restructuring (1.3) (0.2) – (0.4) (1.9)
Exceptional items – other .–– – (0.1) (0.1)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles .– (0.1) –– (0.1)
Operating (loss)/profit (3.9) 0.7 0.8 (3.1) (5.5)
Segment assets and liabilities
2011 Electronics Supply Chain Medical Total operations
Assets and liabilities £m £m £m £m
Segment assets (excluding goodwill and intangibles) 65.2 19.9 3.0 88.1
Goodwill and intangibles 12.6 7.4 0.6 20.6
77.8 27.3 3.6 108.7
Unallocated assets 0.8
Cash 13.6
Current and deferred tax assets 2.9
Total assets 126.0
Segment liabilities (41.0) (9.0) (3.2) (53.2)
Unallocated liabilities (4.6)
Overdrafts and bank loans (6.9)
Pensions (5.5)
Current and deferred tax liabilities (4.5)
Total liabilities (74.7)
Net assets 51.3
notes to the group financial statements continued 51
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
5 operating segment information continued
2010 Electronics Supply Chain Medical Total operations
Assets and liabilities £m £m £m £m
Segment assets (excluding goodwill and intangibles) 58.1 19.8 2.5 80.4
Goodwill and intangibles 7.7 7.7 0.6 16.0
65.8 27.5 3.1 96.4
Unallocated assets 0.9
Cash 17.3
Current and deferred tax assets 2.9
Total assets 117.5
Segment liabilities (37.3) (9.9) (2.5) (49.7)
Unallocated liabilities (3.9)
Overdrafts and bank loans (3.4)
Pensions (5.5)
Current and deferred tax liabilities (3.1)
Total liabilities (65.6)
Net assets 51.9
For the purposes of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments the Directors monitor the net assets
attributable to each segment. Assets and liabilities are allocated to reportable segments with the exception of pension liability, tax assets and
liabilities, cash and all borrowings, central assets and liabilities and certain property, plant and equipment and intangibles.
Depreciation and amortisation Additions to non current assets
2011 2010 2011 2010
Other segment information £m £m £m £m
Electronics 0.9 0.7 6.0 1.1
Supply Chain 0.7 0.7 0.4 1.9
Medical 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.2
Unallocated – .– 0.1 .–
1.7 1.5 6.8 3.2
Geographical information
The Group’s revenue from external customers and information about its segment assets (non current assets excluding deferred tax assets)
by geographical location are detailed below:
Revenue from external customers Non current assets
2011 2010 2011 2010
£m £m £m £m
UK 79.9 75.1 16.8 16.3
Europe 175.3 100.4 8.1 3.6
Rest of the World 9.6 6.1 – –
264.8 181.6 24.9 19.9
notes to the group financial statements continued 52
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
notes to the group financial statements continued
6 exceptional items
2011 2010
£m £m
Administrative expenses:
Integration restructuring costs (a) (3.6) (2.4)
Other restructuring costs (b) (0.8) (1.9)
Write back of unutilised provisions for retained obligations (c) 0.6 .–
Adjustment to profit on disposal of other financial assets (d) .– (0.1)
Acquisition costs (e) (0.2) .–
Impairment of goodwill (note 17) .– (0.3)
Net operating exceptional costs (4.0) (4.7)
Non operating costs:
Impairment of net assets (f ) (0.4) .–
Total exceptional items before tax (4.4) (4.7)
Tax on exceptional items 1.4 0.3
Total exceptional items net of tax (3.0) (4.4)
(a) Integration restructuring costs relate to costs incurred to achieve the synergies from integrating the back office functions of the BFi
business acquired in December 2009. The costs primarily relate to staff termination costs, legal merger costs, certain dual running and
onerous lease costs relating to the relocation of the Group’s warehousing facility in the UK.
(b) Other restructuring costs this year mainly relate to the restructure and integration of the Supply Chain division. Last year, other
restructuring costs related to the rationalisation of non merger related personnel in light of the general economic climate and
reduced trading levels, onerous lease costs and termination costs of Executive Directors.
(c) Unutilised provisions for retained obligations set up in 2007 and 2008 in relation to the sale of the Air Conditioning and Refrigeration
and IT Solutions businesses have been released.
(d) Adjustment to the profit on disposal of MessageLabsGroup Limited, sold in November 2008, following final agreement of previously
estimated consideration.
(e) On 12 January 2011 the Group acquired 100% of the voting shares of CompoTRON GmbH (see note 11 for full details). Acquisition
costs were £0.2m and have been expensed.
(f ) On 12 October 2010, the Group sold its loss-making subsidiary, ATM Parts Company Limited (“ATM Parts”) to Cennox plc. As at 30
September 2010, the assets of ATM Parts were written down to their fair value giving rise to an exceptional charge for the impairment
of net assets of £0.4m.
7 operating profit/(loss)
Amounts charged/(credited) to the income statement are as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
Employee costs (note 8) 44.9 34.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 15) 1.1 1.2
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 18) 0.6 0.3
Net foreign exchange differences 0.5 0.5
Inventories (amounts included in cost of sales):
Cost of inventories 184.3 123.5
Write-down of inventories to net realisable value 2.4 3.1
Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories* (0.6) (0.2)
Operating lease rentals:
Minimum lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense 3.8 3.5
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit of the Group financial statements (including parent company) 0.1 0.1
Other fees to auditors – local statutory audits for subsidiaries 0.3 0.3
Tax and transaction services 0.1 0.1
* Reversal relates to sales of goods previously written down. 53
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
8 employee costs
2011 2010
£m £m
Wages and salaries 36.6 28.3
Social security costs 6.4 4.4
Pension costs 1.4 1.3
Earn out remuneration 0.2 –
Share-based payments (note 32) 0.3 0.2
44.9 34.2
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) during the year was as follows:
2011 2010
Number Number
Marketing, sales and service 713 651
Administration 207 144
920 795
At 31 March 2011 the Group had 926 employees (2010: 955).
Details of Directors’ emoluments are disclosed in the remuneration report on pages 29 to 33.
9 ﬁnance costs/(revenue)
2011 2010
£m £m
Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 0.6 0.6
Net pension finance charge (note 33) 0.3 0.6
Finance costs 0.9 1.2
Interest receivable and similar income (0.3) (0.4)
Finance revenue (0.3) (0.4)
notes to the group financial statements continued 54
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
10 taxation
The major components of corporation tax expense/(credit) are:
2011 2010
Consolidated income statement for total operations £m £m
Current taxation
UK corporation tax (0.1) –
UK adjustments in respect of prior years (0.3) 0.1
(0.4) 0.1
Overseas tax 0.9 0.4
Overseas adjustments in respect of prior years 0.5 0.1
1.4 0.5
Total current taxation 1.0 0.6
Deferred taxation
Origination and reversal of temporary differences within the UK (0.4) (0.1)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences overseas (0.4) (0.2)
Total deferred taxation (0.8) (0.3)
Tax charge reported in the consolidated income statement 0.2 0.3
2011 2010
Tax recognised in other comprehensive income £m £m
(Decrease)/increase in deferred tax asset on pension deficit (0.2) 0.1
Tax reported in other comprehensive income (0.2) 0.1
Taxation for the year is lower (2010: higher) than the standard rate of taxation in the UK of 28% (2010: 28%). A reconciliation of the tax
charge applicable to profit/(loss) before tax at the statutory tax rate to the actual tax charge at the Group’s effective tax rate for the years
ended 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010 respectively was as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
Profit/(loss) on continuing operations before tax 1.9 (6.3)
Profit/(loss) before taxation multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% (2010: 28%) 0.5 (1.8)
Effect of:
Different tax rates in overseas companies 0.1 (0.1)
(Utilised)/unrecognised losses (1.5) 1.9
Non-deductible expenses 0.7 –
Change in tax rate applicable to UK deferred tax 0.1 –
Adjustments to tax expense in respect of prior years 0.3 0.3
At effective tax rate of 10.5% (2010: (4.8%)) 0.2 0.3
Tax reported in the consolidated income statement 0.2 0.3
The current tax asset of £0.1m, (2010: £0.2m) represents advance payments and over payments.
notes to the group financial statements continued 55
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
10 taxation continued
2011 2010
Deferred tax £m £m
Deferred tax liabilities:
Accelerated capital allowances (0.1) (0.1)
Other temporary differences (0.1) (0.1)
Gross deferred tax liabilities (0.2) (0.2)
Deferred tax assets:
Pensions 1.2 1.5
Other temporary differences 1.6 1.2
Gross deferred tax assets 2.8 2.7
2011 2010
Deferred tax in the income statement £m £m
Consolidated income statement
Deferred tax (credit)/charge:
Accelerated capital allowances 0.1 (0.1)
Other temporary differences (0.9) (0.2)
(0.8) (0.3)
At 31 March 2011, the Group had not recognised any deferred tax asset in respect of tax losses of approximately £18.0m (2010: £24.0m).
Deferred tax assets are not recognised where there is insufficient evidence that losses will be utilised.
At 31 March 2011, there was no recognised deferred tax liability (2010: nil) for taxes that would be payable on the remittance of certain of
the Group’s overseas subsidiaries’ unremitted earnings, as the Group has determined that the undistributed profits of its overseas
subsidiaries will not be distributed in the near future where an additional tax charge would arise.
notes to the group financial statements continued 56
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
11 business combinations
Acquisition in year ended 31 March 2011
Acquisition of CompoTRON GmbH (“Compotron”)
On 11 January 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the voting shares of Compotron, a privately owned specialist provider of electronic
communication and fibre optic components to the European industrial electronics market. The acquisition is a further step in the
implementation of the Group’s European specialisation strategy and enhances the Group’s position in the German specialist electronics
market. The total consideration was £5.7m, of which £5.2m was paid immediately and £0.5m relating to working capital settlement was
paid in April 2011. In addition up to £1.4m earn out remuneration is potentially payable in January 2013 dependent on the business
achieving agreed performance targets.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Compotron as at the date of acquisition were: Fair value recognised
at acquisition
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.1
Intangible assets – other 1.9
Inventories 0.3
Trade and other receivables 0.9
Cash 0.9
Trade and other payables (1.4)
Current tax liabilities (0.3)
Total indentifiable net assets 2.4
Provisional goodwill arising on acquisition 3.3
Total investment 5.7
Discharged by:
Cash 5.2
Deferred cash 0.5
Total consideration 5.7
The fair value and the gross amount of trade receivables are the same. The fair values of trade receivables and inventories on acquisition
of Compotron are provisional due to the timing of the transaction and will be finalised during the 2011/12 financial year.
Net cash outflows in respect of the acquisition comprise:
Total
£m
Cash consideration 5.2
Transaction costs of the acquisition (included in cash flows from operating activities) 0.2
Net cash acquired (included in cash flows from investing activities) (0.9)
4.5
Included in the £3.3m of goodwill recognised above are certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably
measured from the acquiree due to their nature. These items include the expected value of synergies, the experience and skill of the
management team and the value of customer relationships. Goodwill is allocated entirely to the electronics division.
Transaction costs of £0.2m have been expensed and are included as exceptional items in administration expenses.
From the date of acquisition to 31 March 2011, Compotron has contributed £2.6m to revenue and £0.4m to profit after tax of the Group.
If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, the consolidated profit after tax for the Group would have been £2.7m
and revenue from continuing operations would have been £271.3m.
notes to the group financial statements continued 57
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
11 business combinations continued
Acquisitions in year ended 31 March 2010
Acquisition of BFi OPTiLAS (“BFi”)
On 18 December 2009, the Group acquired 100% of the voting shares of BFi, a privately owned specialist electronics and photonic
component distributor operating in the UK and Europe. The consideration of £13.4m was satisfied by a combination of cash and equity
as shown below. The fair value of the shares issued was based on the published price on 17 December 2009. The effective date of
acquisition was 1 December 2009 when Acal established control over performance.
Book and fair values of the net assets at the date of acquisition were as follows:
Restated
Book value fair value
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 1.2 1.0
Intangible assets – software 0.1 0.1
Intangible assets – other – 0.4
Deferred tax assets 1.9 –
Inventories 8.2 7.8
Trade and other receivables 20.5 20.1
Bank overdrafts (1.0) (1.0)
Trade and other payables (12.4) (12.7)
Current tax liabilities (0.1) (0.4)
Provisions (1.4) (1.9)
Net assets 17.0 13.4
Goodwill arising on acquisition –
Total investment 13.4
Discharged by:
Fair value of shares issued (2,000,000 shares at £1.35 per share) 2.7
Cash 9.0
Costs associated with the acquisition, settled in cash 1.7
Total consideration 13.4
The fair values on acquisition of BFi recognised in the 31 March 2010 accounts were provisional due to the timing of the transaction.
Following a review in the year ended 31 March 2011 the fair value of inventory and trade receivables were increased by £0.3m and £0.1m
respectively with a corresponding decrease in goodwill and reflected in the fair value and goodwill in the table above. The 2010
comparative information was restated to reflect this adjustment.
Net cash outflows in respect of the acquisition comprise:
Total
£m
Cash consideration 10.7
Net cash and overdrafts acquired 1.0
11.7
From the date of acquisition to 31 March 2010, BFi contributed a profit of £nil to the loss of the Group. If the acquisition had taken place
at the beginning of the year, the loss for the year ended 31 March 2010 from continuing operations for the Group would have been
£9.7m and revenue from continuing operations would have been £231.2m.
Acquisition of Minority Interest in Acal Supply Chain Limited
On 9 April 2009, the Group acquired the remaining 25% in Acal Supply Chain Limited (formerly Service Source Europe Limited) for a total
cash consideration of £1.0m. Minority interest acquired as a result of this was £0.4m creating £0.6m additional goodwill. Total goodwill
relating to the acquisition is £2.5m.
notes to the group financial statements continued 58
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
12 disposals
On 12 October 2010, the Group sold its loss-making subsidiary, ATM Parts Company Limited (“ATM Parts”) to Cennox plc for a
consideration of £0.7m on a debt free, cash free basis. As at 30 September 2010, the assets of ATM Parts were written down to their fair
value giving rise to an exceptional charge for the impairment of net assets of £0.4m. For the period to 12 October 2010, ATM Parts
incurred pre-tax losses of £0.2m on revenues of £1.8m (pre-tax losses of £0.5m on revenues of £3.3m for the year ended 31 March 2010).
£m
Sale proceeds 0.7
Costs of disposal (0.1)
Total sales proceeds 0.6
Total net assets sold (0.6)
Profit on disposal .–
The major classes of assets and liabilities disposed of were:
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.1
Inventories 0.4
Trade and other receivables 0.4
Trade and other payables (0.4)
Current tax assets 0.1
0.6
13 dividends
Amounts recognised in equity as distributions to equity holders in the year:
2011 2010
£m £m
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 of 4.67p (2009: 3.5p) 1.3 0.9
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011 of 2.33p (2010: 2.33p) 0.7 0.7
Total amounts recognised as equity distributions during the year 2.0 1.6
2011 2010
Proposed for approval at the AGM: £m £m
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011 of 5.14p (2010: 4.67p) 1.5 1.3
Summary 2011 2010
Dividends per share declared in respect of year 7.47p 7.00p
Dividends per share paid in year 7.00p 5.83p
Dividends paid in year £2.0m £1.6m
notes to the group financial statements continued 59
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
14 earnings/(loss) per share
Basic earnings/(loss) per share is calculated by dividing the net profit/(loss) for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the
parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share is the basic earnings/(loss) per share after allowing for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary
shares of the weighted average number of options outstanding during the year.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations:
2011 2010
£m £m
Earnings/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 1.7 (6.6)
2011 2010
Number Number
Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share 28,431,486 26,987,847
Effect of dilution – share options 1,214,467 620,498
Adjusted weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 29,645,953 27,608,345
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 6.0p (24.5)p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share 5.7p (24.5)p
At the year end there were 1,778,754 ordinary share options in issue that could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future of which
1,214,467 are currently dilutive (2010: 1,283,488 in issue and 620,498 dilutive). No adjustment has been made for the dilutive impact in the
prior year as this would decrease the reported loss per share.
Underlying earnings/(loss) per share is calculated as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
Earnings/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 1.7 (6.6)
Exceptional items 4.4 4.7
Earn out remuneration 0.2 –
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 0.3 0.1
IAS 19 charge for pension finance costs 0.3 0.6
Tax effects on exceptional items, earn out remuneration, amortisation of acquired
intangibles and IAS 19 charge pension finance costs (1.4) (0.5)
Underlying earnings/(loss) 5.5 (1.7)
2011 2010
Number Number
Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share 28,431,486 26,987,847
Effect of dilution – share options 1,214,467 620,498
Adjusted weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 29,645,953 27,608,345
Underlying basic earnings/(loss) per share 19.3p (6.3)p
Underlying diluted earnings/(loss) per share 18.6p (6.3)p
notes to the group financial statements continued 60
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
15 property, plant and equipment
Freehold Leasehold Plant and
property improvements equipment Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2009 3.3 2.4 10.6 16.3
Additions – 0.3 0.4 0.7
Disposals (1.0) – (0.9) (1.9)
Reclassification – 0.9 (0.9) .–
Business acquisitions – 0.2 0.8 1.0
Exchange adjustments .–– (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 March 2010 2.3 3.8 9.8 15.9
Additions – 0.2 0.9 1.1
Disposals (0.4) (0.3) (0.9) (1.6)
Business acquisitions – .– 0.1 0.1
Business disposals – .– (1.4) (1.4)
Exchange adjustments –– (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 March 2011 1.9 3.7 8.4 14.0
Depreciation
At 1 April 2009 1.5 1.9 8.2 11.6
Charge for the year 0.1 0.3 0.8 1.2
Disposals (0.1) – (0.7) (0.8)
Reclassification – 0.6 (0.6) .–
At 31 March 2010 1.5 2.8 7.7 12.0
Charge for the year .– 0.2 0.9 1.1
Disposals (0.4) (0.2) (0.9) (1.5)
Business disposals – .– (1.4) (1.4)
At 31 March 2011 1.1 2.8 6.3 10.2
Net book amount at 31 March 2011 0.8 0.9 2.1 3.8
Net book amount at 31 March 2010 0.8 1.0 2.1 3.9
Freehold property includes land with a cost of £0.5m (2010: £0.5m) that is not subject to depreciation. Assets held under finance leases
with a net book amount of £nil (2010: £nil) are included in plant and equipment.
Capital expenditure commitments
2011 2010
£m £m
Capital expenditure commitments for property, plant and equipment for which
no provision has been made – –
notes to the group financial statements continued 61
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
16 intangible assets – goodwill
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2009 55.3
Exchange and other adjustments 0.1
Acquisition of shares in subsidiaries 0.6
At 31 March 2010 56.0
Exchange and other adjustments 0.2
Acquisition of shares in subsidiaries 3.3
At 31 March 2011 59.5
£m
Impairment
At 1 April 2009 41.8
Impairment 0.3
At 31 March 2010 and at 31 March 2011 42.1
Net book amount at 31 March 2011 17.4
Net book amount at 31 March 2010 13.9
Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment testing.
Goodwill arising in the year relates to the acquisition of Compotron. Further information is disclosed in note 11.
17 impairment testing of goodwill
The carrying amount of goodwill is analysed as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
Supply Chain:
Acal Supply Chain Limited/Computer Parts International Limited 6.5 6.5
Electronics:
UK electronics businesses 6.8 6.8
Compotron 3.5 –
Medical 0.6 0.6
17.4 13.9
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to cash generating units (CGUs).
The recoverable amount of a CGU is based upon value in use calculations and management’s review of the recoverable amount. The key
assumptions in these calculations relate to future revenue and gross margins. The calculation is most sensitive to revenue assumptions,
however senior management believe that the assumptions used are reasonable. Cash flows beyond the annual budget plan period of one
year are extrapolated using a growth rate of 2% (2010: between 1% and 2%). These rates do not exceed the average long-term growth rate for
the relevant markets. Discount rates reflect the current market assessment of the risks specific to each CGU. The discount rate was estimated
based on the average percentage of a weighted average cost of capital for the industry and then further adjusted to reflect the management’s
assessment of any risk specific to the CGUs. The pre tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections is between 16-17% (2010: 16-20%).
Acal Supply Chain Limited/Computer Parts International Limited
On 31 March 2011 the business and associated net assets of Computer Parts International Limited (“CPI”) were purchased by Acal Supply
Chain Limited (“ASC”) at net book value. As the combined business does not separate the CGUs of the two entities the impairment review
is based upon the combined future cash flows.
The recoverable amount of the ASC/CPI units have been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections
from the financial budget recently approved by senior management. The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections is 16%
(2010: 16%) and cash flows beyond one year are extrapolated using a 2% growth rate (2010: 1%). As a result the combined ASC/CPI CGUs
have not been impaired (2010: £nil).
notes to the group financial statements continued 62
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
17 impairment testing of goodwill continued
UK electronics businesses
The recoverable amount of this unit has also been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections from the
financial budget recently approved by senior management. The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections is 16% (2010: 16%)
and cash flows beyond one year are extrapolated using a 2% growth rate (2010: 2%). As a result the UK electronics businesses CGU has
not been impaired (2010: £nil).
Compotron business
The recoverable amount of this unit has also been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections from the
financial budget recently approved by senior management. The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections is 17% (2010: n/a)
and cash flows beyond one year are extrapolated using a 2% growth rate (2010: n/a). As a result the Compotron business CGU has not
been impaired (2010: £nil).
Medical
The recoverable amount of this unit has also been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections from the
financial budget recently approved by senior management. The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections is 16% (2010: 20%)
and cash flows beyond one year are extrapolated using a 2% growth rate. As a result the Medical CGU has not been impaired (2010: £nil).
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
The Group has conducted sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of each CGU’s carrying value. With regard to UK Electronics, Compotron
and Medical, management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would cause the carrying value of
the unit to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
For the combined Acal Supply Chain/ Computer Parts International there are reasonable possible changes in key assumptions which could
erode the estimated headroom amount of £1.0m by which the carrying value of the two units exceeds the recoverable amount.
The combined Acal Supply Chain/ Computer Parts International is sensitive to changes in both the growth and discount rates. An increase
in the discount rate of 1.0 percentage points or a reduction in growth of 1.0 percentage points would result in an impairment charge.
18 intangible assets – other
Customer
Software contracts Total
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2009 9.3 0.7 10.0
Business acquisitions 0.1 0.4 0.5
Additions 0.4 – 0.4
Exchange adjustment (0.1) – (0.1)
At 31 March 2010 9.7 1.1 10.8
Business acquisitions .– 1.9 1.9
Business disposals (0.2) .– (0.2)
Additions 0.2 – 0.2
Disposals (0.4) – (0.4)
Exchange adjustment .– 0.1 0.1
At 31 March 2011 9.3 3.1 12.4
Amortisation
At 1 April 2009 8.5 .– 8.5
Amortisation 0.2 0.1 0.3
Exchange adjustment (0.1) – (0.1)
At 31 March 2010 8.6 0.1 8.7
Business disposals (0.2) .– (0.2)
Amortisation 0.3 0.3 0.6
Disposals (0.4) – (0.4)
At 31 March 2011 8.3 0.4 8.7
Net book amount at 31 March 2011 1.0 2.7 3.7
Net book amount at 31 March 2010 1.1 1.0 2.1
notes to the group financial statements continued 63
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
18 intangible assets – other continued
Included in amortisation is an accumulated impairment to date of £2.4m (2010: £2.4m).
The computer software capitalised at 31 March 2011 principally relates to the implementation of one system through the majority of the
Electronics businesses. The ERP system has a carrying amount of £0.5m (2010: £0.4m) and a remaining amortisation period of 2.75 years.
Customer contracts have an average remaining useful life of 4.5 years.
Capital expenditure commitments in relation to IT software at 31 March 2011 were £nil (2010: £nil).
19 investments in associates
£m
Cost
At 31 March 2010 & 2011 5.4
Impairment
At 31 March 2010 & 2011 (5.4)
Net book amount at 31 March 2010 and 2011 –
Country of % equity interest
Associates incorporation 2011 and 2010
Ceratech Holdings PLC* England 30
Scientific Digital Business (Pte) Ltd Singapore 40
* Indirectly held.
Impairment of associate investments
In 2009 the Directors took the view that the remaining associate investments should also be fully impaired due to continuing losses in
those businesses. There have been no changes in 2011 that would lead to these impairments being reversed.
20 inventories
2011 2010
£m £m
Finished goods and goods for resale 25.3 23.7
21 trade and other receivables
2011 2010
£m £m
Trade receivables 56.0 47.3
Other receivables 1.7 4.4
Prepayments and accrued income 1.6 2.0
59.3 53.7
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-60 days’ terms and are shown net of a provision for impairment. As at
31 March 2011, trade receivables at nominal value of £2.6m (2010: £2.9m) were impaired and fully provided for. Movements in the
provision for impairment of receivables were as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
At 1 April 2.9 1.0
Acquired with subsidiary .– 1.6
Charge for the year 0.9 0.7
Amounts written off (1.0) (0.2)
Unused amounts reversed (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 March 2.6 2.9
notes to the group financial statements continued 64
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
21 trade and other receivables continued
As at 31 March, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
Neither past due Past due but not impaired
Total nor impaired <30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-120 days >120 days
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
2011 56.0 48.0 5.2 1.7 0.5 – 0.6
2010 47.3 40.5 4.9 0.9 0.5 0.1 0.4
22 cash and cash equivalents
2011 2010
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 13.6 17.3
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of
between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective
short-term deposit rates. The Group only deposits cash surpluses with major banks of high credit standing, in line with treasury policy.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is £13.6m (2010: £17.3m)
23 financial liabilities
Current Non-current
Effective
interest rate 2011 2010 2011 2010
% Maturity £m £m £m £m
Bank overdrafts Variable On demand 4.2 3.4 – –
Unsecured bank loans 0.9 – 1.8 –
Total borrowings 5.1 3.4 1.8 –
Trade and other payables 48.3 41.3 – –
Onerous contracts 0.8 1.2 0.9 1.7
Total 54.2 45.9 2.7 1.7
Interest on overdrafts is based on floating rates linked to LIBOR.
The maturity of the financial liabilities is as follows:
Within 2-5 Over 5
1 year years years Total
At 31 March 2011 £m £m £m £m
Floating rate* 5.2 2.0 – 7.2
Trade payables 48.3 –– 48.3
Onerous contracts 0.8 0.9 – 1.7
54.3 2.9 – 57.2
Within 2-5 Over 5
1 year years years Total
At 31 March 2010 £m £m £m £m
Floating rate* 3.4 –– 3.4
Trade payables 41.3 –– 41.3
Onerous contracts 1.2 1.3 0.4 2.9
45.9 1.3 0.4 47.6
* Floating rate financial liabilities include future interest payments of £0.1m (£2010: £nil) within one year and £0.2m (2010: £nil) between
two and five years.
notes to the group financial statements continued 65
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
23 financial liabilities continued
The carrying amount of the Group’s borrowings is denominated in the following currencies:
2011 2010
£m £m
Euro 5.8 2.5
US dollar 1.0 0.6
Other currencies 0.1 0.3
6.9 3.4
24 movements in cash and net debt
31 March Foreign 31 March
2010 Cash flow exchange 2011
Year to 31 March 2011 £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 17.3 13.6
Overdrafts (3.4) (4.2)
Cash and cash equivalents 13.9 (4.3) (0.2) 9.4
Bank loans under one year .– (0.9)
Bank loans over one year .– (1.8)
Total loan capital .– (2.6) (0.1) (2.7)
Net cash 13.9 (6.9) (0.3) 6.7
31 March Foreign 31 March
2009 Cash flow exchange 2010
Year to 31 March 2010 £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 33.2 17.3
Overdrafts (8.4) (3.4)
Cash and cash equivalents 24.8 (11.3) 0.4 13.9
Bank loans under one year (0.2) .–
Bank loans over one year (0.1) .–
Total loan capital (0.3) 0.2 0.1 .–
Net cash 24.5 (11.1) 0.5 13.9
notes to the group financial statements continued 66
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
25 reconciliation of cash flows from operating activities
2011 2010
£m £m
Profit/(loss) for the year 1.7 (6.6)
Taxation expense 0.2 0.3
Net finance costs 0.6 0.8
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1.1 1.2
Amortisation of intangible assets – other 0.6 0.3
Change in provisions (1.1) 1.7
Loss/(gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 (0.3)
Impairment of goodwill and associates .– 0.3
Impairment of other assets 0.4 .–
Pension scheme funding (0.7) (1.3)
Equity-settled share based payment expense 0.3 0.2
Operating cash flows before changes in working capital 3.2 (3.4)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (2.4) 8.0
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (5.5) 4.0
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other payables 5.2 (3.4)
(Increase)/decrease in working capital (2.7) 8.6
Cash generated from operations 0.5 5.2
Interest paid (0.6) (0.6)
Income taxes received/(paid) 0.5 (3.1)
Net cash flows from operating activities 0.4 1.5
26 provisions
Onerous Severance
contracts indemnity Other Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2010 2.9 1.1 3.5 7.5
Released during the year – exceptional (0.4) – (0.2) (0.6)
Arising during the year – exceptional 0.2 – 0.9 1.1
Arising during the year – other – 0.1 2.6 2.7
Utilised (0.9) (0.4) (3.1) (4.4)
Exchange (0.1) –– (0.1)
At 31 March 2011 1.7 0.8 3.7 6.2
2011 2010
Analysis of total provisions £m £m
Current 2.9 4.2
Non-current 3.3 3.3
6.2 7.5
Onerous contracts
The onerous contracts provision relates to lease obligations in respect of unoccupied properties. Onerous contract provisions are
expected to be used over periods of up to 7 years.
Severance indemnity
The severance indemnity provision relates to severance costs payable to employees. The majority of the provisions are expected to be
used up within one year.
Other
The other provision relates to other claims, long term bonus schemes, general restructuring and the integration of the BFi group and is
expected to be utilised within one to three years.
notes to the group financial statements continued 67
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
27 ﬁnancial risk controls
Management of financial risk
The main financial risks faced by the Group are credit risk, liquidity risk and market risks, which include interest rate risk and currency risk.
Acal plc also faces risks which are non-financial or non-quantifiable; these are set out in the Directors’ Report on pages 21 to 24. The
Board regularly reviews these risks and approves written policies covering the use of financial instruments to manage these risks and sets
overall risk limits.
The Group Finance Director retains the overall responsibility and management of financial risk for the Group. Most of the Group’s
financing and interest rate risk management is done centrally at Group head office, however the foreign exchange risk is managed
centrally and locally, any action being approved by head office. The Board approves policies and procedures setting out permissible
funding and hedging instruments, exposure limits and a system of authorities for the approval of transactions.
The derivative financial instruments approved by the Board to manage financial risks include swaps, both interest rate and currency,
swaptions, caps, forward rate agreements, financial forward contracts and options.
Management of interest rate risk
The Group has an exposure to interest rate risk arising principally from changes in Euro, Sterling and US dollar interest rates. The Group
has not hedged against interest rate risk.
Based on the Group’s net cash position at the year end a 1% increase in interest rates would decrease the Group’s profit before tax by
approximately £0.1m (2010: £0.1m).
Management of foreign exchange risk
The Group’s shareholders’ equity, earnings and cash flows are exposed to foreign exchange risks due to the mismatch between the
currencies in which it purchases stock and the final currency of sale to its customers.
It is Group policy to hedge identified significant foreign exchange exposure on its committed operating cash flows. This is done both
centrally and locally based on actual committed orders and sales. The Group does not hedge contingent exposures.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US$ and Euro rates against Sterling, with all other
variables remaining constant, of the Group’s profit/(loss) before tax, due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities.
£ US$ Euro
currency impact currency impact currency impact
2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
Profit/(loss) before tax – (loss)/gain £m £m £m £m £m £m
10% appreciation (0.4) (0.1) 1.4 0.6 (1.0) (0.4)
10% depreciation 0.5 0.1 (1.5) (0.6) 1.1 0.5
Management of credit risk
Credit risk exists in relation to customers, banks and insurers. These risks are mitigated by maintaining rigorous credit control procedures
across a wide customer base.
The Group is exposed to some credit risk that is primarily attributable to its trade and other receivables. This is minimised by dealing
with recognised creditworthy third parties who have been through a credit verification process. The maximum exposure to credit risk
is limited to the carrying value of trade and other receivables.
As well as credit risk exposures inherent within the Group’s outstanding receivables, the Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk
arising from the placing of deposits and entering into derivative financial instrument contracts with banks and financial institutions.
The Group manages this credit risk by entering into financial instrument contracts only with highly credit-rated authorised counterparties
which are reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
The Group has Board approved maximum counterparty exposure limits for specified banks and financial institutions based on the
long-term credit ratings of Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s.
Counterparties’ positions are monitored on a regular basis to ensure that they are within the approved limits and that there are no
significant concentrations of credit risks.
notes to the group financial statements continued 68
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
notes to the group financial statements continued
27 ﬁnancial risk controls continued
Management of liquidity risk
The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk and ensures maximum flexibility in meeting changing business needs by managing the
cash generation of its operations, combined with bank borrowings and access to long-term debt. In its funding strategy the Group’s
objective is to maintain a balance between the continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of overdrafts, bank loans and facilities.
Excess cash used in managing liquidity is placed on interest bearing deposit with approved counterparties, with maturities fixed at no
more than three months.
At 31 March 2011, the Group had net cash of £8.5m (2010: £13.9m). Net cash excludes long term borrowings of £1.8m (2010: £nil).
The Group had total working capital facilities available of £27.9m (2010: £18.2m) with a number of major UK and overseas banks of
which £19.7m (2010: £8.0m) were committed facilities. The Group had drawn £9.8m against total facilities at 31 March 2011. The
committed facilities were taken out as a policy to decrease the Group’s exposure to uncommitted and short term financing. The maturity
of committed facilities ranges from July 2012 to January 2014. The facilities are subject to certain performance covenants, which on
review at 31 March 2011 gave significant headroom.
Management of Capital
The Group aims to maximise shareholder value by maintaining an appropriate debt/equity capital structure. It uses a number of
mechanisms to manage debt/equity levels, as appropriate, in the light of economic and trading conditions, and the future capital
investment requirements of the business. Capital is made up entirely of equity and is analysed in the statement of changes in equity.
28 financial assets and liabilities
Fair values
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the
financial statements.
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value
2011 2011 2010 2010
£m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Cash at bank and in hand 13.6 13.6 17.3 17.3
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings (5.1) (5.1) (3.4) (3.4)
Non current interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Floating rate borrowings (1.8) (1.8) ––
Short term trade and other receivables, payables and provisions have been excluded from the above table as their book values approximate fair
values.
29 trade and other payables
2011 2010
£m £m
Trade payables 33.1 27.9
Other payables 7.2 9.1
Accrued expenses and deferred income 11.3 9.1
51.6 46.1
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are settled taking into account local good practice.
Other payables are non-interest bearing and settled throughout the year.
Accruals are non-interest bearing and settled throughout the year.
Deferred income is recognised over the term of the contract. 69
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
30 share capital
2011 2011 2010 2010
Authorised Number £m Number £m
Ordinary shares of 5p each 44,000,000 2.2 44,000,000 2.2
2011 2011 2010 2010
Allotted, called up and fully paid Number £m Number £m
Ordinary shares of 5p each 28,479,804 1.4 28,418,354 1.4
There were 61,450 shares issued during the year at a price of £2.705 per share (2010: 2,000,000 at £1.35 per share).
31 commitments and contingencies
Operating lease commitments
The Group leases various buildings under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses
and renewal rights.
The Group also leases certain motor vehicles and items of machinery. These leases have an average life of between 3 and 5 years with no
renewal option included in the contracts. There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
Due within one year 3.2 3.7
Due after one year but not more than five years 7.0 6.8
Due after more than five years 1.5 1.4
11.7 11.9
Contingent liabilities – pension equalisation
The Group is currently assessing its obligations arising from the equalisation of retirement ages for certain members of its defined benefit
pension scheme required by the Barber judgement in May 1990, commonly referred to as “Barber window” obligations. It is possible that
the Group may have additional obligations for equalisation benefits during a six year period and the Company is taking legal advice to
assess the range of possible outcomes. Due to the current uncertainty, no provision has been made in respect of this issue, in accordance
with IAS 37. Based on actuarial advice, the Directors estimate that the annual cost to the Company, if any, would be in the range of £0 to
£0.1m per annum.
There were no material contingent liabilities at 31 March 2010.
Guarantees
The Company has given guarantees and offset arrangements to support bank facilities made available to subsidiary undertakings. As at
31 March 2011 the relevant subsidiary bank borrowings amounted to £6.7m (2010: £2.2m).
notes to the group financial statements continued 70
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
notes to the group financial statements continued
32 share-based payment plans
The Group operates various share based payment plans. The various schemes are explained below and have been separated into three
separate disclosures.
2011 2010
£m £m
a) Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes .– .–
b) Acal plc long term incentive plan (“the LTIP”) 0.3 0.2
c) “B” Share Scheme .– .–
0.3 0.2
a) Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes
The Group operates an approved and an unapproved executive share option scheme, the rules of which are similar in all material
respects. The grant of options to Executive Directors and senior management is recommended by the Remuneration Committee on the
basis of their contribution to the Group’s success. The options vest after three years.
The exercise price of the options is equal to the closing mid-market price of the shares on the trading day previous to the date of the
grant. The exercise of options is subject to the meeting of performance criterion; namely, that the growth in the company’s earnings per
share in any three year period before exercise must have exceeded the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period
plus two per cent per annum. Exercise of an option is subject to continued employment. The life of each option granted is seven years.
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
Options are valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. No non-market performance conditions were included in the fair value
calculations. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
Grant date 14 June 2007 30 June 2006
Share price at grant date £3.8725 £3.675
Exercise price £3.8725 £3.675
Number of employees 37 46
Shares under option 310,000 116,500
Vesting period (years) 33
Expected volatility 30.8% 30.8%
Option life (years) 77
Expected life (years) 4.5 4.5
Risk free rate of return 5.4% 5.06%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 5.0% 5.0%
Fair value £0.80 £0.74
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the previous five years. The expected life is the average expected period to
exercise. The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
The total charge for the year relating to the approved and unapproved share option schemes was £nil (2010: £nil). 71
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
notes to the group financial statements continued
32 share-based payment plans continued
Outstanding share options
A summary of the options over ordinary shares that have been granted under various Group share option schemes and remain
outstanding is given below:
31 March 2011
Outstanding Expired Forfeited Exercised Outstanding Exercise
at 1 April during the during the during the at 31 March price Exercise
2010 year year year 2011 (pence) dates
36,700 (36,700) ––– 525.00 2006-2010
37,750 –– – 37,750 480.00 2007-2011
41,550 – (2,500) – 39,050 335.00 2008-2012
44,500 – (5,000) – 39,500 367.50 2009-2013
100,000 – (25,000) – 75,000 387.25 2010-2014
260,500 (36,700) (32,500) – 191,300
31 March 2010
Outstanding Expired Forfeited Exercised Outstanding Exercise
at 1 April during the during the during the at 31 March price Exercise
2009 year year year 2010 (pence) dates
87,500 (71,500) (16,000) –– 586.50 2005-2009
73,700 – (37,000) – 36,700 525.00 2006-2010
64,750 – (27,000) – 37,750 480.00 2007-2011
73,050 – (31,500) – 41,550 335.00 2008-2012
81,500 – (37,000) – 44,500 367.50 2009-2013
242,000 – (142,000) – 100,000 387.25 2010-2014
622,500 (71,500) (290,500) – 260,500
Changes in share options
A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 March 2011 is shown below:
2011 2010
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number exercise Number exercise
(‘000) price (‘000) price
Outstanding at 1 April 260 £4.08 622 £4.32
Granted –– ––
Exercised –– ––
Expired (37) £5.25 (71) £5.87
Forfeited (32) £3.80 (291) £4.16
Outstanding at 31 March 191 £3.91 260 £4.08
Exercisable at 31 March 116 £3.91 160 £4.22
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 March 2011 is 2.0 years (2010: 2.8 years).
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was £3.35 to £4.80 (2010: £3.35 to £5.25). 72
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
32 share-based payment plans continued
b) The LTIP
Since 2008 the Group has operated the LTIP as a replacement for the approved and an unapproved executive share option scheme
detailed above. The LTIP involves a conditional award of shares on a grant of a nil-cost option. The award of shares to Executive Directors
and senior management is recommended by the Remuneration Committee on the basis of such factors as their contribution to the
Group’s success. The LTIPs are equity settled and there are no cash settled alternatives. The release of an award is dependent on the
individual’s continued employment for a three year holding period from the date of grant and the satisfaction by the Company of certain
performance conditions. For awards made in 2010 and 2011 the performance conditions are as follows:
• 50% of the award is based on the Company’s comparative total shareholder return (“TSR”) against a comparator group made up of
the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index; and
• 50% of the award is based on the Company’s absolute total shareholder return as measured against the Retail Price Index (“RPI”).
Awards are valued using the Monte Carlo Simulation and Discounted Share Price models. No non-market performance conditions were
included in the fair value calculations. The 2011 awards were approved by the Remuneration Committee on 24 March 2011 and a
valuation of these awards will be carried out in the year ending 31 March 2012. The 2011 awards were granted on 31 March 2011 and
therefore there is no material charge in the year relating to these awards. The fair value per award granted and the assumptions used in
the calculation are as follows:
Awards granted in the year ended 31 March 2011:
31 March 31 March 20 July 20 July 01 July 01 July
2011* 2011* 2010 2010 2010 2010
Grant date TSR RPI TSR RPI TSR RPI
Share price at grant date £3.42 £3.42 £1.69 £1.69 £1.54 £1.54
Exercise price nil nil nil nil nil nil
Number of employees 77 1111
Shares under option 163,142 163,142 89,724 89,724 38,636 38,636
Vesting period (years) 33 3333
Expected volatility 55% 55% 55.3% 55.3% 55.5% 55.5%
Option life (years) 10 10 10 10 10 10
Expected life (years) 33 3333
Risk free rate of return 1.4% 1.4% 1.39% 1.39% 1.36% 1.36%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 4.7% 4.7% 4.7% 4.7% 4.8% 4.8%
Fair value £2.09 £1.80 £1.06 £0.93 £0.92 £0.77
* Valuation of these options is provisional.
Awards granted in the year ended 31 March 2010:
31 March 31 March
2010 2010
Grant date TSR RPI
Share price at grant date £1.595 £1.595
Exercise price nil nil
Number of employees 44
Shares under option 201,245 201,245
Vesting period (years) 33
Expected volatility 55.4% 55.4%
Option life (years) 10 10
Expected life (years) 33
Risk free rate of return 1.90% 1.90%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 5.3% 5.3%
Fair value £0.97 £0.86
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over a term commensurate with the expected life of each award. The expected life
is the average expected period to exercise. The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term
consistent with the assumed option life.
The total charge for the year relating to the LTIP schemes (including special awards referred to below) was £0.3m (2010: £0.2m).
notes to the group financial statements continued 73
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
notes to the group financial statements continued
32 share-based payment plans continued
Outstanding LTIP
A summary of the awards that have been granted under the LTIP and remain outstanding is given below:
31 March 2011
Outstanding Granted Expired Forfeited Exercised Outstanding
at 1 April during the during the during the during the at 31 March Exercise
2010 year year year year 2011 dates
620,498 ––– – 620,498 2012-2019
402,490 ––– – 402,490 2013-2020
– 583,003 ––– 583,003 2014-2021
1,022,988 583,003 ––– 1,605,991
Included above is a special award granted on 20 July 2010 in the form of a nil cost option over 179,447 shares in the company. Full details
of this award are given in the Remuneration Report on page 31.
31 March 2010
Outstanding Granted Expired Forfeited Exercised Outstanding
at 1 April during the during the during the during the at 31 March Exercise
2009 year year year year 2010 dates
277,776 –– (277,776) –– 2011-2018
620,498 ––– – 620,498 2012-2019
– 402,490 ––– 402,490 2013-2020
898,274 402,490 – (277,776) – 1,022,988
c) “B” Share Scheme
Following the acquisition of Service Source Europe Limited, by Acal Supply Chain Limited (“ASC”), Acal has set up a B Share Scheme for
the management of the new division. The B Share Scheme was approved by the Shareholders under the Listing Rules at the General
Meeting on 8 January 2009.
The terms of the B Share Scheme are designed to ensure that the management are incentivised to grow and improve the profitability
of the division in the medium term, thereby increasing its value to the Acal Group.
The principal right of the B Shares is to receive value on the sale of ASC on or prior to 31 March 2013, or by exercise (by put or call) of
an option over the B Shares after 31 March 2013.
The proceeds of such an exit adjusted for any net cash or debt (“Equity Value”) are dependent on the equity value of the business at
31 March 2013.
The share based payments charge has been based on a predicted future value model and was £nil (2010 £nil). 74
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
33 pensions
Defined contribution schemes
The Group makes payments to various defined contribution pension schemes, the assets of which are held in separately administered
funds. In the United Kingdom the relevant scheme is the Acal Group Employee Pension Scheme (‘the Acal scheme’). Contributions by
both employees and Group companies are held in externally invested trustee-administered funds.
The Group contributes a specified percentage of earnings for members of the Acal scheme, and thereafter has no further obligations in
relation to the Acal scheme. At the year end, 178 employees were active members of the Acal scheme (2010: 165). The total cost charged
to income in relation to the UK based Acal scheme was £527,000 (2010: £471,000). Employer contributions in respect of other UK based
schemes and overseas pension schemes were £47,000 (2010: £69,000) and £844,000 (2010: £720,000) respectively. Total contributions
payable in the next financial year are expected to be at rates broadly similar to those in 2010/11 but based on actual salary levels in 2011/12.
Defined benefit schemes
The acquisition of the Sedgemoor Group in June 1999 brought with it certain defined benefit pension schemes, the principal one of
which was the Sedgemoor Group Pension Fund (together ‘the Sedgemoor Scheme’). The Sedgemoor Scheme is funded by the Company,
provides retirement benefits based on final pensionable salary and its assets are held in a separate trustee-administered fund.
Following the acquisition of Sedgemoor, the Sedgemoor Scheme was closed to new members. Shortly thereafter employees were given
the opportunity to join the Acal Scheme and future service benefits ceased to accrue to members under the Sedgemoor Scheme.
Contributions to the Sedgemoor Scheme are determined in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally qualified actuaries.
The most recent funding valuation, conducted at March 2011, shows a deficit of £8.8m.
The funding valuation conducted at December 2009 showed a deficit of £11.2m and based upon this valuation and the restructuring
expenditure being undertaken by the Group following the integration of BFi, the Fund’s Trustees agreed with Sedgemoor Limited (the
Company) a two year reduction in the funding contributions until 2012 to £0.7m per year (previously £1.3m), increasing by 3% per
annum from a base of £1.5m in 2013 for a further 10 years.
The main actuarial assumptions used are set out as follows:
2011 2010
Rate of increase of salaries n/a n/a
Rate of increase of pensions in payment 3.6% 3.7%
Discount rate 5.5% 5.6%
Inflation assumption 3.6% 3.7%
The discount rate is based on over 15 year AA grade sterling corporate bond yields at the balance sheet date. Overall expected rates of
return are established by applying published brokers forecasts to each category of scheme assets. The expected rate of return on scheme
assets is derived as an average, weighted according to the portfolio allocation at the balance sheet date. The expected rates of return on
each class of asset are shown below. Pensioner mortality assumptions are based on the ‘P00 series’ tables, issued by the Institute and
Faculty of Actuaries, with medium cohort improvements and a two year age rating. On 8 July 2010, the Government announced that the
Consumer Prices Index (“CPI”) would be the inflation measure for statutory defined benefit pension increases instead of the Index of Retail
Prices (“RPI”).This change applies both to the revaluation of deferred pensions and to the increases applicable to pensions in payment.
The Group is currently assessing its obligations arising from the equalisation of retirement ages for certain members of its defined benefit
pension scheme required by the Barber judgement in May 1990, commonly referred to as “Barber window” obligations. Further detail is
provided in note 31.
notes to the group financial statements continued 75
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
33 pensions continued
The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of defined benefit schemes are as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
Expected return on scheme assets 1.6 1.4
Interest cost on scheme liabilities (1.9) (2.0)
Other finance costs (note 9) (0.3) (0.6)
The net finance cost is reported within interest expense.
The amounts taken to the statement of comprehensive income are as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
Actual return on scheme assets 1.0 6.3
Less: expected return on scheme assets (1.6) (1.4)
Actuarial (losses)/gains on scheme assets (0.6) 4.9
Actuarial gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities 0.9 (5.4)
Deferred tax liability on fund surplus (0.7) .–
Actuarial losses recorded in the statement of comprehensive income (0.4) (0.5)
Since the date of transition the cumulative value of actuarial gains and losses recorded in the statement of comprehensive income is
£4.4m loss (2010: £4.0m loss).
The fair value of assets and expected rates of return are used to determine the amounts recognised in the balance sheet as follows:
2011 2011 2010 2010
£m £m
Equities 6.7% 15.0 7.2% 14.9
Gilts 3.7% 13.9 4.2% 13.9
Cash 0.0% 0.2 0.0% 0.5
Fair value of scheme assets 29.1 29.3
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (34.6) (34.8)
Liability recognised in the balance sheet (5.5) (5.5)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
Opening defined benefit obligation 34.8 29.4
Net interest cost 1.9 2.0
Actuarial (gains)/losses on scheme liabilities (0.9) 5.4
Adjustment for onerous minimum funding requirement 0.7 .–
Benefits paid (1.9) (2.0)
Closing defined benefit obligation 34.6 34.8
notes to the group financial statements continued 76
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
33 pensions continued
Changes in the fair value of the scheme assets are as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
Opening fair value of scheme assets 29.3 23.7
Expected returns on scheme assets 1.6 1.4
Actuarial (losses)/gains on scheme assets (0.6) 4.9
Contributions 0.7 1.3
Benefits paid (1.9) (2.0)
Closing fair value of scheme assets 29.1 29.3
History of experience gains and losses
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets 29.1 29.3 23.7 27.9 30.5
Defined benefit obligations (34.6) (34.8) (29.4) (31.7) (37.9)
Deficit in the scheme (5.5) (5.5) (5.7) (3.8) (7.4)
Experience adjustments on scheme assets (0.6) 4.9 (5.5) (2.2) (0.4)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 0.8 0.9 (0.2) (0.6) 1.3
34 related party disclosures
The Group’s principal subsidiaries are listed in the following table:
Group effective shareholding held
Country of incorporation by Parent by Subsidiary
Name and nature of business and registration Type of share Company Undertakings
Agency, marketing and distribution
Acal BFi UK Ltd England Ordinary Shares – 100%
Acal BFi Central Procurement UK Ltd England Ordinary Shares – 100%
Computer Parts International Ltd England Ordinary Shares – 100%
Acal Supply Chain Ltd England Ordinary Shares – 100%
Stortech Electronics Ltd England Ordinary Shares – 100%
Vertec Scientific Ltd England Ordinary Shares – 100%
Vertec Scientific SA South Africa Ordinary Shares – 100%
Acal BFi Belgium NV/SA Belgium Ordinary Shares – 100%
Acal BFi Germany GmbH Germany Ordinary Shares – 100%
EAF Computer Service Supplies GmbH Germany Ordinary Shares – 100%
Acal BFi Nordic AB Sweden Ordinary Shares – 100%
Acal BFi Netherlands BV Netherlands Ordinary Shares – 100%
Acal BFi Italia Srl Italy Ordinary Shares – 100%
Acal BFi Iberia SL Spain Ordinary Shares – 100%
Acal BFi France Holdings SAS France Ordinary Shares – 100%
Acal BFi France SAS France Ordinary Shares – 100%
CompoTron GmbH Germany Ordinary Shares – 100%
CompoTron UK Limited England Ordinary Shares – 100%
Management services
Acal Management Services Ltd England Ordinary Shares 100% –
All subsidiaries operate in their country of incorporation. All subsidiaries have a 31 March year end and have the same voting rights as the
effective interest.
The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with related parties for the relevant year:
notes to the group financial statements continued 77
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
34 related party disclosures continued
Associates Sales to Amounts owed
related by related
parties parties
£m £m
2010/11 ––
2009/10 0.1 –
Associate undertakings
For details of the Group’s investments in associates see note 19.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the
categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in
the Directors Remuneration report on pages 29 to 33.
2011 2010
£m £m
Short term employee benefits 0.7 0.5
Termination benefits .– 0.3
Share based payments 0.2 0.2
0.9 1.0
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
All transactions with related parties were on an arm’s length basis. Outstanding balances at year-end are unsecured and settlement
occurs in cash.
Transactions with other related parties
Details of transactions with Directors are detailed in the Remuneration report on pages 29 to 33.
35 events after the balance sheet date
A final dividend of 5.14p per share (2010: 4.67p) amounting to a dividend of £1.5m (2010: £1.3m) was declared by the Directors at their
meeting on 26 May 2011. These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
Acquisition of Hectronic AB
On 1 June the Company announced the acquisition of 100% of Hectronic AB (“Hectronic”), for cash consideration of £1.2m (sek12m)
before expenses and net debt acquired. Hectronic has been acquired from the majority shareholder, Verdane Capital III AS, a private
equity company in the Nordic region. The cash consideration will be paid from the Group’s existing cash resources.
Hectronic is a specialist provider of embedded computing technology to industrial electronic markets. Based in Sweden, with annual
sales of around £7m, Hectronic employs 28 staff and generates revenues across the Nordic region. The company will form a separate
business unit within Acal’s Electronics division and will retain its strong independent brand identity. The acquisition is expected to be
earnings neutral for this year and earnings enhancing from then on.
36 exchange rates
The profit and loss accounts of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange for the period and balance
sheets are translated at period end rates. The main currencies are the US dollar and the Euro. Details of the exchange rates used are as
follows:
Year to 31 March 2011 Year to 31 March 2010
Closing Average Closing Average
rate rate rate rate
US dollar 1.608 1.556 1.517 1.597
Euro 1.132 1.177 1.121 1.129
notes to the group financial statements continued acal plc
company ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 31 march 2011 79
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Acal plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Acal plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the Company
Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 11. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable
law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone
other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 35, the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and
express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report and
accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 March 2011;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006;
and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with
the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our
opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with
the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Acal Plc for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Andy Glover (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor
London
1 June 2011
Notes:
1. 1. The maintenance and integrity of the Acal plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the
financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions.
report of the auditors 80
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
company balance sheet
at 31 March 2011
2011 2010
notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments 4 79.0 91.6
Current assets
Debtors 5 4.3 2.9
Cash at bank and in hand 3.2 7.6
Total current assets 7.5 10.5
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 6 (20.7) (34.8)
Net current liabilities (13.2) (24.3)
Total assets less current liabilities 65.8 67.3
Net assets 65.8 67.3
Capital and reserves
Share capital 7 1.4 1.4
Share premium 8 40.7 40.6
Merger reserve 8 3.0 3.0
Profit and loss account 8 20.7 22.3
Shareholders’ funds 8 65.8 67.3
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 1 June 2011 and signed on its behalf by:
N J Jefferies S M Gibbins
Chief Executive Group Finance Director 81
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
1 basis of accounting
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
2 summary of significant accounting policies
Income recognition
Dividend income is recognised when the company’s right to receive payment is established.
Fixed asset investments
Investments in subsidiary and associate undertakings are stated initially at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given and
including directly attributable transaction costs. The carrying values are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances
indicate the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Financial assets
Investments are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given and including directly attributable transaction
costs associated with the investment.
After initial recognition, investments in equity shares are treated as available for sale financial assets and are measured at their fair value
with any gains or losses recognised in equity. When the investment is derecognised or impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously
reported in equity is included in the profit and loss account.
Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value can not be reliably
valued are measured at cost.
At each balance sheet date, the Company reviews the carrying value of its assets to determine whether there is any indication that the
assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists or when annual testing for an asset is required, the recoverable
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised when they meet the criteria for recognition as a liability. In relation to final dividends, this is when approved by
the shareholders in general meeting, and in relation to interim dividends, when paid.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, in accordance with the effective interest rate method.
Share-based payment schemes
In preparing the financial statements the Company has also applied FRS 20 ‘Share-based payment’ . Although the Company does not incur
a charge under this standard, the issuance by the Company to its subsidiaries of a grant over the Company’s options represents additional
capital contributions by the Company in its subsidiaries. The additional capital contribution is based on the fair value of the grant issued,
allocated over the underlying grant’s vesting period.
Taxation
Corporation tax payable is provided on taxable profits at the current rate.
Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where
transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the
balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable and recognised in the financial statements when, on the basis of
available evidence, it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the timing
differences can be deducted. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
3 profit of the parent company
The profit of the parent company for the financial year amounted to £0.1m (2010: £0.7m). By virtue of section 408 of the Companies Act
2006, the Company is exempt from presenting a separate profit and loss account.
notes to the company ﬁnancial statements 82
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
4 fixed asset investments
Subsidiary
undertakings
£m
At 1 April 2009 86.4
Additions 5.2
At 31 March 2010 91.6
Share based payments 0.3
Disposals (12.9)
At 31 March 2011 79.0
Subsidiary undertakings disposed were to other group companies.
Details of the principal subsidiary and associate undertakings are provided in notes 34 and 19 respectively of the Group accounts.
5 debtors
2011 2010
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 3.8 2.6
Corporation tax 0.4 0.1
Deferred tax 0.1 0.1
Prepayments – 0.1
4.3 2.9
The deferred tax asset arises due to temporary timing differences.
6 creditors
2011 2010
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Bank loans and overdrafts 0.4 0.3
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 19.7 33.0
Other creditors 0.1 1.0
Accruals and deferred income 0.5 0.5
20.7 34.8
7 share capital
2011 2011 2010 2010
Authorised Number £m Number £m
Ordinary shares of 5p each 44,000,000 2.2 44,000,000 2.2
2011 2011 2010 2010
Alloted, called up and fully paid Number £m Number £m
Ordinary shares of 5p each 28,479,804 1.4 28,418,354 1.4
During the year the Company issued 61,450 (2010: 2,000,000) shares at a price of £2.705 (2010: £1.35) per share.
At 31 March 2011 there were outstanding options for employees of subsidiaries to purchase up to 1,768,201 (2010: 1,283,488) ordinary
shares of 5p each between 2011 and 2021 at prices ranging from £nil per share to £4.8 per share. During the year to 31 March 2011 no
options were exercised by employees under the terms of the various share option schemes (2010: none).
notes to the company financial statements continued 83
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
overview business review governance financial statements
8 reconciliation of shareholders’ funds and movements on reserves
Share Merger Profit and
Share capital premium reserve loss account Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2009 1.3 38.0 3.0 23.2 65.5
Shares issued 0.1 2.6 –– 2.7
Profit for the year ––– 0.7 0.7
Dividends paid to shareholders ––– (1.6) (1.6)
At 31 March 2010 1.4 40.6 3.0 22.3 67.3
Shares issued .– 0.1 –– 0.1
Profit for the year ––– 0.1 0.1
Share-based payment transactions ––– 0.3 0.3
Dividends paid to shareholders ––– (2.0) (2.0)
At 31 March 2011 1.4 40.7 3.0 20.7 65.8
9 related parties
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption given in FRS 8 not to disclose transactions with other Group companies.
10 share-based payments
For detailed disclosures of share-based payments granted to the employees of subsidiaries refer to Acal plc consolidated accounts, note 32.
11 contingent liabilities
The parent company has given guarantees and offset arrangements to support bank facilities made available to subsidiary undertakings.
As at 31 March 2011 the relevant subsidiary bank borrowings amounted to £6.7m (2010: £2.2m).
notes to the company financial statements continued 84
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2011
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m £m
Group income statement
Turnover – continuing operations 264.8 181.6 165.4 159.5 164.5
Profit/(loss) before tax, goodwill and exceptionals 6.3 (1.6) 0.5 6.1 5.1
Exceptionals (4.4) (4.7) (33.1) (3.5) (1.4)
Profit/(loss) before tax 1.9 (6.3) (32.6) 2.6 3.7
Tax (0.2) (0.3) (4.4) (2.1) (1.2)
Profit/(loss) after tax from continuing operations 1.7 (6.6) (37.0) 0.5 2.5
Discontinued operations – .– .– 27.4 9.4
Profit/(loss) for the year 1.7 (6.6) (37.0) 27.9 11.9
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 1.7 (6.6) (37.1) 27.9 11.7
Minority interests – .– 0.1 .– 0.2
Group balance sheet
Net cash/(debt) 6.7 13.9 24.5 25.6 (5.4)
Equity shareholders’ funds 51.3 51.9 58.2 100.7 75.8
Statistics
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share 6.0p (24.5)p (140.5)p 105.7p 44.4p
Dividends per share – relating to the period 7.47p 7.0p 7.0p 21.9p 21.9p
Working capital as percentage of sales* 12% 13% 15% 13% 9%
* Working capital is defined as net inventory, trade receivables and other receivables less trade payables and other payables.
ﬁve year record Acal is a European specialist provider of technology products
and services. With operations in eleven countries across
Western Europe, and in South Africa, the business operates
in clearly deﬁned market niches where customers appreciate
the added value that comes from high levels of technical
support and customised solutions.
contents
ﬁnancial highlights 01
chairman’s statement 02
directors and secretary 04
overview
strategic and operational review 05
group overview 09
strategic focus
supporting the green economy 10
supporting manufacturing efﬁciency 11
supporting medical science 12
supporting service organisations 13
acal’s markets 14
group executive committee 16
business review
ﬁnancial review 17
corporate information and ﬁnancial calendar 20
governance
directors’ report 21
board report on corporate governance 25
directors’ remuneration report 29
corporate social responsibility 34
statement of directors’ responsibilities 35
ﬁnancial statements
group ﬁnancial statements 36
report of the auditors, group 37
consolidated income statement 38
consolidated statement of comprehensive income 39
consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 40
consolidated statement of changes in equity 41
consolidated cash ﬂow statement 42
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements 43
company ﬁnancial statements 78
report of the auditors, company 79
company balance sheet 80
notes to the company ﬁnancial statements 81
ﬁve year record 84
principal locations
Acal is a European specialist provider of technology products
and services. With operations in eleven countries across
Western Europe, and in South Africa, the business operates
in clearly deﬁned market niches where customers appreciate
the added value that comes from high levels of technical
support and customised solutions.
Country Company/division Locations
electronics
United Kingdom Acal BFi UK Ltd Wokingham, Milton Keynes
Acal BFi Central Procurement UK Ltd Wokingham
Stortech Electronics Ltd Harlow
Compotron UK Ltd Swindon
Belgium Acal BFi Belgium NV/SA Brussels
France Acal BFi France SAS Evry
Germany Acal BFi Germany GmbH Dietzenbach, Munich
Compotron GmbH Munich
Italy Acal BFi Italia Srl Milan
Netherlands Acal BFi Netherlands BV Eindhoven, Alphen an den Rijn
Sweden Acal BFi Nordic AB Stockholm, Uppsala
Hectronic AB Uppsala
Norway Acal BFi Nordic AB Honefoss
Finland Acal BFi Nordic AB Helsinki
Denmark Acal BFi Nordic AB Copenhagen
Spain Acal BFi Iberia SLU Madrid
supply chain
United Kingdom Acal Supply Chain Ltd Warrington, Nottingham
Germany EAF Computer Service Supplies GmbH Goch
medical
United Kingdom Vertec Scientiﬁc Ltd Silchester
South Africa Vertec Scientiﬁc SA (pty) Ltd Johannesburg
Further details of the Group’s locations can be found on the Acal plc website
www.acalplc.co.uk
principal locations acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2011
europe’s leading
supplier of specialist
technologies
annual report and accounts
for the year ended 31 March 2011
2 Chancellor Court
Occam Road
Surrey Research Park
Guildford
Surrey GU2 7AH
Telephone +44 (0)1483 544500
Fax +44 (0)1483 544550
Email info@acalplc.co.uk
www.acalplc.co.uk
