 info@atkinsglobal.com
www.atkinsglobal.com
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
WS Atkins plc
Annual Report 2008
Plan Design Enable This Annual Report is printed by a CarbonNeutral printing company on 
Revive 100 Uncoated, a 100% recycled paper made from post-consumer 
collected waste and manufactured to the certified environmental management 
system ISO 14001. It is TCF (T otally Chlorine Free), totally recyclable and has
biodegradable NAPM recycled certification.
The Atkins logo, the ‘open A’ device and the strapline ‘Plan Design Enable’ 
are trademarks of Atkins Limited, a WS Atkins plc company.
© WS Atkins plc except where stated otherwise.
Introduction
01 Financial Highlights
02 Group at a Glance
04 Atkins Business Segments
06 Chairman’s Statement
08 Chief Executive’s Statement 
Reviews
14 Human Resources Review
18 Operating and Financial Review
18 Overview of the business and
performance in the year
20 Segmental performance
20 Design and Engineering 
Solutions
22 Highways and Transportation
24 Rail
26 Middle East, China and Europe
30 Management and Project 
Services
32 Asset Management
33 Discontinued operations
34 Financial performance
37 Principal risks and uncertainties
38 Corporate Responsibility Review
Governance
44 Board of Directors
46 Directors’ Report
50 Corporate Governance Report
56 Remuneration Report
61 Independent Auditors’ Report
Financial Statements
64 Consolidated Income Statement
65 Consolidated and Parent Company
Statements of Recognised Income 
and Expense
66 Consolidated and Parent Company 
Balance Sheets
67 Consolidated and Parent Company  
Cash Flow Statements
68 Notes to the Financial Statements
114 Five Year Summary
Investor Information
118 Company Information
118 Financial Calendar
118 Shareholder Services WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Introduction 01
Financial Highlights
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Our vision is to be the world’s 
best infrastructure consultancy .
06 05
1,052.5
1,179.8
955.0
1,313.6
07 08
+11 %
Revenue £m
68.4
56.5
74.1
91.9
+24%
Normalised profit before taxation £m 
05 07 08 06
06 05 07 08
50.1
42.5
56.5
66.7
+1 8%
Normalised diluted EPS pence
14,907
13,892
15,868
17,278
+9%
Headcount 
06 05 07 08
16.0
12. 0
20.0
24.0
+ 20%
Dividend pence
06 05 07 08
Notes
1 Revenue excludes the Group’s share of revenue from Joint Ventures.
2 Normalised profit before taxation and exceptional items is defined as profit before taxation,
less exceptional items and any profits or losses from disposals. This is considered to be a more
representative measure of underlying trading.
3 Normalised diluted earnings per share (EPS) is based on normalised profit after tax and allows
for the dilutive effect of share options.
4 Headcount is shown on a full-time equivalent basis at the year-end, including agency staff.
5 Dividend relating to the year, comprising the interim dividend paid in the year and the
proposed final dividend.
6 2006/07 and 2007/08 figures are for continuing operations only. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
02 Introduction
Group at a Glance
* Approximate full-time equivalent staff at 31 March 2008 including agency staff.
** Source: New Civil Engineer Consultants File 2008.
Plan, design, enable 
is what we do.
Plan
The challenges facing our
clients are multidimensional,
often because of the increasingly
complex modern environment.
From cost and risk planning,
feasibility studies and logistics,
to impact assessments and
stakeholder engagement
activity, we plan every aspect 
of our clients’ projects.
Design
Atkins designs intellectual
capital such as management
systems and business processes.
We also design physical
structures such as office towers,
schools, bridges and highways.
Whatever we design, we apply
the same passion and creativity
combined with rigorous 
quality standards.
Enable
Our clients choose Atkins
because they want to focus 
on their core operations. They
entrust us to look after the
management of projects,
people and issues – ensuring
that deadlines are met, costs
are controlled and success 
is delivered.
17 ,270
Total headcount*
Largest
engineering consultancy in the UK** WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Introduction 03
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
***Source: Engineering News Record 2007.
£1 .3bn
Revenue 2008
5th
largest global design firm***
United Kingdom
1 1 ,650
*
employees
North America
680
*
employees
Other Europe
870
*
employees
Middle East
3,07 0
*
employees
Asia Pacific
1 ,000
*
employees WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
04 Introduction
W e report our activities 
in a number of business
segments, reflecting how
we manage the business
according to different
markets and geographies. 
Atkins Business Segments
This chart illustrates the relative size
of our segments by revenue.
Design and 
Engineering Solutions
Highways and
Transportation 
Rail
Middle East,
China and Europe
Management and 
Project Services
Asset Management  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Introduction 05
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Revenue
£374m
£275m
£208m
£192m
£213m
£52m
We deliver high value engineering and innovative design to a wide range of clients 
in the public, regulated and private sectors. Our areas of operation include water, 
environment, nuclear, power, aerospace, defence, oil and gas and infrastructure design.
Our principal activities are transport planning, design of new roads and road
improvements, development of intelligent transport systems, management of 
road maintenance and integrated road network management.
We provide services covering a wide range of engineering disciplines, including 
signalling, civils, electrification and specialist services in strategic planning, safety, 
systems integration and asset management.
In the Middle East, we provide design, engineering and project management services 
for buildings, transportation and other infrastructure through our seven offices in 
the Gulf and India. In China we provide planning, urban design, architectural and
engineering services to the mainland market and Hong Kong. Our European business
comprises operations in Ireland, Sweden, Denmark, Portugal and Poland.
We provide management and IT consultancy and programme, project and cost
management services. We are one of the largest project managers and cost consultants
worldwide through our Faithful+Gould brand* and one of the 20 largest management
consultants operating in the UK**.
We provide independent property asset management services, focusing on delivery 
of top quality facilities management services to selected public and private sector clients.
Sources:
* Building Magazine.
** Management Consultancies Association. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
06 Introduction
Chairman’s Statement
We have made further good progress
this year. Our markets remain strong,
and, as we continue to improve our
services, we are confident that the
Group will achieve further good
progress in the year ahead. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Introduction 07
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Results
I am pleased to report another successful
year for the Group, with revenue up 11%
and normalised diluted earnings per share
up by 18%. We have made further good
progress demonstrated by the substantial
increase in operating margins before
exceptional costs from 5.7% to 6.6%. 
We believe that improvements in margin
will continue.
Once again there was substantial growth 
in the Middle East and there were good
performances from our Design and
Engineering Solutions and Highways and
Transportation segments in the UK.
Faithful+Gould also performed well and
margins improved substantially within our
Rail segment, as anticipated. The Group’s
cash generation remains very strong 
and we ended the year with net funds 
of £168.4m.
As previously reported, the Group’s results
also benefited from a £20m profit on the
sale of Lambert Smith Hampton and the
£17m accelerated release of Metronet
deferred income. These are included within
discontinued operations.
Share buyback
During the year the Board reviewed the
strength of the Group’s balance sheet and,
mindful of the benefit of maintaining an
efficient balance sheet, commenced a share
buyback programme in November 2007
with the intention of returning up to £100m
to shareholders. As at 31 March 2008
3.2m shares had been purchased at a total
cost of £34.9m. A further 0.7m shares
were purchased at a cost of £7.6m between
year-end and the commencement of the
Company’s close period on 25 April 2008. 
People
Our staff numbers in continuing operations
rose by over 1,400 in the year to nearly
17,300 but, given the strong markets 
in which we operate, our staff turnover
increased from 13.8% to 15.4%. This
increase was not unexpected but we
continue to make substantial investments
in enhancing our training and development
programmes and total reward to ensure
that our employees can continue to
develop their careers within the Group.
I would like to take this opportunity to
thank all of our employees throughout 
the Group for their efforts in the year.
Board of Directors
I am delighted to welcome Dr Krishnamurthy
“Raj” Rajagopal who joins the Board 
as a non-executive director. Raj brings
international experience to the Board
having previously been chief executive
of BOC Edwards until November 2006.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend
of 16.5p, making the total dividend for 
the year 24.0p (2007: 20.0p), an increase
of 20%.
Outlook
We start the new year in a good position
with work in hand representing 55% of
our budgeted revenue (2007: 58%) and
are continuing to increase headcount.
While there is of course uncertainty about the
future direction of some of the economies
in which we operate, we have not seen
any sign of reduction in activity. Climate
change is becoming a significant issue for
many of our clients. We are working actively
to raise awareness, develop tools and
engage with clients to help them respond
to the complex requirements of a carbon
critical economy.
Our markets remain strong and as the
Group continues to improve its services we
are confident that the Group will achieve
further good progress in the year ahead.
Notwithstanding the share buyback
programme, we continue to review further
opportunities to add to the depth and
range of our technical skills and invest 
in the sustainable growth of the Group.
Ed Wallis
Chairman
25 June 2008 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
08 Introduction
Chief Executive’ s Statement
Our strategy 
Plan, design, enable is what we do.
Our vision is to be the world’s best
infrastructure consultancy . 
To be the world’s best infrastructure consultancy.
World’s
We will target 
chosen geographies,
and develop deep
local expertise.
Best
We will seek to
consistently anticipate
and address our
clients’ needs.
Infrastructure
Buildings, transport,
utilities, Government
and industry and 
their social and
environmental context.
Consultancy
Our primary business
model will be 
selling expertise. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Introduction 09
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Atkins is a consultancy which exists to plan,
design and enable our clients’ capital
programmes. We aim to improve all aspects
of our activities within well understood
business models. The strong performance
of the Group has demonstrated over the
last few years that this focus has been
appropriate and the forecast of continued
high demand for capital programmes of
increasing complexity dictates that it
remains so.
The key to much of the activity that the
Group undertakes is the national and local
nature of the relationships we build with
our clients. The vast majority of our clients
continue to come to Atkins at a local level
because we have key local relationships. 
As a result we have de-centralised our
organisation, empowering local management
as far as reasonably possible. Many of our
core skills and the values of our excellent
service culture have currency across the
world, but we do not have a strategy of
becoming a global company; instead our
strategy involves focusing our efforts
where we are able to develop these deep
local relationships with our clients. We call
this part of our strategy multi-local.
In addition to developing local skills, our
local management teams are able to draw
upon the Group’s wide range of skills and
resources. One of Atkins’ key differentiators
is the extensive range of skills that we have
in the organisation. There is rarely a technical
question that cannot be answered by
someone within the Group, allowing us 
to be flexible and to consider all options.
Our clients recognise that, by harnessing
this breadth of skills, we can answer their
questions better. This part of our strategy
we call multi-skill.
We believe that our focus upon being 
a multi-skill, multi-local consultancy, 
with the best combination of quality, 
local understanding and breadth of skills, 
will allow us to be trusted to deliver
infrastructure projects more often than 
our competitors. Bringing the extensive
capabilities of the Group to bear at a local
level is therefore fundamental and will
deliver superior performance. 
Climate change is a significant issue for the
world in which we live and it is becoming 
a significant issue for many of our clients.
Apart from the normal social responsibility
issues, we are focusing on the area of carbon
calculation and the carbon mitigation of
both the embedded elements and the
whole-life effects of our designs. We have
termed this Carbon Critical Design. We are
doing world-class work in a number of areas
but the practice of embedding carbon
reduction into the design process is still in
its infancy. We need to act now to develop
this capability so as to be able to respond
to the emerging demand and ensure that
clients can meet their carbon agendas over
the next five to ten years. We have therefore
set ourselves the challenge to resolve how
we deliver Carbon Critical Design within
100 weeks. We are investing heavily this
year and next to raise awareness, develop
tools and actively engage with clients on
this important issue.
Carbon Critical Design will affect everything
we do in the long term. It demands an
expansive multi-skilled outlook. It is no
longer appropriate, for example, to segregate
building design from structures, as the whole
system must be optimised to reduce carbon.
This makes Atkins supremely well placed to
lead. We design a very large part of the built
environment and we can engage clients
and change the question. We are not
aspiring to everything being carbon neutral
but we are looking at an iterative journey
to reduce carbon in everything we do. 
If we are successful in addressing all 
of these areas, we will be well along 
the path to being the world’s best
infrastructure consultancy.  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
10 Introduction
Chief Executive’ s Statement
Our strategy 
Continued
Strategy process
The Atkins strategy is developed by an
integrated process of establishing the Group
priorities and evaluating the strengths of
the businesses within the Group. Business
unit bottom-up five-year plans are therefore
set in the context of the top-down Group
strategic aims.
We evaluate the market areas in which we
may best use our skills, identifying any skill
or market gaps, and formulate options for
approval at Board level. 
We review our strategy on an annual basis
focusing on different aspects each year. In
2006 we established a new five-year plan
for the Group providing medium-term
targets that ensured we would deliver
shareholder value. In 2007 we revalidated
the fundamental aspects of the Group
strategy and carried out a thorough market
segmentation exercise to analyse options
for the Group going forward. The 2008
process will review five-year targets in light
of the strategic direction set in 2007 and
Company and market developments since. 
Strategy review
The 2007 review confirmed:
•The primary objective of creating long-
term shareholder value as measured by
growth in normalised diluted earnings
per share can be achieved by both our
business activity and our business model
•Atkins will remain a consultancy –
diversification by becoming a pure
contractor, technology company or
developer is not an attractive option 
for the Group
•Working across multiple markets gives us
robust underlying performance – we will
focus on those markets that are attractive
and are aligned with the Group’s strategy
•Demand for our services is present in
many countries across the world –
however we focus on those services and
countries that will provide the best 
long-term returns for the Group
•The financial stewardship of the Group
allows a return of capital to shareholders
whilst retaining considerable financial
capacity to pursue organic growth and 
to exploit suitable strategic opportunities
that might arise
•The recruitment, retention and
development of our staff remain 
key to growth.  
Following the review we confirmed that
we need to continue to:
•Reinforce our focus upon Identity 
and Excellence 
•Deepen and improve the quality of 
our service offering through recruiting,
retaining and developing our staff 
and management
•Follow appropriate sector opportunities
into new and related markets.
We have made good progress by increasing
headcount by 24% in the past three years
and a key element of this has been to apply
considerable effort in recruiting appropriately
qualified staff in Sharjah, Bangalore and
Manila to work for our key home markets
– the UK and Middle East. We need to
continue to focus on maximising the
effectiveness of such intra-group working
and continue to enhance the mobility and
flexibility of our staff. This has improved
materially in the past two years.
With confidence in our markets over the
medium term, the Group has robust
foundations from which to build.
Business Unit strategy
The Group’s decentralised structure and
empowered management allow business-
level strategy to be established very close
to the customer, leveraging the competitive
advantage that being part of a larger
group brings.
Decisions about product and market diversity
form part of the Group-level strategy.
Consequently, the business units can focus
on the excellence of their offering in specific
areas where the Group’s capability is best
used to advantage. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Introduction 11
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Each business considers its strategy 
for addressing its market taking into
consideration various factors: 
• Competitive advantage – the ability of
the business to differentiate itself from
the local competition
• Resource-based advantage – the skills
and capabilities that the Group has that
may confer a unique advantage
• Operational advantage – ways in which
we may understand our business models
better and improve our products.
Atkins’ position in each of its home markets
is strong and, increasingly, multiple business
units are being brought together to deliver
complex projects in various parts of the world.
Strategic position 
The environment
In the medium term, global drivers will
bring unprecedented change to the world’s
infrastructure, not least growing urban
populations and all the issues connected
with sustainability and climate change.
Quality, local understanding and breadth 
of skills will therefore continue to be 
in demand. 
In the UK alone the market size for
engineering and design has been estimated
at nearly £14 billion
1
. The top 150 design
firms in the world generate revenue of
more than £40 billion
2
. While growth and
consolidation continues at the top end,
there remains an endless tail of small
consultancies capable of competing 
for significant percentages of most 
market sectors.
In the UK, the New Civil Engineer (NCE)
survey regularly puts Atkins in the top four
across a wide range of sectors. The UK
market continues to grow and Atkins is
increasing its market share. The Group has
also been successful in building meaningful
domestic businesses in the Middle East,
the US and some European markets.
Acquisitions and organic investment will
continue to be considered which deepen
the Group’s skill base and strengthen our
market position, usefully accelerating our 
multi-local, multi-skill business model.
Conditions in 2008
The requirement for new and upgraded
infrastructure remains and many of our
important markets are buoyant. Competition
for resources to deliver projects is strong,
which also provides a healthy indicator of
the markets in which we work. However,
whilst we have been successful in improving
the attractiveness of Atkins as an employer
in recent years, we are also experiencing
increased upward pressure on remuneration.
Our direct exposure to the commercial
property market in the UK is limited, but
we are mindful of indirect consequences 
of a prolonged downturn and the timing
of projects may be subject to some
variability in the short term.
Keith Clarke
Chief Executive
25 June 2008
1 Survey of UK Construction Professionals 2005/06 –
Davis Langdon Management Consulting, July 2007.
2 Engineering News Record, 23 July 2007.
UK Rank Company
1(1) Atkins 3 3 1 4 2 2 1 1 2 7 3 1 1 1 1 2 3 1 5
2(2) Mott MacDonald 7 2 3 9 7 4 16 5 1 1 3 2 4 3 8 2 5 2
3(3) Arup 1 10 9 13 9 10 2 3 3 3 5 13 3 10 4 5 1 12 10
4(4) WSP 2 13 2 6 5 4 4 4 9 9 6 7 2 1 7 4 19
5(5) Mouchel 6 20 1 2 5 2 18 11 3
6(6) Jacobs 14 8 2 6 3 3 7 9 1 10 4 4 9 3 9 4 2 9
7(7) RPS 1 14
8(9) Halcrow 16 15 10 16 14 1 6 2 8 8 8 5 10 5 8 6
9(8) Scott Wilson 13 12 11 10 13 3 15 7 5 6 6 4 6 17 3 14
10(10) Capita Symonds 9 7 7 14 4 9 10 2 13 14 17 7 13 9 6 13 6 12 25
Note
NCE Consultants File 2008 market rankings.
Building
Construction and
Project Management
Defence
Environment
Facilities
Management
Flooding 
and Coastal
Geotechnics
Health and Safety
Manufacturing
Ports, Harbours,
Airports and Canals
Power
Public Sector
Rail/Rail Bridges
Roads/Road Bridges
Telecommunications
Transport Planning
Tunnelling
Waste
Water WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
12 Introduction
Chief Executive’ s Statement
Our strategy 
Continued
Summary
Mission
We exist to plan, design and enable 
capital programmes.
Vision
The Group intends to be the world’s best
infrastructure consultancy.
Strategy
Objective
The aim of the Group is to maximise shareholder
return over the long term.
Scope
The Group will operate as a multi-local, 
multi-skill consultancy. We will continue to 
evolve world-class skills in infrastructure-related
disciplines. We will focus these skills in selected
home geographies where our full capability can
be brought to bear. 
Advantage
Our breadth and depth of skills give us the ability
to deliver simple solutions to complex questions.
The reputation we build will attract employees
and customers worldwide. We will help to deliver
the changes demanded of infrastructure in 
a carbon critical world.  Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Reviews
14 Human Resources Review
18 Operating and Financial Review
18 Overview of the business 
and performance in the year
20 Segmental performance
20 Design and Engineering 
Solutions
22 Highways and Transportation
24 Rail
26 Middle East, China and Europe
30 Management and Project 
Services
32 Asset Management
33 Discontinued operations
34 Financial performance
37 Principal risks and uncertainties
38 Corporate Responsibility Review
Reviews WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
14 Reviews
Human Resources Review 
Our people
Atkins’ success depends on attracting
and retaining the most talented
professionals in their respective 
fields and providing an environment 
in which they are able to apply their
skills on a variety of complex projects. 
T op 20
Best Big Companies to Work For
The Sunday Times, 2008
Top 1 00
Graduate Employers
The Times, 2007
Top 50
Places Where Women Want to Work
The Times, 2007
Winner
National Graduate Recruitment
Awards, Construction Sector
Target Magazine, 2007 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Reviews 15
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Overview
Atkins’ success depends on attracting and
retaining the most talented professionals 
in their respective fields and providing an
environment in which they are able to
apply their skills on a variety of complex
projects. Consequently, being an employer
of choice is a must for Atkins. Part of our
strength is our ability to meet this challenge
for a wide range of professionals including
engineers, architects, planners, project
managers and surveyors.
We measure our performance in doing 
so in various ways, partly by the collective
and individual strengths of the people who
decide to develop their careers with us, 
but also by tracking a number of metrics
including staff retention, employee
engagement and headcount growth. We
also take note of the views of our staff and
potential staff expressed via internal and
externally commissioned surveys, with the
latter resulting in a number of awards.
Headcount
Within our continuing operations,
headcount grew by 1,400 (9%) after
allowing for the disposal of Lambert Smith
Hampton. The major areas of growth 
were Design and Engineering Solutions
(+620 staff, 14% growth) and the Middle
East/India (+750 staff, 44% growth).
Headcount in our Rail business remained
flat and fell slightly in Highways and
Transportation where around 200 staff
transferred out at the end of March 2008
with the conclusion of the six-year
Northamptonshire County Council contract.
Headcount growth depends in part on our
ability to recruit quality staff in a challenging
market. In recent years, we have transformed
our approach to resourcing, recognising
that the majority of applications are now
made online and increasingly come from 
all parts of the world. We have installed a
web-based recruitment platform and created
a dedicated team of professional recruiters. 
For the first time, more than 50% of
applicants applied online either via our
website (www.atkinsglobal.com/careers) 
or through job-boards. This proportion is
expected to increase as our recruitment 
net widens to encompass previously
inaccessible talent pools. 
Our success in recruitment meant that
vacancy levels remained broadly static
throughout the year and we attracted 
over 120,000 applications, representing 
an increase of around 15% on the previous
year. Of these, 50% were for positions 
in the UK and a further 43% for positions
in the Middle East/India. We established 
a dedicated recruitment team in Bangalore,
which is servicing the growing number 
of applications from the Indian market.
Applications for graduate training positions
rose by almost 45% in the year to over
9,800. This reflected our increased profile
in UK universities and the steady increase
in the proportion of applicants from 
across the world.
Retention 
Recruitment success has to be matched by
our ability to retain talented professionals. 
Our principal measure is staff turnover: the
level of voluntary resignations. Overall staff
turnover increased by 1.6% (from 13.8%
to 15.4%) reflecting the high levels of
competition for skilled staff. This was in
line with our predictions.
+24%
Increase in headcount over 
the past 3 years
82%
Employee stability index 
A related but important measure is the
stability of our workforce. This looks at the
proportion of staff that have been with
Atkins for 12 months or longer, and has
remained steady at around 82%. A stability
index of over 80% for the UK (our principal
employment base) compares well with
other leading professional services firms.
Likewise, a stability index of over 50% for
the Middle East is very good for a business
which has grown headcount by over 40%
in year. Our experience is that once
individuals become embedded in the
organisation they will stay for several years.
We have improved our ability to monitor
feedback from those who leave the
organisation via an online survey run on
our behalf by an independent organisation. 
Since the survey was introduced in 
May 2007, 73% of leavers have provided
feedback. This tells us that the key factors
affecting retention are clarity regarding
career progression and personal growth.
Whilst common to most professional
services organisations, these are areas
where we feel we can improve our
performance.
On a more positive note, over 80% of
leavers would recommend Atkins as an
employer and would consider working 
for the organisation again. Employee engagement
We know that retention is affected in
particular by the degree to which employees
are engaged in the business. We measure
the degree of engagement via our annual
Viewpoint survey covering all our people
worldwide.
This year the level of participation, measured
by response rate, increased significantly 
to 79% (up 6% on 2006/07).
We were delighted that our overall Employee
Engagement Index increased to 73%. We
now score above benchmark in all areas
when compared to other companies who
utilise this employee engagement survey.
Our profile as a Group shows that we
perform very well in terms of job clarity,
client focus and direction, but less well in
areas such as feedback and recognition.
These results provide us with a clear picture
that will enable us to focus on the areas
where there is room for further improvement.
Our performance over the six years in
which we have conducted the Viewpoint
survey is summarised below.
Another helpful measure is our ranking 
in the Sunday Times Top 20 Best Big
Companies award. This involves an
anonymous survey of 1,500 Atkins staff 
in the UK, which allows us to compare 
our performance against other leading
employers in our sector and more widely.
While close analysis of our scores for each
of the elements showed that we had
improved our performance in six of the
eight rankings, we were disappointed that
our ranking had slipped one place to 13th.
Investment in people
The skills and capabilities of our people 
are critical to the quality of the work we
undertake and to our ability to respond to
new opportunities. A high priority is placed
on learning and development. Investment
in training for the year totalled £20.7m
(2007: £15.9m) and was focused on four
key areas:
• developing management capability 
and capacity
• professional development (in particular
the development of our technical 
skills base)
• health and safety (a priority for our
leadership role)
• graduate development.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
16 Reviews
Human Resources Review 
Our people 
Continued
During the year attendees on Group
programmes (focused mainly on developing
management capability and capacity)
increased by 42%. A major programme 
to develop coaching skills for senior leaders
was introduced as we seek to improve
dialogue around performance and
development.
We also introduced an exciting new
programme – Development Dialogue – 
in partnership with Henley Management
College to improve our ability to shape 
the career development of senior leaders 
in the business and align their individual
development with their personal aspirations
and our needs as a Group. This programme
will enable us to make better use of 
the talents of our senior management
population and will enable us to be more
effective in meeting their career aspirations. 
A comprehensive review of graduate
development was undertaken. This is
particularly important given the high number
of graduates recruited annually, which is in
excess of 350. This showed that we have
several areas of exemplary practice, but also
some others where our performance had
fallen below the standards to which we aspire.
A programme of improvements has now
been implemented to ensure that graduate
development is provided on a consistent,
high-quality basis across the Group. This
includes improved engagement with the
key professional institutions to ensure that
our programmes continue to provide 
a pathway to professional membership 
as well as providing a solid foundation 
of technical and business skills.
Externally, our performance as a graduate
recruiter was recognised by an improvement
in our standing in the Times Top 100
Graduate Employers (up from 57 to 43)
and by our recognition as the top graduate
recruiter in the construction sector in the
Target National Graduate Awards. This is
the third time in succession that Atkins has
been ranked first.
70
71 71
72
73
05 07 08 06 03 04
66
*
EEI Employee Engagement Index (%)
*UK only WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Reviews 17
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Reward
We continue to monitor our remuneration
practices to ensure that we reward people
competitively in each of the markets and
regions in which we operate. Wage inflation
across the Group was approximately 7.5%.
This is slightly up on the previous year, due
in part to the Middle East where salaries
grew by 15%. The UK was stable at 5.5%.
Over 550 people now participate in our
executive bonus scheme which rewards
senior staff across the Group for their
performance against clear targets. This
provides the opportunity to increase
remuneration significantly for delivering
superior business performance. A further
30% of employees benefited from
discretionary bonus awards which recognise
individual contribution and performance. 
We have continued to improve
communications to ensure that reward
packages are well understood and
appropriately valued. As part of this, Total
Reward Statements for senior staff were
made available online for the first time.
In the UK, agreement was reached with the
Trustees of the Atkins Pension Plan for the
closure of the main defined benefit section
to future accrual for around 1,600 staff.
This was accompanied by improvements to
our defined contribution section benefiting
those staff affected by these changes and
the 6,000 existing participants. Improvements
included the introduction of a guaranteed
income protection plan for all UK staff
providing a safety net in the event of 
long-term ill-health or disability. We are
pleased to report that staff retention levels
for those affected by the closure of the
defined benefit section have been unaffected.
We have now commenced defined benefit
closure consultations with a further 400
staff who joined Atkins via TUPE transfer
from local and central government. 
They were excluded from the original
consultation pending clarification of their
contractual position.
Diversity
Atkins operates in several regions, recruits
staff from most areas of the world and has
a workforce whose characteristics are
evolving with every year. It follows that our
ability to operate in an increasingly diverse
world is critical to our success as an employer
and to our ability to meet our clients’
changing needs.
The need to develop a more inclusive
organisation is now widely recognised across
the Group and is driving action at every
level. We continue to work in partnership
with national organisations, including the
UK Resource Centre for Women in Science
and Engineering, and collaborate with 
key clients including Transport for London
and the Olympic Delivery Authority. We
participated in several events to raise the
profile of women in the workplace including
a major study conducted by Cranfield
University on diversity in the boardroom. 
We sponsored the industry-wide Inspire
Awards to promote women of achievement
in professions associated with the built
environment and were delighted with the
success of our colleagues, with two of our
three shortlisted nominees winning their
categories. We were also included in The
Times Top 50 Places Where Women Want
to Work for the second year running.
During the year we provided sponsorship
for the British Asian Hafta in Birmingham.
This event drew together more than 700
people to celebrate British-Asian culture
and to recognise people of achievement in
the Asian community. We were very pleased
that one of our senior highways engineers
was nominated for an award for her
innovative work in partnership with
Birmingham City Council. 
We continue to explore ways in which we
can provide greater flexibility for our staff
and to support those on maternity and
carers leave. This year we made two
notable changes for UK staff: increasing
their ability to buy extra leave to 15 days
per year making it possible to take up to
eight weeks leave per year; and providing
laptops with remote access to all those on
maternity and adoption leave.  Our business
Our core business is helping our clients 
to plan, design and enable their capital
programmes that resolve challenges in the
built and natural environment. We are able
to plan all aspects of our clients’ projects,
conducting feasibility studies and impact
analyses covering technical, logistical, legal,
environmental and financial considerations.
We design systems, infrastructures,
processes, buildings and civil structures. 
We enable our clients’ complex programmes
by optimising procurement methods and
managing supply chains on their behalf 
to reduce timescales, cost and risk.
The Group’s operations and customers are
primarily UK-based with 78% of revenue
being derived from UK operations 
(2007: 81%). In the year to 31 March 2008
our UK revenue grew by 8%. Our most
significant businesses outside the UK are 
in the Middle East, China and the United
States and revenue from our non-UK
operations grew by 27% in the year, driven
by strong growth in the Middle East.
We report our activities in six business
segments as this reflects how we manage
the business via different markets and
geographies where appropriate. An overview
is shown on pages 4 and 5. Details of
activities and results by business segment
are shown opposite.
Review of the year
Key performance indicators 
The Group uses a range of performance
measures to monitor and manage the
business. Those that are particularly
important in monitoring our progress in
generating shareholder value are considered
key performance indicators (KPIs). Our KPIs
measure past performance and also provide
information to allow us to manage the
business into the future. Revenue, operating
profit and margin, earnings per share (EPS)
and operating cash flow indicate the volume
of work we have done, its profitability and
the efficiency with which we have turned
operating profits into cash; work in hand
measures our secured workload as a
percentage of the budgeted revenue for the
next year; staff numbers and staff turnover
are measures of capacity and show us how
effective we have been in recruiting and
retaining our key resource. KPIs for 2008
are shown in the table opposite, along
with prior year comparatives. 
In the year ended 31 March 2008 the Group’ s
revenue from continuing operations grew
by 11% to £1,313.6m. Operating profit
from continuing operations increased 
by 28% to £86.7m while the Group’s
underlying operating margins grew to 6.6%.
Operating cash flow in the year was £80.9m,
representing 93% of operating profit, and
net funds at 31 March 2008 were £168.4m.
Normalised diluted EPS grew by 10.2p per
share to 66.7p, an increase of 18%.
At 31 March 2008 we had secured 55% of
budgeted revenue for 2008/09, compared
with 58% last year. Work secured since the
year end has been ahead of expectations.
Staff numbers in continuing operations
increased by 1,400 (9%) with the majority
of this growth outside the UK.
Segmental analysis of revenue, operating
profit, work in hand and staff numbers
follows, while staff turnover is discussed
further in the Human Resources Review
section on pages 14 to 17. 
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
18 Reviews
Operating and Financial Review
Overview of the business and performance in the year
Atkins provides professional design
and engineering consultancy services.
We are the largest engineering
consultancy in the UK and the fifth
largest design firm in the world. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Reviews 19
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Key performance indicators % change
Continuing operations Note 2008 2007 in year
Financial metrics
Revenue (a) £1,313.6m £1,179.8m +11%
Operating profit £86.7m £67.7m +28%
Operating margin 6.6% 5.7% +0.9pp
Operating cash flow £80.9m £93.9m -14%
Normalised diluted EPS (b) 66.7p 56.5p +18%
Work in hand (c) 55% 58% -3.0pp
People
Staff numbers at 31 March (d) 17,278 15,868 +9%
Average staff numbers for the year (d) 16,981 14,935 +14%
Staff turnover (e) 15.4% 13.8% +1.6pp
Notes
Prior year figures are before exceptional costs and have been restated to exclude discontinued operations.
(a) Revenue excludes the Group’s share of revenue from Joint Ventures.
(b) Normalised diluted EPS is based on normalised profit after tax and allows for the dilutive effect of
share options. 
(c) Work in hand is the value of contracted and committed work as at 31 March that is scheduled for
the following year, expressed as a percentage of budgeted revenue for the year.
(d) Staff numbers are shown on a full-time equivalent basis, including agency staff.
(e) Staff turnover is the number of staff resignations in the year, expressed as a percentage of average
staff numbers. 
Revenue by client type
 Public Sector: Local Government 
 Public Sector: Natonal Government 
 Regulated 
 Private Sector 
Revenue by size of job
 Contracts > £1m  
 Contracts between £0.1m and £1m  
 Contracts < £0.1m  
Revenue by segment
 Design and Engineering Solutions 
 Highways and Transportation 
 Rail 
 Middle East, China and Europe 
 Management and Project Services 
 Asset Management 
+28%
Operating profit WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
20 Reviews
Operating and Financial Review
Segmental performance
% change
Key performance indicators 2008 2007 in year
Financial metrics
Revenue £373.6m £320.8m +16%
Operating profit £30.2m £27.0m +12%
Operating margin 8.1% 8.4% -0.3pp
Share of post-tax JV losses – ––
Work in hand 39% 40% -1.0pp
People
Staff numbers at 31 March 5,024 4,405 +14%
Average staff numbers 4,722 3,980 +19%
Note
2007 has been restated to exclude the results of European businesses previously included within 
Design and Engineering Solutions that are now included within the Middle East, China and Europe
segment. 2007 operating profit is before exceptional costs of £1.1m in relation to the Metronet supply 
chain contracts.
Design and Engineering Solutions 
+12%
Operating profit
00.0
Revenue by size of job
 Contracts > £1m  
 Contracts between £0.1m and £1m  
 Contracts < £0.1m  
00.0
Revenue by client type
 Public Sector: Local Government 
 Public Sector: National Government 
 Regulated 
 Private Sector 
00.0
Revenue by market 
 Architecture and Design
 Water
 Nuclear
 Defence
 Oil & Gas
 Aerospace
 Environment
 Other WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Reviews 21
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Design and Engineering Solutions had 
a good year with growth in revenue of
£52.8m (16%). Operating profit increased
by £3.2m (12%) with a slight reduction 
in margin attributable to re-organisation
(£1.5m) and costs associated with the
integration of the Advantage and Nedtech
acquisitions (£1.0m). We have successfully
added over 600 staff during the year, with
a significant proportion of this growth
occurring in our office in Bangalore, India
where we now have 325 people.
Our 1,600-strong multidisciplinary design
business works on a strong portfolio of
public and private sector projects in the UK
as well as internationally. Performance in
the year has been mixed with successes on
projects such as the London Olympic Park,
which has employed around 300 staff,
being partially offset by a disappointing year
in our UK regional businesses. During the
year we have refocused the latter to create
a national business which subsequently
won appointment to all three regional
framework contracts to provide design
services for the Learning and Skills Council.
Our current international projects include
the Centaurus hotel in Islamabad which
will be Pakistan’s tallest building. 
Our aerospace business continues to grow
as it benefits from strong relationships with
clients such as Airbus and Rolls-Royce. The
acquisition in December 2007 of the Dutch
consultancy Nedtech Engineering BV has
increased the range of services we can
provide to our aerospace clients, principally
Airbus, where we now satisfy their
requirement of being a trans-national
supplier. This acquisition added around 
50 people with expertise in the areas of
airframe and aero engine design and our
aerospace business now has over 300 staff.
We have recently been awarded contracts
to provide certification analysis for the
Airbus A400M military transporter and
A330F long-range freighter aircraft. 
There is steady demand for the services 
of our defence business which provides
technical and commercial consulting
services to the UK Ministry of Defence
(MoD) and to defence industry clients such
as AWE, BAE Systems, Rolls-Royce, General
Dynamics and Thales. The integration of
Advantage, acquired in March 2007, has
been successful and has added to our
capability in this sector. We continue 
to provide significant and successful
independent assessment and challenge 
to the multi-billion pound Future Rapid
Effect System (FRES) programme.
We have seen a growing demand for our
nuclear and power capabilities as a result
of increased confidence in the nuclear power
generation sector which was boosted by
the publication of the UK Government’s
nuclear power white paper in January
2008. Staff numbers have increased by
over 20% to 500 in this business, which 
is performing ahead of expectations and,
after the year-end, we were selected by
British Energy to continue as part of their
Technical Support Alliance to provide
engineering and technical support to their
fleet of nuclear power stations in the UK
until 2012, with options to extend beyond
this date. Our nuclear training academy
has proved successful with more than 200
attendees on a range of courses to date. 
Our oil and gas business has continued to
grow with high levels of activity in a
buoyant sector assisted by record oil prices.
It now employs approximately 300 people.
Increasing internationalisation of our
business has seen recent contract awards
such as a dynamic simulation study for
Shell in Malaysia and structural integrity
management work for both BP Egypt and
BP Trinidad. The business has also increased
its workload in the important liquefied
natural gas industry with a number of
significant projects awarded.
Our water and environment business
continues to make very good progress 
and now employs almost 1,800 staff.
Performance in the year was good and 
was boosted by a full year’s revenue 
from the Southern Water contract, which
commenced at the beginning of the
financial year. Ongoing programmes of
water resources and flood defence work
have continued under framework contracts
with water companies and the Environment
Agency. Wins during the year included a
three-year appointment with Northumbrian
Water to provide multi-discipline design
and water modelling services and our
appointment as a preferred supplier for 
the provision of scoping and feasibility
services to Severn Trent Water for their
AMP5 programme. 
Public and Government concern with global
warming, the scarcity of natural resources
and increased environmental legislation 
has led to strong demand for our services.
Carbon emissions, climate change and
ecological footprint are critical issues and
we have won work in these areas for
Southern Water and the Environment Agency
amongst others. There is strong demand
for our planning, and contaminated land
capabilities which are being deployed on
the ongoing ground remediation and
environmental works at the Olympic Park
in east London, and for our geotechnical
and tunnelling expertise.
Outlook
The outlook for Design and Engineering
Solutions is good with current prospects
stretching into the medium term. Around
80% of our workload comes from publicly
funded and regulated sectors where we have
a diverse range of key clients. Consequently
we are well positioned for the year ahead
with our broad base of complementary
technical skills remaining in considerable
demand. This is most notably the case in
the water sector, where a number of AMP5
bids are progressing, and in nuclear and oil
and gas where focus is increasingly directed
toward the next generation of supply as well
as maximising the efficiency and longevity
of existing capacity. Increasing environmental
awareness is also strengthening demand for
our services, highlighting the need for
leadership in Carbon Critical Design. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
22 Reviews
Operating and Financial Review
Segmental performance
Continued
% change
Key performance indicators 2008 2007 in year
Financial metrics
Revenue £274.6m £250.5m +10%
Operating profit £16.8m £13.2m +27%
Operating margin 6.1% 5.3% +0.8pp
Share of post-tax JV profits £0.7m £0.6m +17%
Work in hand 78% 77% +1.0pp
People
Staff numbers at 31 March 2,813 3,095 -9%
Average staff numbers 3,054 3,067 -0%
Highways and Transportation
+27%
Operating profit
Revenue by market
 Highway Services
 Design
 Intelligent Transport Systems
 Planning
Revenue by size of job
 Contracts > £1m  
 Contracts between £0.1m and £1m  
 Contracts < £0.1m  
Revenue by client type
 Public Sector: Local Government 
 Public Sector: National Government 
 Private Sector  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Reviews 23
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Our Highways and Transportation segment
had a good year. Operating profit increased
by £3.6m (27%) as margins grew to 6.1%
(2007: 5.3%) due to the strong demand for
our higher margin design activities. Staff
numbers reduced by 9% primarily through
the transfer of those previously engaged
on the Highways Agency Area 10 and
Northamptonshire County Council contracts,
which both ended during the year, to new
service providers.
Our highway services business, which
represents around two-thirds of this
segment’s revenue, is engaged in operating,
maintaining and improving highways and
motorways on behalf of the Highways
Agency and local authorities. The business
performed well, benefiting from the first
full-year’s revenue from the Cambridgeshire
County Council contract won last year. 
This year also included the final year of the
Northamptonshire contract which ended
on 28 March 2008. During the year we
were awarded the Area 6 MAC contract by
the Highways Agency. This five-year contract,
with an option to extend to a total of
seven years, commenced on 1 June 2008.
We are currently bidding for a number of
further commissions including MAC contracts
for the Highways Agency Areas 4 and 9. 
Our transport design business, which delivers
all aspects of design of highway infrastructure
and transport technology, performed well.
During the year we completed the design
of the widening of junctions 6A to 10 of
the M1 and were awarded a number of
projects for the Highways Agency including
the detailed design for widening two lengths
of the M27 and extensions to a number of
other commissions. This year we also
succeeded in securing major design
commissions for the A14 in Cambridgeshire
and the M74 in Scotland. Our intelligent
transport systems group continues to grow
as the market for technological solutions
including ramp metering and traffic
management information develops. In
February 2008 we commenced a three-year
contract to provide driver information,
network management and operational
services to Transport Scotland in their
interim traffic control centre and we continue
to work extensively with Traffic Wales.
Our transport planning business, which
provides a full range of strategic, policy,
management, forecasting, business case
and investment appraisals for infrastructure
investment consultancy services, was
augmented during the year by the
acquisition and successful integration of the
Intelligent Space Partnership. The business
had a good year and our workload in road
pricing through the Transport Innovation
Fund, technical advice and research for
central Government on strategic planning
and policy, rail planning, and the delivery 
of local transport plans remained strong
throughout the year. We provide high-level
transport governance advice for the major
metropolitan areas of the UK, and, on
behalf of the Department for Transport, 
we developed the guidelines and assessment
methodology for highway flood relief
funding following the summer floods 
in 2007.
In May 2008 the Connect Plus consortium,
in which we are a member, was announced
as the Highways Agency’s provisional
preferred bidder for the 30-year M25
motorway widening Design Build Finance
and Operate (DBFO) contract.
Final confirmation of the contract would
give Atkins responsibility for designing the
works to increase the capacity of the M25.
This design work should commence before
financial close, which is expected to be late
2008 or early 2009, to enable the contract
to start on site as soon as possible. As well
as being a 10% shareholder in the Connect
Plus joint venture company, our involvement
will include a 32.5% share in the operation
and maintenance joint venture responsible
for the management of the entire M25
and a network of feeder roads including the
tolling operations at the Dartford Crossing.
Outlook
The recent UK Government Comprehensive
Spending Review indicated that transport
expenditure would increase by 2.5% per
annum up to 2019 with much of that
increase in the early years. On that basis
we would expect modest growth in the
overall market but in the areas in which 
we operate, growth should be higher as
the Government looks to deliver capacity
and efficiency savings. We expect projects
of national importance, such as the M25,
M74, A1 and A14 to continue but other
projects may slip, particularly where
innovative technology solutions in which
we have a deep and broad expertise (such
as motorway access management) could
be deployed.
Our recent success gives us confidence 
that the outlook for the Highways and
Transportation segment is strong,
underpinned by our order book at
31 March increasing to 78% of budgeted
revenue for 2008/09 (2007: 77%). WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
24 Reviews
Operating and Financial Review
Segmental performance
Continued
% change
Key performance indicators 2008 2007 in year
Financial metrics
Revenue £208.2m £215.1m -3%
Operating profit £11.9m £5.2m +129%
Operating margin 5.7% 2.4% +3.3pp
Work in hand 65% 69% -4.0pp
People
Staff numbers at 31 March 1,669 1,669 –
Average staff numbers 1,703 1,648 +3%
Note
2007 has been restated to exclude the results of European businesses previously included within 
Rail that are now included within the Middle East, China and Europe segment. 2007 operating profit 
is before exceptional costs of £2.6m in relation to the Metronet supply chain contracts.
Rail
+129%
Operating profit
Revenue by activity
 Signalling
 Design
 Communications
 Consultancy and other
Revenue by size of job
 Contracts > £1m 
 Contracts between £0.1m and £1m 
 Contracts < £0.1m 
Revenue by client 
 Network Rail
 Metronet
 Others WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Reviews 25
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
The Rail segment performed well this year
and delivered an operating profit of £11.9m,
an anticipated and substantial improvement
on the prior year driven by increased
activity in our higher margin design
business and the impact of the change in
the contractual arrangements on our work
for London Underground. As expected,
revenue reduced slightly, partly due to the
changes at Metronet and also due to 
a reduction in volumes of pass-through
expenses on our re-signalling contracts.
We continue to derive around half of our
revenue from large re-signalling contracts
for Network Rail. During the year
approximately 60% of that work consisted
of significant projects at Basingstoke and
the Rugby/Nuneaton section of the West
Coast Main Line upgrade. Our delivery
performance has been good which has
helped us secure work with Network Rail
on a number of additional projects. The 
re-signalling requirement for Network Rail
remains significant with spending anticipated
to remain at approximately the same level
over the next few years. Our strong
reputation for delivery and our relationship
with Network Rail makes us well placed 
to win a significant share of this market.
The other part of our business focuses on
design and consultancy services. Performance
in the year has been good as we have
benefited from an improving market as
Network Rail and other Passenger Transport
Executives bring more enhancement projects
to market. Significant projects during the
year include the Glasgow Airport Rail Link,
where we are providing design and
technical consultancy for the new railway
line running from Glasgow Central station
to the international airport, and Farringdon
Station where we have been appointed by
Network Rail Thameslink to provide
detailed design for the upgrade of this
major interchange between Thameslink,
London Underground and Crossrail.
During the year we have secured work on
a number of major strategic programmes
including Thameslink, Crossrail, the
InterCity Express programme, Network 
Rail enhancement frameworks and major
stations including Birmingham New Street.
Additionally we had success in the
sustainability-driven renaissance of
electrification, in particular the Glasgow 
to Edinburgh line where we have been
appointed by Network Rail acting on
behalf of Transport Scotland. Our work
involves feasibility studies and outline plans
for the electrification of approximately 
100 miles of main and branch lines in the
Glasgow to Edinburgh corridor ahead 
of works required for the Commonwealth
Games in 2014.
As anticipated, there has been a decline 
in revenue from our work on the London
Underground, through Metronet and
Trans4m, which reduced by around 
one-third. On 18 July 2007 the Metronet
infrastructure companies entered PPP
Administration and on 30 August 2007 the
contracts with Trans4m were terminated.
Since then we have continued to provide
station and civils design, civils inspection
and assessment capability to Metronet
under a series of short-term contracts.
Following the transfer on 27 May 2008 
of certain of the trade and assets of the
Metronet infrastructure companies to new
entities established by Transport for
London, we have entered into longer-term
contracts with the successor companies for
the provision of consultancy, design and
engineering support. 
Our investment in Metronet and 
Trans4m is discussed on page 33 under 
Discontinued Operations.
Outlook
In the short term the outlook for our 
Rail segment remains good with 65% 
of 2008/09 budget revenue secured by
31 March 2008. The UK rail market
continues to demonstrate steady growth,
with increasing demand for innovative
solutions to meet the need for 
a capacity-enhanced, reliable railway. 
Over the longer term a significant increase
in spending on enhancements, and continued
spending on major signalling works is
expected. We are well placed to meet those
demands with the breadth and depth of
our multidisciplinary expertise. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
26 Reviews
Operating and Financial Review
Segmental performance
Continued
% change
Key performance indicators 2008 2007 in year
Financial metrics
Revenue £191.6m £148.9m +29%
Operating profit £11.4m £7.5m +52%
Operating margin 5.9% 5.0% +0.9pp
Work in hand 50% 61% -11.0pp
People
Staff numbers at 31 March 4,076 3,223 +26%
Average staff numbers 3,660 2,887 +27%
Note
2007 has been restated to include the results of European businesses, previously included within 
Design and Engineering Solutions and Rail, that are now included within the Middle East, China 
and Europe segment.
Middle East, China and Europe 
+52%
Operating profit
Revenue by activity
 Building Design
 Transport
 Project Management
 Planning
 Other  
Revenue by size of job
 Contracts > £1m  
 Contracts between £0.1m and £1m  
 Contracts < £0.1m 
Revenue by geography
 Dubai
 UAE – other
 Bahrain
 Qatar
 Middle East – other
 Europe
 China WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Reviews 27
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Middle East
% change
2008 2007 in year
Financial metrics
Revenue £112.2m £79.3m +41%
Operating profit £9.5m £7.0m +36%
Operating margin 8.5% 8.8% -0.3pp
Work in hand 51% 76% -25.0pp 
People
Staff numbers at 31 March 2,470 1,721 +44%
Average staff numbers 2,119 1,417 +50%
China
% change
2008 2007 in year
Financial metrics
Revenue £29.8m £28.9m +3%
Operating profit £0.3m £0.2m +50%
Operating margin 1.0% 0.7% +0.3pp
Work in hand 47% 28% +19pp
People
Staff numbers at 31 March 861 881 -2%
Average staff numbers 859 836 +3%
Europe
% change
2008 2007 in year
Financial metrics
Revenue £49.6m £40.7m +22%
Operating profit £1.6m £0.3m +433%
Operating margin 3.2% 0.7% +2.5pp
Work in hand 47% 53% -6.0pp
People
Staff numbers at 31 March 745 621 +20%
Average staff numbers 682 634 +8%
This year we have reorganised the management of our European businesses and
now report their results within this segment. Our businesses in Denmark, Ireland,
Poland, Portugal and Sweden were previously included within the Rail and
Design and Engineering Solutions segments. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
28 Reviews
Middle East
Our Middle East business continues to grow
very rapidly with both revenue and staff
numbers up by more than 40% on the
prior year. The market as a whole remains
buoyant driven by the high oil price with
particularly strong performances in Abu
Dhabi, Bahrain and Dubai. There has been
a significant volume of work on the Dubai
Metro project, secured last year, and our
work on the Red Line is nearing completion.
Work on the Green Line is over 75%
complete and during the year we have
secured a further project designing the links
between the metro and other modes of
transport. Our civil engineering rail business
in the Middle East is now actively pursuing
other opportunities in this growing market.
In the year we were awarded a number 
of building design contracts including: the 
60-plus-storey Sheth residential tower at
Maritime City (Dubai); the 77-storey
T asameem mixed-use tower on Sheikh Zayed
Road (Dubai); Etihad Village, a ten tower
residential complex on Al Raha Beach in
Abu Dhabi; and Mahboula T ower , a hotel and
300 unit residential development in Kuwait.
Our regional portfolio of infrastructure 
and masterplanning projects was further
strengthened with appointments for the
Al Sowa Island roads and bridges contract
(Abu Dhabi), the Seeb Corporate Park
development (Oman), and in Bahrain, the
Downtown Al Areen township and Bahrain
Marina mixed-use developments. 
Operating and Financial Review
Segmental performance
Continued
We continue to invest in the clear trend
towards lower carbon design. We are
progressing with the detailed design of 
a 60-storey tower in the Dubai financial
centre planned to achieve 65% energy
savings and in April 2008 the three 
29m-diameter turbines on the award-
winning Bahrain World Trade Center, 
in Manama, began turning.
There is strong demand for our services
and the year has been characterised by 
the addition of several large projects to our
portfolio including those mentioned above.
After the year-end we have secured in
excess of £50m-worth of projects, including
the design and supervision of a 125-storey
tower block in Dubai.
Staff numbers in the region have exceeded
2,500 since the year-end, and we have
established a design office in the Philippines
to serve the Dubai market.
China
We continue to make progress in China
and the region as a whole performed in
line with expectations recording a modest
improvement over the prior year.
Demand for the services of our Hong Kong
infrastructure business contributed to better
than expected performance from that
business. The Hong Kong railway market is
set for a resurgence following the merger
of the two major railway corporations in
December 2007 and we were subsequently
appointed to undertake detailed design
work on the West Island Line. 
The rapid pace of urbanisation in mainland
China presents opportunities and our urban
planning practice continues to penetrate
into second and third tier cities. Our
architecture business won its fifth airport
terminal design competition and we have
seen a surge in five-star hotel activity led 
by our Songjiang Quarry hotel project.
We employ just over 400 staff in mainland
China which is broadly in line with last
year. This is a sound base which positions
us for growth as the market matures. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Reviews 29
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Europe
As a whole, the Europe portfolio performed
in line with expectations, delivering a
significant improvement over the prior year
with all five businesses ending the year
trading profitably.
Our key focus during the year has been 
to strengthen the local management teams
and much progress has been made. The
two largest businesses, Denmark with 
280 staff and Ireland with 180 staff, have
performed well. In Denmark our work 
on the Copenhagen Metro City Circle Line,
where we are working on the transportation
systems package, is progressing well. Our
Swedish business, which employs some
110 staff, was able to record a modest
profit in the last quarter having made
management changes following a very
disappointing start to the year.
Outlook
The outlook for this segment remains very
good, especially in the Middle East. Our
work in hand at year-end is very good at
50% (2007: 61%) of budgeted revenue
for 2008/09. The reduction was anticipated
and principally relates to the Dubai Metro
project which represented a substantial
portion of last year’s secured workload. 
The investment boom in the Middle East
region is set to continue with the rate of
growth tempered only by the availability 
of appropriate resource. The scale of the
projects that we are working on continues
to grow significantly and we are increasing
our service offering to meet client demands.
It is also likely that the drive to lower the
carbon footprint of buildings will be pushed
further by clients in the Middle East.
The outlook for China and Europe is
improving as our investments in the local
management teams position these
businesses to take advantage of the
emerging opportunities. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
30 Reviews
Operating and Financial Review
Segmental performance
Continued
Management and Project Services 
% change
Key performance indicators 2008 2007 in year
Financial metrics
Revenue £213.2m £193.6m +10%
Operating profit £13.6m £12.8m +6%
Operating margin 6.4% 6.6% -0.2pp
Work in hand 48% 42% +6.0pp
People
Staff numbers at 31 March 2,461 2,260 +9%
Average staff numbers 2,394 2,203 +9%
Note
2007 operating profit is before exceptional costs of £0.3m in relation to the Metronet supply chain contracts.
+6%
Operating profit
Revenue by size of job
 Contracts > £1m  
 Contracts between £0.1m and £1m  
 Contracts < £0.1m  
Revenue by client type
Public Sector: Local Government 
Public Sector: National Government 
Regulated 
Private Sector 
Revenue by market
 Energy 
 Defence 
 Education 
 Commercial Property 
 Finance 
 Transport 
 Pharmaceutical 
 Utilities 
 Other  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Reviews 31
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
The performance of the Management 
and Project Services segment this year 
was mixed. The Faithful+Gould business, 
which represents approximately 70% 
of the segment, had a good year but the
Management Consultants business continued
to perform below our expectations.
Faithful+Gould, with principal operations 
in the UK, USA and Asia, provides project
management and cost consultancy services
across a broad range of market sectors. All
three regions delivered strong performances
with both revenue and operating profit
ahead of expectations. The UK business
accounts for over 60% of revenue and the
North America and Asia Pacific businesses
grew by 11% and 43% respectively. During
the year many of our markets were strong,
including petrochemical driven by high oil
prices; public and regulated sectors where
there is continuing investment; and financial
services where we have a growing
reputation. We have a limited exposure 
to the commercial property sector and,
overall, there has been no material
slowdown in work.
There remains a strong market for our
Management Consultants’ services and 
we continue to provide programme
management services to support the
ongoing change programme at GCHQ,
where we are approaching the mid-point
of our five-year contract. Performance 
in the business was impacted by a loss of
focus following a reorganisation undertaken
at the same time as the integration of
Mantix which was acquired in June 2006.
Management changes were made during
the year and profits were further depressed
by one-off costs incurred reducing overhead
and simplifying the management structure. 
Outlook
Outlook for the segment as a whole is
good with work in hand at 31 March 2008
representing 48% of budgeted revenue 
for 2008/09.
Faithful+Gould is a diverse business which
covers a wide range of markets. While the
UK is relatively mature, in the USA there
are further opportunities to deepen our
services, especially for the large programmes
commissioned by the Government, and in
the petrochemical and education sectors. 
Our Management Consultants business
currently has a small share of a large
addressable market and there is potential
for a recovery from its current position
underpinned by existing framework
contracts with established clients. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
32 Reviews
Asset Management
Operating and Financial Review
Segmental performance
Continued
% change
Key performance indicators 2008 2007 in year
Financial metrics
Revenue £52.4m £50.9m +3%
Operating profit £2.8m £2.0m +40%
Operating margin 5.3% 3.9% +1.4pp
Share of post-tax JV profits £0.2m £2.2m -91%
Work in hand 99% 99% –
People
Staff numbers at 31 March 669 680 -2%
Average staff numbers 674 669 +1%
Note
2007 has been restated to include the continuing elements of the former Equity Investments segment.
+40%
Operating profit
Revenue by business
 Defence
 Managing Agent
 Managing Contractor
Revenue by client type
 Public Sector: Local Government
 Public Sector: National Government
 Private Sector 
Revenue by size of job
 Contracts > £1m 
 Contracts between £0.1m and £1m 
 Contracts < £0.1m WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Reviews 33
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Asset Management had a good year with
results broadly in line with our expectations.
There is strong demand for our managing
agent service offering support to both
private and public sector clients with large
property portfolios. Our contract with
Barclays Bank has been extended to 2012
and in March 2008 we were awarded a
contract that will enable the Home Office to
improve the management and sustainability
of its property estate.
Outlook
Our Asset Management business remains 
a small but profitable part of the Group.
Work in hand at 31 March 2008 represented
99% of budgeted revenue for 2008/09.
Discontinued operations
Lambert Smith Hampton
The disposal of Lambert Smith Hampton
(LSH) to the management team was
completed on 20 July 2007. Cash received
during the year was £45.5m with a further
£6.5m deferred in the form of loan notes.
The disposal resulted in a gain of £20m. 
In the period to disposal, LSH recorded
revenue of £16.0m and a profit after tax
of £0.2m.
Metronet Enterprise
The Metronet infrastructure companies
entered PPP Administration on 18 July 2007
and Trans4m’s contracts were terminated
on 30 August 2007.
An exceptional accounting gain of £17.2m
has arisen on the accelerated release of
deferred income following Metronet
entering administration. This relates to the
unamortised balance of amounts received
by the Group in April 2003 in respect of bid
cost recoveries and project development
fees. The amount received was previously
being released to the income statement
over the 30-year life of the contract in
accordance with the Group’s policy in
relation to bid recovery fees on PPP/PFI
investments. Profit after tax relating to
discontinued Metronet activities was £11.2m.
On 27 May 2008, certain trade and assets
of the Metronet infrastructure companies
were transferred by the PPP Administrator to
two new entities established by Transport for
London. We retain our 25% shareholding in
Trans4m Limited and our 20% shareholding
in the residual groups headed by Metronet
Rail BCV Holdings Limited and Metronet
Rail SSL Holdings Limited, although these
entities are not currently trading.  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
34 Reviews
Operating and Financial Review
Financial performance
Net finance income
Net finance income for the year was £4.3m
(2007: £3.6m) with the increase partly
attributable to a £1.3m decrease in the net
finance cost on retirement benefit liabilities.
Taxation
The Group’s income tax expense for 
the year, on continuing operations, was
£23.3m (2007: £15.2m). As expected, 
the normalised effective tax rate increased
to 25.7% from 22.0% in the prior year
which benefited from three years’ research
and development tax credits. The Group’s
effective tax rate is expected to remain below
the UK statutory rate due to the continuing
benefit of research and development tax
credits and the increasing proportion of
profits earned in jurisdictions with lower
tax rates than the UK. 
Earnings per share (EPS)
EPS was 98.9p (2007: loss per share 56.8p).
Normalised diluted EPS, which is considered
to be a more representative measure of
underlying trading and relates to continuing
operations, was 66.7p (2007: 56.5p), an
increase of 18%. Further details are given
in note 12 to the Financial Statements.
Pensions
Funding
The latest actuarial valuation of the defined
benefit Atkins Pension Plan (the Plan) carried
out as at 1 April 2007 indicated that the
Plan had an actuarial deficit of approximately
£215m. Accelerated contributions of
£37.5m were made during the year with 
a further £12.5m on 1 April 2008. A
commitment to contribute a further £32m
per year for the next six years has been
agreed with the Trustees. 
Charges
The Group accounts for pension costs
under IAS 19, Employee benefits. As
expected, following the transfer of 1,622
members from the defined benefit section
to the defined contribution section on 
1 October 2007, the total charge to the
income statement in respect of defined
benefit schemes reduced to £17.8m 
(2007: £24.9m), comprising total service
cost of £16.7m (2007: £22.5m) and net
finance cost of £1.1m (2007: £2.4m). 
The charge relating to defined contribution
schemes increased to £23.3m 
(2007: £16.0m).
IAS 19 valuation and 
accounting treatment
The Group assesses pension scheme funding
with reference to actuarial valuations but
for reporting purposes uses IAS 19. Under
IAS 19, the Group recognised a post-tax
retirement benefit liability of £153.9m at
31 March 2008 (2007: £175.1m). The
actuarial gain recognised through equity
amounted to £6.4m (2007: £31.3m).
However, after taking into account the
impact of the change in UK tax rates, there
was a post-tax actuarial loss of £1.0m
(2007: gain of £21.7m).
The assumptions used in the IAS 19
valuation are detailed in note 29 to the
Financial Statements.
Cash
Net funds at 31 March 2008 were £168.4m
(2007: £199.1m) made up as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 154.5 187.7 
Loan notes receivable 5.6 –
Financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss 29.7 49.6 
Borrowings due within 
one year (4.2) (0.4)
Borrowings due after 
one year (3.2) (23.1)
Finance leases (14.0) (14.7)
Net funds 168.4 199.1 
Cash generated from continuing
operations was £80.9m (2007: £93.9m).
Working capital increased by £4.6m during
the year (2007: £7.4m decrease), despite
the 11% growth in revenue due in part to
the continued growth in the Middle East,
which features advance cash receipts on
major projects. The reduction in cash
generated from operations compared to
last year was largely due to increases in
funding the defined benefit pension
scheme deficit.
Net tax paid amounted to £14.7m 
(2007: net refund of £4.9m). Payments for
consortium relief were made to Metronet
during the year, reversing a cash timing
difference that had benefited the Group 
in 2007. The 2007 figure also included
back-dated settlement of research and
development tax credits.  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Reviews 35
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Net capital expenditure in the year,
including the purchase of computer
software licences, amounted to £25.7m
(2007: £24.2m). We expect this spend to
increase by approximately £10m in the
coming year due to the planned cyclical
refresh of IT hardware.
Cash payments relating to acquisitions 
in the year amounted to £5.7m 
(2007: £26.2m) net of cash acquired 
of £0.7m (2007: £3.4m). As mentioned
within the segmental performance section
above, the Group acquired two businesses
during the year: Intelligent Space Partnership
Limited and Nedtech Engineering BV .
Further details of these are given in note
15 to the Financial Statements on page 90.
Within financing activities, £17.6m of
foreign currency denominated loans were
repaid following a review of the Group’s
hedging of its net investment in foreign
subsidiaries. An additional £34.0m outflow
was associated with the share buyback
programme which commenced during 
the year. 
Cash flows on discontinued operations
amounted to £17.3m outflow 
(2007: £10.9m). The largest item was
£48.0m investments in the Metronet and
Trans4m joint ventures, which had been
provided for at 31 March 2007, offset in
part by £30.9m net cash proceeds received
on the disposal of LSH.
Events after the balance sheet date
On 1 April 2008 the disposal of the
Group’s interest in the Modern Housing
Solutions joint venture was completed 
for a cash receipt of £3.9m and profit 
on disposal of £2.5m.
Capital structure
The Company had 104.5m fully paid
ordinary shares in issue at 31 March 2008
(2007: 104.5m), full details of which 
are shown in note 31 to the Financial
Statements on page 104. The Company
commenced a share buyback programme
in November 2007 and by 31 March 2008,
had bought 3.2m of its own shares in the
market for a total consideration, including
commission and stamp duty, of £34.9m.
These shares are held within treasury.
As at 31 March 2008, the Group had 
a shareholders’ deficit of £23.4m
(2007: £76.1m). 
Treasury policies and objectives 
The Group’s treasury function manages and
monitors external funding and investment
requirements and financial risks in support
of the Group’s corporate objectives. The
Board reviews and agrees policies and
authority levels for treasury activities.
The Group’s financial instruments, other
than derivatives, comprise borrowings,
cash and liquid resources and various
items, such as trade receivables and trade
payables, which arise directly from its
operations. The main purpose of these
financial instruments is to finance the
Group’s operations. The Group also enters
into derivative transactions, principally
forward foreign currency contracts in 
order to manage foreign exchange risk 
on material commercial transactions
undertaken in currencies other than the
local functional currency. The Group 
does not trade in financial instruments.
The main risks arising from the Group’s
financial instruments are market risk
(including foreign exchange risk, interest
rate risk and price risk), credit risk and
liquidity risk, along with the risks arising
from the financing of the Group’s activities
in the Public Private Partnership and Private
Finance Initiative sectors. The Group’s
exposures to and management of each of
these risks, together with sensitivities and
risk concentrations, are described in detail
in note 2 to the Financial Statements on
pages 75 to 77. 
The Group funds its ongoing activities
through cash generated from its operations
and, where necessary, bank borrowings
and finance leases. The Group’s banking
facilities are described in note 25 to 
the Financial Statements on page 96;
utilisation of the facility mainly relates 
to letters of credit issued in respect of
individual projects undertaken by the
Group’s operating businesses. As at 
31 March 2008 the Group had £58.8m
undrawn committed borrowing facility
available (2007: £31.0m).
There have been no significant changes to
the Group’ s treasury policies during the year,
other than the repayment of foreign currency
loans that had previously hedged the Group’ s
net investment in foreign operations.
£1 68.4m
Net funds WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
36 Reviews
Operating and Financial Review
Financial performance 
Continued
Public Private Partnership (PPP) and
Private Finance Initiative (PFI)
The Group’s PPP and PFI projects involve
the arrangement of finance as part of the
overall project service. Individual projects are
undertaken by Special Purpose Companies
(SPCs) in Joint Ventures with other parties.
These SPCs contract with end users for 
the provision of serviced facilities and also
arrange funding, construction, facilities
management services and, where required,
operational support for projects. Except 
for equity commitments, the funding 
of the SPCs is arranged without recourse 
to the rest of the Group.
The Group’s share of the gross assets and
liabilities of the SPCs is reflected separately
in the Group Financial Statements in
accordance with the provisions of IAS 31,
Interests in joint ventures.
Critical accounting policies
The Group’s principal accounting policies
are described in note 1 to the Financial
Statements on page 68. The Financial
Statements for the year ended 31 March
2008 have been prepared under IFRS as
adopted by the EU. Within the five-year
record on pages 114 to 116, however, 
the Consolidated Income Statement and
cash flow statement for the year ended
31 March 2004 are under UK GAAP 
and presented alongside current figures 
in IFRS format.
The preparation of Financial Statements 
in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires the use of
estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities 
at the date of the Financial Statements 
and the reported amounts of revenues 
and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on
management’s best knowledge of the
amount, event or actions, actual results
ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Material estimates applied across the
Group’s businesses and Joint Ventures 
are reviewed to a common standard and
adjusted where appropriate to ensure that
consistent treatment of similar and related
issues that require judgement is achieved
upon consolidation. Any revisions to
estimates are recognised prospectively.
The accounting policies and areas that
require the most significant estimates and
judgements to be used in the preparation
of the Financial Statements are in relation
to contract accounting and defined benefit
pension schemes.
Contract accounting
Profit is recognised on contracts on a
percentage completion basis, provided the
outcome of the project can be reasonably
foreseen. Full provision is made for
estimated losses. Where contracts span
more than two accounting periods profit 
is not generally recognised until the project
is 50% complete.
The projected outcome of any given
contract is necessarily based on estimates
of revenues and costs to completion.
Whilst the assumptions made are based 
on professional judgements, subsequent
events may mean that estimates calculated
prove inaccurate, with a consequent effect
on the reporting of results. 
Defined benefit pension schemes
Accounting for pensions involves
judgement about uncertain events in 
the future such as inflation, salary levels 
at retirement, longevity rates, rates of
return on plan assets and discount rates.
Assumptions in respect of pensions and
post-retirement benefits are set after
consultation with independent qualified
actuaries. Management believes the
assumptions are appropriate. However, 
a change in the assumptions used would
impact the Group’s results and net assets.
Any differences between the assumptions
and the actual outcome will affect results
in future years. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Reviews 37
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Principal risks and uncertainties
In order to achieve our business objectives
the Group must respond effectively to the
associated risks. The Group has established
risk management procedures, involving the
identification and monitoring of strategic
and operational risks at various levels of
management. The Board regularly reviews
material risks identified and risk management
is embedded in our annual budgeting and
strategic planning processes. It is, however,
not possible to mitigate fully all risks that
the Group enters into. In addition to market
risk, credit risk and liquidity risk, which 
are covered under Treasury Policies and
Objectives above, the principal key risks for
the Group have been assessed as follows:
Recruitment and retention of 
sufficient high-calibre staff
The Group’s staff are its key resource 
and the recruitment and retention of 
top quality people are crucial to our future
success. Failure to do so would constrain
the growth of the business and prevent 
the Group from achieving its potential. 
The skills needed are in short supply
especially within the UK and the Group 
has to compete with a large number of
other organisations to secure the best 
staff. The Group expends a great deal 
of management effort and resource in this
area, a summary of the approach being
shown in the Human Resources Review 
on pages 14 to 17.
Project management
Managing clients’ and our own projects 
is core to our business. Inadequate project
management skills could lead to financial
loss and reputational damage. The Group
mitigates these risks by encouraging
adherence to internal processes
augmented by ongoing training and
selective recruitment. 
Economic environment
A decrease in GDP as a result of a 
world economic slowdown could have 
an adverse impact on workload for 
both private and public sector clients. 
The Group monitors economic indicators
and sentiment in the markets in which 
we operate. This is complemented by
maintaining a strong balance sheet,
working in a diverse portfolio of sectors
and markets and by building flexibility 
into future plans. 
Competition
In common with all companies, the Group
faces competition from others in all of our
markets. Some of the markets in which 
the Group works serve limited clients and
barriers to entry are high. In other markets
such as architectural design and environment
there are numerous competitors and
barriers to entry are lower. To ensure that
the Group continues to win work, we work
hard to develop long-term relationships with
our clients at multiple levels. A measure 
of this success is our work in hand that
measures our secured workload over the
next year. Our overall work in hand is 55%,
representing seven months of 2008/09
revenue that is already contractually
committed.
Health, safety and environment
The Group’s business is concerned with the
built environment and this entails significant
health, safety and environmental risks.
Should the Group’s policy or practice 
in this area prove inadequate, there is 
a consequent risk to employees, clients,
contractors and third parties. The Group
takes health, safety and environment issues
seriously and ensures that all staff are
appropriately trained and that procedures
are continuously reviewed and improved.
We look to take a leadership role on health
and safety matters in our sector and we
have representation on a number of
committees. Many of our clients insist on
the Group attaining appropriate standards
in health and safety and environment. 
We are regularly independently audited 
by external consultants against these
industry standards. 
Changes to the contracting
environment resulting from 
market developments
The ways in which business is conducted
inevitably change over time. The nature 
of the contracting environment is especially
important for companies like Atkins. The
trend remains one where clients increasingly
seek to transfer risk to consultants;
contractors will also seek to share risks.
There is a possibility that, in securing new
work, the Group accepts risks that are
insufficiently understood or evaluated, with
ensuing financial loss. We actively mitigate
this risk via a range of internal review
procedures that enable contract terms 
to be subject to appropriate scrutiny and
manageable risks to be reduced.
Reputation risk
Our reputation for delivering complex
projects relies on the perception of our
clients and how this is portrayed in the
public arena. There is a risk that a major
failure from poor design, poor project
management or delivery could impact our
ability to win future work. We mitigate 
this risk by ensuring we have robust cost
and project management systems linked 
to our internal quality processes. These are
regularly independently audited by external
consultants against industry standards.
Operating and Financial Review
Principal risks and uncertainties Our beliefs
Atkins is committed to acting responsibly
to all our stakeholders and to taking 
a leadership position within our sector. 
We publish our corporate responsibility
strategy and performance on our website
(www.atkinsglobal.com/cr) and summarise
the major issues and developments during
the year here.
Sustainability
Sustainability is a serious issue for all
stakeholders, including governments,
public and private sectors and communities
across the world.
During the year, in conjunction with the
British University in Dubai and Cardiff
University, we completed a comprehensive
review into how Atkins was approaching
the broad topic of sustainability. As a result,
we introduced the Atkins Sustainability
Policy in November 2007, declaring our
commitment to: educating our staff on
sustainability; continuing to work with
academia to develop sustainable solutions;
and inspiring and challenging our clients,
employees and supply chain to deliver
sustainable solutions.
We have two of our experts on pro bono
secondment to the UK Construction
Industry Council (CIC) which is working
with the UK Government Department for
Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform
to advise on sustainable construction. In
addition, we have launched a Group-wide
sustainability awareness programme 
and e-learning modules to educate 
our employees.
Carbon Critical Design
Atkins recognises that we need to act 
now to mitigate the effects of climate
change. We are therefore focusing our
effort on the role planners, engineers and
architects have to perform to respond to
the changes, challenges and opportunities
of a carbon critical economy. Carbon is 
still not a core consideration when capital
projects are evaluated, designed and
procured. We believe that carbon has 
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
38 Reviews
Corporate Responsibility Review
Atkins is committed 
to acting responsibly
to all our stakeholders
and to taking a
leadership position
within our sector.  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Reviews 39
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
to be the driver if our sector is not only 
to meet the targets being imposed across 
the world but to help set the new standards
required. We believe a fundamental change
is needed to the way our sector approaches
design and have mobilised our workforce
to address this.
We have set ourselves a 100-week target
to actively engage a significant proportion
of employees in Carbon Critical Design.
We have already started to engage with
some of our clients on Carbon Critical
Design and have several exemplar design
projects which include:
• the Bahrain World Trade Center – 
the world’s first commercial development
with integrated wind turbines which will
generate up to 15% of the towers’
annual electricity consumption
• the Lighthouse in Dubai – the world’s
first tower to reduce total energy
consumption by up to 65% and water
consumption by up to 40% of current
standard designs 
• in London – managing the delivery of
the enabling works for the 2012 Games,
achieving over 90% reuse rates for
demolition material making zero net
waste construction a reality
• Northumbria University – in the design
of two new buildings, innovative energy
saving devices have reduced the site’s
carbon footprint by 7%.
It is also important that we minimise 
our own impact to climate change and 
we therefore need to be carbon critical 
for our own operations in our offices and
business travel. This is discussed further 
in Our Performance on pages 40 to 42. 
Safety leadership
Atkins remains strongly committed to 
key improvements in health and safety 
and continues to provide leadership 
within our industry. During the year our
chief executive continued to chair the
Construction Industry Council (CIC) health
and safety standing committee and in 
June 2008 will become chair of the CIC. 
In recognition of Keith Clarke’s leadership
for the industry, he received the
Outstanding Safety Achievement award
from Building Magazine. 
In the Middle East region, Atkins was the
first to introduce an international version of
the Construction Skills Certification Scheme,
which was developed with Construction
Skills. Atkins has also committed to a charter
known as BuildSafeDubai to improve the
standards of health and safety in the region.
The Highways and Transportation business
has been working in partnership with the
Health and Safety Executive (HSE) and
Highways Agency (HA) to develop a design
risk assessment tool which we hope will be
adopted by other organisations working
with the HA.
The Rail business continues to work with
Network Rail and the Rail Safety and
Standards Board (RSSB) and introduced 
an internal safety leadership programme
during the year. This business also chaired
the Infrastructure Safety Liaison Group (ISLG)
and was part of the Network Rail Project
Safety Leadership Group (PSLG).
We also continue to improve safety
leadership within Atkins. We improved
directors’ safety tours by organising
bespoke training for directors. By 2008 
all directors across Atkins who undertake
safety tours will be trained, demonstrating
our commitment to leadership in health
and safety.
Our work
Atkins takes pride in the quality of
products and services we provide to our
clients. During the year the US division 
of Faithful+Gould achieved ISO 9001:2000
certification which means that 100% 
of Atkins operations are covered by this
standard. Going forward, all Atkins
operations will use the same certification
body, Lloyds Register Quality Assurance
(LRQA). This will provide better analysis 
of performance and identification of key
themes across the whole business.
We continue to improve how we engage
with our clients and to obtain better
feedback on our performance through 
Key Account Management (KAM) and
Client Relationship Management (CRM).
Two of our businesses, Rail and Middle 
East, have been actively engaging with
industry on environmental issues through
the Rail Industry Environmental Forum
(RIEF) and the Emirates Environmental
Group (EEG) respectively.
We are also reviewing how we engage and
influence our supply chain on corporate
responsibility priorities depending on the
services they provide to Atkins.
Our people
We aim to be an employer of choice and
provide an environment in which our
people can flourish and succeed. Our
Viewpoint survey recorded a 6% increase
in response rates (to 79%) this year.
Satisfaction levels continued to improve,
which shows that we are achieving our
objectives. We invested £20.7m in staff
training and development and received
third-party recognition for our achievements
with awards in the UK such as The Sunday
Times 20 Best Big Companies to Work For
and The Times Top 50 Companies Where
Women Want to Work. For more detailed
information, see our Human Resources
Review on pages 14 to 17.  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
40 Reviews
Corporate Responsibility Review
Continued
Our communities
We are passionate about contributing to
the communities in which we operate and
engaging our people to join together to
make a difference where it matters.
Making a difference
During the year we launched a new charity
policy. Traditionally, we have written cheques
to charities which have had little benefit to
engaging either staff, shareholders or the
charities we have supported. The new policy
moved towards supporting charities in 
two ways.
Firstly by supporting our people in their 
own communities around the world through
local charitable donations, fundraising,
volunteering activities and sports and social
events. We have actively encouraged
offices to come together to organise and
take part in a variety of sponsored events
for charities and good causes. The Group
offered support via a newly formed network
of house managers who help to co-ordinate
and promote activity.
Secondly by providing pro bono consultancy
advice. Atkins people possess a multitude
of skills and experience which can benefit
international relief and aid organisations
and by giving pro bono consultancy advice,
rather than offering volunteers or cash
donations, we contribute our skills and at
the same time learn from our experiences.
Engaging with education
We are actively engaged in a range of
educational initiatives from sponsorships 
of university chairs to mentoring 14 to 
16-year-olds and teaching primary school
children about energy efficiency. 
During the year, our engagement with
universities has become more focused and
strategic through our University Liaison
Directors (ULDs) programme. We are
building relationships at multiple levels,
with the objective of being regarded as 
an industrial partner of choice. Our ULDs
have developed ongoing relationships with 
16 universities in the UK, 12 in the USA,
two in China, two in Singapore and one 
in Dubai.
We are working with Transport for 
London and New Civil Engineer journal 
to produce resource materials for schools
to excite youngsters about a career in
design and engineering.
Atkins has also developed a course with
an external provider specifically to raise the
awareness of health and safety risks for
students working overseas. The first course
was delivered in October 2007 at Cambridge
University. We will continue to sponsor this
and intend to run two courses per year.
Our performance
This section reports on Atkins’ corporate
responsibility performance during the year.
One of the objectives for our operations
during the year was the development of 
a toolkit for house managers responsible
for Atkins offices worldwide. This provides
guidance about their responsibilities and
advice about how continually to improve
office performance such as waste, energy,
travel and wellbeing. An office database
has also been developed to capture this
information. It was introduced in the UK
during the year and we intend to expand 
it to cover all operations in 2008. 
Health and safety
Our accident performance for last year is
well within the Accident Incidence Rate
(AIR) benchmarks set by Atkins. The
benchmarks were 154 for office, 375 for
engineering and 1,701 for construction
activities. For the year for staff there was
an increase in AIR for office from 12 to 38,
engineering from 65 to 178 and construction
activities from 995 to 1,042 compared to
last year. However, the overall trend over
the last four years is still decreasing and 
is better than industry performance as
compiled by the HSE Labour Force Survey.
Atkins continues to set its own challenging
targets with a 5% reduction for office, 
and 15% reduction for engineering and
construction activities from last year’s
benchmarks. We also actively encourage
the reporting of incidents and near misses.
As a result, reported incidents and near
misses have doubled to 756, which is a
positive step towards accident prevention. 
Accident Incident Rate (AIR) Office Engineering Construction
Benchmark 154 375 1,701
Staff
07/08 38 178 1,042
06/07 12 65 995
05/06 104 151 556
04/05 59 235 2,763
Contractors
07/08 00 708
06/07 382 441 1,221
05/06 0 124 293
04/05 0 124 317
(AIR = number of accidents per 100,000 staff or contractors). WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Reviews 41
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
During the year our US operations achieved
OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and
Safety Management) specification and
Ireland was the first business within Atkins
to achieve certification of the revised
specification OHSAS 18001:2007. All our
operations are now covered by OHSAS
18001 (Occupational Health and Safety
Management) with the exception 
of Portugal.
Our successes within health and safety
during the year included the implementation
of an online driver assessment; the
production of training materials about
asbestos; the promotion of manual
handling training as part of European
Safety Week; and an awareness
programme about slips, trips and falls. 
Three of our businesses also received
RoSPA awards: Gold for Highways 
and Transportation and Design and
Engineering Solutions; and Distinction 
for Asset Management.
Other health and safety priorities for
2008/09 include benchmarking,
developing risk and stress management
awareness programmes and integrating
safety training into our operations. 
Environment
Our energy consumption for electricity 
and gas for our offices during the year 
was 34.2m kWh compared to 29.5m kWh
of energy used in 2006/07. This data is 
UK specific as we have not yet started 
to collate information across all our
operations. Also the UK data is verifiable 
to 56% for electricity and 43% for gas, 
as meter readings are not always available.
Work started this year to undertake 
remote energy monitoring to help offices
to improve their energy efficiency. Going
forward, there will be more support
provided to help offices understand their
energy carbon footprint, which includes
providing an actual and potential energy
rating for offices, to help to reduce our
overall energy carbon footprint. 
Our business travel data covers road, 
air and rail travel in the UK, in which we
travelled 73.1m km by road, 40.7m km by
air and 26.8m km by rail, giving a total of
140.6m km of business travel. Road travel
has decreased by 4m km and there has
been an increase in air travel of 1m km 
and more positively an increase in rail travel
of 6.4m km compared to last year. 
The calculation for CO
2
emissions from our
energy consumption and business travel,
and hence our CO
2
footprint, has changed
with the revised DEFRA emission factors.
Data from previous years has also been
changed to include the revised DEFRA
emission factors. Our CO
2
footprint per
employee in the UK has remained similar
to last year rising from 2,974 kg to 2,978
kg of CO
2
. The electricity metered in the
UK is part of Atkins’ energy contract and 
is 90% from renewable sources, which 
has not been taken into account as part of
our CO
2
footprint calculations. For our UK
company car fleet, we continued to reduce
the average emission rating which is now
158.0g/km compared to 160.8g/km last year . 
Consumption and emissions 
CO
2 
equivalent Emission equivalent
Totals (Tonnes) per employee (kg CO
2
) Verifiable data
2007/08 2006/07 2007/08 2006/07 2007/08 2006/07 2007/08 2006/07
Energy consumption
Electricity 20.8m kWh 19.0m kWh 10,893 9,918 924 892 56% 54%
Gas 13.4m kWh 10.5m kWh 2,482 1,951 210 175 43% 44%
Sub-total 34.2m kWh 29.5m kWh 13,375 11,869 1,134 1,067
Business travel
Road 73.1m km 77.1m km 14,844 15,677 1,259 1,409 100% 100%
Air 40.7m km 39.7m km 5,277 4,305 448 387 100% 100%
Rail 26.8m km 20.4m km 1,616 1,229 137 110 100% 100%
Sub-total 140.6m km 137.2m km 21,737 21,211 1,844 1,906
Total CO
2
emissions 35,113 33,080 2,978 2,974
Water consumption
Water 59,748m
3
68,144m
3
n/a n/a 5.1m
3
6.1m
3
29% 32%
Note
Data per employee is based on full-time equivalent average number of own staff (including agency). UK headcount for 2007/08 is 11,791. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
42 Reviews
Corporate Responsibility Review
Continued
Our challenge for 2008/09 is to ensure we
record business travel and our company 
car emissions for all our operations. We are
also continuing to develop travel plans in
the UK and will start in the Middle East
and China. 
We have been improving our waste
management for offices and sites, which
has meant a better understanding of our
waste streams and promoted more re-use
and recycling schemes. However waste
data is still limited to the UK only. A key
area for 2008/09 is to improve this data
and cover worldwide operations.
Data on water consumption is still difficult
to obtain, currently the data is only 29%
verifiable in the UK. In 2008 there will 
be a review of how water consumption 
is managed across Atkins operations.
All our operations are now covered by 
ISO 14001 (Environmental Management
Systems), with the exception of Portugal,
and are independently certified. During 
the year our US operations achieved 
the standard. 
We also developed an IEMA environmental
course for senior executives with an external
training provider with the purpose of raising
awareness at a senior management level.
The Rail and Asset Management businesses
were involved in the pilot with the intention
to roll out across all businesses in 2008. 
Our priorities for 2008/09 include raising the
awareness of environmental sustainability;
improving waste and water management
across all our operations; and providing
practical guidance about how to improve
environmental performance for offices
and sites. 
Regulatory activity
In the UK the HSE and Local Authorities
made seven visits and issued one
improvement notice to the Highways and
Transportation business. This was regarding
risk assessment of hand/arm vibration.
Actions were satisfactorily closed out within
agreed timescales. We have not been
prosecuted for any breaches of health and
safety or environment regulations. In last
year’s report, we reported on the ongoing
legal proceedings against two employees
in Doha, Qatar, and we are pleased to
report that both were found not guilty.
Governance
The Board sets Group policies on Corporate
Responsibility. Our chief executive is the
Board member responsible for Corporate
Responsibility and for the Group’s
performance, supported by Group-wide
frameworks. A common management
structure governs quality, health and safety
and environment (QSE). A director of QSE,
reporting to the chief executive, is
responsible for Group QSE at a corporate
level. Each Atkins business also has dedicated
QSE representatives to manage issues 
at a local level, reporting quarterly.
CR-related Group policies include quality,
health and safety, the environment,
sustainability, charities, business conduct,
data protection, dignity and equality at
work, employee disclosure (whistle-blowing)
and the appropriate use of information
technology. These are published on the
corporate intranet and are provided
externally on request. They are reviewed
regularly and updated to reflect changes 
to legislation, emerging good practice and
business needs. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Governance
44 Board of Directors
46 Directors’ Report
50 Corporate Governance Report
56 Remuneration Report
61 Independent Auditors’ Report
Governance Ed Wallis
Chairman
Ed Wallis (68) was appointed a director in
September 2004, taking up the post of
chairman in January 2005. He is a chartered
engineer. He was the founding chief
executive of Powergen where he also held
the position of chairman before retiring 
in 2003. Prior to this he gained more than
30 years of experience working for the
Central Electricity Generating Board. 
He has a wide range of other board-level
experience including the chairmanship 
of Lucas Varity and London Transport. He
was invited to become a companion of the
British Institute of Management in 1994
and in 1997 became a fellow of the Royal
Academy of Engineering. In 1996 he was
awarded honorary doctorates by both
Brunel University and Aston University. He
became chairman of the Natural Environment
Research Council in 2006. He is chairman
of the Nomination Committee and a
member of the Remuneration Committee.
Keith Clarke
Chief Executive
Keith Clarke (56) was appointed a director
in October 2003. He is a chartered architect.
He joined the Group from Skanska AB where
he was executive vice president responsible
for its activities in the UK, Poland, Czech
Republic, India and China. He has over 
30 years’ experience in construction and
engineering, having previously worked for
the City of New York, Olympia and York,
Trafalgar House and Kvaerner . He is chairman
of the Construction Industry Council, having
previously chaired its Health and Safety
Committee. He is also an advisory board
member of the Built Environment Innovation
Centre at Imperial College, London, a
member of the Supporters at Large Group
for Open House and patron of the
Environmental Industries Commission. He is
a member of the Nomination Committee.
Alun Griffiths
Executive Director
Alun Griffiths (53) was appointed a director
in March 2007. He has a background in
management consultancy and has led a wide
range of projects in the areas of restructuring,
organisational development and privatisation
in the UK and internationally. He is an
economics graduate and a fellow of the
Chartered Institute of Personnel and
Development. He was appointed Group 
HR director in February 2003. Alun was
appointed to the UK Government-backed
Industry Board of the UK Resource Centre
for Women in Science, Engineering and
Technology (UKRC).
Robert MacLeod
Group Finance Director
Robert MacLeod (44) was appointed group
finance director in June 2004. A chartered
accountant, he joined the Group as group
financial controller in March 2003 having
previously worked in a variety of senior
financial roles at Enterprise Oil plc. He is
currently a non-executive director of
Aggreko plc. A graduate of Cambridge
University, he trained at KPMG.
Admiral the Lord Boyce 
Non-executive Director
Lord Boyce (65) was appointed a 
non-executive director in May 2004. He
had a distinguished career in the Royal
Navy and the Ministry of Defence (MoD)
that culminated in his becoming First Sea
Lord, professional head of the Royal Navy,
in 1998; and then Chief of Defence Staff,
professional head of the Armed Forces,
from 2001 to 2003. He was elevated to
the peerage in 2003 and was appointed
Lord Warden and Admiral of the Cinque
Ports and Constable of Dover Castle in
2004. He is a non-executive director of
VT Group plc. He is a member of the
Remuneration and Nomination committees.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
44 Governance
Board of Directors WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Governance 45
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
James Morley
Non-executive Director
James Morley (59), a chartered accountant,
was appointed a non-executive director in
2001. He is a non-executive director of The
Innovation Group plc and Costain Group
PLC. He was previously chief operating
officer of Primary Group Limited and also
previously finance director at Cox Insurance
Holdings plc, Arjo Wiggins Appleton plc,
Guardian Royal Exchange plc and Avis
Europe plc. He is senior independent
director, chairman of the Audit Committee
and a member of the Remuneration and
Nomination committees.
Fiona Clutterbuck
Non-executive Director
Fiona Clutterbuck (50) was appointed a
non-executive director in March 2007. She
is a managing partner within a business
that owns and controls Pearl and Resolution
insurance group. Fiona has substantial
experience in all areas of corporate finance,
including a particular focus on the financial
institutions sector, gained during 15 years
at Hill Samuel and HSBC and latterly seven
years at ABN AMRO. Fiona has advised on a
wide range of transactions in many countries,
including mergers and take overs, public
company acquisitions and fundraisings,
and public and private company sales and
flotations. Fiona has an LLB (Hons) from
the University of London and qualified as a
barrister in 1980. She is a member of the
Audit and Nomination committees.
Sir Peter Williams
Non-executive Director
Sir Peter Williams (63) was appointed a
non-executive director in May 2004. He
graduated from Cambridge University with
an MA and PhD in physics and initially
pursued an academic career at Cambridge
and subsequently at Imperial College,
London. After a period with VG Instruments
Limited he joined Oxford Instruments plc 
in 1982. He became its chief executive in
1985 and was chairman from 1991 until
his retirement in 1999. He is chairman 
of the National Physical Laboratory and 
a non-executive director of GKN plc. 
Sir Peter was elected as fifth chancellor 
of the University of Leicester on 21 October
2005. He is also vice-president of the 
Royal Society and a trustee of Marie Curie
Cancer Care. He is chairman of the
Remuneration Committee and a member
of the Audit and Nomination committees.
Raj Rajagopal
Non-executive Director 
Raj Rajagopal (54) was appointed a non-
executive director in June 2008. He held
several positions at BOC Edwards before
being appointed chief executive, a position
he held until November 2006. He was an
executive director of the BOC Group plc
until November 2006 and is a non-
executive director of Dyson Group plc. 
Raj is a vice president and Fellow of the
Institution of Engineering and Technology
(IET) and chairs its manufacturing sector
panel. He is a fellow of the Royal Academy
of Engineering, a fellow of the Institution of
Mechanical Engineers and a fellow of the
Chartered Institute of Management. He is
also an Audit Commissioner, a member of
both the Council of Cranfield University
and of the Advisory Board of the Centre
for Business Research of Cambridge
University. He was awarded an honorary
doctor of science degree by Cranfield
University in 2004 and the IET’s IEE Eric
Mensforth International Gold Medal for
outstanding contribution to manufacturing
technology and management in 2003. The directors present their annual report on
the affairs of the Company and the Group,
together with the Financial Statements and
the independent auditors’ report, for the
year ended 31 March 2008. These will be
laid before shareholders at the Annual
General Meeting (AGM) to be held at
4.30pm on Wednesday 3 September 2008.
Details of the business to be considered 
at the AGM, together with an explanation
of all of the resolutions, are set out in the
separate Notice of Meeting.
Principal activities and business review
WS Atkins plc is the ultimate holding
company of a group of companies. Detailed
information on the Group’s principal
activities, its performance during the past
year and its prospects for future development
are reported in the Chairman’ s Statement
(pages 6 to 7), the Chief Executive’ s Statement
(pages 8 to 12), the Human Resources
Review (pages 14 to 17), the Operating
and Financial Review (pages 18 to 37), and
the Corporate Responsibility Review (pages
38 to 42). The statements and reviews are
incorporated into this report by reference,
together with the list of the principal
subsidiary undertakings and the countries
in which they operate (note 41 to the
Financial Statements on page 113).
Acquisitions and disposals made by the
Group during the year are described 
in notes 10 and 15 to the Financial
Statements on pages 86 and 90.
Post-balance sheet event
On 1 April 2008 the Group sold its holding
in Modern Housing Solutions (Prime)
Limited receiving cash of £3.9m and
generating a profit on disposal of £2.5m.
Results and dividends
The Group profit after tax for the year of
£100.0m (2007: loss of £57.3m) is shown
in the Consolidated Income Statement on
page 64.
The directors recommend a final dividend
of 16.5p per ordinary share in respect of the
year ended 31 March 2008, to be paid on
26 September 2008 to ordinary shareholders
on the register on 15 August 2008. This is
subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
If approved, this will mean a total dividend
of 24.0p per ordinary share will have been
paid for the year to 31 March 2008
(2007: 20.0p) when added to the interim
dividend of 7.5p per ordinary share paid 
on 25 January 2008. Further details
regarding dividend payments can be 
found on page 118.
Directors
The names and biographical details of
those persons serving as directors of the
Company as at the date of this report are
set out on pages 44 to 45. No directors
were appointed to or retired from the
Board during the year to 31 March 2008.
Under the Company’ s Articles of Association
all directors appointed during the year
must retire at the AGM and may offer
themselves for re-appointment. Additionally,
one-third of directors must retire at each
AGM and they may also offer themselves
for re-election.
Raj Rajagopal, who was appointed by the
Board as a director on 24 June 2008, will
retire at the AGM and, being eligible, offer
himself for re-appointment.
James Morley and Ed Wallis will retire by
rotation at the AGM, and being eligible,
will offer themselves for re-election. It is
proposed that James Morley, having served
on the Board since 2001, be appointed
until the conclusion of the 2009 AGM.
Ed Wallis will be subject to retirement by
rotation at future AGMs in accordance
with the Company’s Articles of Association.
The Board considers that the performance
of those directors proposed for re-election
continues to be effective and that they
demonstrate a strong commitment to their
role. In addition, the Board considers that
the performance of the director proposed
for re-appointment will be effective 
and that he too demonstrates the
necessary commitment.
Directors and officers of the Company 
and its subsidiaries benefit from directors’
and officers’ liability insurance cover in
respect of legal actions brought against
them. In addition, directors of the Company
are indemnified in accordance with the
Company’s Articles of Association and to
the maximum extent permitted by law. All
directors have deeds of indemnity that are
in force as at the date of this report. These
indemnities are available for inspection by
shareholders at the Company’s registered
office during normal business hours and
will be available for inspection at the AGM.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnities
provide cover where the relevant director or
officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Board of directors may exercise all 
the powers of the Company, subject to 
the provisions of relevant legislation, the
Company’s Memorandum and Articles 
of Association and any directions given 
by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Specific powers are detailed in the Company’ s
Articles of Association, including the power
to issue and buy back shares, along with
the rules for the appointment and removal
of directors.
Directors’ interests in the Company and 
the Group are described in the Directors’
Remuneration Report in table 5 on page 59.
Articles of Association
Company law has undergone substantial
change since January 2007 when the
phased implementation of the Companies
Act 2006 (the 2006 Act) commenced. The
Articles of Association of the Company in
their current form no longer fully reflect
legislation and best practice and it is therefore
proposed that the Company should adopt
new Articles of Association at the AGM.
Details of the key differences from the
current Articles of Association together with
details of where a copy of the proposed new
Articles of Association can be inspected are
contained in the separate Notice of Meeting.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
46 Governance
Directors’ Report WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Governance 47
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
The final phase of implementation of the
2006 Act is currently scheduled to take
place in October 2009. It is therefore
anticipated that further changes to the
Articles of Association will be proposed 
to shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
Political donations
It is the Group’s policy not to make political
donations and not to incur political
expenditure, either in the UK or overseas.
Accordingly, the Group made no political
donations and incurred no such expenditure
during the year and has no intention of
making any such donations or incurring
such expenditure in the future. However,
the provisions previously contained in the
Companies Act 1985 and now enacted in
the 2006 Act relating to donations and
expenditure covered by this disclosure are
wide. The Board has therefore sought
authority in the past for the Company and
its main trading subsidiary, Atkins Limited,
to make such donations and incur such
expenditure up to a limit of £100,000 so 
as to prevent an inadvertent breach of the
relevant legislation. The Board considers it
prudent to once again seek such authority
at the Company’s forthcoming AGM,
although this will be subject to a revised
overall aggregate limit for the Company
and its subsidiaries of £90,000 and to the
provisions of the 2006 Act. The authority
will not be used to make political donations
within the normal meaning of that
expression. Further details are contained 
in the Notice of Meeting.
Charitable donations
During the year, the Group made charitable
donations of £191,527 (2007: £205,813).
The beneficiaries of these donations were
local charities serving the communities 
in which the Group operates or charities
working in areas relevant to the Group’s
activities. The Group intends to continue 
its focus on local charities in the next
financial year.
Corporate governance 
and remuneration
A report on corporate governance is on
pages 50 to 55 and the Board’s report on
directors’ remuneration is on pages 56 to 60.
Corporate responsibility 
A summary of the Group’s corporate
responsibility activities is contained on
pages 38 to 42. In addition, the Group
provides additional information on corporate
responsibility, which includes detailed
information in respect of health and safety,
the environment, the community, people
and suppliers on the Company’s website
www.atkinsglobal.com
Employees
The Group is committed to the fair and
equitable treatment of all its employees,
irrespective of sex, race, age, religion,
disability or sexual orientation. To this end,
policies have been implemented to ensure
this is practised at recruitment and then
continues throughout an individual’s
employment with the Group. The Group
encourages recruitment, training, career
development and promotion on the basis
of aptitude and ability, without regard to
disability. It is also committed to retaining
and retraining as necessary employees 
who become disabled during the course 
of their employment.
Employees are routinely informed of
financial results and significant business
issues via the use of email, voice conference,
the Company’s intranet and in-house
publications. During the year work was
successfully undertaken to refresh and
reinvigorate the Company’s intranet to
enhance employee communications.
An annual survey is carried out to obtain
feedback from employees. This survey 
is confidential and is used alongside
consultation with employees and union
representatives where appropriate.
Employee involvement in the Group’s
performance continues to be encouraged
through share ownership. In the UK,
employees are given the opportunity 
to become shareholders through 
the Company’s Share Incentive Plan.
Approximately 10% of UK employees
participate in the Share Incentive Plan.
Supplier payment policy
The Group’s policy is to agree terms and
conditions for its business transactions 
with suppliers and to endeavour to abide
by these terms and conditions, subject 
to the supplier performing its obligations.
The Company, as a holding company, 
did not have any amounts owing to trade
creditors as at 31 March 2008.
Share capital and share purchases
As at the date of this report, the Company’s
share capital consists of 104,451,799
issued and fully paid ordinary shares each
with a nominal value of 0.5p per share,
listed on the London Stock Exchange. Of
these, 3,941,000 ordinary shares are held
in treasury (the treasury shares). Shares
may be held in certificated or uncertificated
form. Further details of the Company’s
authorised and issued share capital, including
changes during the year, can be found 
in note 31 to the Financial Statements 
on page 104.
At the AGM held in 2007, the Company
was granted authority by shareholders to
purchase up to 10,445,179 ordinary shares,
representing 10% of the Company’s
ordinary share capital as at 26 June 2007.
This authority will expire at the forthcoming
AGM and, in accordance with current best
practice, the Company will seek to renew it.
The Board, mindful of the benefit of
maintaining an efficient balance sheet,
announced a share buyback programme
on 27 November 2007 intended to return
up to £100m to shareholders. This followed
a review of the strength of the Group’s
balance sheet following the disposal of
Lambert Smith Hampton and the resolution
of the uncertainty surrounding the Group’s
investment in Metronet. The buyback of ordinary shares in 
the Company commenced on 
29 November 2007 and, as at the date 
of this report, 3,941,000 ordinary shares 
of 0.5 pence had been repurchased for an
aggregate consideration of £42,246,673
(excluding fees and stamp duty), representing
approximately 3.8% of the Company’s
issued share capital. All of these shares are
held in treasury. Following the repurchases
to the date of this report, the outstanding
authority to purchase shares would enable
the purchase of a further 6,504,179
ordinary shares.
The rights and obligations attaching to the
Company’s ordinary shares are contained 
in the Company’s Articles of Association, 
a copy of which can be obtained on
request to the company secretary. The
Articles of Association can only be changed
by a special resolution passed in a general
meeting of shareholders.
Each ordinary share (other than treasury
shares, which have no voting rights) carries
the right to one vote on a poll at a general
meeting of the Company. There are no
restrictions on transfer or limitations on the
holding of the Company’s ordinary shares
and no requirements for prior approval 
of any transfers. Under the Company’s
Articles of Association, the directors have
power to suspend voting rights and the
right to receive dividends in respect of
shares in circumstances where the holder
of those shares fails to comply with a
notice issued under section 793 of the
2006 Act.
Shares acquired through Atkins employee
share schemes rank equally with all other
ordinary shares in issue and have no special
rights. The trustees of the Company’s
Employee Benefit Trusts (EBTs) have waived
their rights to dividends on shares held by
the EBTs and do not exercise their right to
vote in respect of such shares. Shares held
in trust on behalf of participants in the
Share Incentive Plan are voted by the
Trustee, Halifax Corporate Trustees Limited,
as directed by the participants. Details 
of share-based payments, including
information regarding the shares held by
the EBTs can be found in note 32 to the
Financial Statements on page 105.
The Company is not aware of any
agreements between shareholders that
might result in the restriction of transfer 
or voting rights in relation to the shares
held by such shareholders.
Changes of control
All of the Company’s employee share
schemes contain provisions relating to 
a change of control of the Company
following a takeover bid. Under these
provisions, a change of control of the
Company would normally be a vesting
event, facilitating the exercise or transfer 
of awards, subject to any relevant
performance conditions being satisfied.
The Company is not a party to any other
significant agreements that take effect,
alter or terminate upon a change of control
following a takeover bid other than its
bank facility agreement, which provides
that on a change of control, the Company
is unable to draw down any further
amounts under the facility. Further, it is not
party to any agreement with the directors
or employees providing for compensation
for loss of office or employment (whether
through resignation, purported redundancy
or otherwise) that occurs as a result of 
a takeover bid.
Substantial shareholders
As at the date of this report, the Company
had been notified of the following holdings
of 3% or more of the total voting rights
attaching to its issued share capital:
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing
the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report
and the Financial Statements in accordance
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to
prepare Financial Statements for each
financial year. The directors have prepared
the Group and Company Financial Statements
in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the
European Union. The Financial Statements
are required by law to give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Company
and the Group and of the profit or loss of
the Group for that period.
In preparing those Financial Statements,
the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and
then apply them consistently
• make judgements and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent
• state that the Financial Statements
comply with IFRS as adopted by the
European Union
• prepare the Financial Statements on the
going concern basis, unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the Group
will continue in business, in which case
there should be supporting assumptions
or qualifications as necessary.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
48 Governance
Directors’ Report
Continued
Number of Percentage of
Name of holder voting rights
*
total voting rights
*
Legal & General Group plc 4,347,000 4.29%
Schroders plc 10,143,360 9.99%
Standard Life Investments Limited 4,962,936 4.75%
* Number and percentage of voting rights per last notification received by the Company. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Governance 49
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
The directors confirm that they have
complied with the above requirements 
in preparing the Financial Statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping
proper accounting records that disclose
with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and the
Group and to enable them to ensure that the
Financial Statements and the Remuneration
Report comply with applicable company
law and, as regards the Group Financial
Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding
the assets of the Company and the Group
and hence for taking reasonable steps for
the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the Company’ s
website. Legislation in the UK governing
the preparation and dissemination of
Financial Statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure of audit information
The directors confirm that, as at the date
this report was approved, so far as each
director is aware there is no relevant audit
information of which the Company’ s auditors
are unaware and that he or she has taken
all the steps he or she ought to have taken as
a director in order to make himself or herself
aware of any relevant audit information
and to establish that the Company’s
auditors are aware of that information.
Going concern
The directors have a reasonable expectation
that the Company and the Group have
adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable
future and therefore continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the
Financial Statements.
Auditors
The Company’s auditors,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have expressed
their willingness to continue in office and
resolutions for their re-appointment and to
authorise the directors to determine their
remuneration will be proposed at the
forthcoming AGM.
Approved by the Board and signed on its
behalf by
Richard Webster
Company Secretary
25 June 2008
Cautionary statement
Under the Companies Act 1985, a company’s directors’
report is required, among other matters, to contain 
a fair review by the directors of the Group’s business
through a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the
development and performance of the business of the
Group and the position of the Group at the year-end,
consistent with the size and complexity of the business.
The Directors’ Report set out above, including the
Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Statement, 
the Human Resources Review, the Operating and
Financial Review and Corporate Responsibility Review
incorporated into it by reference (together, the
Directors’ Report), has been prepared only for the
shareholders of the Company, as a whole, and its sole
purpose and use is to assist shareholders to exercise
their governance rights. In particular, the Directors’
Report has not been audited or otherwise independently
verified. The Company and its directors and employees
are not responsible for any other purpose or use or to
any other person in relation to the Directors’ Report.
The Directors’ Report contains indications of likely
future developments and other forward-looking
statements that are subject to risk factors associated
with, among other things, the economic and business
circumstances occurring from time to time in the
countries, sectors and business segments in which the
Group operates. These factors include, but are not
limited to, those discussed under Principal Risks and
Uncertainties on page 37 in this document. These and
other factors could adversely affect the Group’s results,
strategy and prospects. Forward-looking statements
involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. They relate
to events and/or depend on circumstances in the future
which could cause actual results and outcomes to differ
materially from those currently anticipated. No
obligation is assumed to update any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information,
future events or otherwise. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
50 Governance
Corporate Governance Report
This report sets out our commitment to
corporate governance, how the principles
of the Code have been applied and the
extent of our compliance with the Code. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Governance 51
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
The directors of the Company remain
committed to ensuring appropriate
corporate governance procedures are
embedded throughout the Group. It bases
these procedures on the requirements 
of the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance adopted by the Financial
Reporting Council in June 2006 (the Code)
plus current and emerging best practice.
This report sets out our commitment to
corporate governance, how the principles
of the Code have been applied and the
extent of our compliance with the Code.
A. Directors
A.1 The Board
The Board of directors is responsible for
leading the Group by setting its broad
strategic aims. To deliver these strategic
aims, the Board reviews the performance
of management, seeks to ensure that the
necessary resources are available and that
appropriate controls, values and standards
are in place. In pursuance of the Group’s
strategy, the Board has delegated the
normal operational management of the
Group to the chief executive, Keith Clarke,
but has agreed a formal schedule of matters
reserved solely for its decision. This schedule
includes strategy, the approval of Financial
Statements and shareholder circulars,
treasury policy, major capital investments,
risk management strategy, acquisitions and
disposals. During the year the Board’s
discussions have included:
• the Group’s strategic plan
• our health, safety and corporate
responsibility performance
• approval of the Group budget and
discussion of the Group’s financial
performance
• the Group’s market announcements,
financial results and dividends
• our corporate governance framework
• shareholder matters
• our employees, succession planning and
the Group’s pension plan arrangements
• the share buyback programme,
announced in November 2007
• the Group’s investment in Metronet
• the divestment of Lambert Smith Hampton.
The Board has a schedule of regular meetings
and holds additional meetings as required.
In addition, directors meet as members of
committees. Table 1 sets out the names of
each Board member, their attendance at
meetings and those Board committees of
which they were a member during the year
ended 31 March 2008. The biographical
details for these directors, and Raj Rajagopal
who was appointed since this date, can be
found on pages 44 and 45. The chairman
and non-executive directors also meet
without the executive directors present 
at least annually.
Table 1
Audit Remuneration Nomination
Director Board Committee Committee Committee
Chairman
Ed Wallis 8/8 – 4/4 1/1
Executive directors
Keith Clarke 8/8 – – 1/1
Alun Griffiths 8/8 – – –
Robert MacLeod 8/8 – – –
Independent 
non-executive directors
Admiral the Lord Boyce 8/8 – 4/4 1/1
Fiona Clutterbuck 7/8
(1)
4/4 – 1/1
James Morley 8/8 4/4 4/4 1/1
Sir Peter Williams 7/8
(2)
4/4 4/4 1/1
Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended/number eligible to attend.
Notes
(1) One meeting coincided with an engagement made prior to Fiona Clutterbuck’s appointment on 13 March 2007.
(2) One meeting coincided with a charitable event. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
52 Governance
Corporate Governance Report
Continued
Each Board committee has terms of
reference which are revised annually by 
the Board. Copies are available on request
from the company secretary or on the
Group’s website www.atkinsglobal.com.
Following formal consideration the Board
may, on occasion, delegate authority to 
a standing committee consisting of any
two directors to facilitate final sign-off 
for an agreed course of action within 
pre-defined parameters.
A.2 Chairman and chief executive
It is the Group’s policy that the roles of
chairman and chief executive are separate,
with their roles and responsibilities clearly
defined, divided and recorded.
The chairman’s main responsibility is the
leadership and management of the Board
and its governance. Our chairman, Ed Wallis,
usually spends two days per week on the
business of the Group. His other significant
commitments are disclosed in his biography
on page 44. The Board considers that
these commitments do not hinder his
ability to discharge his responsibilities to
the Company effectively.
The chief executive is responsible for the
leadership and day-to-day management of
the Group. This includes formulating and
recommending the Group’s strategy for
Board approval in addition to executing 
the approved strategy.
The chief executive has chosen to discharge
his responsibilities for the operational
management of the business through the
Group Executive, his executive team. Its
members currently comprise the managing
directors of our principal business segments,
the group finance director, the group HR
director and the group communications
director. It meets regularly during the year.
Those members of the Group Executive
who are not directors of the Company are
invited to attend four Board meetings each
year and also to meet the non-executive
directors informally without the executive
directors present.
The respective roles of the Board and
Group Executive are discussed further
under internal control on pages 53 and 54.
A.3 Board balance and independence
Each of the non-executive directors has been
determined by the Board to be independent
of management and to have no business
or other relationship that could interfere
materially with the exercise of their
judgement. The independence of the 
non-executive directors is considered at
least annually and is based on the criteria
suggested in the Code.
The senior independent director is 
James Morley. His responsibilities include
leading the non-executive directors’ 
annual consideration of the chairman’s
performance. He is also available to
shareholders in the event they feel it
inappropriate to communicate via the
chairman, the chief executive or the 
group finance director.
A.4 Appointments to the Board
The Nomination Committee currently
comprises Ed Wallis (committee chairman),
Lord Boyce, Fiona Clutterbuck, James Morley
and Sir Peter Williams. The committee’s
responsibilities include:
• reviewing the structure, size and
composition of the Board
• identifying and nominating candidates
for appointment to the Board
• making recommendations to the Board
regarding the continuing service of
directors and their re-election or
otherwise to the Board.
The committee’s terms of reference are
available for review on the Company’s
website. The non-executive directors’ terms
and conditions are available for inspection
at the Company’s registered office during
normal business hours and at the
Company’s AGM.
Following the year-end, the committee
recommended the appointment of
Raj Rajagopal as a non-executive director
with effect from 24 June 2008. In line with
the Company’s usual practice, Raj Rajagopal
was advised prior to his appointment of
the time commitment considered necessary
to enable him to fulfil his responsibilities.
Raj brings significant international experience
to the Board and will be a considerable
asset to the Company as we continue to
grow the business. The Committee used 
an external search consultancy to assist 
in making the recommendation for his
appointment.
A.5 Information and professional
development
The company secretary, under the chairman’ s
direction, is responsible for ensuring that
information flows within and between the
Board, its committees, the non-executive
directors and senior management function
effectively. The company secretary is also
responsible for advising the Board on all
governance matters.
On joining the Board, directors take part 
in a formal induction process. This includes
the provision of past Board materials to
provide background information on the
Group, information on Board processes
and governance, site visits and meetings
with key employees as necessary. The
induction is tailored to the new director’s
specific needs. For example, on
appointment Alun Griffiths received
information mainly relating to Board
processes and governance due to his
existing knowledge of the Group. In
contrast, Fiona Clutterbuck received, 
and Raj Rajagopal will receive, a wider
induction including meetings with each
member of the Group Executive. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Governance 53
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
A continuing professional development
framework is in place to assist the chairman,
executive directors and non-executive
directors in discharging their responsibilities
effectively following appointment to the
Board. All non-executive directors meet
regularly with members of the Group
Executive. Key employees are also invited to
attend Board dinners during the year and
this, together with the presentations and
site visits, helps ensure the non-executive
directors remain informed of business
developments.
All directors have access to the advice and
services of the company secretary and
receive independent professional advice, 
at the Company’s expense, as required.
A.6 Performance evaluation
The Board, as part of its commitment to
ensure its effectiveness, carried out an
evaluation of its performance and processes
during the year. Each director completed 
a confidential survey which was followed
by a private meeting with the chairman.
The recommendations arising from this
process have been considered by the Board
and appropriate actions identified and
implemented. During the year, the Audit
Committee and Remuneration Committee
also completed formal assessments of their
performance and processes in the form 
of a survey completed by members and 
key stakeholders.
The chairman’s performance was reviewed
by the non-executive directors, led by the
senior independent director.
A.7 Re-election
In accordance with the Company’s Articles
of Association, one-third of the Board is
required to retire by rotation each year. 
In addition, any director appointed during 
the year will stand for election at the next
general meeting. These requirements ensure
that each Board member is re-elected 
at regular intervals.
B. Remuneration
Details on the directors’ remuneration and
the work of the Remuneration Committee,
as required by the Code and the Directors’
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, can
be found in the Directors’ Remuneration
Report on pages 56 to 60.
C. Accountability and audit
C.1 Financial reporting
All shareholder communications are
designed to present a balanced and
understandable view of the Group’ s position
and prospects. Statements regarding
directors’ responsibilities and the status of
the business as a going concern are given
in the Directors’ Report on pages 48 and 49.
C.2 Internal control
The Board is responsible for reviewing and
approving the Group’s system of internal
controls and its adequacy and effectiveness.
This established system of internal controls
includes financial, operational and
compliance controls and risk management.
It is the role of management to implement
the agreed policies on risk and control.
Our system of internal financial and
operational controls is designed to meet
the Group’s particular needs and aims to
facilitate effective and efficient operations,
to safeguard the Group’s assets, ensure
proper accounting records are maintained
and ensure that the financial information
used within the business and for publication
is reliable. Our risk management process
identifies the key risks facing each business
and reports to the Board on how those
risks are being managed.
Such a system of internal control can only be
designed to manage rather than eliminate
risk of failure to achieve business objectives
and can provide reasonable, but not
absolute, assurance against material
misstatement and loss.
The Board has a process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the risks we face.
That process is continual and has been in
place for the year under review up to and
including the date of this report. This
process covers subsidiaries in which the
Group has an interest of 50% or more. 
Joint Ventures in which we do not have
overall control are not treated, for these
purposes, as part of the Group. For these
Joint Ventures, systems of internal control
are applied as agreed between the parties
to the venture. For the Metronet Joint
Venture the Board regularly reviewed the
risks faced by the Group separately.
The Audit Committee formally reviews the
operation and effectiveness of the Group’s
system of internal controls on an annual
basis. The latest review covered the
financial year to 31 March 2008 and
included the period to the approval of the
Directors’ Report and Financial Statements
by the Board.
Key features of our system of internal
control are as follows:
•Group organisation and culture
By its statements and actions the Board
emphasises a culture of integrity,
competence, fairness and responsibility.
The Board focuses mainly on strategic
issues, senior management performance
and financial performance. Our chief
executive and the Group Executive, as his
senior executive team, concentrate on
operational performance, operational
decision-making and the formulation 
of strategic proposals to the Board. The
Group’s managing directors manage their
businesses with the support of senior
managers. The Board determines how
the chief executive operates within a
framework of delegated authorities and
reserved powers which seek to ensure
that certain transactions, significant in
terms of their size or type, are undertaken
only after Board review. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
54 Governance
Corporate Governance Report
Continued
•Control environment
Our operational structure has clearly
documented and communicated principles
of delegation of authority and segregation
of duties. The Group’s management
systems include financial policies and
procedures, corporate and business
quality assurance manuals, health and
safety procedures and environmental
management procedures. These
procedures are subject to review to
ensure that improvements to enhance
controls can be made.
•Financial reporting
The Board approves a strategic plan 
and annual budgets for the Group. 
The financial performance of individual
business segments is reported regularly
and compared to annual budgets. We
report to our shareholders on a half-
yearly basis. Forecasts for the Group are
updated and reviewed by the Board
regularly.
•Project and contract control
Procedures seek to ensure that risks are
identified through the project lifecycle
from bidding to completion. Regular
review procedures are in place to ensure
that issues are reported to the Board
appropriately. A commercial risk and
audit framework is in place that requires
peer review to be carried out for all
significant bids and opportunities or
where significant investment decisions
have to be taken.
•Business conduct policy
The Board is responsible for the Group’s
business conduct policy. The Group
believes that integrity is a fundamental
prerequisite for successful business
relationships, both internally and externally.
Reputation, trust and confidence are
essential elements that we seek to protect
and enhance to the benefit of all with
whom we have a relationship. The 
Group seeks to understand and meet 
its customers’ needs, whilst seeking
continuous improvement. Across the
Group there are procedures in place that
seek to underpin this approach. By so
doing the Group aims to meet the needs
of all stakeholders.
•Individual business controls
Individual businesses and central
corporate functions complete an annual
self-certification statement. Responsible
managers personally confirm the review
of their systems of internal control and
their compliance with Group policies. The
statement also requires the reporting of
any significant control issues that have
emerged so that areas of Group concern
may be identified, addressed and
experience shared. The results of the
process are reviewed by the Audit
Committee and reported to the Board.
•Functional reporting
The Board assesses the risks facing the
business on an ongoing basis and has
identified a number of other key areas
that are subject to regular reporting to
the Board such as human resources,
health and safety, environment, tax 
and treasury.
•Risk management review
The Board assesses risk management
throughout the Group, aided by the
Group Risk Committee and detailed
reviews of internal controls and risk
management. The Group risk management
framework requires businesses to record
formally all significant risks facing their
business and detail the steps being taken
to avoid or mitigate those risks. A
summary of the key risks facing the
Group is placed on risk registers which
are reviewed regularly by the Audit
Committee and the Board.
The Group maintains insurance policies 
to provide protection from losses arising
through claims from clients. The adequacy
of the Group’s insurance cover, including
arrangements within the captive insurance
company , is reviewed by the Board annually .
• Internal audit
The internal audit function undertakes a
programme to address internal control
and risk management processes with
particular reference to the Turnbull
report. Its conclusions are communicated
to the relevant level of management and
the function has a direct reporting
responsibility to the Audit Committee.
C.3 Audit Committee and auditors
The Audit Committee currently comprises
James Morley (committee chairman), 
Fiona Clutterbuck and Sir Peter Williams.
All members of the committee are
considered by the Board to be independent
and to have recent and relevant financial
experience. The committee’s terms of
reference are available for review on the
Group’s website. During the year the
committee’s activities have included:
• an assessment of the effectiveness of the
Company’s system of internal control, risk
management process and the Group’s
employee disclosure arrangements
• a detailed review of the internal 
audit plan
• regular examination of the reports 
arising from the work undertaken by 
the internal audit function
• a review of the continued independence
of the external auditors including their
audit and non-audit work
• a review of the independent external
auditors’ audit plan and their findings 
in relation to the annual report and 
half-year report 
• a review of the Company’s draft annual
report, half-year results and associated
announcements focusing on key
judgemental areas and accounting policies
• an appraisal of its own effectiveness and
that of the internal and independent
external auditors. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Governance 55
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
The committee meets the independent
external auditors and head of internal audit
privately at each scheduled meeting. The
independent external auditors and head of
internal audit also have unrestricted access
to the committee and its chairman.
The committee monitors the cost-
effectiveness of audit and non-audit work
performed by the independent auditors and
also considers the potential impact, if any,
of this work on independence. Approval is
required prior to them commencing any
material non-audit work in accordance with
Group policy. The policy identifies certain
non-audit work that may be awarded with
the approval of the executive directors
whereas other work requires specific approval
of the committee. The committee also
regulates the appointment of former
employees of the external audit firm to
positions in the Group. The committee
regularly reviews all fees for non-audit
work paid to the independent external
auditors. Details of these fees can be found
in note 5 to the Financial Statements on
page 82. During the year fees for non-audit
work included work in respect of the
Company’s divestment of Lambert Smith
Hampton. The impact of this work and the
objectivity and independence of the
independent external auditor was
considered by the Board prior to their
appointment and the engagement was
held to be appropriate.
The independent external auditors also
operate procedures designed to safeguard
their objectivity and independence. These
include the periodic rotation of audit partner,
use of independent concurring partners,
use of technical review panel (where
appropriate) and annual independence
confirmations by all staff. The independent
external auditors report to the committee
on matters including independence and
non-audit work on an annual basis.
D. Relations with shareholders
D.1 Dialogue with institutional
shareholders
The Board regards communication with
shareholders as key. Relations with
shareholders are managed mainly by the
chief executive and group finance director.
Meetings are held regularly throughout the
year with institutional investors, fund
managers and analysts. The Group’s
website contains information on current
activities including the annual and half-year
results presentations.
The chairman also writes to our institutional
investors annually to reinforce our
commitment to open, ongoing dialogue.
The senior independent director and other
non-executive directors, along with the
chairman, make themselves available for
meetings with major shareholders, the
chairman particularly being available 
to discuss governance. This enables
shareholders to take up with these
individuals any issue they feel unable to
raise with the chief executive or group
finance director.
The non-executive directors are kept
informed of the views of shareholders 
with the executive directors providing
updates on investor meetings. The Group’s
broker provides briefings to the Board 
on shareholder opinions and compiles
independent feedback from investor
meetings.
D.2 Constructive use of the AGM
All our shareholders are invited to attend
the Company’s AGM, at which all directors
are present. We seek to encourage
shareholder participation by enabling proxy
votes to be lodged online via our shareholder
services portal, www.myatkinsshares.com
Statement of compliance 
with the Combined Code
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2008
the Company complied with the provisions
of Section 1 of the Code.
Approved by the Board and signed on 
its behalf by
Richard Webster
Company Secretary
25 June 2008 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
56 Governance
Remuneration Report
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors’
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 (the Regulations). As
required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the report
will be proposed at the Company’s AGM at which the Financial
Statements will be presented for approval.
This report has been divided into separate sections for unaudited
and audited information. The Regulations require the independent
auditors to report to our shareholders on the “audited information”
section of this report and to state whether, in their opinion, that
part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with
the Companies Act 1985 (as amended by the Regulations).
Unaudited information
Remuneration Committee
Our Remuneration Committee comprises Sir Peter Williams, 
Lord Boyce, James Morley and Ed Wallis. Sir Peter Williams, 
Lord Boyce and James Morley are independent non-executive
directors. Ed Wallis, our chairman, was considered independent
on his appointment as a director. The committee is chaired by 
Sir Peter Williams. Details of attendance at committee meetings
can be found in Table 1 on page 51.
The committee reviews the remuneration policy for the chairman
and executive directors and, more generally, the remuneration
policy of the Group. It determines the level of remuneration,
incentives and other benefits, compensation payments and terms
of employment of the chairman and each executive director. The
committee seeks to provide appropriate incentives to enhance
performance and align the interests of the executive directors with
those of shareholders. It also reviews the salaries and benefits of
members of the Group Executive, the company secretary and
other senior managers reporting directly to the chief executive.
The terms of reference of the committee are available for review
on the Company’s website.
In determining remuneration, the committee consulted the chief
executive, the Group HR director and, where required, the company
secretary about its proposals. No director or senior manager
participates in discussions about his own remuneration.
The committee appointed, and continued to use, Hewitt New
Bridge Street (HNBS) to provide advice on structuring executive
remuneration packages. HNBS does not provide any other services
to the Group.
Remuneration policy
The objectives of the Group’ s remuneration policy are to attract, retain
and incentivise management with the appropriate professional,
managerial and technological expertise to realise our business
objectives and to align their interests with those of our shareholders.
We continue to strive to link payment to performance and thereby
create a performance culture. A significant proportion of the
executive directors’ total remuneration is linked to performance
through participation in the performance bonus plan and long-term
share incentives.
To ensure that we offer the best available incentive to enhance
shareholder value, the committee continued to assess the
following constituent elements of the remuneration of the
executive directors and review the same for members of the
Group Executive and senior managers:
A. basic salary and other benefits;
B. performance bonus payments;
C. long-term share incentives; 
D. all-employee share plan; and
E. retirement benefits.
A. Basic salary and other benefits
The committee reviews the basic salary of the executive directors,
members of the Group Executive and senior managers annually to
ensure they remain appropriate and competitive. A wide range of
data is utilised, together with assistance from HNBS as appropriate.
In accordance with the Group’s remuneration policy, Keith Clarke’s
salary was increased to £425,000 per annum, Robert MacLeod’s
was increased to £300,000 per annum and Alun Griffiths’ salary was
increased to £200,000. The increases, effective from 1 April 2008,
followed a detailed review of market data.
Other benefits for executive directors include a car allowance 
or a car and payment of its operating expenses, life assurance 
and entitlement to a non-contributory private healthcare scheme.
B. Performance bonus payments
Executive directors were eligible to receive bonuses of up to 80%
of their basic salary for achieving Group financial and individual
performance targets in respect of the year ended 31 March 2008.
The committee has the discretion to increase the bonus to pay out
up to 100% of salary in exceptional circumstances. Following 
the exceptional performance of the Group, the committee has
resolved to pay the maximum bonus of 100% of current salary to
both Mr Clarke and Mr MacLeod. Mr Griffiths will receive a bonus
of 82.5% of current salary. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Governance 57
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
The targets against which bonuses are paid include challenging
financial objectives and consideration of Group performance in
respect of health and safety and staff retention. Executive directors
will be eligible to receive a bonus of 90% of their basic salary for
on-target performance for the year ended 31 March 2009. The
committee intends to conduct a thorough review of remuneration
during the current financial year to determine what changes, if
any, should be made to both the levels and structure of the total
reward package of each executive director. This will include a review
of bonus arrangements, including the bonus cap of 100% of salary,
to provide sufficient flexibility to reward exceptional performance.
Executive directors are required to take one-third of any bonus in
the form of an award over shares under the terms of the Atkins
Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP). The DBP is designed to aid retention,
with the award being subject to forfeiture on resignation within
three years of grant. There are no further performance conditions
once the award has been made. Dividends declared on DBP
awards are rolled up and delivered to participants in cash on
release of the award to align their interests further with those 
of shareholders. Members of the Group Executive must also take
one-third of any bonus they receive via an award made under the
Retention Bonus Plan (RBP) which is similar to the DBP but which
allows for a shorter vesting period of two years.
Bonus awards are non-pensionable and non-contractual.
The Company’s bonus and long-term incentive plans seek to
provide executive directors and members of the Group Executive
with the opportunity to increase overall remuneration levels to 
the upper quartile for comparable businesses but only following
demanding performance targets being achieved.
C. Long-term share incentives
The Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) seeks to motivate and
retain the executive directors, members of the Group Executive
and other senior executives. Under the LTIP , awards to executive
directors and members of the Group Executive are made on the
following basis:
•50% of the award is subject to the Company’s total shareholder
return (TSR) performance relative to the constituents of the 
FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) on the date of
award. Full vesting is achieved if the Company ranks in the
upper quartile, 30% for a median ranking, and pro rata vesting
for intermediate performance. No vesting occurs for a ranking
below median
• 50% of the award is subject to the Company's real growth in
normalised earnings per share (EPS) over the performance period.
An increase in EPS of more than 10% per annum above the UK
retail price index (RPI) over the three year performance period
enables the shares to vest in full; an increase of 4% per annum
above the UK RPI will result in 30% of the shares vesting; no
shares vest for an increase of less than 4% per annum above
the UK RPI. Pro rata vesting operates for growth in EPS between
4% and 10% above the UK RPI.
Awards made to other participants are subject solely to the 
EPS condition as set out above.
Dividends declared on shares subject to L TIP awards are rolled 
up and delivered to executives in cash on release of the
underlying award.
The Committee believes that EPS growth provides a closer ‘line of
sight’ between management performance and reward than can be
achieved via TSR alone.
This year the committee intends to make LTIP awards at around
100% of salary to the executive directors. As in 2007, the number
of shares subject to the awards will be based on a share price
determined as of the beginning of the financial year prior to the
award date, a practice which the committee intends to continue
to follow in future years. The upper limit in the LTIP is 150% 
of salary.
A full summary of the performance conditions attaching to
existing share plan awards can be found in note 32 to the
Financial Statements on page 105.
The Group encourages share ownership by its executives, and
executive directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Company
(either directly or through the DBP) equivalent to the level of their
annual basic salary, based on the value of such shares at the time
of their acquisition (or award), or their current market value from
time to time, whichever is the higher.
D. All-employee share plan
The Company’s Share Incentive Plan, as approved by HM Revenue
and Customs, continues to be offered to all eligible UK employees,
including the executive directors.
E. Retirement benefits
Pension and retirement benefits provided to the executive directors
are comparable to those provided by other companies.
Performance graph
The Company’s performance, measured by TSR, is compared with
the performance of the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment
trusts) over the past five years. This is considered the most
appropriate index against which to measure performance as the
Company has been a member of the FTSE 250 for the majority 
of the five year period.
TSR is defined as the return shareholders would receive if they held
a notional number of shares and received dividends on those shares
over a period of time. Assuming dividends are re-invested into the
Company’s shares, it measures the percentage growth in the
Company’ s share price together with the value of any dividends paid.
0
200
400
600
800
1 000
2003
FTSE 250
Atkins
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
TSR performance over period 31.03.03 – 31.03.08 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
58 Governance
Remuneration Report
Continued
External appointments
The Board recognises the benefit which we can obtain if our
executive directors serve as non-executive directors of other
companies. Subject to review in each case, the Board’s general
policy is that each executive director may accept one non-executive
directorship with another FTSE 350 company from which any 
fees received may be retained. Robert MacLeod is currently a 
non-executive director of Aggreko plc and retains the fees payable,
currently £36,000 per annum, in respect of this appointment.
Directors’ contracts
Chairman and non-executive directors
The Chairman and non-executive directors have letters of
appointment stating their annual fee and that their appointment is
initially for a term of three years subject to satisfactory performance
and their re-election at forthcoming AGMs. Their appointment may
be terminated with six months written notice at any time. Table 1
summarises the dates of appointment and most recent re-election
dates for the Chairman and each of the non-executive directors:
Table 1 Date of
appointment as Date of last 
a non-executive re-election 
Name of director director at AGM
Lord Boyce 05.05.04 06.09.06
Fiona Clutterbuck 13.03.07 05.09.07
James Morley
(1)
01.01.01 07.09.05
Raj Rajagopal
(1)
24.06.08 n/a 
Ed Wallis
(1)
08.09.04 07.09.05
Sir Peter Williams 05.05.04 05.09.07
(1) Raj Rajagopal will stand for re-appointment and James Morley and Ed Wallis will
stand for re-election at the AGM to be held on 3 September 2008.
Copies of the letters of appointment will be available for inspection
prior to and during the AGM and are also available for inspection
at the Company’s registered office during normal business hours.
The remuneration of the chairman is determined by the committee.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by
the Board on the recommendation of the executive directors within
the limits set out in the Articles of Association and on the basis 
of independent advice and the level of fees paid to non-executive
directors of comparator companies. The annual fees are specific to
each director reflecting their individual commitments to the Board
and various Board committees. The current fee structure is shown
in Table 2.
Table 2
Chairman fee
(1)
£200,000
Basic annual fee
(2)
£37,000
Committee chair annual fee £6,000
Committee annual fee
(3)
£3,000
(1) Increased from £165,000 with effect from 6 September 2007 and will be
reviewed again in 3 years.
(2) Increased from £33,000 with effect from 1 April 2008.
(3) No fee is paid in respect of membership of the Nomination Committee.
The chairman and the non-executive directors are not eligible for
pensions, share incentives, annual bonus or any similar payments
other than out-of-pocket expenses in connection with the
performance of their duties. The chairman and the non-executive
directors do not participate in any meeting at which discussions 
in respect of matters relating to their own position take place.
Executive directors
The service agreements of the executive directors are summarised
in Table 3.
Table 3 Notice Effective Unexpired
period Contract date of term of
(months) date contract contract
Keith Clarke 12 12.09.03 01.10.03 Rolling contract
Alun Griffiths 12 18.04.07 13.03.07 Rolling contract
Robert MacLeod 12 14.07.04 23.06.04 Rolling contract
In the event of unsatisfactory performance, the notice period for
the executive directors is reduced to three months. Their service
agreements include a duty to mitigate loss where the agreement
is terminated and any payment in lieu of notice may be reduced
to take account of such mitigation. No service agreement provides
for predetermined amounts of compensation in the event of early
termination of service contracts. 
The service agreements will terminate when the director reaches
the retirement age as determined by the Board, which in normal
circumstances is 60, and are otherwise terminable on giving 
12 months notice. Copies of each director’s service agreement 
will be available for inspection prior to and during the AGM and
are also available for inspection at the Company’s registered office
during normal business hours. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Governance 59
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Retirement benefits
Keith Clarke has a contractual entitlement to receive an amount
equivalent to 25% of his basic salary as a pension payment. He
elected to receive this entitlement as an additional emolument
and this is reported in Table 4.
Robert MacLeod also has a contractual entitlement to receive an
annual amount equivalent to 25% of his basic salary towards his
pension benefits. During the year the Company has made payments
of £68,250 (2007: £57,500) into his personal pension plan.
Alun Griffiths is 53 and had completed 22 years service as at 
31 March 2008. He was a member of a final salary arrangement
until 30 September 2007 when the scheme was closed to future
accrual. Since 1 October 2007 he has participated in a defined
contribution arrangement on the same terms as other UK based
staff. The value of his accrued benefit under the final salary
arrangement at the start of the financial year was £54,471 per
annum with a transfer value of the total accrued benefit of
£564,869. His accrued pension increased by £9,482 per annum
during the year. This sum will continue to increase in line with
increases in Mr Griffiths’ base salary. The transfer value of the
increase in accrued benefit was £138,654. As at 31 March 2008,
the value of his accrued benefit was £63,953 per annum, with 
a transfer value of the total accrued benefit of £703,523. The
difference between the transfer values of the total accrued benefit
at the beginning and end of the financial year, less his
contributions, was £131,069. Under the defined contribution
arrangement he receives an annual amount equivalent to 13% 
of his basic salary. This consists of a 10% ordinary employer
contribution and a transitional employer contribution of 3%
payable until 30 September 2010. The transitional contribution 
Audited information
Directors’ emoluments
The remuneration of each director, excluding long-term incentive
awards and pensions, during the year ended 31 March 2008 is
laid out in Table 4.
Table 4 Salary/ Other Other Non-cash
fees Bonus
(2)
benefits
(3)
payments emoluments Total Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 2008 2007
Executive directors
Keith Clarke 403 283 15 101
(4)
142
(5)
944 490
Alun Griffiths 182 110 14 – 55
(5)
361 9
(6)
Robert MacLeod 273 200 15 – 100
(5)
588 244
Total executive directors 858 593 44 101 297 1,893 743
Chairman and non–executive directors
Lord Boyce 36 – – – – 36 36
Fiona Clutterbuck
(1)
–– – – – – –
James Morley 42 – – – – 42 42
Ed Wallis 184 – 13 – – 197 158
Sir Peter Williams 42 – – – – 42 42
Total chairman and
non-executive directors 304 – 13 – – 317 278
is payable to all members of the Atkins Pension Plan affected by
the closure of their defined benefit accrual. During the year the
Company has made payments of £10,980 (2007: £ nil) under
Mr Griffiths’ defined contribution arrangement.
All executive directors receive life assurance cover equal to four
times their basic salary.
Directors’ interests
The beneficial interests of the directors and their families in the
ordinary shares of 0.5p each in the Company as at 31 March 2008
are shown in Table 5.
Table 5 At 25.06.08 At 31.03.08 At 31.03.07 
Chairman and non-executive directors
Lord Boyce 846 846 846
Fiona Clutterbuck 1,000 1,000 –
James Morley 3,750 3,750 1,250
Raj Rajagopal – n/a n/a 
Ed Wallis 2,500 2,500 1,000
Sir Peter Williams 2,500 2,500 2,500
10,596 10,596 5,596
Executive directors
Keith Clarke
(1)
66,984 66,949 36,956
Alun Griffiths
(1)
21,434 21,399 16,547
Robert MacLeod
(1)
19,832 19,797 15,456
108,250 108,145 68,959
Total 118,846 118,741 74,555
(1) Changes in directors’ interests of Keith Clarke, Alun Griffiths and Robert MacLeod
between 31 March and 25 June 2008 relate to shares acquired via the WS Atkins
Share Incentive Plan.
(1) Fiona Clutterbuck has elected to waive her fee in favour of a charity of her choice.
(2) Amounts payable in cash.
(3) Other benefits include such items as company cars or allowances, fuel and
medical insurance.
(4) Keith Clarke is entitled to a pension payment equivalent to 25% of his salary.
He elected to receive this entitlement as a taxable payment.
(5) Keith Clarke, Alun Griffiths and Robert MacLeod are required to take a minimum
of one-third of their bonus payment in the form of a right to acquire shares
under the DBP . Awards of shares to these values will be made following the
announcement of the preliminary results pursuant to the rules of the DBP .
(6) Alun Griffiths was appointed as a director on 13 March 2007. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
60 Governance
Remuneration Report
Continued
Table 6 Mid– First
Number Number market date of
of shares of shares Market price exercise/
under under price on at date Gain on end of Date
Plan Award option at option at exercise of grant exercise performance of lapse
name
(1)
date 01.04.07 Granted
(3)
Exercised Lapsed 31.03.08 (pence) (pence) (£) condition of option
Keith Clarke LTIP
(2)
01.10.0395,000 – 28,500 66,500 – 1052.00 401.5299,82001.04.0701.10.13
25.06.0420,000 – – – 20,000 586.5 01.04.0825.06.14
24.06.0525,000 – – – 25,000 670.0 01.04.0924.06.15
11.09.0647,500 – – – 47,500 837.0 11.09.0911.09.16
03.08.07 – 44,000 – – 44,000 1035.0 03.08.10 03.08.17
DBP25.06.04 6,849 – 6,849 – – 1052.00 586.572,05125.06.0725.06.14
24.06.05 8,574 – – – 8,574 670.0 24.06.0824.06.15
29.06.06 6,401 – – – 6,401 826.0 29.06.0929.06.16
Total 209,324 44,000 35,349 66,500 151,475 371,871
Alun Griffiths LTIP
(2)
17.09.0315,000 – 4,500 10,500 – 1007.67 401.545,34501.04.0717.09.13
25.06.0410,000 – – – 10,000 586.5 01.04.0825.06.14
24.06.0510,000 – – – 10,000 670.0 01.04.0924.06.15
11.09.0614,000 – – – 14,000 837.0 11.09.0911.09.16
03.08.07 – 18,000 – – 18,000 1035.0 03.08.10 03.08.17
DBP26.08.02 1,663 – – – 1,663 289.0 26.08.0526.08.12
25.06.04 3,424 – 3,424 – – 1068.50 586.536,58525.06.0725.06.14
24.06.05 3,037 – – – 3,037 670.0 24.06.0824.06.15
29.06.06 3,099 – – – 3,099 826.0 29.06.0929.06.16
29.06.07 – 2,777 – – 2,777 1022.0 29.06.1029.06.17
Total 60,223 20,777 7,924 10,500 62,576 81,930
Robert MacLeod LTIP
(2)
17.09.0315,000 – 4,500 10,500 – 1052.00 401.547,34001.04.0717.09.13
25.06.0430,000 – – – 30,000 586.5 01.04.0825.06.14
24.06.0510,000 – – – 10,000 670.0 01.04.0924.06.15
11.09.0628,750 – – – 28,750 837.0 11.09.0911.09.16
03.08.07 – 30,000 – – 30,000 1035.0 03.08.10 03.08.17
DBP25.06.04 2,625 – 2,625 – – 1052.00 586.527,61525.06.0725.06.14
24.06.05 4,287 – – – 4,287 670.0 24.06.0824.06.15
29.06.06 4,388 – – – 4,388 826.0 29.06.0929.06.16
Total 95,050 30,000 7,125 10,500 107,425 74,955
Aggregate gains on share options 2008 528,756
Aggregate gains on share options 2007 –
Directors’ share options and long term incentives
Directors’ emoluments disclosed in Table 4 do not include any
amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the
Company granted to or held by the directors which are set out in
Table 6.
For each share under option that had not expired at the end of
the financial year, the mid market price on 31 March 2008 was
1,051.0p and the highest and lowest mid market prices during
the financial year were 1,227.0p and 945.5p respectively.
Approval
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
Sir Peter Williams
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
25 June 2008
(1) Plan names: LTIP – Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan
DBP – Atkins Deferred Bonus Plan
(2) Subject to performance criteria described in note 32 to the Financial Statements.
(3) Following the exceptional write down in relation to Metronet, the Company’s
EPS for the financial year ended 31 March 2007 was (56.8)p.
The consequence of this was that any LTIP awards made in 2007 would never 
be capable of vesting. Pursuant to the rules of the plan, the Remuneration
Committee considered that it was appropriate to remove profit in respect 
of discontinued operations and the exceptional loss in respect of Metronet and
that the EPS for the financial year ending immediately before the
commencement of the performance period for the 2007 awards be 
deemed to be 57.3p.
Details of the directors’ personal interests in the shares held 
by Employee Benefit Trusts as at 31 March 2008 are given 
in Table 6 below. We have audited the Group and Parent Company Financial
Statements (the ‘’Financial Statements’’) of WS Atkins plc for 
the year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the Consolidated
Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company
Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow
Statements, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements 
of Recognised Income and Expense and the related Notes. These
Financial Statements have been prepared under the accounting
policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in
the Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in
accordance with applicable law and International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union 
are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the 
part of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance 
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including 
the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s
members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the
Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in
giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by
our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements
give a true and fair view and whether the Financial Statements
and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985
and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the
information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the
Financial Statements. The information given in the Directors’
Report includes that specific information presented in the
Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Statement, the
Operating and Financial Review and the Corporate Responsibility
Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section 
of the Directors’ Report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the
Combined Code (2006) specified for our review by the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it 
does not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s
statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or 
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited Financial
Statements. The other information comprises only the Financial
Highlights, Group at a Glance, Atkins Business Segments, the
Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Statement, the
Human Resources Review, the Operating and Financial Review,
Corporate Responsibility Review, Board of Directors, Directors’
Report, Corporate Governance Report, the unaudited part 
of the Remuneration Report, Five Year Summary and Investor
Information. We consider the implications for our report if 
we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the Financial Statements. Our responsibilities
do not extend to any other information.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Governance 61
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Independent Auditors’ Report 
to the Members of WS Atkins plc WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
62 Governance
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of
evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial
Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be
audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates
and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the
Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Group’s and Company’s circumstances,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary 
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the Financial Statements and the part of the
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or
error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy
of the presentation of information in the Financial Statements 
and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, 
of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 March 2008 and 
of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
• the Parent Company Financial Statements give a true and fair
view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European
Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the
Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Company’s
affairs as at 31 March 2008 and cash flows for the year
then ended;
• the Financial Statements and the part of the Remuneration
Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group
Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent 
with the Financial Statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London 
25 June 2008
Independent Auditors’ Report 
to the Members of WS Atkins plc
Continued Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Financial Statements
64 Consolidated Income Statement
65 Consolidated and Parent Company
Statements of Recognised Income 
and Expense
66 Consolidated and Parent Company 
Balance Sheets
67 Consolidated and Parent Company 
Cash Flow Statements
68 Notes to the Financial Statements
114 Five Year Summary 
Financial Statements WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
64 Financial Statements
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 March 2008 
Group Group
2008 2007
Notes £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue (Group and share of Joint Ventures) 1,399.5 1,240.3
Revenue 3 1,313.6 1,179.8
Cost of sales (834.1) (777.1)
Cost of sales – exceptional 9 – (4.0)
Gross profit 479.5 398.7
Administrative expenses (392.8) (335.0)
Operating profit 5 86.7 63.7
Share of post-tax profit from Joint Ventures 4 0.9 2.8
Profit from operations 87.6 66.5
Finance income 7 9.8 9.0
Finance cost 7 (5.5) (5.4)
Net finance income 7 4.3 3.6
Profit before taxation 91.9 70.1
Income tax expense 8 (23.3) (16.4)
Income tax – exceptional 8,9 – 1.2
Profit for the year from continuing operations 68.6 54.9
Discontinued operations 10 31.4 (112.2)
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity shareholders 33 100.0 (57.3)
Earnings per share 
From continuing and discontinued operations (total)
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 12 98.9p (56.8)p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share 12 97.2p (56.8)p
From continuing operations
Basic earnings per share 12 67.9p 54.4p
Diluted earnings per share 12 66.7p 53.8p
Dividends
Dividends recognised in the year – paid 11 21.5p 17.5p
Dividends relating to the year – proposed 11 24.0p 20.0p
The notes on pages 68 to 113 are an integral part of these Financial Statements. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 65
Consolidated and Parent Company Statements 
of Recognised Income and Expense 
For the year ended 31 March 2008 
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
Notes £m £m £m £m
Actuarial gain on retirement benefit liabilities 29 6.4 31.3 – –
Share of Joint Venture equity items 33 0.2 7.5 – –
Tax on items charged to equity 8c (7.8) (8.5) – –
Cash flow hedges 27 (0.8) (0.1) – –
Net differences on exchange  33 3.3 (0.1) – –
Net income recognised directly to equity 1.3 30.1 – –
Profit/(loss) for the year 100.0 (57.3) 68.7 4.9
Total recognised income and expense for the year
attributable to equity shareholders 101.3 (27.2) 68.7 4.9 
The notes on pages 68 to 113 are an integral part of these Financial Statements. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
66 Financial Statements
Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets
As at 31 March 2008 
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
Restated
Notes £m £m £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill 14 56.7 64.8 – – 
Other intangible assets 16 10.9 9.4 – – 
Property, plant and equipment 17 45.6 46.2 – – 
Investments in subsidiaries 18 – – 130.8 98.3 
Investments in Joint Ventures 4 4.2 (26.0) – – 
Deferred income tax assets 19 69.6 89.8 – – 
Other receivables 20 5.7 0.1 5.6 – 
192.7 184.3 136.4 98.3 
Current assets
Inventories 21 0.3 0.4 – – 
Trade and other receivables 22 299.7 284.0 8.4 8.5 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 23 29.7 49.6 – – 
Cash and cash equivalents 24 154.5 187.7 7.1 – 
484.2 521.7 15.5 8.5 
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Borrowings 25 (7.8) (3.7) – – 
Trade and other payables 26 (415.4) (418.6) (25.0) – 
Derivative financial instruments 27 (0.9) (0.1) – –
Current income tax liabilities (26.8) (28.3) – – 
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 28 (4.3) (8.7) – – 
(455.2) (459.4) (25.0) – 
Net current assets/(liabilities) 29.0 62.3 (9.5) 8.5 
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 25 (13.6) (34.5) – – 
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 28 (13.5) (14.3) – – 
Retirement benefit liabilities 29 (213.1) (250.1) – – 
Other non-current liabilities 30 (4.9) (23.8) – – 
(245.1) (322.7) – – 
Net (liabilities)/assets (23.4) (76.1) 126.9 106.8 
Capital and reserves
Ordinary shares 31 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 
Share premium account 33 62.4 62.4 62.4 62.4 
Merger reserve 33 8.9 8.9 8.9 8.9 
Retained (loss)/earnings 33 (95.2) (147.9) 55.1 35.0 
Equity shareholders’ (deficit)/funds (23.4) (76.1) 126.9 106.8 
Keith Clarke Robert MacLeod
Director Director
Approved by the Board on 25 June 2008.
The notes on pages 68 to 113 are an integral part of these Financial Statements. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 67
Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2008 
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
Notes £m £m £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 34 80.9 93.9 55.7 17.7 
Interest received 9.7 8.9 0.2 – 
Interest paid (3.3) (2.1) – – 
Income tax (paid)/received (14.7) 4.9 – – 
Discontinued operations 10 0.3 10.8 – – 
Net cash generated from operating activities 72.9 116.4 55.9 17.7 
Cash flows from investing activities
Distributions received from Joint Ventures 2.5 1.7 – – 
Investments in Joint Ventures (0.9) – – – 
Investments in subsidiary companies – – (54.5) – 
Acquisition of subsidiaries
– Consideration 15 (6.4) (29.6) – –
– Cash acquired 15 0.7 3.4 – – 
Dividend income received – – 10.9 – 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (18.9) (16.2) – – 
Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment 1.0 0.6 – – 
Proceeds from disposals of investments in subsidiaries – – 50.6 – 
Financial assets 19.9 (8.8) – – 
Purchases of intangible assets (7.8) (8.6) – – 
Discontinued operations 10 (17.3) (20.5) – – 
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (27.2) (78.0) 7.0 – 
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayment of short-term loans (0.2) (2.7) – – 
Repayment of long-term loans (17.6) (1.6) – – 
Finance lease principal payments (4.4) (2.8) – – 
Sales of own shares by Employee Benefit Trusts – 0.1 – – 
Share buyback (34.0) – (34.0) – 
Equity dividends paid to shareholders 11 (21.8) (17.7) (21.8) (17.7)
Discontinued operations 10 (0.3) (1.2) – – 
Net cash used in financing activities (78.3) (25.9) (55.8) (17.7)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts (32.6) 12.5 7.1 – 
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 187.7 177.4 – – 
Exchange movements (0.6) (2.2) – – 
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 24 154.5 187.7 7.1 – 
The notes on pages 68 to 113 are an integral part of these Financial Statements. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
68 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
For the year ended 31 March 2008
1. Accounting policies
WS Atkins plc is a public limited company registered and domiciled in the UK. Its registered office is Woodcote Grove, Ashley Road,
Epsom, Surrey KT18 5BW, England.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated Financial Statements of WS Atkins plc have been prepared in accordance with EU-adopted International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRSs), IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The
consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the valuation of pensions,
share-based payments and financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments). 
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts
of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the
amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates. Material estimates applied across the Group’s
businesses and Joint Ventures are reviewed to a common standard and adjusted where appropriate to ensure that consistent treatment
of similar and related issues that require judgement is achieved upon consolidation. Any revisions to estimates are recognised prospectively.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the
consolidated Financial Statements, are disclosed on page 36 of the Operating and Financial Review.
The Group has adopted IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures and has included additional disclosures and detail for the current and
comparative period. 
The Group and Company has adopted IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 – Group and Treasury Share Transactions. The adoption of this IFRIC had no
effect on the Group.
Basis of consolidation
The accounting policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented including the application of new IFRS standards
and interpretations. 
The Consolidated Income Statement and balance sheet include the accounts of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings and its share of
Joint Ventures. The results of the subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year are included in the income statement from the date of
acquisition. The results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the year are included in the income statement up to the date of disposal.
Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Group. Control exists where the Group has the power to govern
the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights
that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition is
measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus
costs directly attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest. The excess
of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the
cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the
income statement.
Where subsidiaries adopt accounting policies that are different from the Group, their reported results are restated to comply with the
Group’s accounting policies. All intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation. Where subsidiaries do not adopt
accounting periods that are coterminous with the Group’s, results and net assets are based upon accounts drawn up to the Group’s
accounting reference date based on unaudited accounts.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses
are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred.
The accounts of the Employee Benefit Trusts (EBTs) are incorporated into the results of the Group as, although they are administered by
independent Trustees and their assets are held separately from those of the Group, in practice the Group’s advice on how the assets are
used for the benefit of employees is normally accepted. The Group bears the major risks and rewards of the assets held by the EBTs until
the shares vest unconditionally with the employees. Shares in WS Atkins plc held by the EBTs are shown as a reduction in retained
loss/earnings. Other assets and liabilities held by the EBTs are consolidated with the assets of the Group.
Foreign currency transactions and translation
Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency). The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds 
sterling (£), which is the Company’s and Group’s functional and presentation currency. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 69
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the
transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end
exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except
when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Group companies
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date. Trading results of
overseas subsidiaries are translated at average rates of exchange. Differences resulting from the retranslation of opening net assets and
results for the period at closing rates are taken to the statement of recognised income and expense. 
Segment reporting
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that
are different from those of other business segments. A geographical segment is engaged in providing services within a particular economic
environment that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
The Group is organised into six operating segments for management purposes, reflecting its key markets and service offerings. The
segments are Design and Engineering Solutions; Highways and Transportation; Rail; Middle East, China and Europe; Management and
Project Services; and Asset Management. The continuing elements of the former Equity Investment segment are now shown within
Asset Management. These segments form the basis for reporting the Group’s primary segment information as it is the main determinant
of the Group’s risks and returns. The basis for reporting the secondary segment information is the geographical sectors of the United
Kingdom, other European countries, Middle East, North America and Asia Pacific. These represent the Group’s most significant
geographical sectors. The majority of central costs are allocated to segments based on revenue or utilisation of resource. All revenue
relates to revenue from services.
Inter-segment transfers and transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be
available to unrelated third parties. 
Revenue
Revenue from long-term contracts comprises the value of work performed during the period calculated in accordance with the Group’s
policy for contract accounting set out below. Revenue from other contract activities represents fee income receivable in respect of
services provided during the period.
Under certain services contracts, the Group manages customer expenditure and is obliged to purchase goods and services from third-
party contractors and recharge them on to the customer at cost. The amounts charged by contractors and recharged to customers are
excluded from revenue and cost of sales where the Group is acting as an agent. Receivables, payables and cash relating to these
transactions are included in the Group balance sheet.
Revenue recognition and contract accounting
The value of contract work in progress comprises the costs incurred on contracts plus an appropriate proportion of overheads and
attributable profit. Fees invoiced on account are deducted from the value of work in progress and the balance is separately disclosed 
in trade and other receivables as amounts recoverable on contracts, unless such fees exceed the value of the work in progress on any
contract when the excess is separately disclosed in trade and other payables as fees invoiced in advance.
Profit is recognised on a percentage completion basis when the outcome of a contract or project can be reasonably foreseen. Provision 
is made in full for estimated losses. Where the outcome of a contract cannot be reasonably foreseen, profit is taken on completion.
Where contracts span two or more accounting periods, profit is not generally recognised until the contract is 50% complete. 
Revenue recognition on outsourcing contracts is determined by reference to the proportion of the annual service delivered to date.
Where the costs of obligations in relation to the non-renewal or termination of a contract are higher in the final period of the contract 
a proportion of revenue is deferred each period to meet these anticipated costs. Full provision is made for losses on outsourcing
contracts if the forecast costs of fulfilling the contract throughout the contract period exceed the forecast income receivable. In 
assessing the amount of the loss to provide on an outsourcing contract, account is taken of the Group’s share of the forecast results
from any Joint Ventures which the contract is servicing.
Interest income is recognised on a time-apportionment basis using the effective interest method. When a receivable is impaired, the
Group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective
interest rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as interest income. Interest income on impaired loans is
recognised using the original effective interest rate.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
70 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
Pre-contract costs
The Group accounts for all pre-contract costs in accordance with IAS 11, Construction contracts. Costs incurred before it becomes probable
that a contract will be obtained are charged to expenses. Directly attributable costs incurred after that point are recognised in the balance
sheet and charged to the income statement over the duration of the contract or, in the case of PPP/PFI concessions, over the same period
as the Group’s interest in any Special Purpose Company (SPC) charges the equivalent capitalised amounts to the income statement.
Bid recovery fees are deferred and credited to the income statement over the duration of the contract or, in the case of PPP/PFI
concessions, over the same period as the Group’s interest in any SPC charges the equivalent capitalised amounts to the income
statement. Where the Group’s interest in any SPC reduces, the deferred bid recovery fees are credited to the income statement 
in proportion to the reduction of the Group’s interest.
Exceptional items
Where certain expense or revenue items recorded in a period are material by their size or incidence, the Group reflects such items 
as exceptional items and these are shown separately in the income statement. 
Exceptional items are also summarised by class in the segmental analyses, excluding those that relate to interest and tax. 
Retirement benefit schemes
The Group operates defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes which require payments to be made into separately
administered funds. For defined benefit schemes, regular valuations are prepared by independent professionally qualified actuaries 
to determine the level of contributions required to fund the benefits set out in the scheme rules.
The Group accounts for pensions in accordance with IAS 19, Employee benefits. The cost of the defined contribution schemes is 
charged to operating profit as incurred. The cost of the defined benefit schemes is charged as follows:
•the current service cost incurred during the period to provide retirement benefits to employees is charged to operating profit;
•gains or losses arising from settlements or curtailments not covered by actuarial assumptions are included in operating profit;
•a charge representing the expected increase in scheme liabilities is included in net finance costs. This is based on the present value 
of scheme liabilities at the beginning of the period; and
•a credit representing the expected return on scheme assets is included within net finance costs. This is based on the market value 
of the assets of the schemes at the start of the period allowing for expected cash flows during the period.
For defined benefit schemes, differences between actual and expected returns on assets during the period are recognised immediately 
in the statement of recognised income and expense, together with differences arising from changes in assumptions. The difference
between the market value of scheme assets and the present value of scheme liabilities is recognised as a retirement benefit asset or
liability on the consolidated balance sheet. To the extent that it is recoverable, any related deferred tax asset or liability is included in 
the relevant category of receivable/payable.
The Group has elected to recognise actuarial gains and losses in full as they arise through retained loss/earnings.
Share-based payments
In accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based payments, the cost of share-based payments awarded after 7 November 2002 is charged to the
income statement over the performance and vesting periods of the instruments. The cost is based on the fair value of the awards made
at the date of grant adjusted for the number of awards expected to vest. In accordance with the transitional provisions within IFRS 2, 
no charge is made in respect of instruments awarded before 7 November 2002. The credits associated with the amounts charged to 
the income statement are included in retained earnings/loss until the awards are exercised. Where awards are settled by new issue
shares any proceeds received in respect of share options are credited to share capital and share premium. Where awards are settled 
in shares held by the EBTs any proceeds are credited to retained earnings/loss.
Share awards are granted by the Parent Company to employees of its subsidiaries. The Company charges to cost of investment in
subsidiaries an amount equivalent to the annual IFRS 2 charge, with an equivalent credit to reserves in accordance with IFRIC 11, 
Group and Treasury Share Transactions.
Joint Ventures 
In accordance with IAS 31, Interests in Joint Ventures, the Group accounts for Joint Ventures under the equity method of accounting. 
The Group’s share of a Joint Venture’s profit after tax is included from the date on which the Group acquires joint control. Within the
consolidated balance sheet the investment is recorded at cost (classified as a non-current asset) and subsequently adjusted to reflect 
the Group’s share of the movements in the Joint Venture’s net assets post-acquisition. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 71
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
The results, assets and liabilities of Joint Ventures are stated in accordance with Group accounting policies. Where Joint Ventures adopt
accounting policies that are different from the Group, their reported results are restated to comply with the Group’s accounting policies.
Where Joint Ventures do not adopt accounting periods that are coterminous with the Group’s, results and net assets are based upon
unaudited accounts drawn up to the Group’s accounting reference date.
PPP/PFI concessions
Assets constructed by PPP/PFI concession companies are classified in the accounts of the Joint Ventures as financial assets or intangible
assets, depending on whether the grantor or user has the primary responsibility to pay the operator for the concession services. To date
all of the Group’s PPP/PFI concession assets have been classed as financial assets.
The financial asset represents an interest-bearing, long-term receivable. The cost of the financial asset at any one time is equal to the
accumulated value of service delivery plus accumulated interest charged to the financial asset less amounts received to date.
The financial asset is measured at fair value. Where it is classed as a loan receivable any movement in fair value is taken to the income
statement. Where it is classed as available for sale any movement in fair value is taken to reserves. 
Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received for goods and services provided in the normal course of business
net of value added tax rebates and discounts. Revenue from contracting activities represents the value of work carried out during the
year including amounts not invoiced. Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the
effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the
financial asset to that asset’s net carrying value amount.
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be measured reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage 
of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date as measured by the contract costs incurred. Where the outcome of a
construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that contract costs
incurred will be recovered. 
When it is probable that the total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected resultant loss is recognised as an
expense immediately. 
Income tax
Current and deferred income tax are recognised in the income statement for the period except where the taxation arises as a result 
of a transaction or event that is recognised directly in equity. Income tax arising on transactions or events recognised directly in equity 
is charged or credited directly to equity. 
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated Financial Statements. However, the deferred income tax is not accounted for if it
arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been
enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is
realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the
temporary differences can be utilised.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and Joint Ventures. 
Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment. Prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful economic life.
Amortisation ceased on 1 April 2004 and the carrying value of existing goodwill was frozen at that date and subject to annual
impairment review.
On acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired business at the
date of acquisition. Goodwill arises when the fair value of the consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value of the net assets.
In accordance with IFRS 3, Business combinations, goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is subject to impairment review 
both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Goodwill that arose prior to 1 April 1997 was written off to retained earnings/loss. Profit or loss on disposal of the underlying businesses
to which this goodwill related will not include goodwill previously recorded as a deduction from equity. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
72 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
Acquired customer relationships
Acquired customer relationships consist of intangible assets arising on the consolidation of recently acquired business, principally future
order books, that do not appear within the balance sheet of the acquired entity itself, and which are separable from goodwill in
accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations and IAS 38, Intangible Assets. Customer relationships are amortised on a straight-line
basis over their useful economic lives of between one and three years. 
Corporate information systems
In accordance with IAS 38, Intangible assets, the Group’s corporate information systems are treated as an intangible asset. Costs
included are those directly attributable to the design, construction and testing of new systems (including major enhancements and
internally generated costs) from the point of inception to the point of satisfactory completion where the probable future economic
benefits arising from the investment could be assessed with reasonable certainty at the time the costs are incurred. Maintenance and
minor modifications are expensed in the income statement as incurred. The corporate information systems are amortised on a straight-
line basis over their estimated useful economic life of six years.
Software licences
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific
software. These costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives of between two and five years.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. Cost comprises purchase price after
discounts and rebates plus all directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight line basis calculated at annual rates to write off the cost less residual value 
of each asset over the term of its estimated useful economic life as follows:
Freehold buildings 10 to 50 years
Short leasehold over the life of the lease
Plant and machinery 3 to 10 years
Special purpose industrial motor vehicles  3 to 12 years
Other motor vehicles 3 to 4 years
Information technology 2
1
⁄ 2 to 5 years
No depreciation is provided in respect of freehold land.
The directors annually review the estimated useful economic lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment.
Impairment
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are reviewed for impairment annually and when there are
indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment wherever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the
amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair
value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there
are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). 
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairments.
Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets into the following two categories: at fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
These include fixed interest securities, floating rate notes and certificates of deposit which are valued at bid price quoted on a recognised
stock exchange. Debt securities issued at a significant discount to the maturity value are valued at cost plus amortised discount over the
life of the security. Also included are restricted cash deposits where withdrawals are restricted under contractual arrangements. Changes
in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included within current assets except where the maturity is greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date in which case
they are included as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables consist of trade and other receivables and cash and cash
equivalents, which are shown separately within the balance sheet. Trade receivables are recognised at original invoice amount less
provision for impairment, which, due to their short-term nature, approximates to their fair value. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 73
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Other receivables include loan notes receivable in respect of disposals, which are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method less any provision for impairment. This valuation approximates to their fair value. 
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets 
is impaired. Any impairment is charged to the income statement. Impairment testing for trade receivables is described below in the
accounting policy paragraph relating to trade receivables.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at cost less impairment. Cost is calculated on a first-in, first-out basis.
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are recognised at original invoice amount. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there 
is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default 
or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, demand deposits and short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible
to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
Derivative financial instruments are initially accounted for and measured at fair value on the date a contract is entered into and are
subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Where a derivative is designated as a fair value hedge and is assessed as being effective in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement, the gain or loss on re-measurement is recognised in the income statement together with the
corresponding changes in the fair value of the hedged item that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Where a derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge and is assessed as being effective in accordance with IAS 39, the gain or loss on
re-measurement is recognised in equity. Amounts accumulated in equity are transferred to the income statement when the underlying
transaction being hedged occurs or, if the transaction results in the creation of a non-financial asset or liability, are included in the initial
cost of the asset or liability.
Where the derivative is designated as a hedge in the net investment in a foreign operation and is assessed as being effective in
accordance with IAS 39, the gain or loss on re-measurement is recognised in equity. Amounts accumulated in equity are transferred 
to the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation. Similar treatment is applied where the hedge of a net investment in 
a foreign operation is a non-derivative financial instrument such as a foreign currency loan.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income
statement as they arise. 
Lease obligations
Finance leases
Lease arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee are treated as finance leases. Assets
held under finance leases are capitalised within property, plant and equipment and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term 
and the useful life of the asset. A liability is recognised for the present value of the minimum lease payments within current and/or 
non-current liabilities as appropriate. Rental payments are apportioned between capital and interest expense to achieve a constant rate
of interest charge on the outstanding obligation. 
Where the Group acts as a lessor in a finance lease, receivables under finance leases represent outstanding amounts due under these
agreements less finance charges allocated to future periods. Finance lease interest is recognised over the primary period of the lease 
so as to produce a constant rate of return on the net cash investment.
Operating leases
Where the Group acts as lessee in an operating lease arrangement, the lease payments are charged as an expense to the income statement
on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives received are also recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Where the Group acts as lessor in an operating lease arrangement, rental income from operating leases is accounted for on a straight-
line basis over the period of the lease. Lease incentives provided are also recognised over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
Trade payables 
Trade payables are recognised at original invoice amount. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
74 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity
as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges
Onerous contract provisions are recognised for losses on contracts where the forecast costs of fulfilling the contract throughout the
contract period exceed the forecast income receivable. In assessing the amount of the loss to provide on any contract, account is taken
of the Group’s share of the forecast results from any Joint Ventures which the contract is servicing. The provision is calculated based 
on discounted cash flows to the end of the contract.
Vacant property provisions are recognised when the Group has committed to a course of action that will result in the property becoming
vacant. The provision is calculated based on discounted cash flows to the end of the lease.
Application of new IFRS standards and interpretations
(a) Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in current financial year but not relevant
The following standards, amendments and interpretations are effective in the current year but are not relevant to the Group’s activities:
•IFRS 4, Insurance contracts;
•IFRIC 7, Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29, Financial reporting in hyper-inflationary economies; 
•IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2; 
•IFRIC 9, Re-assessment of embedded derivatives; and
•IFRIC 10, Interim financial reporting and impairment.
(b) Standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group 
• IFRS 2, Share-based payments – clarification of share vesting conditions (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009),
is not expected to have any significant impact on the results of the Group;
•IFRS 3 (revised), Business combinations (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009), will impact the calculation 
of consideration and goodwill for future acquisitions, as transaction costs will be expensed and some contingent payments will be 
re-measured at fair value through the income statement. If this was early adopted, £0.7m of goodwill currently capitalised would 
have been expensed through the income statement in the period;
•IFRS 8, Operating segments (effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009) replaces IAS 14 and aligns segment
reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131, Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information.
The new standard uses a ‘management approach’, under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for
internal reporting purposes. The Group will apply IFRS 8 from 1 April 2009 but it is not expected to have a significant impact on the
Group’s accounts;
•IAS 1 (revised), Presentation of Financial Statements (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009), is not expected
to have any significant impact on the results of the Group;
•IAS 23, Borrowing costs (effective from 1 January 2009). The amendment to the standard is still subject to endorsement by the EU.
It requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset
(one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale) as part of the cost of that asset. The option of immediately
expensing those borrowing costs will be removed. The group will apply IAS 23 (Amended) from 1 April 2009, subject to endorsement
by the EU but is currently not applicable to the Group or Company as there are no qualifying assets;
•IAS 27 (revised), Consolidated and separate Financial Statements (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009), 
is not expected to have any significant impact on the results of the Group; and
•IAS 32, Financial instruments and IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, (effective from 1 January 2009). The amendment requires
entities to classify certain types of financial instruments as equity, provided they have particular features and meet specific specified
conditions. The Group will apply these amendments from 1 January 2009 but it is not expected to have a significant impact on the
Group’s accounts. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 75
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
(c) Interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group
The following interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for later accounting periods and the Group
has not early adopted:
•IFRIC 14, IAS 19, The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction (effective for accounting
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008). IFRIC 14 provides guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of the
surplus that can be recognised as an asset. It also explains how the pension asset or liability may be affected by a statutory or
contractual minimum funding requirement. The Group will apply IFRIC 14 from 1 April 2008, but it is not expected to have any 
impact on the Group’s or Company’s accounts based on current IAS 19 assumptions.
(d) Interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and not relevant for the Group’s operations
The following interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for later accounting periods but are 
not relevant for the Group’s operations:
•IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008). IFRIC 13 clarifies that where
goods or services are sold together with a customer loyalty incentive (for example, loyalty points or free products), the arrangement 
is a multiple-element arrangement and the consideration receivable from the customer is allocated between the components of the
arrangement using fair values. IFRIC 13 is not relevant to the Group or Company’s operations because none of the Group’s companies
operate any loyalty programmes. 
(e) Interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and the principles have been applied by the Group
The following interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for later accounting periods and the 
Group has applied the principles early:
•IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements which outlines an approach to account for contractual arrangements arising from 
entities providing public services. 
2. Financial risk management
Risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange risk, fair value interest rate risk, 
cash flow interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the
unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group
uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department (Group Treasury) under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Group’s operating units. The Board provides
written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest
rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
These policies are further described within the Treasury Policies and Objectives section of the Operating and Financial Review.
Where individual sensitivities are disclosed below, all other variables are held constant.
a) Market risk
i) Foreign exchange risk
The Group operates in a number of international territories. Each business undertakes a large proportion of its commercial transactions
within its local market and in its local functional currency. Foreign exchange risk arises from the small proportion of commercial
transactions undertaken in currencies other than the local functional currency, from financial assets and liabilities denominated in
currencies other than the local functional currency and on the Group’s net investments in foreign operations.
Group policy is for each business to undertake commercial transactions in its own functional currency whenever possible. When this 
is not possible, the Group manages its foreign exchange risk from future commercial transactions using appropriate derivative contracts
arranged via Group Treasury. Cash flows are reviewed on a monthly basis throughout the duration of future projects and the future
cover amended as appropriate.
Trade receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency arise from commercial transactions
and are therefore largely hedged as part of the process described above. Remaining financial assets and liabilities denominated in
currencies other than the local functional currency include bank accounts, loans and intercompany funding balances. These are
unhedged with the exception of balances that are themselves designated as hedging instruments used to hedge the Group’s net
investment in foreign operations. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
76 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
The Group’s primary exposure to foreign exchange rate risk on unhedged financial instruments arises mainly in respect of movements
between the US dollar (including dollar-pegged currencies) and sterling and between the euro and sterling. At 31 March 2008, if sterling
had strengthened/weakened by 9% against the US dollar then profit after tax would be lower/higher by approximately £0.3m (2007: £0.2m)
and equity would be £0.3m lower/higher (2007: £0.2m). If sterling had strengthened/weakened by 20% against the euro then profit
after tax would be lower/higher by approximately £1.3m (2007: £0.4m) and equity would be £1.3m lower/higher (2007: £0.4m).
The Group’s investments in foreign operations are subject to foreign currency translation risk. A proportion of this risk has been
managed by taking out foreign currency loans in the relevant currency and, in one instance, by maintaining a substantial sterling bank
account balance in the local business. Following a review of hedging policy undertaken during the year, it was decided not to hedge 
the Group’s net investment in foreign operations and as a consequence the foreign currency loans were repaid.
ii) Interest rate risk
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk arises from loan notes, cash and cash equivalents and financial assets at fair value through
profit or loss which are all interest bearing, offset in part by interest bearing borrowings. The majority of items included in the above are
at floating rates of interest or fixed deposits for periods of less than six months; changes in the interest rate result in changes in interest
related cash flow. No interest rate hedging is currently undertaken by the Group or its subsidiaries. If interest rates for the year to 
31 March 2008 were 10 basis points higher/lower, then profit after tax for the year would have been approximately £0.1m 
(2007: £0.1m) higher/lower, principally due to increased interest received on short-term bank deposits.
iii) Price risk
The Group does not have any equity securities in its balance sheet and is not materially exposed to commodity price risk. Certain longer
term project and framework contracts include indexation clauses that are applied to unit rates to offset the effect of inflation on input
costs over the duration of the agreement. The Group is exposed to price risk to the extent that inflation differs from the index used and
forecast project outcomes that form the basis of revenue recognition include an estimate of this risk where it is present.
b) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that the Group will suffer financial loss as a result of counterparties defaulting on their contractual obligations. The
risk arises on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss, cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables, with
the maximum exposure to risk equivalent to 100% of the carrying value disclosed in the Group’s balance sheet at 31 March. The Group
does not hold any collateral as security. The majority of the Group’s cash deposits are placed with its relationship banks, which carry at
least an AA credit rating. For deposits and money-market investments placed with banks and financial institutions, only independently
rated parties with a minimum rating of A are accepted. Investments carry a minimum credit rating of A1/P1. Cash and investments are
not concentrated with any one counterparty.
For trade and other receivables, an assessment of credit quality of the customer is made where appropriate using a combination of
external rating agencies, past experience and other factors. In circumstances where credit information is unavailable or poor, the risk 
is mitigated by use of advance payments and, by exception, through credit risk insurance. Group policy is not to apply individual credit
limits, although exposure and payment performance are monitored closely both at individual project and client level, with a series of
escalating debt recovery actions taken where necessary. The Group’s customer base is broad and dispersed; there are no concentrations
of credit risk that would cause concern. 
c) Liquidity risk
The Group funds its activities through cash generated from its operations and, where necessary, bank borrowings and finance leases.
The Group’s banking facilities include cash facilities and bank guarantees. Cash flow forecasts are prepared covering various periods
from short to long-term to ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet the Group’s commitments as they fall due. 
The table below analyses the maturity profile of the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities. Figures shown are undiscounted.
On demand Between Between
or within 1 and 2 and Over 5 Carrying
2008 1 year 2 years 5 years years Discount value
Hire purchase and finance leases 4.4 4.7 5.3 1.8 (2.2) 14.0 
Loan notes 4.3 2.9 0.7 – (0.5) 7.4 
Trade payables 52.0 – – – – 52.0 
On demand Between Between
or within 1 and 2 and Over 5 Carrying
2007 1 year 2 years 5 years years Discount value
Bank loans – 17.3 – – – 17.3 
Hire purchase and finance leases 3.9 4.6 8.1 0.4 (2.3) 14.7 
Loan notes 0.4 2.7 3.1 – – 6.2 
Trade payables 39.1 – – – – 39.1 
Amounts due to Joint Ventures 19.6 – – – – 19.6  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 77
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Derivative financial instruments consist of forward foreign exchange contracts used to hedge future commercial transactions, 
as disclosed in note 27. The maturity profile of undiscounted inflows and outflows measured at fair values at the balance sheet
date was as follows:
Between Between
Within 1 and 2 and
2008 1 year 2 years 5 years Total
Outflow 16.1 2.6 1.8 20.5 
Inflow (15.2) (2.6) (1.8) (19.6)
Net 0.9 – – 0.9 
Between Between
Within 1 and 2 and 
2007 1 year 2 years 5 years Total
Outflow 9.1 1.4 1.9 12.4 
Inflow (9.0) (1.4) (1.9) (12.3)
Net 0.1 – – 0.1 
d) Concentrations of financial instruments
The carrying amounts of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities, excluding derivative financial instruments, were denominated in the
following currencies.
Financial Financial Financial Financial
assets liabilities assets liabilities
2008 2008 2007 2007 
£m £m £m £m 
Sterling 239.9 55.6 284.1 63.5 
US dollar 95.7 6.2 97.3 5.9 
Euro 16.6 2.3 14.2 6.4 
UAE dirham 14.7 0.7 15.0 7.1 
HK dollar 10.5 2.5 9.7 2.3 
China RMB 6.2 0.2 6.2 5.4 
Denmark krone 5.1 1.6 4.4 1.4 
Other 21.9 4.3 20.3 4.9 
Total 410.6 73.4 451.2 96.9 
The financial assets and liabilities of the Company are all denominated in sterling.
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that it is able to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders 
and benefits for other stakeholders, and to minimise its cost of capital by maintaining an optimal capital structure.
The Group maintains or adjusts its capital structure through the payment of dividends to shareholders, issues of new shares and 
buy-back of existing shares and through its loan facility.
For capital management purposes, the Group monitors the ratio of its net debt plus defined benefit pension deficit net of deferred 
tax to EBITDA. This policy is unchanged from prior year.  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
78 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
3. Segmental reporting
a) Group business segments
Revenue and results
Inter- Share of post-
Total segment Operating Operating tax profit from
revenue revenue Revenue profit margin Joint Ventures 
2008 £m £m £m £m % £m 
Design and Engineering Solutions 390.8 (17.2) 373.6 30.2 8.1% –
Highways and Transportation 291.6 (17.0) 274.6 16.8 6.1% 0.7 
Rail 224.9 (16.7) 208.2 11.9 5.7% –
Middle East, China and Europe 206.5 (14.9) 191.6 11.4 5.9% – 
Management and Project Services 223.5 (10.3) 213.2 13.6 6.4% –
Asset Management 54.7 (2.3) 52.4 2.8 5.3% 0.2 
Total continuing segments 1,392.0 (78.4) 1,313.6 86.7 6.6% 0.9 
Discontinued operations 33.3 (0.1) 33.2 17.0 51.2% – 
Total from operations 1,425.3 (78.5) 1,346.8 103.7 7.7% 0.9 
Inter- Impairment of Share of post-
Total segment Operating Operating investment in tax profit from
revenue revenue Revenue profit margin Joint Ventures Joint Ventures
2007 £m £m £m £m % £m £m
Design and Engineering Solutions 333.6 (12.8) 320.8 25.9 8.1% – – 
Highways and Transportation 265.9 (15.4) 250.5 13.2 5.3% – 0.6 
Rail 238.4 (23.3) 215.1 2.6 1.2% – – 
Middle East, China and Europe 161.6 (12.7) 148.9 7.5 5.0% – – 
Management and Project Services 201.9 (8.3) 193.6 12.5 6.5% – – 
Asset Management 53.5 (2.6) 50.9 2.0 3.9% – 2.2 
Total continuing segments 1,254.9 (75.1) 1,179.8 63.7 5.4% – 2.8 
Discontinued operations 83.8 – 83.8 8.9 10.6% (70.0) (48.2)
Total from operations 1,338.7 (75.1) 1,263.6 72.6 5.7% (70.0) (45.4)
Design and Engineering Solutions and Rail segments have been restated to exclude the results of other European businesses that are
now reported within the Middle East, China and Europe segment. 
The continuing elements of the former Equity Investment segment are now shown within Asset Management. 
Included within operating profit for the year to 31 March 2007 is £4.0m exceptional loss (refer to note 9) relating to Design and
Engineering Solutions (£1.1m), Rail (£2.6m) and Management and Project Services (£0.3m).
Reconciliation of segmental analysis to profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders:
2008 2007
£m £m
Operating profit (continuing segments) 86.7 63.7 
Share of post-tax profit from Joint Ventures 0.9 2.8 
Profit from operations 87.6 66.5 
Finance income 9.8 9.0 
Finance cost (5.5) (5.4)
Net finance income 4.3 3.6 
Profit before taxation 91.9 70.1 
Income tax expense (23.3) (15.2)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 68.6 54.9
Discontinued operations 31.4 (112.2)
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 100.0 (57.3)  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 79
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Balance sheet
Investments Other Total Total Net
in Joint segment segment segment assets/
Goodwill Ventures assets assets liabilities(liabilities)
2008 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Design and Engineering Solutions 32.5 (0.1) 137.6 170.0 (195.4) (25.4)
Highways and Transportation 2.2 1.0 67.2 70.4 (129.5) (59.1)
Rail 1.4 – 76.7 78.1 (87.3) (9.2)
Middle East, China and Europe 3.9 – 173.0 176.9 (120.4) 56.5 
Management and Project Services 16.7 2.5 67.5 86.7 (67.7) 19.0 
Asset Management – 0.8 13.7 14.5 (33.7) (19.2)
Total for continuing segments 56.7 4.2 535.7 596.6 (634.0) (37.4)
Unallocated assets/(liabilities) – – 80.3 80.3 (66.3) 14.0 
Total for Group 56.7 4.2 616.0 676.9 (700.3) (23.4)
Investments Other Total Total Net
in Joint segment segment segment assets/
Goodwill Ventures assets assets liabilities(liabilities)
2007 (restated) £m £m £m £m £m £m
Design and Engineering Solutions 26.0 – 137.8 163.8 (193.3) (29.5)
Highways and Transportation – 0.3 72.8 73.1 (135.6) (62.5)
Rail 1.4 – 87.9 89.3 (180.8) (91.5)
Middle East, China and Europe 3.4 – 109.4 112.8 (73.4) 39.4 
Management and Project Services 16.5 2.2 65.9 84.6 (60.6) 24.0 
Asset Management – 0.2 15.8 16.0 (39.7) (23.7)
Total for continuing segments 47.3 2.7 489.6 539.6 (683.4) (143.8)
Discontinued segments 17.5 (28.7) 41.5 30.3 (46.4) (16.1)
Unallocated assets/(liabilities) – – 136.1 136.1 (52.3) 83.8 
Total for Group 64.8 (26.0) 667.2 706.0 (782.1) (76.1)
Unallocated assets/(liabilities) primarily consist of UK financial assets, UK cash and cash equivalents, bank loans and tax balances that
cannot be readily allocated to segments.
Other segmental information
Share-based Capital Depreciation
payments expenditure& amortisation
2008 £m £m £m
Design and Engineering Solutions 3.1 17.0 9.5 
Highways and Transportation 1.8 11.4 5.6 
Rail 1.4 4.7 4.3 
Middle East, China and Europe 0.1 7.3 3.7 
Management and Project Services 1.9 6.9 6.2 
Asset Management 0.3 1.1 1.1 
Total for continuing segments 8.6 48.4 30.4 
Discontinued segments – 0.9 0.5 
Total for Group 8.6 49.3 30.9 
Share-based Capital Depreciation
payments expenditure & amortisation
2007 (restated) £m £m £m
Design and Engineering Solutions 1.7 16.4 9.0 
Highways and Transportation 1.1 11.2 6.7 
Rail 1.0 9.9 4.8 
Middle East, China and Europe 0.1 4.5 2.3 
Management and Project Services 1.0 11.1 6.6 
Asset Management 0.2 2.0 1.0 
Total for continuing segments 5.1 55.1 30.4 
Discontinued segments – 4.1 1.7 
Total for Group 5.1 59.2 32.1 
Capital expenditure includes additions to goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
80 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
b) Group geographical segments
The Group’s operations are based in five main geographical areas. The United Kingdom is the home country of the parent company.
External revenue is measured by location of operation. There was no material difference between geographic revenue by location 
of operation and by location of customer.
Revenue T otal segment assets Capital expenditure
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom 1,027.4 954.9 425.7 509.3 39.9 49.0 
Other European countries 63.8 56.7 72.3 40.6 1.4 1.2 
Middle East 128.3 85.0 122.3 79.6 5.8 3.2 
North America 55.4 49.2 35.1 33.3 0.8 0.8 
Asia Pacific 38.7 34.0 21.5 12.9 0.5 0.9 
Total from continuing segments 1,313.6 1,179.8 676.9 675.7 48.4 55.1 
Discontinued segments 33.2 83.8 – 30.3 0.9 4.1 
Total for Group 1,346.8 1,263.6 676.9 706.0 49.3 59.2 
Capital expenditure includes additions to goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
c) Company
The Company’s business is to invest in its subsidiaries and hence it operates in a single segment.
4. Joint Ventures
a) Share of post-tax profit/(loss) from Joint Ventures
Discontinued
Continuing (note10) Total 
2008 £m £m £m 
Revenue 85.9 144.7 230.6
Operating expenditure (85.1) (138.7) (223.8)
Operating profit 0.8 6.0 6.8
Finance cost (4.3) (8.3) (12.6)
Finance income 4.8 0.9 5.7
Profit/(loss) before taxation 1.3 (1.4) (0.1)
Income tax (expense)/credit (0.4) 1.4 1.0
Share of post-tax profit from Joint Ventures 0.9 – 0.9
Discontinued
Continuing (note10) Total 
2007 £m £m £m 
Revenue 60.5 315.8 376.3 
Operating expenditure (58.1) (377.9) (436.0)
Operating profit/(loss) 2.4 (62.1) (59.7)
Finance cost (4.4) (19.4) (23.8)
Finance income 4.7 19.2 23.9 
Profit/(loss) before taxation 2.7 (62.3) (59.6)
Income tax credit 0.1 14.1 14.2 
Share of post-tax profit/(loss) from Joint Ventures 2.8 (48.2) (45.4) WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 81
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
b) Investments in Joint Ventures
Total
Continuing
2008 £m 
Non-current assets
Other non-current assets 82.5
82.5
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 7.5
Other current assets 31.5
39.0 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (32.0)
(32.0)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings (81.9)
Other non-current liabilities (3.4)
(85.3)
Share of net assets 4.2
Investments in Joint Ventures 4.2
Continuing Discontinued Total
2007 £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Other non-current assets 64.2 324.6 388.8 
64.2 324.6 388.8 
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 25.2 81.1 106.3 
Other current assets 16.9 123.1 140.0 
42.1 204.2 246.3 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (22.4) (185.8) (208.2)
(22.4) (185.8) (208.2)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings (82.5) (349.9) (432.4)
Other non-current liabilities 1.3 (21.8) (20.5)
(81.2) (371.7) (452.9)
Share of net assets/(liabilities) 2.7 (28.7) (26.0)
Investments in Joint Ventures 2.7 (28.7) (26.0) WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
82 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
5. Operating profit
Group
Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 
£m £m £m £m £m £m 
Operating profit is arrived at after charging/(crediting)
Employee benefit costs (see note 6) 665.1 6.6 671.7 579.2 50.0 629.2 
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses (0.8) – (0.8) 1.0 – 1.0 
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment
– owned assets 17.1 0.5 17.6 16.2 0.9 17.1 
– assets held under finance leases 2.2 – 2.2 2.6 0.8 3.4 
Loss/(profit) on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 – 0.1 (0.1) 0.4 0.3 
Impairment of trade receivables/(reversal of impairment) 
– increase in provisions 4.1 – 4.1 5.1 – 5.1
– release of provisions (3.1) – (3.1) (4.4) – (4.4)
Amortisation of intangibles (included in administrative expenses)
– customer relationships 0.8 – 0.8 0.5 – 0.5 
– other assets 10.3 – 10.3 11.1 – 11.1 
Receipts under operating leases
– plant and machinery 0.7 – 0.7 0.6 – 0.6 
– property 2.9 0.1 3.0 3.8 0.6 4.4 
Payments under operating leases
– plant and machinery 6.7 0.1 6.8 7.1 0.6 7.7 
– property 21.7 0.4 22.1 21.6 2.2 23.8 
Company operating profit was arrived at after charging £0.0m of net foreign exchange losses (2007: £0.2m) and £57.7m of profit 
on disposal of investments (2007: nil).
Services provided by the Group’s auditors
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Group’s auditors at costs 
as detailed below:
Group
Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 
£m £m £m £m £m £m 
Statutory audit of parent and consolidated company’s
annual accounts 0.2 – 0.2 0.2 – 0.2 
The audit of accounts of company subsidiaries pursuant 
to legislation 0.5 – 0.5 0.6 0.1 0.7 
Total audit services 0.7 – 0.7 0.8 0.1 0.9 
Other services pursuant to such legislation 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1 
Other services relating to taxation 0.2 – 0.2 0.2 – 0.2 
Services relating to corporate finance transactions – 0.4 0.4 – – – 
All other services 0.3 – 0.3 0.1 – 0.1 
Total non-audit services 0.6 0.4 1.0 0.4 – 0.4 
Total 1.3 0.4 1.7 1.2 0.1 1.3 
The statutory audit of the Company’s annual accounts was £0.1m (2007: £0.1m). No other services were provided to the Company 
by the Group’s auditors (2007: nil). 
The Atkins Pension Plan is audited by Baker Tilly and the audit fee for 2008 was £28,000 (2007: £23,000). This audit fee was borne 
by the Group. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 83
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
6. Employee benefit costs
Average Year-end 
2008 2007 2008 2007 
No. No. No. No. 
Number of full time equivalent people (including 
executive directors) employed by the Group
By class of business
Design and Engineering Solutions 4,414 3,659 4,673 4,097 
Highways and Transportation 2,930 2,962 2,717 2,954 
Rail 1,588 1,455 1,565 1,538 
Middle East, China and Europe 3,381 2,612 3,787 2,964 
Management and Project Services 2,282 2,147 2,337 2,201 
Asset Management 651 624 645 658 
Corporate 523 485 549 502 
Total continuing operations 15,769 13,944 16,273 14,914 
Discontinued operations 223 947 – 956 
Group Total 15,992 14,891 16,273 15,870 
Design and Engineering Solutions and Rail segments have been restated to exclude the employees of other European businesses that 
are now reported within the Middle East, China and Europe segment. 
The continuing elements of the former Equity Investments segment are now shown within Asset Management. 
Aggregate employee benefit costs of those people amounted to:
Group
Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Wages and salaries 547.1 6.0 553.1 477.3 33.1 510.4 
Profit share and performance-related bonus 21.1 – 21.1 15.1 11.8 26.9 
Social security costs 47.2 0.6 47.8 40.8 5.1 45.9 
Retirement benefit costs (see note 29) 41.1 – 41.1 40.9 – 40.9 
Share-based payments (see note 32) 8.6 – 8.6 5.1 – 5.1 
665.1 6.6 671.7 579.2 50.0 629.2 
Wages and salaries for 2008 includes £2.4m of redundancy costs (2007: £1.1m) relating to continuing operations.
Details of remuneration (including retirement benefits) and interests for directors are included in the Remuneration Report, which 
forms part of these Financial Statements. Details of remuneration for key management are included in note 39.
The Company has no employees (2007: nil). WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
84 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
7. Net finance (income)/cost
Group
Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest payable on borrowings 0.8 – 0.8 1.0 0.1 1.1 
Hire purchase and finance leases 1.0 0.1 1.1 0.7 0.2 0.9 
Unwinding of discount 1.2 – 1.2 0.5 – 0.5 
Net finance cost on retirement benefit liabilities 1.1 – 1.1 2.4 – 2.4 
Other finance costs 1.4 0.8 2.2 0.8 1.0 1.8 
Finance cost 5.5 0.9 6.4 5.4 1.3 6.7 
Interest receivable on short-term deposits (7.1) (0.3) (7.4) (7.5) (0.9) (8.4)
Income from held at fair value financial assets (1.6) – (1.6) (1.5) – (1.5)
Unwinding of discount (0.3) – (0.3) – – – 
Other finance income (0.8) – (0.8) – – – 
Finance income (9.8) (0.3) (10.1) (9.0) (0.9) (9.9)
Net finance (income)/cost (4.3) 0.6 (3.7) (3.6) 0.4 (3.2)
The Group has adopted IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures and as a result additional categories of finance income and costs 
are disclosed. Prior year comparatives have been restated on the same basis. 
Company finance income consisted of interest income of £0.5m and unwinding of discount on loan notes receivable of £0.3m.
8. Income tax expense – continuing operations
a) Analysis of charge in the year
Group
2008 2007 
£m £m 
Current income tax
– Current year 18.9 15.0 
– Adjustment in respect of prior year (3.6) (4.5)
Deferred income tax (see note 19) 8.0 4.7 
Income tax on profit per income statement 23.3 15.2 
Adjust for:
– Joint Venture taxation 0.4 (0.1)
– Tax on exceptional items – 1.2
Normalised income tax expense 23.7 16.3 
Profit before tax per income statement 91.9 70.1 
Adjust for:
– Joint Venture taxation 0.4 (0.1)
– Exceptional items – 4.0 
Normalised profit before income tax 92.3 74.0 
Effective income tax rate 25.4% 21.7%
Normalised effective income tax rate 25.7% 22.0%
The total income tax expense (continuing and discontinued operations) was £28.3m (2007: £17.7m). Refer to note 10. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 85
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
b) Factors affecting income tax expense
The income tax expense for the year is lower (2007: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (30%). 
The differences are explained below:
Group
2008 2007 
% % 
UK statutory income tax rate 30.0 30.0 
Increase/(decrease) resulting from:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.5 1.8 
Adjustment in respect of overseas tax rates (3.4) (3.2)
Effect of share-based payments 0.8 0.8 
Tax on Joint Ventures (0.3) (1.1)
R&D tax credit (2.9) (5.8)
Other (0.3) (0.8)
Effective income tax rate 25.4 21.7 
The normalised income tax expense for the year is lower (2007: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (30%). 
The differences are explained below:
Group
2008 2007 
% % 
UK statutory income tax rate 30.0 30.0 
Increase/(decrease) resulting from:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.4 1.7 
Adjustment in respect of overseas tax rates (3.4) (2.9)
Effect of share-based payments 0.8 0.7 
Tax on Joint Ventures – (1.1)
R&D tax credit (2.9) (5.5)
Other (0.2) (0.9)
Normalised effective income tax rate 25.7 22.0 
c) Income tax on items charged to equity
Group
2008 2007 
Retirement Share- Retirement Share-
benefit based benefit based
liability payments Total liability payments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m 
At 1 April 8.5 3.3 11.8 18.1 2.2 20.3 
Deferred income tax (7.4) (0.6) (8.0) (9.6) (0.5) (10.1)
Current income tax – 0.2 0.2 – 1.6 1.6 
At 31 March 1.1 2.9 4.0 8.5 3.3 11.8  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
86 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
9. Exceptional items – continuing operations 
Exceptional items originally disclosed in the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 related to the Metronet Enterprise.
As a result of Metronet BCV Limited and Metronet SSL Limited entering PPP Administration, the majority of these charges are now
disclosed under discontinued operations (see note 10).
The exceptional charges shown below are in respect of the Group’s supply chain work and relate to anticipated future losses under 
the original contracts. 
Group
2007
Operating entities’ exceptional items: £m 
Atkins supply chain exceptional loss included in operating profit (4.0)
Tax credit on exceptional loss 1.2 
Operating entities’ post-tax exceptional loss (2.8)
10. Discontinued operations 
Lambert Smith Hampton (LSH)
On 25 June 2007 contracts were exchanged for the disposal of LSH for a total consideration valued at £50.8m. Goodwill disposed of
was £17.5m, including £2.6m within LSH’s own balance sheet. The profit on disposal was £20.0m.
LSH’s results and profit on disposal are presented as a discontinued operation.
Consideration received or receivable at date of disposal: £m
Initial cash consideration 40.0
Working capital adjustment 5.5
Loan notes 6.5
Discounting of loan notes to present value (1.2)
Disposal consideration 50.8
Assets and liabilities at date of disposal: £m
Goodwill 2.6
Property, plant and equipment 5.4
Trade and other receivables 18.5
Cash and cash equivalents 14.6
Trade and other payables (24.2)
Borrowings (4.0)
Other liabilities (0.1)
Net assets and liabilities of LSH 12.8
Metronet Joint Venture, Trans4m Joint Venture and related discontinued revenues and costs
Metronet BCV Limited and Metronet SSL Limited entered PPP Administration on 18 July 2007 and Trans4m’s contracts were terminated
on 30 August 2007. 
Their results are presented as a discontinued operation and are also disclosed in note 4. In addition, certain associated revenue and
costs, including the accelerated release of deferred income relating to the reimbursement of bid costs received at financial close in 
April 2003, have been classified as discontinued. 
Financial information relating to LSH, Metronet Joint Venture and Trans4m Joint Venture for the period prior to becoming discontinued 
is set out below. The income statement and cash flow statement distinguish discontinued operations from continuing operations.  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 87
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Metronet
and
2008 LSH Trans4m Total
Income statement and cash flow information £m £m £m 
Revenue 16.0 17.2 33.2
Administration and other expenses (15.8) (0.4) (16.2)
Net finance income/(cost) 0.2 (0.8) (0.6)
Profit before taxation from discontinued operations 0.4 16.0 16.4
Income tax expense (0.2) (4.8) (5.0)
Profit after income tax of discontinued operations 0.2 11.2 11.4
Pre-tax profit on disposal 20.0 – 20.0
Income tax expense – – –
After-tax profit on disposal 20.0 – 20.0
Profit from discontinued operations 20.2 11.2 31.4
Operating cash flows from discontinued operations 2.8 (2.5) 0.3
Investing cash flows from discontinued operations (0.2) (48.0) (48.2)
Investing cash flows – cash proceeds on disposal net of cash disposed 30.9 – 30.9
Financing cash flows from discontinued operations (0.3) – (0.3)
Total cash flows 33.2 (50.5) (17.3)
Metronet
2007 LSH and Trans4m Total
Income statement and cash flow information £m £m £m
Revenue 81.8 2.0 83.8 
Administration and other expenses (74.3) (0.6) (74.9)
Net finance income/(cost) 0.6 (1.0) (0.4)
Impairment of investment in Joint Ventures – (70.0) (70.0)
Share of post-tax loss from Joint Ventures (note 4) – (48.2) (48.2)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 8.1 (117.8) (109.7)
Income tax expense (2.4) (0.1) (2.5)
Profit/(loss) after income tax of discontinued operations 5.7 (117.9) (112.2)
Operating cash flows from discontinued operations 10.1 0.7 10.8 
Investing cash flows from discontinued operations (2.5) (18.0) (20.5)
Financing cash flows from discontinued operations (1.2) – (1.2)
Total cash flows 6.4 (17.3) (10.9)
11. Dividends
Company and Group
2008 2007 2008 2007 
pence pence £m £m 
Final dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2007 (2006) 14.0 11.5 14.2 11.6 
Interim dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2008 (2007) 7.5 6.0 7.6 6.1 
Dividends recognised in the year 21.5 17.5 21.8 17.7 
Interim dividend proposed for the year ended 31 March 2008 (2007) 7.5 6.0 7.6 6.1 
Final dividend proposed for the year ended 31 March 2008 (2007) 16.5 14.0 16.1 14.2 
Dividends relating to the year 24.0 20.0 23.7 20.3 
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included 
as a liability in these Financial Statements.
As at 31 March 2008 the Employee Benefit Trusts had agreed to waive dividends in excess of 0.01p per share on 2,697,476 
ordinary shares (2007: 3,251,358) in return for an equivalent gift. These arrangements reduced the dividend paid in year by £0.6m
(2007: £0.6m) and the proposed final dividend by £0.4m (2007: £0.5m). WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
88 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
12. Earnings per share (EPS)
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of
shares in issue during the year excluding shares held by the Employee Benefit Trusts (EBTs) which have not unconditionally vested in the
employees and shares in treasury.
Diluted earnings per share is the basic earnings per share after allowing for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares of
the number of options outstanding during the year. The options relate to discretionary employee share plans.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below:
Group
2008 2007 
number number
(‘000) (‘000) 
Number of shares
Weighted average number of shares used in basic, diluted (2007 only) and normalised basic EPS 101,105 100,901 
Effect of dilutive securities – Share options 1,735 1,204 
Weighted average number of shares used in diluted (2008 only) and normalised diluted EPS 102,840 102,105 
In 2007 the effect of share options was anti-dilutive.
£m £m
Earnings – continuing and discontinued operations
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity shareholders 100.0 (57.3)
Earnings – continuing operations
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 68.6 54.9 
Exceptional items (note 9) – 2.8 
Normalised earnings 68.6 57.7 
pence pence 
From continuing and discontinued operations
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (post-exceptional) 98.9 (56.8)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (post-exceptional) 97.2 (56.8)
From continuing operations
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (post-exceptional) 67.9 54.4 
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (post-exceptional) 66.7 53.8 
Normalised basic earnings per share (pre-exceptional) 67.9 57.2 
Normalised diluted earnings per share (pre-exceptional) 66.7 56.5 
Normalised diluted EPS (before exceptional items) is considered to be a more representative measure of underlying trading.
13. Parent company income statement
The Company has not presented its own income statement as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. The profit for the
year attributable to equity shareholders was £68.7m (2007: £4.9m), which included £10.9m dividend income from subsidiary companies. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 89
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
14. Goodwill
Group
2008 2007 
£m £m 
Cost at 1 April 71.0 43.1 
Additions (note 15) 9.1 30.0 
Disposals (17.5) – 
Difference on exchange 0.8 (2.1)
Cost at 31 March 63.4 71.0 
Aggregate impairment at 1 April 6.2 7.5 
Impairment charge for the year – – 
Difference on exchange 0.5 (1.3)
Aggregate impairment at 31 March 6.7 6.2 
Net book value at 31 March 56.7 64.8 
Goodwill is tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of assets at least annually.
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs) identified according to their business segment. The goodwill allocation
by CGU, summarised at segmental level, is disclosed in note 3.
The recoverable amount of goodwill for each CGU has been based on value in use as represented by the net present value of future
cash flows. Cash flows are projected forward for five years based on approved budgets and plans, beyond which they are inflated by a
GDP-based growth factor. They are then discounted using a discount rate based on the Group’s pre-tax discount rate based on nominal
weighted average cost of capital. The pre-tax discount rate used was 12.5% per annum. 
The key assumptions used for each CGU are as follows:
Group
2008 2007 
£m £m 
5-year growth rate 8% – 15% 9% – 17%
Post-5-year growth rate 4% 4%
Taxation rate 12.5% – 40% 12.5% – 40%
As at 31 March 2008, based on these internal valuations, the recoverable value of goodwill required no impairment. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
90 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
15. Business combinations
On 5 September 2007 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Intelligent Space Partnership Limited, a UK registered entity 
for  £2.3m deferred consideration relating to loan notes.
On 21 December 2007 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Nedtech Engineering BV , a Dutch registered entity for a
consideration of £6.5m consisting of cash consideration of £4.7m, deferred consideration of £1.6m and direct expenses paid of £0.2m.
Total Provisional Total
carrying fair value provisional
value adjustments fair value
Group £m £m £m 
Property, plant and equipment 0.3 – 0.3
Trade and other receivables 2.2 (0.6) 1.6
Cash and cash equivalents 0.7 – 0.7
Short term trade and other payables (0.9) (0.1) (1.0)
Current income tax liabilities (0.3) – (0.3)
2.0 (0.7) 1.3 
Goodwill on acquisition 7.5 
Consideration 8.8 
Consideration:
Cash paid 4.7 
Direct costs relating to the acquisition 0.2 
Deferred consideration 3.9
8.8
Included in the goodwill recognised above are items that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their nature.
These include new customers and synergy benefits. The provisional fair value adjustments relate primarily to the alignment to Group
accounting policies. 
The initial accounting for these acquisitions has been determined provisionally because fair values have not been finalised. Any
adjustments to the accounting required following finalisation of the fair values to be assigned to the acquired assets and liabilities 
will be recorded from the acquisition date within 12 months of the acquisition date.
During the year the Group paid additional cash consideration of £0.6m to the vendors of Advantage Business Group 
(acquired on 19 March 2007) and incurred and capitalised direct expenses of £0.4m.
During the year the Group paid additional cash consideration of £0.4m to the vendors of Boreas Consultants Limited 
(acquired on 14 December 2006) and incurred and capitalised direct expenses of £0.1m.
As a result of finalising fair values of previous acquisitions and incurring qualifying direct expenses, additional goodwill of £0.9m, 
£0.3m and £0.4m was recognised for Boreas Consultants Limited, Advantage Business Group and Mantix Group Limited respectively
during the year.
Included in the Group’s results for the year is £1.7m of revenue, £0.3m profit before taxation and £0.2m profit after taxation in relation
to the acquisitions above. If the acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year then the Group’s results would have included
£4.9m revenue, £1.4m profit before taxation and £0.9m profit after taxation for the year in relation to the acquisitions. The Group’s
total results would have been £1,316.8m of revenue, £93.0m profit before taxation and £69.3m profit after taxation. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 91
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
16. Other intangible assets
Acquired Corporate Intellectual 
customer information property Software Group 
relationships systems rights licences Total 
£m £m £m £m £m 
Cost at 1 April 2006 0.1 15.3 – 8.6 24.0 
Additions – 0.4 – 8.6 9.0 
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 1.8 – 0.2 – 2.0 
Disposals – – – (8.0) (8.0)
Cost at 31 March 2007 1.9 15.7 0.2 9.2 27.0 
Additions – 0.1 – 14.7 14.8 
Disposals – (0.5) – (8.8) (9.3)
Cost at 31 March 2008 1.9 15.3 0.2 15.1 32.5 
Amortisation at 1 April 2006 – 9.5 – 4.5 14.0 
Amortisation charge for the year 0.5 3.0 – 8.1 11.6 
Disposals – – – (8.0) (8.0)
Amortisation at 31 March 2007 0.5 12.5 – 4.6 17.6 
Amortisation charge for the year 0.8 2.9 – 7.4 11.1 
Disposals – (0.1) – (7.0) (7.1)
Amortisation at 31 March 2008 1.3 15.3 – 5.0 21.6 
Net book value at 31 March 2008 0.6 – 0.2 10.1 10.9 
Net book value at 31 March 2007 1.4 3.2 0.2 4.6 9.4 
Included within corporate information systems is £0.0m (2007: £0.2m) of internally generated intangible assets.
17. Property, plant and equipment
Freehold Short-term Plant,
land & leasehold machinery Group
buildings property & vehicles Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 April 2006 10.1 11.5 85.5 107.1
Additions – 1.8 18.4 20.2
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings – 0.1 0.4 0.5
Disposals – – (19.1) (19.1)
Difference on exchange – (0.2) (0.9) (1.1)
Cost at 31 March 2007 10.1 13.2 84.3 107.6
Additions – 4.1 21.3 25.4
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings – 0.1 0.2 0.3
Disposals – (0.2) (3.8) (4.0)
Disposal of subsidiary undertaking – (0.7) (11.4) (12.1)
Difference on exchange – – 0.6 0.6
Cost at 31 March 2008 10.1 16.5 91.2 117.8 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
92 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
FreeholdShort-term Plant,
land & leasehold machinery Group
buildings property & vehicles Total
£m £m £m £m
Depreciation at 1 April 2006 7.1 4.6 48.2 59.9
Depreciation charge for the year 0.1 1.7 18.7 20.5
Disposals – – (18.2) (18.2)
Difference on exchange – (0.2) (0.6) (0.8)
Depreciation at 31 March 2007 7.2 6.1 48.1 61.4
Depreciation charge for the year 0.1 2.1 17.6 19.8
Disposals – (0.1) (2.8) (2.9)
Disposal of subsidiary undertaking – (0.6) (6.1) (6.7)
Difference on exchange – – 0.6 0.6
Depreciation at 31 March 2008 7.3 7.5 57.4 72.2
Net book value at 31 March 2008 2.8 9.0 33.8 45.6
Net book value at 31 March 2007 2.9 7.1 36.2 46.2
The market value of freehold land and buildings is estimated at £10.3m (2007: £10.1m).
Included in plant, machinery and vehicles above are equipment and vehicles held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Cost 23.3 23.8
Accumulated depreciation (9.9) (9.8)
Net book value 13.4 14.0
Additions to property, plant and equipment funded by finance leases were £6.3m (2007: £5.8m).
Included in the above are equipment and vehicles leased to customers under operating leases as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Cost 3.2 3.4
Accumulated depreciation (2.1) (2.1)
Net book value 1.1 1.3 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 93
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
18. Investments in subsidiaries
Company
Restated
Total
£m
Cost at 1 April 2006 (as previously reported) 110.8
Restatement in accordance with IFRIC 11 5.2
Cost at 1 April 2006 (as restated) 116.0
Additions – IFRIC 11 5.0
Cost at 31 March 2007 121.0
Additions 133.5
Disposals (122.9)
Cost at 31 March 2008 131.6
Impairment at 1 April 2006 22.7
Impairment charge for the year –
Impairment at 31 March 2007 22.7
Impairment charge for the year –
Disposals (21.9)
Impairment at 31 March 2008 0.8
Net book value at 31 March 2008 130.8
Net book value at 31 March 2007 98.3
The Group’s principal subsidiaries are disclosed in note 41.
As part of a Group reorganisation, WS Atkins plc invested in Atkins Gamma Limited and increased their shareholding in WS Atkins
Insurance (Guernsey) Limited and WS Atkins International Limited. They subsequently sold WS Atkins Insurance (Guernsey) Limited 
and WS Atkins International Limited to other Group companies. 
The Company increased its investment in WS Atkins International B.V . in order to facilitate the purchase of Nedtech Engineering B.V . 
The Company also disposed of LSH Group (refer note 10) during the year. 
The Company’s opening investments in subsidiaries balances have been restated to take into account the effect of the implementation
of IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 – Group and Treasury Share Transactions. The restatement had no effect on the Group and no effect on the income
statement of the Company. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
94 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
19. Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current
tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. The offset amounts are as follows:
Group
2008 2007
£m £m
Deferred tax assets:
– Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months 69.4 85.1
– Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months 0.4 4.9
69.8 90.0
Deferred tax liabilities:
– Deferred tax liabilities to be recovered after more than 12 months – –
– Deferred tax liabilities to be recovered within 12 months (0.2) (0.2)
(0.2) (0.2)
Deferred tax asset (net) 69.6 89.8
a) Deferred tax assets
Group
2008 2007
£m £m
Accelerated depreciation 5.1 6.4
Share-based payments 4.1 4.2
Overseas 0.4 (0.2)
Deferred tax asset on retirement benefit liabilities 59.2 75.0
Deferred income 0.5 4.3
Amortisation of intangibles on acquisitions (0.2) 0.1
Other temporary differences 0.5 –
Total deferred income tax 69.6 89.8
b) Analysis of movements during the year
Group
2008 2007
£m £m
Deferred tax asset at 1 April 89.8 103.8
Deferred tax charged to the income statement – continuing operations (note 8) (8.0) (4.7)
Deferred tax (charged)/credited to the income statement – discontinued operations (3.6) 1.0
Deferred tax charged to equity (note 8) (8.0) (10.1)
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings (0.6) (0.2)
Deferred tax asset at 31 March 69.6 89.8
20. Other receivables
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m
Non-current assets:
Loan notes receivable 5.6 – 5.6 –
Deferred consideration on disposals 0.1 0.1 – –
5.7 0.1 5.6 –
The loan notes receivable reflected above arose on disposal of LSH. Although these loan notes have no redemption date, it is expected
that they will be repaid within three years. For further details as at date of disposal of LSH, refer to note 10.
All other non-current receivables are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
None of the other receivables are past due or impaired. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 95
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
21. Inventories
Group 
2008 2007
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 0.3 0.4
The directors consider that the carrying amount of inventories approximates their fair value.
There were no amounts of inventories written off during the year (2007: nil).
22. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m
Current assets:
Trade receivables 224.1 209.9 – –
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables (13.0) (11.8) – –
Trade receivables – net 211.1 198.1 – –
Amounts recoverable on contracts 44.7 43.6 – –
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings (note 39) – – 8.4 8.5
Amounts due from Joint Ventures (note 39) 9.7 15.8 – –
Other receivables 20.3 20.8 – –
Prepayments and accrued income 13.9 5.7 – –
299.7 284.0 8.4 8.5
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
At 31 March 2008 £172.2m (2007: £161.1m) of trade receivables were within normal payment terms and considered to be fully
performing. A further £38.8m (2007: £35.6m) were past due date and aged up to six months from invoice date, which carried 
a provision for impairment of £1.3m (2007: £nil). Trade receivables aged beyond six months of invoice date totalled £13.1m 
(2007: £13.2m) and carried a provision for impairment of £11.7m (2007: £11.8m).
Movements in the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows:
Group 
2008 2007
£m £m
Provision for impairment at beginning of year (11.8) (12.2)
Increase in provisions (4.1) (5.1)
Release of provisions 3.1 4.4
Receivables written off as uncollectable 0.3 1.6
Difference on exchange (0.5) (0.5)
Provision for impairment at end of year (13.0) (11.8)
The creation and release of the provision have been included within revenue in the income statement. 
None of the financial assets that are fully performing were renegotiated during the year.
Amounts due from Joint Ventures are shown net of contract-related provisions of £22.6m (2007: £nil) which was previously held 
within amounts recoverable on contracts. The other classes of financial assets shown within trade and other receivables were
unimpaired both at 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007.  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
96 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
23. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Group
2008 2007
£m £m
Marketable securities 29.7 30.3
Restricted cash deposits – 19.3
29.7 49.6
Restricted cash deposits relate to accounts where withdrawals are restricted under contractual agreements. The effective interest rate 
on restricted deposits in 2007 was 4.81%.
24. Cash and cash equivalents
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 61.0 53.9 7.1 –
Short term bank deposits 93.5 133.8 – –
154.5 187.7 7.1 –
Included in the Group cash and cash equivalents above are amounts held by the Employee Benefit Trusts of £5.4m (2007: £5.6m).
The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents was 5.5% (2007: 4.8%).
25. Borrowings
Group
2008 2007
£m £m
Current
Hire purchase and finance leases 3.6 3.3
Loan notes 4.2 0.4
7.8 3.7
Non-current
Bank loans – 17.3
Hire purchase and finance leases 10.4 11.4
Loan notes 3.2 5.8
13.6 34.5
Loan notes relate to Group acquisitions (refer note 15).
The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the non-current borrowings was as follows:
Group
Hire Hire
purchase purchase
and finance Loan 2008 Bank and finance Loan 2007
leases notes Total loans leases notes Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Repayable:
– between one and two years 4.7 2.6 7.3 – 3.7 2.7 6.4
– between two and five years 4.6 0.6 5.2 17.3 6.3 3.1 26.7
– after more than five years 1.1 – 1.1 – 1.4 – 1.4
10.4 3.2 13.6 17.3 11.4 5.8 34.5
The £17.3m bank loans related to foreign currency bank loans that were repaid in the 2008 financial year. These loans were used 
as hedges for the Group’s net investments in foreign operations. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 97
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
The carrying amount of the borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
Group
Hire Hire
purchase purchase
and finance Loan 2008 Bank and finance Loan 2007
leases notes Total loans leases notes Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling 14.0 7.4 21.4 – 14.7 6.2 20.9
US dollar – – – 6.5 – – 6.5
Euro – – – 4.4 – – 4.4
Singapore dollar – – – 1.2 – – 1.2
Hong Kong dollar – – – 5.2 – – 5.2
Total 14.0 7.4 21.4 17.3 14.7 6.2 38.2
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows:
Group
2008 2007
£m £m
Not later than one year 4.4 3.9
Later than one year but not more than five years 10.0 12.7
More than five years 1.8 0.4
16.2 17.0
Future finance charges on finance leases (2.2) (2.3)
Present value of finance lease payables 14.0 14.7
Bank borrowings bear interest rates fixed in advance for periods ranging from three to six months by reference to the relevant 
currency’s inter-bank rate.
Finance leases are on a fixed repayment basis, with interest rates fixed at the contract date. The average effective borrowing rate 
was 6.9% (2007: 7.2%) over a weighted average remaining period of 47 months (2007: 33 months).
The carrying value of the Group’s borrowings approximates their fair value.
Borrowing facilities
The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 March expiring as follows:
Group
2008 2007
£m £m
Between two and five years 58.8 31.0
All of the Group’s undrawn committed borrowing facilities will be subject to floating rates of interest.
The Group’s principal borrowing facilities of £100.0m signed on 21 June 2006 are unsecured and include borrowings and letter 
of credit facilities. The total letters of credit in issue at 31 March 2008 was £40.2m (31 March 2007: £55.4m).
26. Trade and other payables
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m
Trade payables 52.0 39.1 – –
Fees invoiced in advance 148.6 162.6 – –
Amounts due to Joint Ventures – 19.6 – –
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings (note 39) – – 23.8 –
Social security and other taxation 34.6 40.7 – –
Deferred consideration on acquisitions 0.9 0.2 – –
Deferred PFI/PPP bid costs recovered and development fees 0.1 0.9 – –
Accruals and deferred income 142.3 119.1 1.1 –
Other payables 36.9 36.4 0.1 –
415.4 418.6 25.0 – WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
98 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
The current year balance for deferred consideration represents £0.8m outstanding in respect of MSL Engineering Limited and 
£0.1m outstanding in respect of Nedtech Engineering BV to be settled within the next 12 months. The prior year balance for deferred
consideration represents the balance outstanding in respect of the purchase of Poolman Harlow Limited on 24 April 2006.
The directors consider that the carrying value of the Group’s trade and other payables approximates their fair value.
27. Derivative financial instruments
The fair value of forward currency contracts at the year end, based on their market value, is detailed below:
2008 2008 2007 2007
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
Group £m £m £m £m
Forward currency hedges – 0.9 – 0.1
The Group did not use any derivative instruments during the year other than forward currency contracts and foreign exchange swaps 
to hedge foreign currency receipts and payments on current contracts. These will be transferred to the income statement when the
related revenues and purchases are realised.
The future inflows and outflows associated with these derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 2. The Group has reviewed
all contracts for embedded derivatives and does not have any such instruments that are not closely related to the host contract.
28. Provisions for other liabilities and charges
2008 2007
Onerous Vacant Group Onerous Vacant Group
contracts property Total contracts property Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Current 0.7 3.6 4.3 4.9 3.8 8.7
Between one and two years 1.0 2.6 3.6 0.8 1.4 2.2
Between two and five years 1.8 1.7 3.5 1.9 2.8 4.7
Over five years 5.8 0.6 6.4 6.4 1.0 7.4
Non-current 8.6 4.9 13.5 9.1 5.2 14.3
Total 9.3 8.5 17.8 14.0 9.0 23.0
Onerous Vacant Group
contracts property Total
£m £m £m
Balance at 1 April 2007 14.0 9.0 23.0
Charge to income statement 0.1 1.3 1.4
Provisions utilised (5.3) (1.7) (7.0)
Unwinding of discount 0.5 – 0.5
Businesses divested – (0.1) (0.1)
Balance at 31 March 2008 9.3 8.5 17.8
The onerous contracts and vacant property provisions are discounted. No provision has been released or utilised for any purpose other
than for which it was established.
The onerous contracts provision primarily relates to PFI school and hospital facilities management contracts in the Asset Management
segment and, in 2007, the original supply chain contracts relating to the Metronet PPP . The latter were concluded during the year. 
The PFI provisions held are expected to be utilised over the next 22 years.
The vacant property provision is expected to be utilised over the next 12 years. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 99
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
29. Retirement benefit liabilities
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes. The two main defined benefit schemes are the
Atkins Pension Plan and the Railways Pension Scheme, both of which are funded final salary schemes. The assets of both schemes are
held in separate trustee administered funds. Other pension schemes include the Atkins McCarthy Pension Plan in the Republic of Ireland,
which is a final salary funded defined benefit scheme, and a range of defined contribution schemes or equivalent.
At 30 September 2007 the defined benefit section of the Atkins Pension Plan was closed to future accrual of benefit for members who
do not enjoy a statutory or contractual right to a final-salary pension. These members have transferred to a defined contribution section
of the plan with effect from 1 October 2007.
The defined benefit sections of all pension schemes are closed to new entrants, who are now offered membership of the defined
contribution section.
Membership of the Group’s principal pension schemes is as follows:
Defined benefit schemes Defined contribution schemes
Atkins Railways Atkins F&G
Pension Plan Pension Scheme Pension Plan
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No.
Members 495 2,507 433 463 7,868 5,458 931 844
Restricted members 1,622 – – – – – – –
Deferred pensioners 6,557 6,378 325 311 3,907 2,858 849 959
Pensioners 2,430 2,263 192 169 – – – –
11,104 11,148 950 943 11,775 8,316 1,780 1,803
Restricted members consists of staff that are no longer accruing final salary benefits but retain their entitlement to pensions linked to
final salary based on years of service accumulated prior to the closure of the scheme to future accrual. These staff are also included
where appropriate within defined contribution schemes.
The main assumptions used for the IAS 19 valuation of the retirement benefit liabilities for the Atkins Pension Plan and the Railways
Pension Scheme are listed in the table below:
2008 2007
Price inflation 3.60% 3.10%
Rate of increase of pensions in payment
– Limited Price Indexation 3.60% 3.10%
– Limited Price Indexation to 2.5% 2.50% 2.50%
– Fixed 5.00% 5.00%
Rate of increase in salaries 5.10% 4.60%
Rate of increase for deferred pensioners 3.60% 3.10%
Discount rate 6.50% 5.35%
Expected rate of return on plan assets 7.30% 6.70%
Expected rate of social security increases 3.60% 3.10%
Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners
– men 22.2 years 18.8 years
– women 24.6 years 21.8 years
Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners (current age 45)
– men 24.1 years 21.0 years
– women 26.5 years 24.0 years
The actuarial tables used to calculate the retirement benefit liabilities for the Atkins Pension Plan were the “2000 series” standard 
tables, with medium cohort improvements and a minimum of 1% improvement pa, based on year of use application. The Railways
Pension Scheme results have been adjusted on an approximate basis to be based on the same mortality tables. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
100 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
The components of the pension cost are as follows:
Atkins Railways
Pension Pension
Plan Scheme Other Total
2008 £m £m £m £m
Cost of sales
Current service cost 12.2 4.0 0.5 16.7
Total service cost 12.2 4.0 0.5 16.7
Finance cost/(income)
Finance cost 46.1 10.2 0.2 56.5
Expected return on plan assets (42.6) (12.4) (0.4) (55.4)
Net finance cost/(income) 3.5 (2.2) (0.2) 1.1
Total charge to income statement for defined benefit schemes 15.7 1.8 0.3 17.8
Charge for defined contribution schemes – – 23.3 23.3
Total charge to income statement 15.7 1.8 23.6 41.1
Statement of recognised income and expense
Loss on pension scheme assets (68.4) (18.3) (1.4) (88.1)
Changes in assumptions 92.7 2.6 (0.8) 94.5
Actuarial gain/(loss) 24.3 (15.7) (2.2) 6.4
Deferred tax (charged)/credited to equity (11.9) 4.1 0.4 (7.4)
Actuarial gain/(loss) (net of deferred tax) 12.4 (11.6) (1.8) (1.0)
Atkins Railways
Pension Pension
Plan Scheme Other Total
2007 £m £m £m £m
Cost of sales
Current service cost 18.1 4.1 0.3 22.5
Total service cost 18.1 4.1 0.3 22.5
Finance cost/(income)
Finance cost 42.5 9.0 0.2 51.7
Expected return on plan assets (38.2) (10.8) (0.3) (49.3)
Net finance cost/(income) 4.3 (1.8) (0.1) 2.4
Total charge to income statement for defined benefit schemes 22.4 2.3 0.2 24.9
Charge for defined contribution schemes – – 16.0 16.0
Total charge to income statement 22.4 2.3 16.2 40.9
Statement of recognised income and expense
(Loss)/gain on pension scheme assets (3.1) 6.4 0.1 3.4
Changes in assumptions 28.3 0.2 (0.6) 27.9
Actuarial gain/(loss) 25.2 6.6 (0.5) 31.3
Deferred tax charged to equity (7.6) (2.0) – (9.6)
Actuarial gain/(loss) (net of deferred tax) 17.6 4.6 (0.5) 21.7
The expected return on plan assets is based on market expectation at the beginning of the year for returns over the entire life of the
benefit obligation. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 101
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Atkins Railways
Pension Pension
Plan Scheme Other Total
2008 £m £m £m £m
Defined benefit obligation (820.1) (194.7) (7.1) (1,021.9)
Fair value of plan assets 638.5 165.7 4.6 808.8
Retirement benefit liabilities (181.6) (29.0) (2.5) (213.1)
Atkins Railways
Pension Pension
Plan Scheme Other Total
2007 £m £m £m £m
Defined benefit obligation (867.3) (185.3) (5.6) (1,058.2)
Fair value of plan assets 632.3 170.8 5.0 808.1
Retirement benefit liabilities (235.0) (14.5) (0.6) (250.1)
Other includes the Atkins McCarthy defined benefit pension scheme and an unfunded pension obligation in relation to a former
director, for £0.5m (2007: £0.5m).
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows:
Expected Atkins Railways
asset return Pension Plan Pension Scheme
2008 % % £m % £m
Equities 8.40 55.0 351.2 81.0 134.2
Bonds 6.50 41.0 261.8 9.0 14.9
Property 7.45 4.0 25.5 10.0 16.6
Other/cash 5.00 0.0 – – –
100.0 638.5 100.0 165.7
Expected Atkins Railways
asset return Pension Plan Pension Scheme
2007 % % £m % £m
Equities 7.5061.3387.8 80.2137.0
Bonds 5.0038.3241.9 9.816.8
Property 6.40– – 9.716.5
Other/cash 4.100.42.6 0.30.5
100.0 632.3 100.0 170.8
The plan assets do not include any of the Group’s own financial instruments or property occupied by the Group. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
102 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
Atkins Railways
Pension Pension
Plan Scheme Other Total
2008 £m £m £m £m
Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 867.3 185.3 5.6 1,058.2
Service cost 12.2 4.0 0.5 16.7
Interest cost 46.1 10.2 0.2 56.5
Change of assumptions (92.7) (2.6) 0.8 (94.5)
Employee contributions 3.9 1.8 0.2 5.9
Benefit payments (16.7) (4.0) (0.9) (21.6)
Difference on exchange – – 0.7 0.7
Defined benefit obligation at end of year 820.1 194.7 7.1 1,021.9
Atkins Railways
Pension Pension
Plan Scheme Other Total
2007 £m £m £m £m
Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 843.6 173.8 4.5 1,021.9
Service cost 18.1 4.1 0.3 22.5
Interest cost 42.5 9.0 0.2 51.7
Change of assumptions (28.3) (0.2) 0.6 (27.9)
Employee contributions 6.9 1.8 0.1 8.8
Benefit payments (15.5) (3.2) – (18.7)
Difference on exchange – – (0.1) (0.1)
Defined benefit obligation at end of year 867.3 185.3 5.6 1,058.2
Movements in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
Atkins Railways
Pension Pension
Plan Scheme Other Total
2008 £m £m £m £m
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 632.3 170.8 5.0 808.1
Expected return on plan assets 42.6 12.4 0.4 55.4
Employer contributions 44.8 3.0 0.7 48.5
Employee contributions 3.9 1.8 0.2 5.9
Benefits paid (16.7) (4.0) (0.9) (21.6)
Actuarial loss (68.4) (18.3) (1.4) (88.1)
Difference on exchange – – 0.6 0.6
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 638.5 165.7 4.6 808.8
Atkins Railways
Pension Pension
Plan Scheme Other Total
2007 £m £m £m £m
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 566.2 151.8 4.0 722.0
Expected return on plan assets 38.2 10.8 0.3 49.3
Employer contributions 39.6 3.2 0.6 43.4
Employee contributions 6.9 1.8 0.1 8.8
Benefits paid (15.5) (3.2) – (18.7)
Actuarial (loss)/gain (3.1) 6.4 0.1 3.4
Difference on exchange – – (0.1) (0.1)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 632.3 170.8 5.0 808.1 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 103
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Movements in the retirement benefit liabilities are as follows:
Atkins Railways
Pension Pension
Plan Scheme Other Total
2008 £m £m £m £m
Retirement benefit liabilities at beginning of year (235.0) (14.5) (0.6) (250.1)
Service cost (12.2) (4.0) (0.5) (16.7)
Net finance (cost)/income (3.5) 2.2 0.2 (1.1)
Contributions 44.8 3.0 0.7 48.5
Actuarial gain/(loss) 24.3 (15.7) (2.2) 6.4
Difference on exchange – – (0.1) (0.1)
Retirement benefit liabilities at end of year (181.6) (29.0) (2.5) (213.1)
Atkins Railways
Pension Pension
Plan Scheme Other Total
2007 £m £m £m £m
Retirement benefit liabilities at beginning of year (277.4) (22.0) (0.5) (299.9)
Service cost (18.1) (4.1) (0.3) (22.5)
Net finance (cost)/income (4.3) 1.8 0.1 (2.4)
Contributions 39.6 3.2 0.6 43.4
Actuarial gain/(loss) 25.2 6.6 (0.5) 31.3
Difference on exchange – – – –
Retirement benefit liabilities at end of year (235.0) (14.5) (0.6) (250.1)
Cumulative net actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in equity are as follows:
Atkins Railways
Pension Pension
Plan Scheme Other Total
2008 £m £m £m £m
At beginning of year (43.8) 15.2 (0.5) (29.1)
Net actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the year 24.3 (15.7) (2.2) 6.4
At end of year (19.5) (0.5) (2.7) (22.7)
Atkins Railways
Pension Pension
Plan Scheme Other Total
2007 £m £m £m £m
At beginning of year (69.0) 8.6 – (60.4)
Net actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in the year 25.2 6.6 (0.5) 31.3
At end of year (43.8) 15.2 (0.5) (29.1)
The return on plan assets is as follows:
Atkins Railways
Pension Pension
Plan Scheme Other Total
2008 £m £m £m £m
Expected return on plan assets 42.6 12.4 0.4 55.4
Actuarial (loss)/gain on plan assets (68.4) (18.3) (1.4) (88.1)
Experience gain on plan assets (25.8) (5.9) (1.0) (32.7)
Atkins Railways
Pension Pension
Plan Scheme Other Total
2007 £m £m £m £m
Expected return on plan assets 38.2 10.8 0.3 49.3
Actuarial (loss)/gain on plan assets (3.1) 6.4 0.1 3.4
Experience gain on plan assets 35.1 17.2 0.4 52.7 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
104 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
History of experience gains and losses:
2008 2007 2006 2005
Total Total Total Total
Experience adjustments on scheme assets £(88.1)m £3.4m £88.4m £16.1m
Percentage of scheme assets (10.9)% 0.4% 12.2% 2.8%
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities £(94.5)m £27.9m £(126.1)m £(38.8)m
Percentage of defined benefit obligation (9.3)% (2.6)% 12.3% 4.6%
Defined benefit obligation £(1,021.9)m £(1,058.2)m £(1,021.9)m £(843.9)m
Fair value of plan assets £808.8m £808.1m £722.0m £569.7m
Retirement benefit liability £(213.1)m £(250.1)m £(299.9)m £(274.2)m
The Group expects employer contributions to be paid during the financial year to 31 March 2009 will be c. £54.3m, of which £44.5m 
is in relation to the funding of the actuarial deficit, and employee contributions paid to be c. £2.8m. Expected benefit payments made
directly by the Group to pensioners in the financial year to 31 March 2009 are nil.
The approximate effect on the liabilities from changes in the main assumptions used to value the liabilities are as follows:
Effect on plan liabilities
Change in Atkins Railways
assumption Pension Plan Pension Scheme
Discount rate increase/decrease 0.5% decrease/increase 10.0% decrease/increase 9.0%
Inflation increase/decrease 0.5% increase/decrease 7.0% increase/decrease 9.0%
Real rate of increase in salaries increase/decrease 0.5% increase/decrease 2.0% increase/decrease 3.0%
Longevity increase 1 year increase 3.0% increase 3.0%
The effect of the change in inflation on liabilities assumes a corresponding increase in salary increases and inflation related pension increases.
30. Other non-current liabilities
Group
2008 2007
£m £m
Deferred PFI/PPP bid costs recovered, deferred consideration and development fees:
Maturing between one and two years 1.6 2.6
Maturing between two and five years 0.4 2.7
Maturing after more than five years 2.9 18.5
4.9 23.8
Deferred income at 31 March 2007 included £17.2m relating to Metronet that has been released during the year following Metronet’s
entry into liquidation and included within discontinued operations (note 10).
31. Ordinary shares
Group and Company
2008 2007
No. Shares £m No. Shares £m
Authorised
Authorised at 1 April and 31 March ordinary shares of 0.5p each 150,000,000 0.8 150,000,000 0.8
Issued, allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 0.5p each
At 1 April 104,451,799 0.5 104,451,799 0.5
At 31 March 104,451,799 0.5 104,451,799 0.5
At the last Annual General Meeting (AGM), shareholder authority was obtained for the Company to purchase up to a maximum of
10.4 million of its own ordinary shares (representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company on 26 June 2007) for a period
ending on the earlier of the next AGM or 5 December 2008, provided that certain conditions relating to the purchase price are met. 
The Notice of Meeting for the AGM to be held at 4.30pm on Wednesday 3 September 2008 proposes that shareholders approve a
resolution updating and renewing this authority. Shares in the Company may also be purchased by Atkins’ Employee Benefit Trusts. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 105
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
At 31 March 2008 there were 3,218,000 ordinary shares (2007: nil) of 0.5p each (nominal value £16,090 (2007: nil)) held as treasury
shares. These shares were purchased during the year at a cost of £34.9m including fees and stamp duty. These shares, which represent
approximately 3.1% (2007: 0%) of the called up share capital as at the year end, have not been cancelled but are held as treasury
shares and represent a deduction from shareholders’ equity.
Between 31 March and 24 April 2008 a further 723,000 ordinary shares of 0.5p each (nominal value £3,615) were purchased at a cost
of £7.6m including fees and stamp duty. These shares, which represent approximately 0.7% of the called up share capital as at the date
of this report, have also not been cancelled but are held as treasury shares and represent a deduction from shareholders’ equity.
As at the date of this report, there are a total of 3,941,000 ordinary shares of 0.5p each (nominal value £19,705) held as treasury shares
representing approximately 3.8% of the called up share capital.
32. Share-based payments
Long Term Incentive Plans
Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) September 2006 onwards
A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to make awards to employees that are settled in equity or, in limited
circumstances, in cash. There are different performance targets for different categories of management. Awards made to executive
directors and senior employees have 50% of the award subject to the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) performance relative 
to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) on the date of the award. Full vesting of this portion of the
award will take place if the Company is ranked in the upper quartile, 30% vesting will be achieved with a median ranking with pro rata
vesting for intermediate performance. No vesting will occur for a ranking below median. 
The remaining 50% of the award made to executive directors and senior employees is subject to the Company’s real growth in normalised
earnings per share (EPS) over the performance period. For the 2006 and subsequent awards the growth target required the increase 
to be more than 10% per annum above the UK Retail Price Index (RPI) in the three-year performance period to allow full vesting; if the
increase is less than 4% per annum above the UK RPI then there will be no vesting. A sliding scale operates between 4% and 10%
above the UK RPI.
Awards made to other participants are subject solely to the EPS condition. As a general rule awards made to participants who leave
employment prior to vesting will lapse. In the event that a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason they receive a pro-rated
entitlement.
Subject to vesting, participants are entitled to receive the benefit of dividends declared following award, without interest.
Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) September 2003 to August 2006
A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to make awards to employees that are settled in equity or, in limited
circumstances, in cash. The performance condition is TSR with an EPS growth underpin measured over three financial years starting 
with the financial year beginning immediately after the award is granted. Full vesting of any award will take place for a top 20% ranking
against a group of up to 16 comparator companies, 30% vesting for a median ranking and no award if TSR falls below the median. The
EPS underpin is the UK RPI plus 2% per annum. As a general rule awards made to participants who leave employment prior to vesting
will lapse. In the event that a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason they receive a pro-rated entitlement. 
Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) pre-September 2003
A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to make awards to employees that are settled in equity. Awards have an 
EPS performance condition. EPS is required to be more than 12% per annum above the UK RPI in the relevant three-year performance
period to enable all of the ordinary shares to be acquired, but if the EPS growth is less than 5% per annum above the UK RPI then none
of the ordinary shares can be acquired. A sliding scale in relation to the number of ordinary shares that can be acquired operates for
growth in EPS between 5% and 12% above the UK RPI. Participants are entitled to receive the benefit of dividends declared, without
interest, on the shares subject to the award between vesting and exercise. As a general rule awards made to participants who leave
employment prior to vesting will lapse. In the event that a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason they receive a pro-rated
entitlement. All awards have now vested.
WS Atkins Pre-Tax Equity Participation Plan (Pre-Tax EPP)
A share plan for senior executives and key employees that was designed to encourage investment in the Group by taking all or part 
of their bonus in the form of a right to acquire ordinary shares (the Bonus Award) which, if retained for a three-year period, gave them 
a right to obtain a matching number of ordinary shares (the Matching Award). The right to the matching ordinary shares is subject to 
a performance condition identical to those in the Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan pre September 2003. Participants are entitled to
receive the benefit of dividends declared following award, without interest, on the shares subject to the Bonus Award after exercise 
and the benefit of dividends declared, without interest, on the shares subject to the Matching Award between vesting and exercise. 
As a general rule Matching Awards made to participants who leave employment prior to vesting will lapse. In the event that a
participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason they receive a pro-rated entitlement. All awards have now vested. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
106 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
WS Atkins Post-Tax Equity Participation Plan (Post-Tax EPP)
A share plan for senior executives and key employees that was designed to encourage investment in the Group by taking all or part of
their bonus in the form of ordinary shares (the Deposited Shares) which, if retained for a three-year period, gave them a right to obtain 
a matching number of ordinary shares (the Matching Award). The right to the matching ordinary shares is subject to a performance condition
identical to those in the Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan pre September 2003. Participants are entitled to receive the benefit of dividends
declared, without interest, on the shares subject to the Matching Award between vesting and exercise. All awards have now vested.
WS Atkins Employees’ Stock Option Plan (ESOP)
A share plan used to make awards to key employees in the US that is settled in equity or in cash and which permits options to be
granted at an exercise price no lower than the market price of a share at the time of grant. Options vest after three years and must be
exercised within ten years of the date of grant. All awards have now vested.
Atkins Restricted Stock Unit Plan (RSU)
A share plan used to make awards to key employees following the acquisition of Hanscomb. There is no performance condition but
awards are restricted for three years from the date of award. As a general rule awards made to participants who leave employment prior
to vesting will lapse. In the event that a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason they will receive their award in full.
Deferred Bonus Plans
Atkins Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP)
A share plan for senior executives and key employees that is settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash. There is no performance
condition but awards are restricted for at least three years from the date of award. As a general rule awards made to participants who
leave employment prior to vesting will lapse. In the event that a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason they will receive their
award in full. In the case of awards to executive directors, the value of the shares over which an award may be granted under the plan
shall be taken to form part of the annual bonus payable to that participant. Awards may also be granted under the plan to employees
below the level of executive directors that do not form part of their annual bonus (for instance, on recruitment of the employee).
Atkins Retention Bonus Plan (RBP)
A share plan for senior executives and key employees that is settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash. Awards cannot be
made to executive directors. There is no performance condition but awards are restricted for a set period, fixed by the Remuneration
Committee at grant, from the date of award. Awards to date have been restricted for two years. As a general rule awards made to
participants who leave employment prior to vesting will lapse. In the event that a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason they
will receive their award in full. In the case of awards to senior executives, the value of the shares over which an award may be granted
under the plan shall be taken to form part of the annual bonus payable to that participant. Awards may also be granted under the plan
to employees below the level of senior executives that do not form part of their annual bonus (for instance, on recruitment of the
employee).
The Group’s share-based payments charge for the year of £8.6m (2007: £5.1m) has been included in administrative expenses in the
income statement. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 107
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
The effect of the share-based payment transactions on the Group’s result and financial position is as follows:
Group
2008 2007
£m £m
Total expense recognised for equity-settled share-based payment transactions 8.1 4.9
Total expense recognised for cash-settled share-based payment transactions 0.5 0.2
8.6 5.1
Closing balance of liability for cash-settled share-based payment transactions 0.7 0.2
As at 31 March 2008 the following awards were outstanding:
LTIPs
(1)
DBP/RBP
(2)
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise/ exercise/
transfer transfer
Number price Number price
Awards outstanding at 1 April 2006 3,076,462 0.56p 802,025 –
Granted 604,119 – 371,249 –
Exercised/transferred (875,806) – (220,107) –
Lapsed (103,477) – (26,417) –
Awards outstanding at 1 April 2007 2,701,298 0.61p 926,750 –
Granted 774,029 – 378,304 –
Exercised/transferred (299,152) – (250,633) –
Lapsed (934,891) – (54,145) –
Awards outstanding at 31 March 2008 2,241,284 – 1,000,276 –
(1) Including LTIP , Pre-tax EPP , Post-tax EPP , ESOP and RSU awards.
(2) Including DBP and RBP awards.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 1081.78p (2007: 846.44p).
A summary of awards outstanding as at 31 March 2008 is as follows:
Weighted Awards Awards
average outstanding exercisable
Award Exercise Scheme Maximum remaining at 31 March at 31 March
Scheme date price maturity term contractual life 2008 2008
LTIPs
LTIP (September 2006 11.09.2006
TSR/EPS onwards) to 03.08.2007 0.0p 3 years 3 to 10 years 8.74 years 323,688 –
LTIP (September 2006 11.09.2006 
EPS onwards) to 30.11.2007 0.0p 3 years 3 to 10 years 8.30 years 894,064 –
LTIP (September 2003 17.09.2003 
to August 2006) to 24.06.2005 0.0p 3 to 4 years 3 to 10 years 6.41 years 929,942 32,400
30.11.2001
LTIP (pre-September 2003) to 30.06.2003 0.0p 3 years 3 to 10 years 3.67 years 2,297 2,297
Pre-Tax EPP 18.07.2001 0.0p 3 years 7 years 0.30 years 2,196 2,196
Post-Tax EPP 18.07.2001 0.0p 3 years 7 years 0.30 years 18 18
01.06.2000 324.0p
ESOP to 29.07.2002 to 832.5p 3 years 10 years 3.30 years 2,900 2,900
01.12.2005
RSU to 29.06.2007 0.0p 3 years 3 years 1.68 years 86,179 –
DBPs
26.07.2002
DBP to 30.11.2007 0.0p 3 years 3 to 10 years 7.50 years 688,550 58,955
29.06.2007
RBP to 30.11.2007 0.0p 2 years 2 to 10 years 8.30 years 311,726 – WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
108 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
On 29 June 2007 the Group issued awards over 47,679 shares to employees under the RSU, 19,744 shares to employees under 
the DBP , and 298,395 shares to employees under the RBP .
On 3 August 2007 the Group issued awards over 717,900 shares to employees under the LTIP , 6,960 shares to employees under 
the DBP , and 11,910 shares to employees under the RBP .
On 7 September 2007 the Group issued awards over 5,609 shares to employees under the RBP .
On 30 November 2007 the Group issued awards over 8,450 shares to employees under the LTIP , 28,400 shares to employees under 
the DBP , and 7,256 shares to employees under the RBP .
At 31 March 2008 the Group’s Employee Benefit Trusts held 2,697,476 shares (2007: 3,251,358 shares) at a nominal value of £0.0m
(2007: £0.0m) and market value of £28.4m (2007: £31.6m).
For the purposes of valuing LTIP awards with market performance conditions, the Monte Carlo model has been used to arrive 
at the share-based payments charge. The assumptions used in the model are as follows:
LTIP LTIP
2008 2007
Exercise price £nil £nil
Risk-free interest rate n/a n/a
Discount in respect of dividend yield 0% 0%
Volatility of share price 22.6% 22.3% to 24.4%
Share price at grant date
– 11.09.2006 – 837.0p
– 03.08.2007 1,035.0p –
Option life 3 to 9 years 3 to 10 years
Expected exercise behaviour
– options 100% in year 4 100% in year 4
– allocations 100% year 4 100% year 4
Volatility was determined based on the movement in the share price over a period prior to the grant date equal in length to the period
over which the TSR condition applies, which equates to a three-year share price history (2007 a three-year share price history). The fair
value of share plans involving market performance conditions takes into account market information.
In accordance with the rules of the plan, the Monte Carlo model simulates TSR for the Company and a comparator group. In 2008 and
2007 the comparator group consisted of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts. The model takes into account historic dividends and
share price volatilities for the Company and the comparator group to produce a predicted distribution of relative share performance.
Awards that do not contain market performance conditions are valued at market value at date of award and discounted in the event
that the award does not benefit from dividends during the vesting period.
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was 1,009.88p (2007: 797.50p). WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 109
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
33. Statement of changes in equity
Equity
Share Retained shareholders’
Share premium Merger (loss)/ (deficit)/
capital account reserve earnings funds
£m £m £m £m £m
Group
Balance at 1 April 2006 0.5 62.4 8.9 (107.9) (36.1)
Loss for the year – – – (57.3) (57.3)
Dividends – – – (17.7) (17.7)
Actuarial gain on retirement benefit liabilities – – – 21.7 21.7
Share-based movements – – – 5.9 5.9
Employee Benefit Trusts – – – 0.1 0.1
Share of Joint Venture equity items – – – 7.5 7.5
Cash flow hedges – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Net differences on exchange – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Balance at 31 March 2007 0.5 62.4 8.9 (147.9) (76.1)
Profit for the year – – – 100.0 100.0
Dividends – – – (21.8) (21.8)
Actuarial loss on retirement benefit liabilities – – – (1.0) (1.0)
Share-based movements – – – 7.7 7.7
Share buyback – – – (34.9) (34.9)
Share of Joint Venture equity items – – – 0.2 0.2
Cash flow hedges – – – (0.8) (0.8)
Net differences on exchange – – – 3.3 3.3
Balance at 31 March 2008 0.5 62.4 8.9 (95.2) (23.4)
Company
Balance at 1 April 2006 (as previously reported) 0.5 62.4 8.9 37.6 109.4
Restatement in accordance with IFRIC 11 – – – 5.2 5.2
Balance at 1 April 2006 (as restated) 0.5 62.4 8.9 42.8 114.6
Profit for the year – – – 4.9 4.9
Share-based payments – – – 5.0 5.0
Dividends – – – (17.7) (17.7)
Balance at 31 March 2007 (as restated) 0.5 62.4 8.9 35.0 106.8
Profit for the year – – – 68.7 68.7
Share-based payments – – – 8.1 8.1
Dividends – – – (21.8) (21.8)
Share buyback – – – (34.9) (34.9)
Balance at 31 March 2008 0.5 62.4 8.9 55.1 126.9
Share capital
The balance of the share capital account represents the aggregate nominal value of all ordinary shares in issue.
Share premium account
The balance on the share premium account represents the amounts received in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares in issue.
Merger reserve
The balance on the merger reserve represents the fair value of the consideration given in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary
shares issued in an acquisition made by shares where the Group took relief under Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 from the
requirement to establish a share premium account.
Retained loss/earnings
The balance held in retained loss/earnings is the accumulated profits and losses of the Group. WS Atkins plc shares held by the EBTs 
are deducted from retained loss/earnings.
Goodwill that arose prior to 1 April 1997 amounting to £15.9m, of which positive and negative goodwill totalled £26.3m and £10.4m
respectively, has been written off to retained loss/earnings. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
110 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
The Company opening reserves balances have been restated to take into account the effect of the implementation of IFRIC 11, 
IFRS 2 – Group and Treasury Share Transactions. This adjustment had no effect on the Group.
34. Cash generated from continuing operations
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m
Profit for the year 68.6 54.9 68.7 4.9
Adjustments for:
Income tax (note 8) 23.3 15.2 – –
Finance income (note 7) (9.8) (9.0) (0.8) –
Finance cost (note 7) 5.5 5.4 – –
Share of post-tax profit from Joint Ventures (note 4) (0.9) (2.8) – –
Depreciation charges 19.3 18.8 – –
Amortisation charges 11.1 11.6 – –
Release of deferred income (3.0) (0.2) – –
Share-based payment charge (note 32) 8.6 5.1 – –
Result on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 (0.1) – –
Dividends received – – (10.9) –
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries – – (57.7) –
Movement in provisions (note 28) (5.5) 8.5 – –
Movement in inventories (note 21) 0.1 (0.2) – –
Movement in trade and other receivables (note 22) (37.2) 4.3 0.1 13.4
Movement in payables (note 26) 32.5 3.3 56.3 (0.6)
Movement in pensions (note 29) (31.8) (20.9) – –
Cash generated from continuing operations 80.9 93.9 55.7 17.7
35. Analysis of net funds
At 31 March Cash Other non- Exchange At 31 March
2007 flow cash changes movement 2008
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 187.7 (32.6) – (0.6) 154.5
Loan notes receivable – – 5.6 – 5.6
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 49.6 (19.9) – – 29.7
Borrowings due within one year (0.4) 0.2 (4.0) – (4.2)
Borrowings due after one year (23.1) 17.6 2.6 (0.3) (3.2)
Finance leases (14.7) 4.7 (4.0) – (14.0)
Net funds 199.1 (30.0) 0.2 (0.9) 168.4
36. Contingent liabilities
The Group has given indemnities in respect of overseas office overdrafts, performance bonds, advance payment bonds, Letters of Credit
and import duty guarantees issued on its behalf. The amount outstanding at 31st March 2008 was £73.1m (2007: £80.6m) including
£25.0m in respect of Metronet (2007: £44.3m). During the year no additional Letters of Credit were issued to Metronet whilst £19.3m
of the original Letters of Credit under the Shareholder Agreement were released. This resulted in a net movement of £19.3m. The
indemnities, which arose in the ordinary course of business, are not expected to result in any material financial loss. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 111
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
37. Operating lease arrangements
2008 2007
Vehicles, Vehicles, 
plant and plant and
Property equipment Property equipment
Group £m £m £m £m
Future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring:
Within one year 20.0 4.1 23.4 5.3
Later than one year but less than five years 59.3 5.9 73.4 7.9
After five years 66.5 0.3 64.6 0.1
145.8 10.3 161.4 13.3
The Company had no operating lease commitments as at 31 March 2008 (2007: nil).
2008 2007
Vehicles, Vehicles,  
plant and plant and
Property equipment Property equipment
Group £m £m £m £m
Amounts receivable under non-cancellable operating leases expiring:
Within one year 1.1 0.4 2.6 0.5
Later than one year but less than five years 2.4 1.0 3.5 1.2
After five years 1.3 0.1 0.9 0.3
4.8 1.5 7.0 2.0
The Company had no operating lease receivables as at 31 March 2008 (2007: nil).
38. Capital and other financial commitments
Group
2008 2007
£m £m
Capital expenditure contracted for but not incurred – property, plant and equipment 8.2 1.8
Group share of capital commitments of Joint Ventures – 408.5
The Group share of capital commitments of Joint Ventures at 31 March 2007 included £385.0m for Metronet. These capital
commitments represented long-term contractual commitments under the 30-year Public Private Partnership (PPP) contract signed 
with London Underground Limited on 4 April 2003, prior to Metronet’s subsequent administration.
The Group is committed to make payments for equity and debt into Special Purpose Companies under Public Private Partnership (PPP)
and Private Finance Initiative (PFI) contracts of £6.8m (2007: £27.4m).
39. Related party transactions
Details of the directors’ shareholdings, share options and remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report, which forms part 
of these Financial Statements.
Transactions with the retirement benefit schemes are shown in note 29.
Details of the Company’s principal subsidiaries are shown in note 41 and principal Joint Ventures in note 42.
a) Group sales and purchases of goods and services to/from Joint Ventures
Group
2008 2007
£m £m
Sales of goods and services to Joint Ventures 43.6 123.4
Purchases of goods and services from Joint Ventures – 0.2 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
112 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
b) Group year-end balances arising from sales/purchases of goods and services to/from Joint Ventures and loans provided
to Joint Ventures
Group
2008 2007
£m £m
Receivables from Joint Ventures 9.7 15.8
Receivables from Joint Ventures are shown net of contract-related provisions of £22.6m (2007: £nil) which was previously held within
amounts recoverable on contracts. 
Group
2008 2007
£m £m
Payables to Joint Ventures – 19.6
c) Company sales/purchases of goods and services to/from subsidiaries
The Company did not sell any goods or services to subsidiaries during the year (2007: £nil). The Company did not purchase any goods 
or services from its subsidiaries during the year (2007: £nil).
d) Company year-end balances with subsidiaries
Company
2008 2007
£m £m
Receivables from subsidiaries 8.4 8.5
Payables to subsidiaries 23.8 –
Provision of goods and services to and purchases of goods and services from related parties were made at the rates charged to external
customers. The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. No provision
has been made for doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties and £nil charged to income and expense (2007: £nil).
Receivable from subsidiaries are shown net of impairment of £121.0m (2007: £nil).
e) Key management compensation
Key management comprises the executive and non-executive directors, and certain senior managers who are members of the
Group Executive.
Group
2008 2007
£m £m
Salaries and other short-term employment benefits 4.9 4.0
Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.3
Termination benefits – 0.2
Share-based payments 1.0 1.0
6.2 5.5
40. Events after the balance sheet date
On 1 April 2008 the Group disposed of its holding in Modern Housing Solutions (Prime) Limited receiving cash of £3.9m and generating
a profit on disposal of £2.5m. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 113
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
41. Subsidiary undertakings
The following companies were the principal subsidiary undertakings as at 31 March 2008:
Country of Class and
registration/ percentage
incorporation of shares held Nature of business
Atkins China Limited China 100% ordinary Consulting engineers
Atkins Facilities Management Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Property services
Atkins Investments Limited
(1)
England and Wales 100% ordinary Investment company
Atkins Limited
(1)
England and Wales 100% ordinary Consulting engineers
Atkins Metro Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Holding company
Faithful+Gould Inc
(1)
USA 100% ordinary Project and programme 
management consultants
Faithful+Gould Limited
(1)
England and Wales 100% ordinary Quantity surveyors and cost 
estimators
WS Atkins & Partners Overseas
(1)
Gibraltar 100% ordinary Consulting engineers
WS Atkins Insurance (Guernsey) Limited Guernsey 100% ordinary Insurance
WS Atkins International Limited
(1)
England and Wales 100% ordinary Consulting engineers
(1) Owned by a subsidiary undertaking other than WS Atkins plc.
The percentage of the issued share capital held by the Group is equivalent to the percentage of voting rights held. The Group holds 
the whole of all classes of issued share capital.
All the above operate in the country of registration, except for WS Atkins & Partners Overseas, which operates in the Middle East.
A full list of subsidiary companies will be filed at Companies House with the Annual Return.
42. Joint Ventures
The following represents the principal Joint Ventures in which the Group participated during the year:
Date of last
Proportion audited
of shares financial External
Name Nature of business held
(3)
statements auditors
Modern Housing Solutions Responsible for the maintenance and upgrade of MoD 25.0% 31 Dec 2006 Deloitte &
(Prime) Limited
(1) (2)
family accommodation in England and Wales Touche LLP 
RMPA Holdings Limited
(1)
Holding company for companies involved in the design, 14.0% 31 Mar 2007 KPMG
financing and construction of the MoD garrison facility Audit PLC
at Colchester
All Joint Ventures operate in the United Kingdom unless otherwise stated.
(1) Owned by a subsidiary undertaking other than WS Atkins plc.
(2) The interest in Modern Housing Solutions (Prime) Limited was sold on 1 April 2008.
(3) Proportion of shares held is in respect of ordinary share capital. There are no special rights or constraints on the shares. There are no restrictions on distributions from 
any of these Joint Ventures. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
114 Financial Statements
Five Y ear Summary
Consolidated Income Statements for years ended 31 March
IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue (Group and share of Joint Ventures) 1,399.5 1,240.3 1,411.0 1,157.3 1,241.8
Revenue 1,313.6 1,179.8 1,052.5 955.0 991.8
Cost of sales (834.1) (781.1) (637.3) (579.3) (619.2)
Gross profit 479.5 398.7 415.2 375.7 372.6
Administrative expenses (392.8) (335.0) (352.3) (332.7) (338.1)
Operating profit 86.7 63.7 62.9 43.0 34.5
Profit on disposal of Joint Ventures – – 6.4 3.7 –
Share of post-tax profit from Joint Ventures 0.9 2.8 8.8 10.2 14.5
Profit from operations 87.6 66.5 78.1 56.9 49.0
Finance income 9.8 9.0 7.9 6.8 3.4
Finance cost (5.5) (5.4) (11.2) (10.7) (10.0)
Net finance income/(cost) 4.3 3.6 (3.3) (3.9) (6.6)
Profit before taxation 91.9 70.1 74.8 53.0 42.4
Income tax expense (23.3) (15.2) (17.9) (14.1) (18.5)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 68.6 54.9 56.9 38.9 23.9
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations 31.4 (112.2) – – 13.5
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity shareholders 100.0 (57.3) 56.9 38.9 37.4
Basic earnings/(loss) per share
– continuing operations 67.9p 54.4p 57.0p 39.3p 24.8p
– discontinued operations 31.0p(111.2)p – – 14.0p
98.9p (56.8)p 57.0p 39.3p 38.8p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share
– continuing operations 66.7p 53.8p 55.9p 38.7p 24.5p
– discontinued operations 30.5p(110.6)p – – 14.5p
97.2p (56.8)p 55.9p 38.7p 39.0p
(1) Comparatives have been reformatted to present results in IFRS format. No adjustments have been made to reflect the differences in accounting treatment under
IFRS compared to UK GAAP .
(2) Comparatives have been restated following the adoption of FRS 19, UITF 34, UITF 38 and UITF 17, as amended.
Restated
(1) (2) WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Financial Statements 115
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Consolidated balance sheets as at 31 March
IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill 56.7 64.8 35.6 29.3 36.8
Other intangible assets 10.9 9.4 10.0 10.8 14.0
Property, plant and equipment 45.6 46.2 47.2 34.2 36.4
Other receivables 5.7 0.1 21.6 22.8 24.7
Investments in Joint Ventures 4.2 (26.0) 46.2 41.6 25.9
Deferred income tax assets 69.6 89.8 103.8 97.5 85.4
192.7 184.3 264.4 236.2 223.2
Current assets
Inventories 0.3 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.5
Trade and other receivables 299.7 284.0 272.9 266.7 255.5
Other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 29.7 49.6 20.7 11.1 9.9
Cash and cash equivalents 154.5 187.7 177.4 114.6 86.2
484.2 521.7 471.2 392.6 352.1
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Borrowings (7.8) (3.7) (6.5) (2.6) (4.0)
Trade and other payables (415.4) (418.6) (379.5) (332.7) (306.0)
Derivative financial instruments (0.9) (0.1) – – –
Current income tax liabilities (26.8) (28.3) (12.3) (10.8) (13.9)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges (4.3) (8.7) (2.8) (2.8) (2.3)
(455.2) (459.4) (401.1) (348.9) (326.2)
Net current assets 29.0 62.3 70.1 43.7 25.9
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings (13.6) (34.5) (35.1) (21.5) (32.7)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges (13.5) (14.3) (11.7) (11.1) (8.3)
Retirement benefit liabilities (213.1) (250.1) (299.9) (274.2) (240.9)
Other non-current liabilities (4.9) (23.8) (23.9) (26.5) (28.2)
(245.1) (322.7) (370.6) (333.3) (310.1)
Net liabilities (23.4) (76.1) (36.1) (53.4) (61.0)
Capital and reserves
Ordinary shares 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
Share premium account 62.4 62.4 62.4 62.4 62.3
Merger reserve 8.9 8.9 8.9 8.9 8.9
Retained loss (95.2) (147.9) (107.9) (125.2) (132.7)
Equity shareholders’ deficit (23.4) (76.1) (36.1) (53.4) (61.0) WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
116 Financial Statements
Consolidated cash flow statements for the years ended 31 March
IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Profit for the year 68.6 54.9 56.9 38.9 23.9
Adjustments for:
Income tax 23.3 15.2 17.9 14.1 18.5
Finance income (9.8) (9.0) (7.9) (6.8) (3.4)
Finance cost 5.5 5.4 11.2 10.7 10.0
Share of post-tax profits from Joint Ventures (0.9) (2.8) (8.8) (10.2) (14.5)
Profit on disposal of Joint Ventures – – (6.4) (3.7) –
Depreciation charges 19.3 18.8 14.7 19.1 19.0
Amortisation charges 11.1 11.6 9.6 8.7 7.8
Release of deferred income (3.0) (0.2) (0.8) (0.8) (5.6)
Impairment of goodwill – – – 7.2 –
Share-based payment charge 8.6 5.1 3.0 2.2 1.3
Result on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 (0.1) 0.7 (0.4) (0.1)
Movement in provisions (5.5) 8.5 (0.1) 2.8 6.0
Working capital movements (36.4) (13.5) 21.7 6.3 31.5
Cash generated from continuing operations 80.9 93.9 111.7 88.1 94.4
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year 0.3 10.8 – – 13.5
Movement in working capital – – – – 20.8
Cash generated from discontinued operations 0.3 10.8 – – 34.3
Cash generated from operations 81.2 104.7 111.7 88.1 128.7
Interest received 9.7 8.9 7.6 7.0 3.5
Interest paid (3.3) (2.1) (2.4) (2.4) (8.0)
Income tax (paid)/received (14.7) 4.9 (10.9) (18.3) (3.1)
Net cash from operating activities 72.9 116.4 106.0 74.4 121.1
Cash flows from investing activities (27.2) (78.0) (41.2) (20.9) (4.0)
Cash flows from financing activities (78.3) (25.9) (2.9) (25.6) (69.4)
Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts (32.6) 12.5 61.9 27.9 47.7
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 187.7 177.4 114.6 86.2 42.6
Effect of exchange rate changes (0.6) (2.2) 0.9 0.5 (4.1)
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 154.5 187.7 177.4 114.6 86.2
Financial assets 29.7 49.6 40.8 31.2 30.0
Loan notes receivable 5.6 – – – –
Borrowings due within one year (4.2) (0.4) (2.7) – (0.7)
Borrowings due after one year (3.2) (23.1) (20.6) (10.5) (23.2)
Finance leases (14.0) (14.7) (18.3) (13.6) (8.7)
Net funds 168.4 199.1 176.6 121.7 83.6
(1) Comparatives have been reformatted to present results in IFRS format. No adjustments have been made to reflect the differences in accounting treatment under
IFRS compared to UK GAAP .
(2) Comparatives have been restated following the adoption of FRS 19, UITF 34, UITF 38 and UITF 17, as amended.
Restated
(1) (2)
Five Y ear Summary
Continued Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Investor Information WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
118 Investor Information
Investor Information
WS Atkins plc
Registered in England. 
Company no. 1885586
Company Secretary 
and Registered Office
Richard Webster
WS Atkins plc
Woodcote Grove
Ashley Road
Epsom
Surrey KT18 5BW
Financial Calendar
Ex-dividend date 13 August 2008
Record date 15 August 2008
Annual General 
Meeting 3 September 2008
Final dividend 
payment date 26 September 2008
Shareholder Services
Registrar
Enquiries and notifications concerning
dividends, share certificates, transfers and
address changes should be sent to the
Registrar, whose address is:
Capita Registrars
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Telephone: 0871 664 0300 (UK callers,
calls cost 10p per minute including VAT
plus any additional network charges) or
+44 20 8639 3399 (non-UK callers).
Other shareholder enquiries should be
addressed to the company secretary at the
registered office.
Investor relations website
Many commonly asked shareholder
questions are addressed in the investor
relations section of our website
www.atkinsglobal.com
E-communications
Shareholders can choose to receive all
Company communications electronically.
To register please visit our shareholder
services portal at www.myatkinsshares.com
Dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP)
The Company offers a dividend
reinvestment plan to shareholders as 
a cost-efficient way of increasing their
shareholding in the Company. Should 
you wish to participate in the DRIP please
contact the Registrar on the telephone
number given above to request a 
mandate form and an explanatory booklet.
Your completed mandate form must be
received by the Registrar no later than
27 August 2008 if you wish your final
dividend for the year to be reinvested 
to buy additional shares.
Amalgamation of accounts
Shareholders who receive duplicate sets 
of Company mailings owing to multiple
accounts in their name should write 
to the Registrar to have their accounts
amalgamated.
Unsolicited mail
The Company is obliged by law to make its
share register available to other organisations
who may then use it for a mailing list. If you
wish to limit receipt of unsolicited mail you
may do so by registering with the Mailing
Preference Service (MPS). Registration can
be made in writing to: The Mailing Preference
Service (MPS), Freepost 29 LON20771,
London W1E 0ZT or online at
www.mpsonline.org.uk
Giving your shares to charity
If you only have a small number of shares
whose value makes it uneconomic to sell
them, you may wish to consider donating
them to charity though ShareGift, an
independent share donation scheme. 
The relevant share transfer form can be
obtained from the Registrar. ShareGift 
is administered by the Orr Mackintosh
Foundation, registered charity number
10052686. Further information may be
obtained on +44 (0)20 7930 3737 or from
www.ShareGift.org
Identity theft
Identity theft is on the increase. Criminals
may steal your personal information, putting
your Atkins shareholding at risk.
Tips for protecting your Atkins shares:
•Ensure all your certificates are kept in a
safe place or hold your shares electronically
in CREST via a nominee
• Keep all correspondence from the Registrar
that shows your shareholder reference
number in a safe place, or destroy your
correspondence by shredding it
•If you change address inform the
Registrar in writing or via our shareholder
services portal www.myatkinsshares.com
•Know when dividends are paid and
consider having your dividend paid
directly into your bank account. This 
will reduce the risk of the cheque being
intercepted or lost in the post. If you
change your bank account, inform the
Registrar of the details of your new
account. You can do this via post or
online using our shareholder services
portal www.myatkinsshares.com.
Respond to any letters the Registrar 
sends to you about this
•If you receive a letter from the Registrar
regarding a change of address or a
dividend instruction but have not recently
moved or requested a change to how
you receive your dividends please contact
them immediately as you may have been
a victim of identity theft
•If you are buying or selling shares only
deal with brokers registered in your
country of residence or the UK. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Investor Information 119
Notes
Introduction Review Governance Financial Statements Investor Information WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
120 Investor Information
At Atkins we are genuinely concerned about our
environmental performance. As such, we would
encourage you to access shareholder information 
online at www.atkinsglobal.com/investors
To help you find the information you’re looking for, 
the key features of our investor relations website are
highlighted below.
Corporate Responsibility
Find out more about our 
Corporate Responsibility strategy
and performance by visiting this
section of our website. 
Reports & Presentations
Our reports can be accessed
and/or downloaded from here. 
Links to results presentations,
press releases and webcasts
are also provided.
Share Price
Chart showing one, two or three
months’ share price activity. Click
the chart to see the share price
table and to access our calculators.
Latest Financial News
Access our latest financial press
releases here.
Register for e-comms
You can help us to reduce our
environmental impact by opting
to receive electronic versions 
of shareholder communications 
(e-comms). Click ‘Register’ 
to sign up.
We will donate £1 to RedR
(Register for Engineers for
Disaster Relief) for each
shareholder who chooses this
method of communication.
Shareholders’ Queries
We provide a number of
services to help our shareholders
manage their holding. Keep up
to date with our progress and
communicate with us. This Annual Report is printed by a CarbonNeutral printing company on 
Revive 100 Uncoated, a 100% recycled paper made from post-consumer 
collected waste and manufactured to the certified environmental management 
system ISO 14001. It is TCF (T otally Chlorine Free), totally recyclable and has
biodegradable NAPM recycled certification.
The Atkins logo, the ‘open A’ device and the strapline ‘Plan Design Enable’ 
are trademarks of Atkins Limited, a WS Atkins plc company.
© WS Atkins plc except where stated otherwise.
Introduction
01 Financial Highlights
02 Group at a Glance
04 Atkins Business Segments
06 Chairman’s Statement
08 Chief Executive’s Statement 
Reviews
14 Human Resources Review
18 Operating and Financial Review
18 Overview of the business and
performance in the year
20 Segmental performance
20 Design and Engineering 
Solutions
22 Highways and Transportation
24 Rail
26 Middle East, China and Europe
30 Management and Project 
Services
32 Asset Management
33 Discontinued operations
34 Financial performance
37 Principal risks and uncertainties
38 Corporate Responsibility Review
Governance
44 Board of Directors
46 Directors’ Report
50 Corporate Governance Report
56 Remuneration Report
61 Independent Auditors’ Report
Financial Statements
64 Consolidated Income Statement
65 Consolidated and Parent Company
Statements of Recognised Income 
and Expense
66 Consolidated and Parent Company 
Balance Sheets
67 Consolidated and Parent Company  
Cash Flow Statements
68 Notes to the Financial Statements
114 Five Year Summary
Investor Information
118 Company Information
118 Financial Calendar
118 Shareholder Services info@atkinsglobal.com
www.atkinsglobal.com
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
WS Atkins plc
Annual Report 2008
Plan Design Enable
