 Plan Design Enable
WS Atkins plc
Annual Report 2009
info@atkinsglobal.com
www.atkinsglobal.com
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction
01 Financial Highlights
02 Group at a Glance
04 Business Segments
06 Chairman’s Statement
08 Chief Executive’s Statement 
Reviews
14 Human Resources Review
18 Business Review
 18 Overview of the business  
  and performance in the year
 20 Segmental performance
 20  Design and Engineering Solutions
 22 Highways and Transportation
 24 Rail
 26 Middle East, China and Europe
 30  Management and Project Services
 32 Asset Management
 34 Financial performance
 37 Principal risks and uncertainties
38 Corporate Responsibility Review
Governance
46 Board of Directors
48 Directors’ Report
52 Corporate Governance Report
58 Remuneration Report
65 Independent Auditors’ Report
Financial Statements
68 Consolidated Income Statement
69 Consolidated and Parent Company
 Statements of Recognised Income  
 and Expense
70 Consolidated and Parent Company 
 Balance Sheets
71 Consolidated and Parent Company 
 Cash Flow Statements
72 Notes to the Financial Statements
118 Five-Year Summary
Investor Information
122 Company Information
122 Financial Calendar
122 Shareholder Services
Environmental impact
At Atkins we are genuinely concerned 
about our environmental performance.  
As such, we would encourage you to 
access shareholder information online at 
www.atkinsglobal.com/investors or on your 
mobile phone at www.atkinsglobal.mobi 
This Annual Report is printed on Revive Pure White Uncoated,  
a 100% recycled paper made from post-consumer collected 
waste and manufactured to the certified environmental 
management system ISO 14001. It is TCF (Totally Chlorine 
Free), totally recyclable and has biodegradable NAPM 
recycled certification.
 
The Atkins logo, ’Carbon Critical Design‘ and the strapline 
‘Plan Design Enable’ are trademarks of Atkins Limited,  
a WS Atkins plc company.
 
© WS Atkins plc except where stated otherwise. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Introduction 01
Financial Highlights
Our vision is to be the world’s best 
infrastructure consultancy.
>
Notes
1. Revenue excludes the Group’s share of revenue from Joint Ventures.
2.  Operating margin and normalised profit before taxation are before exceptional 
items and any profits or losses from disposals. This is considered to be more 
representative of underlying trading. 
3.  Normalised diluted earnings per share (EPS) is based on normalised profit after 
tax and allows for the dilutive effect of share options.
4.  Headcount is shown on a full-time equivalent basis at the year-end, including 
agency staff.
5.  Dividend relating to the year, comprising the interim dividend paid in the year 
and the proposed final dividend.
6. 2006/07 and 2007/08 figures are for continuing operations only.
05 06 07 08 09
955.0
1,052.5
1,179.8
1,313.6
+13%
Revenue £m
1,487.2
05 06 07 08 09
5.3
6.0
6.1
6.6
+0.3pp
Operating margin %
6.9
05 06 07 08 09
56.5
68.4
74.1
91.9
+9%
Normalised profit before taxation £m
100.2
05 06 07 08 09
42.5
50.1
56.5
66.7
+23%
Normalised diluted EPS pence
82.3
05 06 07 08 09
13,892
14,907
15,868
17,278
+4%
Headcount
18,017
05 06 07 08 09
12.0
16.0
20.0
24.0
+8%
Dividend pence
26.0 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
02 Introduction
Group at a Glance
Plan, design, enable 
is what we do.
>
Design
Atkins designs intellectual capital such as management 
systems and business processes. We also design physical 
structures such as office towers, schools, bridges and 
highways. Whatever we design, we apply the same 
passion and creativity combined with rigorous  
quality standards.
Enable 
Our clients choose Atkins because they need 
assurance that their projects are procured safely and 
predictably. They entrust us with the management 
of projects, people and issues – ensuring that 
deadlines are met, costs are controlled and success 
is delivered.
World’s
We will target chosen geographies, and develop 
deep local expertise.
Best
We will seek to consistently anticipate and address 
our clients’ needs.
Infrastructure
Buildings, transport, utilities, government and industry 
and their social and environmental context.
Consultancy
Our primary business model will be selling expertise.
Plan
The challenges facing our clients are multidimensional, 
often because of the increasingly complex modern 
environment. From cost and risk planning, feasibility 
studies and logistics to impact assessments and 
stakeholder engagement activity, we plan every 
aspect of our clients’ projects. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Introduction 03
United Kingdom
 1 1 , 9 5 0
employees
North America
 650
employees
Middle East
 3 , 3 0 0
employees
Asia Pacific
 1 , 2 0 0
employees
1 8,000
Total headcount
1
Largest
engineering consultancy in the UK
2
£ 1, 4 8 7 m
Revenue 2009
Notes
1. Approximate full-time equivalent staff at 31 March 2009 including agency. 
2. Source: New Civil Engineer Consultants File 2009.
Other Europe
 900
employees WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
04 Introduction
Business Segments
We report our activities in a number  
of business segments, reflecting how 
we manage the business according  
to different markets and geographies. 
>
Design and Engineering Solutions
Highways and Transportation
Rail
Middle East, China and Europe
Management and Project Services
Asset Management
This chart illustrates the relative 
size of the segments by revenue
Design and 
Engineering Solutions
We deliver engineering and 
technically integrated design  
to a wide range of largely UK 
clients in the public, regulated 
and private sectors. Our areas 
of operation include water, 
environment, nuclear, power, 
aerospace, defence, oil and 
gas and infrastructure design.
£ 4 1 8m
Revenue
£2 9 2m
Revenue
Highways and 
Transportation
Our principal activities are 
transport planning, advising 
government and highway 
authorities on transport policy 
and investment appraisals; the 
design of road improvements; 
applying intelligent transport 
systems to enhance network 
performance and delivering 
integrated road network 
management and highway 
maintenance services. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Introduction 05
Rail
We provide specialist design 
services across a range of 
engineering disciplines, 
including signalling, civils, 
electrification and specialist 
services in strategic planning, 
safety and systems integration 
principally for heavy rail, rolling 
stock and metro markets.
£ 196m
Revenue
£303m
Revenue
£230m
Revenue
£48m
Revenue
Middle East,
China and Europe
In the Middle East, we 
provide a full range of design, 
engineering and project 
management services for 
buildings, transportation and 
other infrastructure from our 
eight centres in the Gulf and 
India. In China we provide 
engineering, planning, urban 
design, architectural services 
and rail design to the mainland 
market and Hong Kong. Our 
European business comprises 
operations in Denmark, 
Ireland, Poland, Portugal  
and Sweden.
Management and 
Project Services 
Faithful+Gould provides 
project and cost management 
services to a wide range of 
clients across the public and 
private sectors in the UK, 
USA and Asia Pacific. Our 
Management Consultants 
business offers strategy, design 
and programme management 
for technology-enabled 
business change.
Asset 
Management 
We provide independent 
property asset management 
services to a number of private 
sector clients and to public 
sector organisations including 
central government, law  
and order, education, health 
and defence. 06 Introduction
Chairman’s Statement
The Group had another  
successful year. We have  
a strong balance sheet and  
will continue to invest in  
developing the business.
>
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Introduction 07
Results
I am pleased to report that the Group  
had another successful year, with revenue 
up 13% and normalised diluted earnings 
per share up by 23%. We have, as 
planned, continued to make further 
progress in increasing operating margin 
from 6.6% to 6.9%. This continued 
development of the Group, including the 
improvement in operating margins, was 
achieved against a challenging economic 
backdrop in the second half of the year.
In the UK, our Rail, Highways and 
Transportation and Management and 
Project Services segments all performed 
well. There were good performances  
from the majority of our businesses within 
the Design and Engineering Solutions 
segment other than in our building design 
business which was adversely impacted  
by the slowdown of its market. The results 
of our small Asset Management segment 
were very disappointing, reflecting 
problems with one legacy long-term PFI 
facilities management contract.
The result for our business in the Middle 
East was significantly ahead of last year, 
with operating profit of £17.3m, up 82%. 
In the first half of the year the business 
grew strongly but confidence in the 
region was significantly impacted by the 
global economic slowdown and a liquidity 
crisis in the region in autumn 2008.  
A number of projects were cancelled 
during the third quarter, necessitating  
a re-sizing of the business in the fourth 
quarter of the year. Our businesses in 
China and Europe have both delivered 
increased profits.
The Group’s liquidity remains strong 
helped by a very good cash performance 
and we ended the year with net funds  
of £234.2m.
People
After a number of years of sustained 
growth, the Group’s staff numbers 
reached a peak of approximately 18,600 
in November 2008. In response to the 
worsening market conditions in the latter 
part of the year, principally in our UK and 
Middle East commercial and residential 
property-facing businesses, we 
announced the redundancy of some 
1,200 staff. Approximately 600 staff  
had left the business by the year-end, 
taking our year-end staff numbers to 
approximately 18,000, with the remainder 
leaving in the subsequent few months  
as their notice periods come to an end. 
We do not make such decisions lightly,  
as we take our responsibilities to our 
people very seriously, but they were 
necessary in order to reduce our costs  
in response to the changed economic 
environment. At the same time, however, 
we are continuing to recruit to fill 
specialist vacancies in other areas of our 
business, such as nuclear, which continue 
to experience growth in demand and  
to take in graduate trainees.
I would like to thank all our employees 
throughout the Group for their 
commitment and efforts during these 
turbulent economic times.
Board of directors
Robert MacLeod, who has served as 
Group finance director since June 2004, 
and James Morley, who has served as a 
non-executive director since January 2001, 
have both announced their intention to 
leave the Board in June 2009. Robert will 
step down as Group finance director and 
leave the Board on 19 June and James  
will retire from the Board on 30 June. 
They have each made an invaluable 
contribution to the Group and I wish them 
every success in their future endeavours.
I am delighted to welcome Heath Drewett 
and Joanne Curin to the Board. Heath 
joined the Board on 15 June 2009 and  
will assume the role of Group finance 
director on 19 June 2009. Joanne joined 
the Board as a non-executive director  
on 10 February 2009 and will take the 
chair of the Audit Committee on  
30 June 2009. Lord Boyce will assume  
the role of senior independent director, 
also on 30 June.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 17.25p, making the total 
dividend for the year 26.0p (2008: 24.0p), 
an increase of 8%. If approved, the 
dividend will be paid on 25 September 
2009 to ordinary shareholders on the 
register on 14 August 2009.
Outlook
We start the new financial year in a good 
position with work in hand representing 
54% of our budgeted revenue (2008: 
55%). The macro-economic climate varies 
significantly across our diverse range of 
markets. The majority are relatively stable 
but some uncertainties remain in our UK 
building design business and confidence 
has yet to fully return in the Middle East. 
We are, however, well prepared to 
respond to fluctuations, both positive  
and negative, in all our markets.
The Group is well placed to navigate 
through the challenging overall 
environment. We have a strong balance 
sheet and will continue to invest in 
developing the business.
Ed Wallis
Chairman
16 June 2009 08 Introduction
Plan, design, enable is what we do.
Our vision is to be the world’s best 
infrastructure consultancy. 
>
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our strategy
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Introduction 09
Objective and business position
Our primary objective is to create 
long-term shareholder value measured  
by growth in normalised diluted earnings 
per share. We are confident that our  
core activity, that of professional design 
consultant serving the built environment, 
will enable us to continue to perform  
as a successful company in spite of 
unprecedented economic turmoil. 
We believe our objective can be best 
achieved by continuing to develop the 
current business model of predominantly 
professional consulting – Plan Design 
Enable – with the ‘enable’ part generally 
limited to activities such as management 
of road maintenance and signalling  
where our technical expertise gives us  
a competitive advantage. The majority of 
our business relates to our clients’ capital 
expenditure programmes as opposed to 
their day-to-day operating expenditure. 
As capital programmes become more 
complex and our clients, in both the  
public and private sector, face increasing 
pressure on expenditure, the Group’s 
capabilities will remain in demand. 
Effective use of current assets and 
efficient procurement with low-carbon 
drivers provide a platform that plays  
to the Group’s strengths. Where capital 
programmes are demanded we are in  
a position to plan and design cost and 
carbon savings. Where more effective use 
of current assets is needed we can design 
and enable efficient life extension and 
imaginative alternatives – for example in 
ramp metering and hard shoulder running 
on the road networks and extending the 
life of existing nuclear reactors. 
We remain optimistic regarding the 
medium-term demands for our services. 
Growing urban populations and all the 
issues connected with a low-carbon 
economy will require appropriate 
infrastructure. Quality, local understanding 
and breadth of skills will therefore 
continue to be needed. We do, however, 
view the near term cautiously. The global 
economic position has impacted demand 
levels in many markets. Nevertheless, 
governments are determined to push 
through stimulus packages and are 
aligning many of these with climate 
change minimisation goals. This plays well 
to the strengths of the Group provided 
the related projects can be brought to 
market in a timely manner. It is also 
possible that short-term demand for some 
of our services will rise as governments 
come to terms with the need for additional 
strategic planning of capital projects.
Our decentralised professional consulting 
organisation with its very wide range of 
deep technical skills provides an excellent 
base to respond across the Group to 
market fluctuations. Our ability to 
continue to grow, enhance and add to 
these skills gives us confidence of both 
successfully negotiating the global 
economic issues and continuing to meet 
the prime objective of EPS growth.
Vision
Our vision is to be the world’s best 
infrastructure consultancy. 
‘World’s’ means that we will develop  
deep local expertise in certain targeted 
geographies. We aim to be recognised  
as the best infrastructure consultancy in 
our chosen geographies because of the 
projects and service we deliver. We will 
not be global, with offices everywhere, 
although our multi-national reach will  
be extensive.
‘Best’ means that we will be close to  
our clients, anticipating their needs, 
developing long-term relationships and 
winning repeat business. We aim to help 
answer questions our clients don’t know 
they need to ask. We will help them to 
define their questions. Our values will 
espouse the way we carry out our work 
– with integrity and respect, always 
striving for excellence. We will not 
necessarily be the biggest or broadest  
– although this may be a consequence  
of our success.
Our skills lie in the expansive area of 
‘infrastructure’ – the wiring of society  
– covering buildings, transport and utilities 
(including power and water), as well as 
work for national and local governments 
and other industrial clients. The social  
and environmental framework, combined 
with our social policy planning skills,  
is also important – it is essential that we 
view all of our projects in the context  
of the communities in which they will  
be undertaken.
‘Consultancy’ means that we will  
operate a business based on selling advice 
and expertise. We are not a developer, 
construction company or generalist 
outsourcer. We do, however, have the 
financial status and commercial skills  
to successfully engage in a wide  
variety of contract forms as clients  
are increasingly demanding. 
Group strategy
We will achieve our vision through a 
strategy of multi-local, multi-skill excellence. 
The key to much of our activity is the 
national and local nature of the 
relationships we build with our clients.  
The vast majority of our clients continue 
to come to Atkins at a local level because 
we have demonstrated deep technical 
performance. Our decentralised 
organisation, empowering local 
management, also leverages resources 
from across the Group. Our strategy 
involves focusing our efforts where we  
are able to develop these deep local 
relationships with our clients. We call  
this part of our strategy multi-local. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
10 Introduction
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our strategy
Continued
The implications of a multi-local  
strategy are:
•  we will have several home markets, 
where the business is a market leader 
and is material to us
•  we will only offer services where we 
have a high degree of technical 
competence in each of these markets
•  we will be seen as deeply local  
by customers
•  home businesses will be autonomous, 
but we will leverage capability from one 
region to another – collaborating and 
sharing knowledge across the Group
•  we will not be global, offering identical 
commoditised services.
In addition to developing local skills,  
our local management teams are able  
to draw upon the Group’s wide range  
of skills and resources. One of Atkins’ key 
differentiators is the extensive range of 
skills that we have in the organisation. Our 
ability to mobilise multidisciplinary teams 
and deep expertise from around the 
Group for local projects is a demonstrated 
capability that we have continued to 
successfully develop. Our clients recognise 
that, by harnessing this breadth of skills, 
we can answer their questions better.  
This part of our strategy we call multi-skill.
The implications of a multi-skill  
strategy are:
•  our competitive advantage will come 
from our breadth and depth of skills
•  our breadth will allow us to address the 
world’s most complex projects, small  
or large, and give us flexibility to react  
to new market opportunities
•  we will continue to invest in ensuring 
collaboration between skill groups and 
business units
•  we will not be satisfied with skills that 
are less than world-class just for the 
sake of breadth.
None of this strategy works unless we 
constantly strive for excellence. Economies 
rely upon the capital projects on which  
we work, and customer trust in our 
delivery is paramount. This trust depends 
on us maintaining world-class skills, and 
constantly pushing the boundaries of 
what is technically achievable.
Our scope is clear. We will continue  
to evolve world-class skills in 
infrastructure-related disciplines.  
We will focus these skills in selected  
home geographies where our full 
capability can be brought to bear. 
Our advantage is clear. Our breadth and 
depth of skills give us the ability to deliver 
simple solutions to complex questions. 
The reputation we build will attract 
employees and customers worldwide. 
Skills
Atkins has a huge range of technical skills 
evidenced by the vast array of services 
that the Group can offer. The devolved 
strategy is to have deep understanding of 
the skills demanded and offered (Identity) 
and to deliver these to a degree of  
quality to remain competitive (Excellence).  
At business unit level this strategy is 
articulated as Identity+Excellence.
Our drive for improvement and growth 
has been organic supplemented by 
targeted bolt-on acquisitions. Stringent 
acquisition criteria are applied to ascertain 
the appropriateness of the skill-set and 
cultural fit and to assess whether 
companies will usefully accelerate the 
multi-skill, multi-local strategy. Given the 
sound financial position of the Group, 
acquisitions can be readily financed and 
we can direct significant investment into 
areas in which we see value. We have 
continued to make good progress on 
acquiring new skills and extending  
our capabilities in recent years. The 
acquisitions of, for example, Nedtech  
and M.G. Bennett reflect our desire  
for skill acquisitions – enhancing our 
capability in specific areas and embedding 
new expertise alongside the existing 
Atkins offering.
Low-carbon economy
The transition to a low-carbon economy 
poses extraordinary challenges and 
opportunities. Our Carbon Critical Design 
programme is producing new ideas and 
ways of working. We are endeavouring  
to embed low-carbon design in all of our 
work in a marketplace that is still immature.
This encompasses all of our areas of 
operation as people around the world 
wrestle with how to approach the issue  
of climate change.
We are making good progress on our 
journey to have some 5,000 Atkins people 
engaging with clients on carbon issues 
within the next year. We are investing  
in carbon tools and running training 
courses to raise awareness of the issues 
among our staff. We regularly contribute 
to external conferences and debates on  
the subject. 
We continue to work with governments 
to offer advice about the delivery of  
a low-carbon economy. In this financial 
year we have also invested to build  
a range of carbon calculators across most 
areas of our business to support us in the 
delivery of low-carbon design and planning.
This remains an iterative journey but one 
that is of fundamental importance. We 
will not lose sight of this even in difficult 
market conditions. We will continue to 
invest in raising awareness, developing 
tools and actively engaging with our 
clients to help them meet their carbon 
agendas over the next decade.  Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Introduction 11
Health and safety
It is with deepest regret that we report  
on a fatality that occurred on the Diego 
Garcia Joint Venture DG21 during a tree 
felling operation. Atkins has an equity 
stake of 24.5% in the Joint Venture and 
we have provided support, including 
advice on how to further improve the 
health and safety arrangements. 
We set our own challenging targets for 
health and safety and our performance 
remains better than the industry average 
performance as compiled by the HSE 
Labour Force Survey. We are keen to 
continue to improve, by expanding our 
safety leadership programme, and to 
reduce the number of manual handling 
accidents which account for 23%  
of serious accidents in construction.  
We also actively encourage the reporting 
of incidents and near-misses as a positive 
step towards accident prevention. 
All of our operations are now covered by 
OHSAS 18001 and three of our businesses 
have also received RoSPA awards: Gold  
for Highways and Transportation, and 
Design and Engineering Solutions; and 
Distinction for Asset Management (which 
was awarded for the 22nd year running).
Strategy process
Our strategy is developed by establishing 
the Group’s priorities and evaluating the 
strengths of the businesses within the 
Group. Business unit bottom-up five-year 
plans are set in the context of the  
top-down Group strategic aims.  
The Group top-down strategic aims 
encompass market sectors and 
geographies in which to operate and 
establish ways in which the business units 
may be assisted in delivering superior 
performance. Increasingly multiple 
business units can be brought together  
to deliver complex projects in various parts 
of the world. 
Last year we noted that we were mindful 
of the indirect consequences of a 
prolonged downturn in the commercial 
property market. Macro-economic 
conditions worsened during late 2008  
and started to affect our UK and Middle 
East building design businesses. We 
recognised the position and took swift 
action to reduce headcount and match 
costs to the available market. The Group 
will continue to monitor market 
developments and take appropriate 
action. We have a diverse skill base and 
geographic footprint which provides  
resilience in uncertain times. Many 
markets remain resource-constrained.  
The Group is agile and flexible enough  
to continue to hire as necessary and  
shrink where required to maintain levels  
of performance.
The 2008 strategy review focused on the 
evolution of the Group strategy, building 
on the work of previous years.
The review confirmed:
•  the consultancy business model  
is appropriate
•  the business units remain the core  
of the strategy 
•  economic uncertainty could lead  
to a wider range of credible scenarios 
– but the Group is well placed to deal 
with this
•  communication of the strategy  
is important
•  implementation of the strategy is now  
at the forefront of activity – determining 
how to optimise delivery, what services 
and skills to offer and in which 
geographical markets to operate.
The majority of our business is in the UK 
which remains the core market for our 
activities. Our existing businesses outside 
of the UK present attractive opportunities 
for further growth. The huge potential 
outside the UK includes areas where we 
are well established such as the Middle 
East, which despite recent liquidity issues, 
has significant medium-term promise. 
We have strong technical skills in  
a number of robust markets where quality 
is a significant determinant for selection.
•  In the UK we have niche positions in 
numerous markets. We propose to 
continue to invest in management, 
deepen the skill base and organise the 
business in a suitable way. We will, as 
demonstrated, undertake controlled 
reduction or exit of businesses and 
structure appropriately for downturns  
in activity.
•  In the Middle East we will continue  
to add niche skills and prepare for the 
economic upturn.
•  In Asia Pacific we will focus on and  
push hard in our available markets – 
principally the transit market in Hong 
Kong and building design and urban 
planning in China. We will continue  
to invest to take advantage of 
opportunities as the market opens up, 
recognising that it could be at least  
two years before significant growth  
is achieved.
•  In Europe we will continue to develop 
our local businesses.
•  In the USA, Faithful+Gould and our  
oil and gas businesses provide the 
organic growth focus. Skill additions 
remain possible.
•  Other geographic areas will continue  
to be reviewed.
The Board met in the final quarter of 
2008/09 to consider strategic themes  
in light of global market developments. 
The main tenets of the strategy were 
re-affirmed and the top-down multi-skill, 
multi-local strategy remains unchanged. 
The decentralised and empowered 
business model is fundamental to the 
success of the Group. In current conditions, 
tactical responses have priority in certain 
markets but the need to maintain  
a medium-term view in many of the 
businesses was also noted by the Board  
so that the Group may adequately position 
itself to take advantage of opportunities 
as they arise.  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
12 Introduction
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our strategy
Continued
During 2009/10 the Group will continue 
to evaluate the services and countries that 
will provide the best long-term returns for 
the Group and, where appropriate, will 
follow specific sector opportunities into 
new and related markets. Acquisitions  
and organic investment will be considered 
which deepen the Group’s skill base and 
strengthen our market position in line with 
our strategy. Acquisitions can accelerate 
growth in our home geographies and 
elsewhere. Attractive geographies 
continue to be those with good cultural  
fit and market scope i.e. a material market 
with good growth prospects and potential 
for Atkins to grow market share.
The Board remains alive to the challenges 
and opportunities that arise from 
unprecedented world economic conditions. 
The Group is well placed to weather the 
downturn and take advantage of 
opportunities that may present themselves. 
It has the resources to emerge strongly  
as markets recover. 
Business unit strategy
The decentralised consultancy model 
demands that elements of the strategy  
be established at business unit level. Each 
business actively considers its competitive 
and resource-based advantage together 
with ways in which we may apply our 
business models better and improve  
our services. 
Each business determines a medium  
to long-term view of its prospects and 
positioning within its markets in the 
context of Group objectives. This year, 
while actions have been focused on the 
near term to ensure navigation through 
rapidly changing markets, strategic action 
plans have continued to be developed to 
ensure medium-term objectives remain in 
sight. Our management depth and ability 
are key to ensuring that we maintain a 
forward looking view within the business.
Looking forward
Our UK activity is underpinned by the 
provision of specialist, not commodity, 
services to several long-standing  
clients in the private and public sectors. 
With approximately 50% of our UK 
revenue coming directly from UK 
government (central or local), the Group  
is highly dependent on continued 
government expenditure.
The current economic turmoil and increased 
government debt will undoubtedly put 
pressure on the government’s finances, 
particularly from 2010/11 onwards.
The Group is, however, well positioned 
despite potential spending cuts because  
of a number of factors:
•  There will always be a demand for 
high-value technical skills – where 
quality is the major determinant – and 
these will be in greater demand as the 
complexity of the questions and 
challenges facing our clients increase. 
•  The drive to satisfy the UK’s Carbon 
Reduction Commitment will further 
increase the need for technical solutions 
to achieve the government’s targets. 
•  Decarbonising the economy, together 
with an increasing need for capacity, 
reliability and predictability should 
particularly enhance demand for  
skills in, for example, our nuclear, 
transmission and distribution,  
utilities and rail markets.
•  The government can increase efficiency 
by spending more time on the planning 
and designing of projects. Putting more 
thought into less construction is an area 
where the Group is particularly strong.
The Middle East comprises several  
markets and although the Dubai property 
market was effectively frozen from late 
calendar 2008, many other geographic 
markets and sectors continue to be active. 
The challenges arose from a liquidity  
issue in the region which led to a number 
of confidence issues. Confidence will 
return, and the region as a whole will 
continue to be an attractive area that  
can support a significant Atkins business, 
increasingly in essential infrastructure  
as well as buildings, built on experience 
and relationships established in the 
decades that we have been present in  
the Middle East. 
The US workload, driven by a variety of 
clients, is steady and we anticipate that 
fiscal stimulus will help to increase activity 
levels in infrastructure-related areas.
Europe and China are longer term 
prospects for the Group – but 
infrastructure needs will drive medium 
term demand.
Our deep local presence and drive for  
the type of value-for-money engineering 
that cannot be achieved at the commodity 
end of the spectrum place us well to 
deliver in all of these markets in the  
short term and beyond.
We are confident that with our culture, 
skills and business model we are, as 
evidenced by this year’s continued 
improvement in financial performance, 
well positioned to weather the  
turbulent global economic climate  
and emerge stronger.
Keith Clarke
Chief Executive
16 June 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Reviews
Reviews
14 Human Resources Review
18 Business Review
 18  Overview of the business  
and performance in the year
 20  Segmental performance
 20  Design and Engineering Solutions
 22  Highways and Transportation
 24  Rail
 26  Middle East, China and Europe
 30  Management and Project Services
 32  Asset Management
 34  Financial performance
 37  Principal risks and uncertainties
38 Corporate Responsibility Review 14 Reviews
Human Resources Review
Our people
Atkins’ success depends on  
attracting and retaining the most 
talented professionals in their 
respective fields and providing  
an environment in which they  
are able to apply their skills on  
a variety of complex projects. 
>
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Reviews 15
Overview
Atkins succeeds to the extent that we  
are able to attract and retain the most 
talented professionals in their respective 
fields and provide an environment in 
which they are able to apply their skills 
and experience in addressing our clients‘ 
varied needs. This means that being an 
employer of choice is a prerequisite in 
what remains a competitive environment 
for the best staff. We are proud of our 
record in meeting this challenge but 
recognise it requires a continual focus.
We measure our performance in various 
ways, partly by the breadth and depth  
of the skills and capabilities of our people 
but also by tracking a number of metrics 
which are integral to our management  
of the business. These include retention, 
employee engagement and the 
composition of our workforce. We also 
take careful account of the views of our 
staff expressed via internal and external 
surveys, with the latter resulting in  
a number of awards.
Headcount
Headcount growth in the first half 
continued the trend of recent years  
with strong growth in most parts of the 
organisation, followed by action in the 
second half to adjust our resources to 
reflect the changed economic environment. 
In the eight months from April to 
November 2008 headcount, including 
agency staff, increased by 8% to a peak 
of over 18,600. From November 2008  
to March 2009 there was then a reduction 
of circa 600 staff (3.2%) reducing 
headcount to 18,017. Once allowance  
is made for staff under notice then the 
underlying headcount reduces to circa 
17,400. These reductions were mainly  
in the UK and Middle East building design 
businesses and in Faithful+Gould.
Every effort has been and continues  
to be made to redeploy staff and, whilst  
a significant number of colleagues have 
left the business as a result of restructuring, 
many others have been redeployed 
successfully to other parts of the business 
where we continue to see growth in 
demand for skilled staff. We are recruiting 
to fill specialist roles across the Group, 
notably in nuclear, oil and gas, power  
and aerospace. 
We had 300 graduate trainees joining in 
the year and, although we have reduced 
our target to 150 for the year ahead,  
we remain committed to those on our 
graduate programme. For the fourth  
year in succession we were awarded the  
Most Popular Graduate Recruiter in the 
Construction and Civil Engineering 
category at the Target National Graduate 
Awards. This award is based on feedback 
gathered through an online campus 
survey of 90,000 undergraduates over  
a four-month period ending in January 
2009 (the largest of its kind in the UK).
Retention
Staff turnover improved markedly 
throughout the year with overall staff 
turnover reducing from 15.4% to 11.4%. 
Turnover by region was as follows:
 2009 2008
UK 10.0% 15.0%
Middle East 14.7% 15.0%
China 17.9% 26.1%
Europe 8.9% 10.9%
USA 10.2% 14.2%
  
We also monitor the stability index  
(i.e. the number of staff with more than  
a year’s service at the end of the financial 
year as a percentage of the headcount  
at the beginning of the financial year) for 
the Group as a whole and for each major 
business. Our performance in this measure 
of the retention of experienced staff 
compares very well with most large 
professional services businesses with  
an index of 84.3% for the Group as  
a whole (2008: 82.2%). The indices for 
the individual regions were as follows:  
UK 87.2% (2008: 81.9%), Middle East 
76.9% (2008: 83.3%), China 75.3% 
(2008: 71.2%), Europe 87.4%  
(2008: 91.7%) and USA 81.5%  
(2008: 88.7%).
We continued to monitor feedback  
from staff who left Atkins in the year. 
Encouragingly, over 80% would 
recommend Atkins as a place to work  
and would consider working with us again 
at some point in their career.
T op 2 0
Best Big Companies to Work For
The Sunday Times, 2009
T o p 1 0 0
Graduate Employers
The Times, 2008
16,000
16,500
1 7 ,000
1 7, 500
18,000
18,500
19,000
Monthly headcount
Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar
Period end 2008/09 average Adjusted for under notice at year-end WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
16 Reviews
Human Resources Review
Our people
Continued
Employee engagement
During the year, we continued to invest  
in and develop two-way internal 
communications channels to enable us  
to share information to inspire, motivate 
and engage Atkins staff around the world 
and to receive their feedback. In particular, 
we hosted a conference for 500 live 
delegates and 9,000 online delegates to 
explain our vision to be the world’s best 
infrastructure consultancy and to reinforce 
our strategy of Identity+Excellence. We 
have also launched a new intranet news 
centre which has enabled us to deliver 
better quality information to staff in  
a more timely, appealing and accessible 
multi-media format. Penetration statistics 
show that significantly more people are 
receiving information about Atkins than  
in previous years. Staff therefore have  
a greater understanding of our vision, 
strategy, performance, values in action 
and Group achievements than in previous 
years, which contributes to our objectives 
of motivating and retaining staff.
Most significantly, we measure employee 
engagement across the Group via our 
annual Viewpoint survey, an online survey 
open to all staff in the Group. This was 
completed by 77% of staff and showed 
an improvement in the employee 
engagement index for the third consecutive 
year. An employee engagement index  
of 75 represents excellent performance. 
Furthermore, our performance in each of 
the 10 principal criteria is now well above 
the benchmark for the organisations 
which use this survey. Our performance 
improved for each of the 10 factors and 
for 29 of the 30 detailed questions.
We were delighted to maintain our 
position in the UK’s Sunday Times Top 20 
Best Big Companies award with an 
improved ranking of 10th. This was 
particularly pleasing since 2,500 of our  
UK staff were invited to take part in this 
anonymous survey, which is important in 
allowing us to compare our performance 
against other leading employers in our 
sector and more widely. 
Investment in people
The skills and capabilities of our people 
are key to our success. A high priority is 
placed on learning and development with 
an annual investment in training of over 
£20m during the year. More than 8,000 
delegates attended Group programmes 
(an increase of 10% on the year before). 
Our portfolio of programmes was 
enhanced to ensure that they addressed 
the key issues of Carbon Critical Design 
and diversity. New and updated 
programmes were introduced including, 
for example, a course on the leadership  
of virtual and remote teams in recognition 
of the fact that many projects now  
span geographic as well as internal 
organisational boundaries.
We have improved our graduate 
development programme, responding  
to the results of a review undertaken one 
year ago. The review highlighted many 
examples of exemplary practice, but also 
some areas where we needed to do 
better, particularly in ensuring the 
consistency of our delivery against the 
‘promise’ that we make to new graduate 
trainees. This is particularly important 
given both the size of our graduate trainee 
population, which now exceeds 1,000 
staff, and their importance to our future.
We have reviewed the training 
arrangements for all graduate trainees  
in conjunction with our staff and the 
major professional institutions, and have 
taken action to strengthen these where 
necessary. We have set up internal forums 
to bring together both graduate trainees 
and those responsible for their development 
to ensure that good practice is shared and 
high standards are maintained. We have 
also received accreditation for an Atkins 
Further Learning Programme by the Joint 
Board of Moderators to aid the progress 
of graduates with bachelor degrees to 
chartered status.
During the year we also created 11 technical 
networks to encourage excellence and 
professional development in the areas of: 
tall buildings; geotechnical engineering; 
carbon critical buildings; commercial due 
diligence; masterplanning; strategic and 
policy planning; structural engineering; 
tunnelling; bridge engineering; internal 
project management; and geospatial  
and integrated digital solutions. Each 
network is chaired by one of Atkins’ 
most experienced professionals in each  
of the disciplines.
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
Employee engagement index
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Reviews 17
In addition, through our University  
Liaison Directors programme, our 
engagement with universities has continued 
to grow and develop. Atkins currently  
has relationships with 16 universities in  
the UK, 10 in the USA, two in China,  
two in Singapore and one in Dubai.
Reward
We continue to monitor our remuneration 
practices to ensure that we reward people 
competitively in each of the markets and 
regions in which we operate. During the 
year, we saw a significant decline in wage 
inflation and took a decision in January  
to defer the annual Group-wide salary 
review from April to October 2009.  
This should allow us to take considered 
decisions regarding pay levels against  
a more stable and predictable outlook 
than would otherwise have been the case. 
In the context of the decision to defer the 
annual pay review, our executive directors 
and chairman have waived 10% of their 
monthly salary payments from 1 April 2009. 
In addition, in response to local market 
conditions, a 10% pay reduction has been 
implemented for staff in the Middle East 
and Ireland, taking account of significant 
pay deflation in these markets.
We reviewed the operation of our bonus 
and incentive arrangements, which we 
believe continue to operate well and 
effectively, against current best practice. 
Our executive bonus scheme now covers 
more than 800 people. In addition, 
approximately 30% of our staff will 
benefit from a discretionary bonus  
award to recognise individual contribution 
and performance.
We have made additional progress with 
the restructuring of the Group’s defined 
benefit pension arrangements with  
a further reduction in the number of 
members accruing benefits in the Atkins 
pension plan in the UK and the closure  
to future accrual of the McCarthy plan  
in Ireland. 
Finally, we have commenced consultation 
with approximately 400 staff in the Atkins 
section of the Railways Pension Scheme  
to provide a voluntary lower-cost option 
as an alternative to significantly increased 
member and employer contributions.
These actions together with previously 
announced increases to employer 
contributions have significantly reduced 
the risks associated with our defined 
benefit liabilities.
Diversity
Atkins operates as a local company  
which needs to reflect the diversity of its 
community in several regions and which 
recruits from most parts of the world. We 
assemble teams which cross geographical 
and cultural boundaries and compete for 
skilled staff in highly competitive markets, 
so we need to ensure that we are making  
the most of the varied talents of our 
people. During the year we held diversity 
training sessions for the Board and  
Group Executive. 
We have made progress in several areas 
through internal initiatives and through 
our collaboration with clients and with 
national organisations.
Of particular note is our collaboration  
with the Olympic Delivery Authority  
(ODA) where we have worked closely  
with colleagues in the ODA, the London 
Organising Committee of the Olympic and 
Paralympic Games (LOCOG) and other 
delivery partners to ensure that we reflect 
the diversity objectives of the Games  
in the work we undertake and in the 
Olympics supply chain. This has included 
support for a diversity week run by ODA 
and LOCOG to which we invited a 
Paralympics sailing team to share their 
experiences with our project team; 
community engagement to raise money  
to send 250 London children to a Stoke 
Mandeville sports camp; and the 
development of a diversity education 
programme to be rolled out across Atkins 
using a theatre company. 
Atkins has hosted a number of supplier 
events jointly with the ODA to encourage 
more SMEs to do business with us and  
is currently working with the London 
Development Agency and LOCOG to 
maximise the benefits of a self-assessment 
tool – ‘Diversity Works for London’.
We have forged closer links with Scope,  
a charity working for disabled people’s 
equality, and have recruited our first 
graduate trainee through their leadership 
programme. We have also taken on our 
first recruits through Total Support, an 
employment agency which specialises  
in placing people with disabilities or 
requiring rehabilitation.
Our business in the Middle East employs 
staff of over 40 different nationalities  
and in the UK we continue to work  
closely with the UK Resource Centre for 
Women in Science and Engineering to 
contribute to the government’s agenda 
for increasing participation in engineering 
and science professions.
Encouragingly we are seeing a shift in 
attitudes and clear evidence of progress 
with increasing numbers of women 
represented at most levels of the 
organisation but realise we have a  
journey to complete.
T op 50
Places Where Women Want to Work 
The Times, 2008
National Graduate Recruitment Awards, 
Construction and Civil Engineering Sector
Target Magazine, 2009
Winner WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
18 Reviews
Our business
Our core business is helping our clients  
to plan, design and enable capital 
programmes that resolve challenges  
in the built and natural environment.  
We are able to plan all aspects of our 
clients’ projects, conducting feasibility 
studies and impact analyses covering 
technical, logistical, legal, environmental 
and financial considerations. We design 
systems, infrastructures, processes, 
buildings and civil structures. We enable 
our clients’ complex programmes by 
optimising procurement methods and 
managing supply chains on their behalf  
to reduce timescales, cost and risk.
We report our activities in six business 
segments as this reflects how we  
manage the business via different  
markets and geographies. 
Key performance indicators 
The Group uses a range of performance 
measures to monitor and manage the 
business. Those that are particularly 
important in monitoring our progress in 
generating shareholder value are considered 
key performance indicators (KPIs). Our 
KPIs measure past performance and also 
provide information and context to 
anticipate the future and, in conjunction 
with our detailed knowledge and 
experience of the segments in which we 
operate, allow us to act early and manage 
the business into the future. Revenue, 
operating profit and margin, earnings  
per share (EPS) and operating cash flow 
indicate the volume of work we have 
done, its profitability and the efficiency 
with which we have turned operating 
profits into cash; work in hand measures 
our secured workload as a percentage of 
the budgeted revenue for the next year; 
staff numbers and staff turnover are 
measures of capacity and show us how 
effective we have been in recruiting and 
retaining our key resource. 
KPIs for 2009 are shown in the  
table opposite, along with prior  
year comparatives. 
Review of the year
In the year ended 31 March 2009  
the Group’s revenue from continuing 
operations grew by 13% to £1,487.2m. 
Operating profit from continuing 
operations increased by 19% to £103.1m 
while the Group’s underlying operating 
margins grew to 6.9%. Translated at 
constant exchange rates, revenue grew  
by 9% and operating profit by 16%.
Operating cash flow in the year was 
£125.5m, representing 122% of operating 
profit, and net funds at 31 March 2009 
were £234.2m. 
Normalised diluted EPS grew by 15.6p  
per share to 82.3p, an increase of 23%, 
reflecting the benefit of a reduced tax 
charge, following the acquisition of tax 
losses from Metronet, in addition to a 9% 
improvement in normalised profit before 
taxation. Excluding the benefit of acquired 
tax losses, normalised diluted earnings  
per share would have been 75.3p, an 
increase of 12.9%.
At 31 March 2009 we had secured 54% 
of budgeted revenue for 2009/10, 
compared with 55% last year. 
Staff numbers increased by 739 (4%) 
during the year but will reduce in the first 
quarter of 2009/10 as approximately 600 
people under notice at the year-end leave 
the business.
Segmental analysis of revenue, operating 
profit, work in hand and staff numbers 
follows, while staff turnover is discussed 
further in the Human Resources Review.
Business Review
Overview of the business and performance in the year
Atkins provides professional design 
and engineering consultancy services. 
We are the largest engineering 
consultancy in the UK.
> Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Reviews 19
Key performance indicators 
Continuing operations Note 2009 2008 change
Financial metrics    
Revenue 1 £1,487.2m £1,313.6m +13% 
Operating profit  £103.1m £86.7m +19% 
Operating margin   6.9% 6.6% +0.3pp
Operating cash flow   £125.5m £80.9m  +55% 
Normalised diluted EPS 2 82.3p  66.7p  +23% 
Work in hand 3 54% 55% -1.0pp
People    
Staff numbers at 31 March 4/5 18,017  17,278  +4% 
Average staff numbers for the year 4 17,988  16,981  +6% 
Staff turnover 6 11.4% 15.4% -4.0pp
Notes
1. Revenue excludes the Group’s share of revenue from Joint Ventures.
2. Normalised diluted EPS is based on normalised profit after tax and allows for the dilutive effect of share options. 
3.  Work in hand is the value of contracted and committed work as at 31 March that is scheduled for the 
following year, expressed as a percentage of budgeted revenue for the year.
4. Staff numbers are shown on a full-time equivalent basis, including agency staff.
5. Staff numbers at 31 March 2009 included approximately 600 staff under notice of redundancy.
6.  Staff turnover is the number of voluntary staff resignations in the year, expressed as a percentage of average 
staff numbers. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
20 Reviews
Business Review
Segmental performance
Design and Engineering Solutions
Key performance indicators  2009 2008 change
Financial metrics   
Revenue  £418.3m £373.6m +12.0%
Operating profit   £31.6m £30.2m +4.6%
Operating margin  7.6% 8.1% -0.5pp
Share of post-tax JV profit  £0.1m   –  
Work in hand  43% 39% +4pp
People   
Staff numbers at 31 March  5,167  5,024  +2.8%
Average staff numbers  5,133  4,722  +8.7%
 Buildings
 Communications
 Aerospace
 Education
 Other
Revenue by client type
 Public Sector: Local Government 
 Public Sector: National Government 
 Private Sector
 Regulated 
 Water
 Nuclear
 Defence
 Environment
 Oil and Gas
 Urban 
 Development
05 06 07 08 09
228.7
269.5
320.8
373.6
Revenue £m
418.3
05 06 07 08 09
20.6
22.6
27.0
30.2
Operating profit £m
31.6
05 06 07 08 09
3,332
3,384
3,980
4,722
Average staff numbers 
5,133 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Reviews 21
Design and Engineering Solutions as  
a whole had a good year with growth  
in revenue of £44.7m (12%). Operating profit 
increased by £1.4m (4.6%) with the reduction 
in margin primarily attributable to the poor 
performance of our UK building design 
business and consequent reorganisation costs 
of approximately £5m, including property 
rationalisation costs.
Our water and environment business of 1,850 
staff continues to perform well. During the 
year, we have secured commissions with 
Northumbrian Water and a position on the 
AMP5 framework for Severn Trent Water. 
Bidding for the forthcoming regulatory 
programme will continue over the coming 
year and final determinations in the AMP5 
price review in England and Wales, which 
governs future expenditure, are due in 
November with implementation of price limits 
expected in April 2010. Environmental 
concerns keep flood mitigation and coastal 
protection to the fore, where we are 
undertaking a number of studies under 
framework contracts with the water 
companies and the Environment Agency.  
Our planning and contaminated land 
capabilities, including environmental impact 
assessment and remediation work, continue 
to be in demand both in the public and 
private sectors.
Our 1,400-strong multidisciplinary building 
design and engineering business, which 
primarily works on a portfolio of public sector 
projects in the UK, had a mixed year. 
Successes on a number of major projects, 
including work for the ODA on the London 
Olympic Park, were partially offset by a 
disappointing year in our UK building design 
business which was adversely impacted by 
delays in the college modernisation 
programme for the Learning and Skills  
Council (LSC). As a result, headcount in this 
part of the business has been reduced by 
approximately 200 since 31 March 2008 to 
800. During the year we commenced work 
for LOCOG following our appointment as the 
official engineering design services provider  
for the London 2012 Games.
Our aerospace business, which now employs 
over 300 staff, performed well continuing to 
support Airbus on a number of certification 
and design packages for the A330, A350 XWB, 
A380 and A400M aircraft. Nedtech, acquired 
last year, has performed very well and has 
confirmed our status as a transnational 
supplier to Airbus, leading to a number  
of new opportunities.
The demand, from both public and private 
sector clients, for the services of our defence 
business remains solid. Our work on the 
Future Rapid Effect System programme for 
the UK Ministry of Defence is now focused  
on the Specialist Vehicle families, where we 
continue to provide independent consultancy 
and commercial services. This is opening up 
further opportunities for us.
We have continued to successfully invest in 
expanding the services we offer in the nuclear 
sector through training and selective 
recruitment to build a cadre of multidiscipline 
nuclear experience in anticipation of increased 
decommissioning and new-build activity.  
We are assisting the UK Department of 
Energy and Climate Change with studies  
for the nuclear new-build programme and 
continue to support British Energy through  
a technical services agreement providing 
innovative solutions across their portfolio of 
nuclear power stations in the UK that runs  
to 2012, with an option to extend beyond  
this date. The acquisition in October 2008  
of M.G. Bennett, a 30-strong mechanical  
and structural engineering design 
consultancy, with nuclear lifting capability 
further enhances our offering in this 
expanding sector.
The skills of our energy businesses are 
increasingly being sought after in the 
renewables sector. We are conducting 
structural design work on the Galloper and 
Thanet offshore wind farm developments  
and we are also involved in various wave,  
tide and current projects. The increasing need 
for alternative power generation methods to 
be connected to the grid offers opportunities 
for our electricity transmission and 
distribution business to develop outside our 
core technical support and design contracts 
with Central Networks and National Grid.
The oil and gas business, which employs  
300 staff, has performed well and our 
workload remains strong. In Europe, we are 
working on new developments such as the 
Solan field West of Shetland and we continue 
to help manage the integrity of existing assets 
for companies such as BP and Talisman. 
Our oil and gas business in the USA is also 
strong and growing on the back of design 
commissions for BP and Hess. Outside our 
core markets of Europe and the USA, we 
continue to offer design services to regions 
such as West Africa, Egypt and Malaysia.  
We are also supporting BP and other oil 
companies with the global deployment of a 
Fleet Management System which manages 
the assessment of integrity data for oil and 
gas assets.
Our communications business, which 
provides consultancy services in support of 
current and next generation communications 
infrastructure alongside a range of technical 
solutions to a broad range of clients, 
performed well. However, following Cable & 
Wireless’ (C&W) acquisition of Thus in 2008, 
C&W decided to in-source the contract to 
look after its fibre optic network, using the 
existing Thus expertise. As a consequence 
approximately 70 staff, out of a total of  
230 staff, transferred to C&W in May 2009.
Outlook
Overall, the outlook for the Design and 
Engineering Solutions segment is stable.  
Work in hand is ahead of last year, at 43% 
(2008: 39%), and over 80% of the 
segment’s revenue comes from the publicly 
funded and regulated sectors. Increased 
competition in a tougher market environment 
is putting pressure upon prices but the range 
of our service offering positions us well for 
the year ahead.
Our UK building design business has been 
significantly impacted by reduced workload, 
and whilst our direct exposure to the 
commercial property sector is limited, 
slowdown in that market has increased 
competition in our other markets. In addition, 
it is unclear when the current hiatus in the 
LSC building programme will come to an end. 
We are carefully monitoring the business to 
assess whether any further action is required.
The nuclear business is well positioned to  
take advantage of the opportunities that  
will be provided by the UK’s nuclear  
new-build programme.
In the longer term, there are substantial 
opportunities for our business to support the 
UK government’s drive to achieve its reduced 
carbon emissions as outlined in the 2009 
carbon budget. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
22 Reviews
Business Review
Segmental performance
Continued
Highways and Transportation
Key performance indicators  2009 2008 change
Financial metrics   
Revenue  £292.4m £274.6m +6.5%
Operating profit   £20.2m £16.8m +20.2%
Operating margin  6.9% 6.1% +0.8pp
Share of post-tax JV (loss)/profit  £(0.4)m £0.7m -157.1%
Work in hand  62% 78% -16pp
People   
Staff numbers at 31 March  3,075  2,813  +9.3%
Average staff numbers  3,016  3,054  -1.2%
Revenue by client type
 Public Sector: Local Government 
 Public Sector: National Government 
 Private Sector 
 
Revenue by market
 Highway Services
 Design
 Intelligent Transport Systems
 Planning
05 06 07 08 09
9.4
11.0
13.2
16.8
20.2
Operating profit £m
05 06 07 08 09
2,742
2,834
3,067
3,054
Average staff numbers
3,016
05 06 07 08 09
206.8
215.4
250.5
274.6
292.4
Revenue £m Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Reviews 23
Our Highways and Transportation 
segment had a good year, continuing the 
trend of growth and improving margins.  
Operating profit increased by £3.4m 
(20.2%) as margins increased to 6.9% 
(2008: 6.1%) principally due to the  
strong demand for our higher-margin 
consultancy activities and the benefits  
of our continued drive for greater 
efficiencies. The reduction in average  
staff numbers is the result of the transfer 
out, under TUPE, of staff associated with 
the Northamptonshire County Council 
contract on 31 March 2008 and the 
transfer in, two months later, of staff on 
the Highways Agency Area 6 contract.
Our transport planning business, which 
provides a wide range of consultancy 
services, including advice on strategic, 
policy, management, forecasting, business 
case and investment appraisals for 
infrastructure investment, had a good 
year. We have established a leading 
position in transport governance reviews 
for city regions in response to the Local 
Transport Act. Demand for our technical 
advice on strategic transport planning 
policy, due diligence and the transport 
aspects of masterplanning remained 
strong throughout the year. Public realm 
enhancements combined with traffic 
management and improvements for 
pedestrians continue to be a good source 
of work in major cities. This is exemplified 
by our proposals for the re-design of 
Oxford Circus pedestrian crossings and 
surrounding area, on behalf of The Crown 
Estate and others. Our study on the 
business case for high-speed rail 
continued to receive significant media 
attention throughout the year and we 
have secured further work in this area.
Our intelligent transport systems business 
continues to grow as the market for 
technology-based solutions develops  
in response to traffic management  
and sustainability challenges. For the  
Highways Agency, we are supporting  
the implementation of three managed 
motorway schemes to improve journey 
time reliability through hard shoulder 
running and we are managing the 
technology delivery programme. We 
continue to support the A14 Corridor 
traffic management scheme as 
construction starts, having designed it to 
offer end-to-end reliability and resilience 
benefits by targeting location-specific 
accident and congestion problems. The 
demand for our services in this market 
continues to be strong with a significant 
bidding pipeline.
Our design business, which delivers 
technical consultancy and R&D services  
as well as all aspects of design of highway 
infrastructure and transport technology, 
performed well. Design work on the M74 
project in Scotland, secured last year, is 
progressing well and the project is now 
over two-thirds complete. During the year 
work commenced on the design for the 
M25 widening project under an Advance 
Activities Agreement pending financial 
close on the M25 DBFO contract. By  
31 March, the design for the first section 
of the M25 to be widened had been 
completed, representing over one-third of 
the overall design commission for Connect 
Plus. Construction has now commenced 
following financial close on 20 May 2009. 
Our highway services business, which 
represents around 60% of this segment’s 
revenue, is engaged in maintaining and 
improving highway networks on behalf of 
the Highways Agency and local authorities. 
The business performed ahead of 
expectations in the second half-year 
benefiting from increased spending by 
clients, in part through the UK government’s 
financial stimulus package. Preparation  
is underway for the commencement,  
in September 2009, of the 30-year M25 
operating and maintenance contract 
which will be carried out by the Connect 
Plus Services operations and maintenance 
Joint Venture, in which we have a 32.5% 
interest. This contract will offset the loss  
in workload from the Area 11 MAC 
contract, performed through our 50% 
stake in the Optima Joint Venture, which 
terminates at the end of June 2009. Work 
is also underway on bidding a number  
of local authority and Highways Agency 
MAC contracts scheduled to be awarded 
later this year for commencement in 2010.
Outlook
We start the new financial year in a strong 
position. Work in hand at 31 March 2009, 
which excludes work for Connect Plus on 
the M25 as financial close had not yet 
been reached by the year-end, represented 
62% of budgeted revenue for 2009/10 
(2008: 78%). Including the work 
associated with the M25, our work in 
hand is very good at 70%. This gives us 
confidence in the outlook for 2009/10.
In the longer term, the majority of the 
work undertaken by this segment is on 
projects for local and national government 
or where they are the end client. The 
outlook remains sound as we anticipate 
that spending on projects and services 
that increase capacity, manage congestion 
or maintain the safe operation of the  
road network – all areas in which we  
have a strong technical offering – will 
remain stable. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
24 Reviews
Business Review
Segmental performance
Continued
Rail
Key performance indicators  2009 2008  change
Financial metrics   
Revenue  £196.1m £208.2m -5.8%
Operating profit   £17.0m £11.9m +42.9%
Operating margin  8.7% 5.7% +3.0pp
Work in hand  61% 65% -4pp
People   
Staff numbers at 31 March  1,624  1,669  -2.7%
Average staff numbers  1,635  1,703  -4.0%
Revenue by activity
 Signalling
 Design
 Communications
 Consultancy and other
Revenue by client type
 Regulated 
 Public Sector: Local Government 
 Private Sector 
05 06 07 08 09
164.8
154.6
215.1
208.2
196.1
Revenue £m
05 06 07 08 09
7.1
1.7
5.2
11.9
17.0
Operating profit £m
05 06 07 08 09
1,643
1,587
1,648
1,703
Average staff numbers
1,635 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Reviews 25
The Rail segment performed well this  
year and delivered an operating profit  
of £17.0m, an anticipated and substantial 
improvement on the prior year driven by 
the impact of the change in the contractual 
arrangements on our work for London 
Underground and increased activity in  
our higher margin design business. As 
expected, there was a further reduction  
in revenue and a small decrease in staff 
numbers in line with the predicted reduction 
in activity in relation to Metronet.
Large re-signalling contracts for Network 
Rail continue to account for nearly half of 
our revenue. Our commitment to delivery 
earned us public recognition by Network 
Rail for our part in enabling them to 
complete the Rugby and Nuneaton 
section of the high-profile West Coast 
Main Line upgrade on time. Re-signalling 
is an important component of Network 
Rail’s enhancement and renewals 
commitment and we anticipate continued 
spending over the next few years.
During the year we were awarded a 
significant contract for the re-signalling 
upgrade in Newport which includes 
designing, installing, testing and 
commissioning signalling units on the  
35-mile stretch of track between Bristol 
and Cardiff. On the North London Line, 
which forms part of the London 2012 
transport plan, we have also been 
appointed to take this re-signalling project 
from detailed design to commissioning. 
These two projects have combined 
revenue of approximately £100m.
The other part of our business, which 
focuses on rail-related design and 
consultancy services, has also performed 
well. Further work secured on the London 
2012 transport plan includes the design, 
installation and commissioning of 
communications assets at Farringdon,  
City Thameslink and Blackfriars stations. 
We have also been awarded new railway 
enhancement projects for clients including 
Chiltern Railways, Milton Keynes 
Partnership and Dubai Ports’ London 
Gateway. The rail consultancy market, 
where our clients include the rolling stock 
owners, train operating companies and 
financial institutions, has been partly 
impacted by the current economic 
malaise; nevertheless notable successes 
include supporting Hitachi in their 
successful bid for the Intercity  
Express Programme.
Crossrail remains a significant opportunity 
following our appointment to the design 
framework earlier in the year and to date 
we have, in partnership with Arup, been 
awarded the Tottenham Court Road 
station and bored tunnel design packages. 
 
Outlook
The outlook for 2009/10 for our Rail 
segment remains positive with 61% of 
budgeted 2009/10 revenue secured by  
31 March 2009 (2008: 65%). The UK rail 
market continues to demonstrate strong 
investment, with increasing demand for 
innovative solutions to meet the need for 
a capacity-enhanced, reliable railway.
Over the longer term increased spending 
on enhancements, and continued 
spending on major signalling works,  
is expected following the acceptance  
by Network Rail in February 2009 of the 
Office of Rail Regulation’s rail spending 
budget for 2009 to 2014. The level of 
investment in the London area rail 
network by Transport for London also 
provides opportunity. We are well placed 
to support our clients with the breadth 
and depth of our multidisciplinary expertise. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
26 Reviews
Business Review
Segmental performance
Continued
Middle East, China and Europe
Key performance indicators  2009 2008 change
Financial metrics   
Revenue  £303.2m £191.6m +58.2%
Operating profit   £22.2m £11.4m +94.7%
Operating margin  7.3% 5.9% +1.4pp
Work in hand  53% 50% +3pp 
People   
Staff numbers at 31 March  4,565  4,076  +12.0%
Average staff numbers  4,498  3,660  +22.9%
The Middle East, China and Europe 
segment recorded significant growth in  
all three regions. On a constant currency 
basis, revenue increased by 36% and 
operating profit by 57%. The remaining 
increase in revenue and operating profit 
was as a result of foreign exchange 
translation due to the weakness of sterling 
with an average exchange rate for the  
US dollar, the principal currency in which 
our overseas activities are denominated, in 
2008/09 of $1.74:£1 (2007/08: $2.01:£1).
05 06 07 08 09
82.5
105.8
148.9
191.6
303.2
Revenue £m
05 06 07 08 09
4.3
7.5
11.4
22.2
Operating profit £m
4.7
05 06 07 08 09
1,827
2,142
2,887
3,660
Average staff numbers
4,498 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Reviews 27
Middle East
Key performance indicators  2009 2008 change
Financial metrics   
Revenue  £186.0m £112.2m +65.8%
Operating profit   £17.3m £9.5m +82.1%
Operating margin  9.3% 8.5% +0.8pp
Work in hand  53% 51% +2pp
People   
Staff numbers at 31 March  2,824  2,470  +14.3%
Average staff numbers  2,823  2,119  +33.2%
Our Middle East business delivered further 
significant growth in revenue and operating 
profit up 82% to £17.3m. The first half of 
the year saw continued strong growth in 
what were booming economies across the 
region. During that time our staff numbers 
grew by 650 to a peak of over 3,100.
However, the region did not escape the 
global liquidity crisis and trading conditions 
worsened in the second half of the year, 
which particularly impacted the property 
sector where a number of projects were 
cancelled or deferred at short notice. As  
a result, we reduced our staff numbers by 
500 of which 200 left by the year-end and 
the remaining 300 during April and May. 
The cost of these staff cuts, including 
associated rationalisation of office space, 
was approximately £3m.
With the cancellation of projects, we also 
experienced a significant slowdown in 
payments by a number of our clients. 
Cash flow remains a priority and we are 
working with our clients to manage  
a satisfactory outcome for the business. 
Despite the slowdown, a number of 
projects were completed during the year 
including the 360m-tall Al Mas Tower 
housing the region’s first diamond exchange 
and the 306m-high Address Hotel, 
Dubai’s latest winner of the best new 
hotel award. Our major involvement 
delivering the Dubai Metro continued  
with a 250-person team remaining busy 
throughout the year.
The building market in Dubai has been 
particularly affected by the liquidity crisis, 
but our policy of diversifying the business 
away from building design and towards 
infrastructure has mitigated the impact  
of the downturn in property. We have  
also been able to protect key resources  
by redeploying them in other areas, such 
as Abu Dhabi and Oman, which have 
been less affected by the downturn.
Our strong capability and market presence 
as leading providers of large-scale 
infrastructure, heavy civil engineering, 
utilities, transportation planning and 
engineering, continue to provide us with 
good opportunities. Project wins in this 
area include ongoing restoration work 
following cyclone Gonu in Oman, complex 
elevated roadways and bridge design in 
Abu Dhabi, the ‘Abra’ water taxi and ferry 
stations in Dubai and work on sanitation 
and transportation masterplans in Kuwait.
Outlook
Despite the slowdown in the third quarter, 
£45m of good quality new work was 
secured in the fourth quarter and work  
in hand represents 53% of budgeted 
revenue for 2009/10 (2008: 51%). The 
oil-rich countries, such as Abu Dhabi, Qatar, 
Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, are continuing to 
invest, albeit at a slower pace, particularly 
in enhancing their infrastructure, and there 
are good opportunities for our business. 
The markets in Dubai and Bahrain have 
less activity and the timing of confidence 
returning is uncertain. The very high wage 
inflation experienced in the early part of 
the year has now reversed and accordingly 
we have instigated a 10% pay cut across 
the region in June 2009. Longer term, we 
are optimistic of a resurgence of activity  
in the region.
Revenue by market
 Commercial Buildings
 Residential Buildings
 Rail 
 Mixed-use Buildings
 Urban Development
 Roads
 Other 
Revenue by geography
 Dubai
 Abu Dhabi
 Bahrain
 Oman
 Qatar
 Sharjah
 India
 Kuwait WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
28 Reviews
Business Review
Segmental performance
Continued
We continue to make progress in China 
and the region as a whole performed 
ahead of expectations recording a 
significant improvement in operating 
profit over the prior year.
Demand for the services of our 
300-strong Hong Kong infrastructure 
business contributed to better than 
expected performance from that business. 
The Hong Kong railway market is buoyant 
following the merger of the two major 
railway corporations in December 2007 
and we are working on five major rail 
assignments for MTR Corporation.
China
Key performance indicators  2009 2008  change
Financial metrics   
Revenue   £46.1m £29.8m +54.7%
Operating profit   £2.7m £0.3m +800.0%
Operating margin  5.9% 1.0% +4.9pp
Work in hand  71% 47% +24pp
People   
Staff numbers at 31 March  933  861  +8.4%
Average staff numbers  890  859  +3.6%
Revenue by market
 Rail
 Buildings
 Urban Development
 Water
 Industry
 Other 
Revenue by geography
 Hong Kong
 Mainland China
 Other Asia Pacific
Our business in mainland China recorded 
a much improved result, following the 
closure of underperforming activities and 
focusing on the core areas of architecture 
and urban design. We employ just over 
400 staff in mainland China which is 
broadly in line with last year and positions 
us well for growth as the market matures.
Outlook
The business enters the new financial year 
with 71% of budgeted 2009/10 revenue 
secured (2008: 47%). Our Hong Kong 
office is particularly busy with work on 
MTR projects and our business on the 
Mainland is positioned to benefit from 
emerging opportunities. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Reviews 29
As a whole, the Europe portfolio performed 
in line with expectations, delivering  
a further improvement over the prior year.
There have, however, been mixed results 
across the portfolio. Our Danish business, 
which now employs 335 staff (2008: 280 
staff) principally in the rail market, 
continues to perform well. Successes 
during the year include appointment to 
the project to upgrade the capacity of the 
Danish main lines network in connection 
with the coming Femern Belt project to 
provide a fixed rail link to Germany. The 
severe recession in Ireland has adversely 
impacted our Irish business but we have 
taken action to reduce costs with staff 
numbers reducing from 190 to 155  
(18 left the business before the  
year-end and a further 17 in May). 
Europe
Key performance indicators  2009 2008  change
Financial metrics   
Revenue   £71.1m £49.6m +43.3% 
Operating profit   £2.2m £1.6m +37.5% 
Operating margin  3.1% 3.2% -0.1pp
Work in hand  42% 47% -5pp
People   
Staff numbers at 31 March  808  745  +8.5% 
Average staff numbers  785  682  +15.1%
Revenue by market
 Rail
 Roads
 Energy
 Oil and Gas
 Industry
 Environment
 Other 
Revenue by geography
 Denmark
 Ireland
 Sweden
 Poland
 Portugal
Sweden, which employs 130 staff, had 
another disappointing year but we are 
optimistic that the actions we have taken 
will ensure that the business performs 
better in the year ahead. The rest of the 
portfolio, in Poland and Portugal, 
performed in line with expectations.
Outlook
The outlook for the Europe portfolio  
is mixed with work in hand for the region 
as a whole representing 42% of budgeted 
revenue for 2009/10 (2008: 47%). The 
outlook in Denmark is good with the rail 
market strong but the two key challenges 
for the year ahead will be successfully 
managing through the recession in Ireland, 
where we have reduced pay by 10%,  
and stabilising our business in Sweden  
at a profitable level. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
30 Reviews
Business Review
Segmental performance
Continued
Management and Project Services 
Key performance indicators  2009 2008  change
Financial metrics   
Revenue  £229.6m £213.2m +7.7% 
Operating profit   £18.9m £13.6m +39.0% 
Operating margin  8.2% 6.4% +1.8pp
Share of post-tax JV profits  £0.2m –  – 
Work in hand  44% 48% -4pp
People   
Staff numbers at 31 March  2,294  2,461  -6.8% 
Average staff numbers  2,405  2,394  +0.5% 
 Pharmaceutical
 Residential Buildings
 Government Buildings
 Commercial Buildings
 Water
 Other
Revenue by client type
 Private Sector
 Public Sector: National Government
 Public Sector: Local Government
 Regulated 
 
Revenue by market
 Energy
 Defence
 Industry
 Education
 Financial Services
 Transportation
05 06 07 08 09
152.2
171.9
193.6
213.2
229.6
Revenue £m
05 06 07 08 09
9.2
12.8
13.6
18.9
Operating profit £m
13.9
05 06 07 08 09
1,962
2,049
2,203
2,394
Average staff numbers
2,405 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Reviews 31
The Management and Project Services 
segment delivered an improved 
performance this year, with operating 
margin up 1.8 percentage points to 8.2%. 
The Faithful+Gould business, which 
represents approximately 70% of the 
segment, had a good year, despite tough 
trading in some market areas, and the 
Management Consultants business 
continued its recovery.
Faithful+Gould, with operations in the 
UK, USA and Asia Pacific, provides project 
management and cost consultancy 
services across a broad range of market 
sectors. The result for the year was in line 
with expectations with a slight shortfall in 
the UK business, which accounts for over 
60% of revenue, offset by improvements 
in our North America and Asia Pacific 
businesses. Early action was taken to 
right-size our business to compensate for 
some softness in the private sector, mainly 
in commercial property development 
which accounts for less than 10%  
of revenue. 
We remain focused on our other key 
markets. In the USA we continue to 
develop the energy markets through 
instructions in nuclear new-build for 
Exelon and programme management  
of power transmission lines for PacifiCorp. 
In the UK we have been reappointed to 
the government’s Building Schools for  
the Future programme and have secured  
a new framework contract with a major 
UK financial services group. In Asia Pacific 
we have been awarded a commission for 
Johnson & Johnson in China and have  
also been engaged on a new solar panel 
manufacturing plant in Singapore.
The results for the year in our Management 
Consultants business were, as expected, 
much improved and in the fourth quarter 
we were appointed to two framework 
contracts to provide strategic and business 
change consultancy and project and 
programme management services to the 
UK Department for Work and Pensions. 
The overall market remains stable but  
the slowdown in the private sector has 
increased competition in our public sector 
markets where we focus on strategy, 
design and programme management for 
technology-enabled business change. 
Outlook
The outlook for the segment as a whole is 
good with work in hand at 31 March 2009 
representing 44% of budgeted revenue 
for 2009/10 (2008: 48%).
Faithful+Gould is a diverse business which 
delivers services to a wide range of markets. 
While the UK market is relatively mature, 
the USA will provide opportunities for  
us to develop further into energy and 
government, particularly infrastructure 
and defence, and in Asia Pacific 
opportunities will arise from continued 
inward investment across the region.
Our Management Consultants business 
currently has a small share of a large 
addressable market and, with its refocused 
services and strategy, is actively pursuing  
a number of opportunities to add to a 
pipeline underpinned by existing framework 
contracts with established clients. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
32 Reviews
Business Review
Segmental performance
Continued
Asset Management
Key performance indicators  2009 2008  change
Financial metrics   
Revenue  £47.6m £52.4m -9.2% 
Operating (loss)/profit   £(6.8)m £2.8m -342.9% 
Operating margin  (14.3)% 5.3% -19.6pp
Share of post-tax JV profits  £0.3m £0.2m +50% 
Profit on disposal of JV  £2.5m –  – 
Work in hand  99% 99% – 
People    
Staff numbers at 31 March  671  669  0.3% 
Average staff numbers  682  674  +1.2% 
Revenue by client type
 Private Sector
 Public Sector: Local Government 
 Public Sector: National Government
 
Revenue by market
 Financial Services
 Education
 Defence
 Health
05 06 07 08 09
58.9
61.8
50.9
52.4
47.6
Revenue £m
05 06 07 08 09
-4.5
2.0
2.8
-6.8
Operating (loss)/profit £m
4.5
05 06 07 08 09
960
889
669
674
Average staff numbers
682 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Reviews 33
The result for the Asset Management 
segment was poor, having been materially 
impacted by increased onerous contract 
provisions and remediation costs, totalling 
approximately £12m, associated with  
one of our 10 long-term legacy PFI 
maintenance contracts where we act as 
managing contractor. The remainder of 
the contracts are performing in line with 
expectations and the business also 
benefited from a non-recurring gain  
of £1.7m.
Performance in the managing agent 
business was ahead of expectations and 
the prior year. This business has recently 
secured a new five-year contract with  
a major financial services client and been 
invited to expand the scope of services 
provided to two public sector clients.
The segment also realised a profit of £2.5m 
on the disposal of our interest in Modern 
Housing Solutions (Prime) Limited at the 
beginning of the year.
Outlook
Our Asset Management segment is 
dominated by a relatively small number  
of long-term contracts and work in hand 
at 31 March 2009 represented 99%  
of budgeted revenue for 2009/10  
(2008: 99%). WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
34 Reviews
Business Review
Financial performance
Net finance cost
Net finance cost for the year was £3.1m 
(2008: income of £4.3m) with the 
increase attributable to a £5.2m increase 
in the net finance cost on post-employment 
benefit liabilities and a significant reduction 
in the interest receivable on short-term 
deposits as global interest rates have 
reduced during the year. The net finance 
cost will increase further in 2009/10 as  
the impact of changing assumptions for 
discount rates and lower asset values  
on the IAS 19 pension deficit interest  
take effect. Interest receivable on our net  
funds will also be impacted by the low 
interest rates.
Taxation
The Group’s income tax expense for  
the year, on continuing operations, was 
£18.5m (2008: £23.3m). This included  
a one-off £7.0m benefit from the 
purchase of prior year consortium relief 
credits from the Metronet companies, 
giving a normalised effective tax rate of 
18.5% (2008: 25.7%). Excluding that 
one-off benefit, the Group’s normalised 
effective tax rate would have been 
25.4%, slightly higher than anticipated 
due to the impact of the lower share price 
on the tax deductions available from the 
Group’s share incentive plans. Looking 
forward, the Group’s effective tax rate  
is expected to continue to benefit from 
R&D tax credits and the proportion of 
profits earned in jurisdictions with lower 
tax rates than the UK.
Earnings per share (EPS)
Basic EPS was 86.1p (2008: 98.9p). 
Normalised diluted EPS, which is 
considered to be a more representative 
measure of underlying trading and relates 
to continuing operations, was 82.3p 
(2008: 66.7p), an increase of 23.4%. 
Excluding the benefit of acquired tax 
losses, normalised diluted earnings per 
share would have been 75.2p, an increase 
of 12.7%. 
Pensions
Funding
The latest actuarial valuation of the 
defined benefit Atkins Pension Plan  
(the Plan) carried out as at 1 April 2007 
indicated that the Plan had an actuarial 
deficit of approximately £215m. Accelerated 
contributions of £44.5m were made 
during the year and the Group has agreed 
to contribute a further £32m per year for 
the next five years. The next actuarial 
valuation will take place as at 1 April 2010 
and is likely to be completed in late 2010 
or early 2011.
Charges
The Group accounts for pension costs 
under IAS 19, Employee benefits . The 
total charge to the income statement in 
respect of defined benefit schemes reduced 
to £14.8m (2008: £17.8m), comprising 
total service cost of £8.9m (2008: £16.7m) 
and net finance cost of £5.9m (2008: 
£1.1m). The charge relating to defined 
contribution schemes increased to £28.2m 
(2008: £19.0m), reflecting the closure  
of the defined benefit schemes to future 
accrual and the transfer of staff to the 
defined contribution scheme.
IAS 19 valuation and accounting 
treatment
The Group assesses pension scheme 
funding with reference to actuarial 
valuations but for reporting purposes  
uses IAS 19. Under IAS 19, the Group 
recognised a much-increased post-tax 
retirement benefit liability of £215.4m at 
31 March 2009 (2008: £153.9m) reflecting 
the adverse impact of the investment 
markets on fund assets. The actuarial loss 
recognised through equity amounted  
to £88.5m (2008: Gain of £6.4m which 
became a loss of £1.0m after taking into 
account the impact of the change in UK  
tax rates).
The assumptions used in the IAS 19 
valuation are detailed in note 29 to the 
Financial Statements.
Cash
Net funds at 31 March 2009 were £234.2m 
(2008: £168.4m) made up as follows:
 2009 2008
 £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 209.7  154.5 
Loan notes receivable 12.9  5.6 
Financial assets at fair value  
through profit or loss 28.7  29.7 
Borrowings due within  
one year (2.8) (4.2)
Borrowings due after  
one year (0.6) (3.2)
Finance leases (13.7) (14.0)
Net funds 234.2  168.4 
   Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Reviews 35
Cash generated from continuing  
operations was £125.5m (2008: £80.9m), 
representing 122% of operating profit,  
and can be summarised as follows:
 2009 2008
 £m £m
EBITDA 136.5  117 . 1 
Additional outflow  
relating to pensions (40.6) (29.1)
Movement in working  
capital 10.9  (7.3)
Movement in provisions 9.2  (5.5)
Other non-cash items 9.5  5.7 
 125.5  80.9 
  
Operating cash flow remained strong  
as we continued to optimise the cash 
position on our contracts. Proactive 
working capital management resulted in  
a net working capital inflow of £10.9m 
which was achieved despite a lengthening 
of debtor days in the Middle East in the  
last quarter of the year. The accruals for 
redundancy and bonus payments increased 
this year and will result in an outflow in  
the first half of 2009/10. 
The movement in provisions includes the 
additional onerous contract provisions 
recognised in the Asset Management 
segment and a net increase in the Group’s 
vacant property provision, where we  
took a more conservative view in light  
of the current environment for letting 
surplus office space, both of which will 
result in a cash outflow in the coming 
financial years.
Net tax paid amounted to £12.8m  
(2008: £14.7m) which includes payments 
of £0.4m (2008: £11.8m) to Metronet  
for consortium relief. The cash flows 
associated with this year’s consortium 
relief benefit of £7m will be incurred  
in 2009/10. 
Net capital expenditure in the year, including 
the purchase of computer software 
licences, amounted to £27.6m  
(2008: £25.7m). This was less than 
originally anticipated as we reduced 
discretionary items in this time of 
economic uncertainty.
An amount of £12.3m (2008: £34.0m) 
was paid out in respect of the share 
buyback programme.
Capital structure
As at 31 March 2009, the Group had  
a shareholders’ deficit of £43.5m  
(2008: £23.4m) and the Company had 
shareholders’ funds of £108.8m  
(2008: £126.9m).
The Company had 104.5m fully paid 
ordinary shares in issue at 31 March 2009 
(2008: 104.5m). The Company commenced 
a share buyback programme in  
November 2007 and by 31 March 2009 
had bought 4.3m of its own shares in the 
market for a total consideration, including 
commission and stamp duty, of £46.4m. 
These shares are held within treasury. 
During the year the Company bought 
1.1m shares (2008: 3.2m) at a total cost  
of £11.5m (2008: £34.9m) with the last 
purchase occurring in July 2008.
Treasury policies and objectives
The Group’s treasury function manages 
and monitors external funding and 
investment requirements and financial 
risks in support of the Group’s corporate 
objectives. The Board reviews and  
agrees policies and authority levels  
for treasury activities.
The Group’s financial instruments, other 
than derivatives, comprise borrowings, 
cash and liquid resources and various 
items, such as trade receivables and trade 
payables, which arise directly from its 
operations. The main purpose of these 
financial instruments is to finance the 
Group’s activities. The Group also enters 
into derivative transactions, principally 
forward foreign currency contracts, in 
order to manage foreign exchange risk  
on material commercial transactions 
undertaken in currencies other than the 
local functional currency. The Group does 
not trade in financial instruments.
The main risks arising from the Group’s 
financial instruments are market risk 
(including foreign exchange risk, interest 
rate risk and price risk), credit risk and 
liquidity risk, along with the risks arising 
from the financing of the Group’s 
activities in the Public Private Partnership 
(PPP) and Private Finance Initiative (PFI) 
sectors. The Group’s exposures to and 
management of each of these risks, 
together with sensitivities and risk 
concentrations, are described in detail  
in note 2 to the Financial Statements. 
The Group funds its ongoing activities 
through cash generated from its 
operations and, where necessary, bank 
borrowings and finance leases. The 
Group’s banking facilities are described  
in note 25 to the Financial Statements; 
utilisation of the facility mainly relates  
to letters of credit issued in respect of 
individual projects undertaken by the 
Group’s operating businesses. As at  
31 March 2009 the Group had £75.0m 
undrawn committed borrowing facility 
available (2008: £58.8m).
There have been no significant changes  
to the Group’s treasury policies during  
the year.
£234.2m
Net funds WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
36 Reviews
Business Review
Financial performance
Continued
Critical accounting policies
The Group’s principal accounting policies 
are described in note 1 to the Financial 
Statements. The Financial Statements  
for the year ended 31 March 2009 have 
been prepared under IFRS as adopted  
by the EU. 
The preparation of Financial Statements  
in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles requires the use of 
estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities 
at the date of the Financial Statements 
and the reported amounts of revenues 
and expenses during the reporting period. 
Although these estimates are based on 
management’s best knowledge of the 
amount, event or actions, actual results 
ultimately may differ from those 
estimates. Material estimates applied 
across the Group’s businesses and Joint 
Ventures are reviewed to a common 
standard and adjusted where appropriate 
to ensure that consistent treatment of 
similar and related issues that require 
judgement is achieved upon consolidation. 
Any revisions to estimates are  
recognised prospectively.
The accounting policies and areas that 
require the most significant estimates and 
judgements to be used in the preparation 
of the Financial Statements are in relation 
to contract accounting and defined 
benefit pension schemes.
Contract accounting
Profit is recognised on contracts on  
a percentage completion basis, provided 
the outcome of the project can be 
reasonably foreseen. Full provision is made 
for estimated losses. Where contracts 
span more than two accounting periods 
profit is not generally recognised until  
the project is 50% complete.
The projected outcome of any given 
contract is necessarily based on estimates 
of revenues and costs to completion. 
Whilst the assumptions made are based 
on professional judgements, subsequent 
events may mean that estimates calculated 
prove inaccurate, with a consequent effect 
on the reporting of results. 
Defined benefit pension schemes
Accounting for pensions involves 
judgement about uncertain events in  
the future such as inflation, salary levels  
at retirement, longevity rates, rates of 
return on plan assets and discount rates. 
Assumptions in respect of pensions and 
post-retirement benefits are set after 
consultation with independent qualified 
actuaries. Management believes the 
assumptions are appropriate. However,  
a change in the assumptions used would 
impact the Group’s results and net assets. 
Any differences between the assumptions 
and the actual outcome will affect  
results in future years. An estimate of  
the sensitivity is disclosed in note 29  
to the Financial Statements. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Reviews 37
Business Review
Principal risks and uncertainties
In order to achieve our business objectives 
the Group must respond effectively to the 
associated risks. The Group has established 
risk management procedures, involving 
the identification and monitoring of 
strategic and operational risks at various 
levels of management. The Board regularly 
reviews material risks identified and risk 
management is embedded in our annual 
budgeting and strategic planning 
processes. It is, however, not possible  
to fully mitigate all risks that the Group 
encounters. In addition to market risk, 
credit risk and liquidity risk, which are 
covered under Treasury policies and 
objectives above, the principal key risks for 
the Group have been assessed as follows:
Economic environment
A decrease in GDP as a result of a world 
economic slowdown could have an 
adverse impact on workload for both 
private and public sector clients. The 
Group mitigates this risk by monitoring 
economic indicators and sentiment in the 
markets in which we operate, as well as 
by maintaining a strong balance sheet, 
working in a diverse portfolio of sectors 
and markets and by building flexibility  
into future plans.
Competition
In common with all companies, the Group 
faces competition from others in all of our 
markets. Some of the markets in which 
the Group works serve limited clients  
and barriers to entry are high. In other 
markets, such as architectural design  
and environment, there are numerous 
competitors and barriers to entry are 
lower. To ensure that the Group continues 
to win work, we work hard to develop 
long-term relationships with our clients at 
multiple levels. A measure of this success 
is our work in hand, which measures our 
secured workload over the next year. Our 
overall work in hand is 54%, representing 
over six months of 2009/10 revenue that 
is already contractually committed.
Matching staffing levels to workload
The Group balances resources (staffing)  
to workload to control the level of 
non-productive time. There is a risk, in an 
economic downturn, that there is insufficient 
work to match current resources in some 
parts of our business. This risk is  
managed by working in a diverse  
portfolio of sectors and markets, and the 
redeployment of staff from those parts  
of the business where the workload is 
reducing to other parts of the business 
where the workload is strong. The risk can 
also be managed by selective restructuring 
and downsizing. 
Project management
Managing clients’ and our own projects  
is core to our business. Inadequate project 
management skills could lead to financial 
loss and reputational damage. The Group 
mitigates these risks by encouraging 
adherence to internal processes  
augmented by ongoing training and 
selective recruitment. 
Changes to the contracting 
environment resulting from market 
developments
The ways in which business is conducted 
inevitably change over time. The nature of 
the contracting environment is especially 
important for companies like Atkins. The 
trend remains one where clients increasingly 
seek to transfer risk to consultants; 
contractors will also seek to share risks. 
There is a possibility that, in securing new 
work, the Group accepts risks that are 
insufficiently understood or evaluated, 
with ensuing financial loss. We actively 
mitigate this risk via a range of internal 
review procedures that enable contract 
terms to be subject to appropriate scrutiny 
and manageable risks to be reduced.
Pandemic influenza
An influenza pandemic could affect a 
significant number of our staff who 
maybe unable to report for work either 
because they are personally unwell or 
because they need to care for 
dependents. The risk is heightened this 
year due to the current swine flu 
pandemic. This risk is closely monitored 
and advice is taken from the governments 
and medical authorities in the countries in 
which we operate as well as from our 
own private medical and travel advisors. 
Contingency plans are in place to limit the 
spread of infection within our offices and 
to enable continuity of work commitments 
through home and remote working. 
Recruitment and retention of 
sufficient high-calibre staff
The Group’s staff are its key resource  
and the recruitment and retention of top 
quality people are crucial to our future 
success. Failure to do so would constrain 
the growth of the business and prevent 
the Group from achieving its potential. 
Whilst the current recession has reduced 
the recruitment pressure in some areas, 
failure to retain key staff is still a risk. Also, 
the skills needed in some parts of our 
business are still in short supply and the 
Group has to compete with a large 
number of other organisations to secure 
the best staff. The Group expends a  
great deal of management effort and 
resource in this area, a summary of the 
approach being shown in the Human 
Resources Review.
Health, safety and environment
The Group’s business is concerned with 
the built environment and this entails 
significant health, safety and environmental 
risks. Should the Group’s policy or practice 
in this area prove inadequate, there is  
a consequent risk to employees, clients, 
contractors and third parties. The Group 
takes health, safety and environment 
issues seriously and ensures that all staff 
are appropriately trained and that 
procedures are continuously reviewed and 
improved. We look to take a leadership 
role on health and safety matters in our 
sector and we have representation on  
a number of committees. Many of our 
clients insist on the Group attaining 
appropriate standards in health and  
safety and environment. We are regularly 
independently audited by external 
consultants against these industry standards. 
Reputation risk
Our reputation for delivering complex 
projects relies on the perception of our 
clients and how this is portrayed in the 
public arena. There is a risk that a major 
failure from poor design, poor project 
management or delivery could impact our 
ability to win future work. We mitigate 
this risk by ensuring we have robust cost 
and project management systems linked 
to our internal quality processes. These are 
regularly independently audited by external 
consultants against industry standards. Corporate Responsibility Review
Atkins is committed to  
acting responsibly towards  
all our stakeholders and  
to taking a leadership  
position within our sector. 
>
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
38 Reviews Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Reviews 39
Our beliefs
Atkins is committed to acting responsibly 
towards all our stakeholders and to  
taking a leadership position within our 
sector. We publish information about  
our performance on our website  
(www.atkinsglobal.com/cr) and 
summarise the major issues and 
developments during the year here. 
Sustainability
Sustainability is a serious issue for  
all Atkins stakeholders, including 
governments, public and private sectors 
and communities across the world. We 
continue to incorporate sustainability into 
our own operations, to raise awareness 
among our employees and clients and to 
take a leadership role in the delivery of  
a low-carbon economy in the geographies 
in which we operate.
A highlight of the year was the design, 
completion and occupation of Atkins’  
new Bristol office which achieved a 
BREEAM excellent rating. Sustainable 
features of the building include a chilled 
beam cooling system, a ground source 
heat pump, rainwater harvesting and 
low-water usage sanitary ware. During 
construction high levels of recycling were 
achieved and the project involved 
responsible local sourcing of materials  
and labour. 
In addition, one of our technical experts 
has been on pro bono secondment to the 
UK Construction Industry Council (CIC) to 
help develop the Strategy for Sustainable 
Construction as a joint industry and 
government initiative. 
Carbon Critical Design
Our efforts continued during the year to 
focus on embedding into all our services 
the challenges and opportunities a carbon 
critical economy will bring. 
Five hundred senior managers received 
awareness training during the year, staff 
received information about our activities 
at a Group conference and an awareness 
DVD was circulated to managers 
throughout the Group to help them 
engage their teams. 
The chief executive delivered 16 keynote 
speeches on the subject to industry bodies 
such as the Building Business Leaders 
Forum, Construction Industry Council, 
Institution of Civil Engineers, Environment 
Industries Commission, Hong Kong 
Chamber of Commerce and the Middle 
East Economic Digest. 
We also invested £1m during the year to 
develop a suite of carbon calculators to 
assist in the design and engineering of 
low-carbon projects. Two calculators are 
already in daily use. The first, developed 
by Faithful+Gould, is freely available  
(via www.fgould.com/carbon-calculator)
and is aimed at boosting the green 
credentials of the construction industry.  
It enables the relative cost benefits and 
risks of low carbon techniques and 
technology to be assessed and allow 
budget-plausible designs. The second tool 
is believed to be the first of its kind and, 
as its name suggests, the Remediation 
Options Carbon Calculator (ROCC) 
(available at www.atkinsrocc.com) is 
geared towards assessing the emissions 
associated with a range of land 
remediation work. 
Atkins has continued to engage with more 
clients on Carbon Critical Design, resulting 
in more exemplar projects coming to 
fruition during the last 12 months:
Green Asphalt – We collaborated with 
Northamptonshire County Council to 
develop and install the first 100% 
recycled cold asphalt surface course. The 
sustainable benefits include production 
carbon emissions reduced by more than 
90% compared with a hot-mix asphalt, 
100% recycled content and complete 
reuse of aggregate feedstock. Production 
fuel consumption was also reduced by 99%.
Orient Way Rail Depot – Our carbon 
critical philosophy has helped us to 
achieve a prestigious award from the  
Civil Engineering Environmental Quality 
Assessment and Awards Scheme 
(CEEQUAL) for a key transport project in 
East London linked to the London 2012 
Olympic Games. 
Taleem Flagship Campus – Our design 
for Taleem aims to create the first LEED 
certified school in the Middle East whilst 
responding to the challenges of location 
and climate. Carbon Critical Design 
features include the façade, lighting, 
landscaping, materials and energy use. 
 
Atkins Remote Technology (ArT) – 
Developed by our Asset Management 
business, this is a web-based energy 
management system that not only collects 
energy data but also allows remote 
control of heating and cooling systems. 
The technology produces an average 
energy saving of 34% and is installed  
at 350 client locations in the UK. The 
system is also being piloted in our  
own operations. 
 
Climate Change Action Plan – We 
implemented carbon saving measures for 
the Metropolitan Police enabling them  
to reduce carbon emissions by 4% in the 
first year of a three-year programme. 
 
Energy Efficiency and Renewables  
for Schools – This project determined 
energy performance and potential for 
energy efficiency projects for 170 primary 
and secondary schools throughout  
the UK.
 
Dezhou Urban Planning – We were 
awarded the top prize at an international 
design competition for urban planning in 
Dezhou, People’s Republic of China. Our 
pioneering concept included sustainable 
planning principles, a unique urban 
design, and incorporated the city’s 
renewable energy initiatives.  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
40 Reviews
Corporate Responsibility Review
Continued
Safety leadership
Atkins remains strongly committed to  
key improvements in health and safety 
beyond those required by law. During the 
year our chief executive became chair of 
the Construction Industry Council (CIC), 
following his position as chair of the 
Health and Safety Committee, and we 
continued to work with industry through 
national forums such as the Strategic 
Health and Safety Forum, CIC Health and 
Safety Committee, Consultants Health 
and Safety Forum and BuildSafe UAE. 
The Rail business had a serious near-miss 
when four employees could have been hit 
by a train. These employees now feature 
in a powerful short film which has been 
produced to explain the severity of the 
incident. This film has been adopted as  
a training tool by other rail organisations 
such as Network Rail and was recognised 
in the HSBC Rail Business Awards for 
Safety and Security Excellence.
The Highways and Transportation business 
has set an industry standard for designing 
out risks in projects by using an approach 
that is based on the simple concept of 
traffic lights: Red, Amber and Green 
(RAG). Originally used on the design for 
Heathrow Terminal 5, the RAG approach 
was developed for use in projects for the 
Highways Agency, and has since been 
adopted as the industry standard by 
companies such as Arup, Halcrow and 
Mott MacDonald.
 
We continued to improve safety leadership 
within Atkins. Our Board directors at  
the year-end have undertaken the 
Construction Skills Certification Scheme 
(CSCS) test. During the year, senior 
management have attended the Atkins 
Director Safety Tour training course and 
the Safety Leadership programme in the 
Rail business was expanded to include  
our supply chain. We also undertook  
a safety, health and environment survey  
in the UK for the first time, to which over 
6,500 staff responded. This has helped  
us to identify Atkins’ strengths and 
weaknesses, providing valuable input to 
our 2009 improvement plan. 
Our work
We take pride in the quality of products 
and services that we provide to our 
clients. All our businesses are certified  
to ISO 9001:2000 and are expected to 
satisfy the requirements of the revised 
standard for quality management systems, 
ISO 9001:2008, during 2009, following 
Atkins China’s lead in achieving approval.
There has been significant focus through  
a key business forum to rationalise the 
content of management systems and  
to harmonise practice to review client 
feedback management, supply chain 
management and management system 
controls. Our Asset Management segment 
has continued to develop its Quantum 
process for engaging and reviewing 
supplier performance. The tool now 
measures performance against 10 metrics 
including environmental responsibility, 
health and safety management and 
operational excellence. All of the 
businesses have been able to identify 
improvement opportunities and introduce 
efficiencies where possible, such as by 
sharing how they manage the capture of 
client feedback, and this work continues.
We also continue to develop the skills 
required to create, implement and 
maintain effective management systems, 
by investing in the development of our 
quality, safety and environment (QSE) 
managers with the introduction of lean 
thinking practices. Self-assessment against 
the criteria of the European Foundation 
for Quality Management (EFQM) Business 
Excellence Model has also been piloted  
by our Middle East business. The Group 
continues to maintain a comprehensive 
programme of assurance for its 
management systems, pursuing a consistent 
approach to systems certification globally. 
Our people
We continue to work to be an employer 
of choice and to provide an environment 
in which our people can flourish and 
succeed. We engaged more colleagues  
in information about our vision, mission 
and strategy through new internal 
communication channels and our 
Viewpoint survey showed an increase  
in employee engagement for the third 
consecutive year. We invested £20m in 
training and increased our ranking to  
10th position in the Sunday Times Best Big 
Companies to Work For. We made good 
progress on diversity through initiatives 
and through our collaboration with clients 
and national organisations.
For more detailed information see the 
Human Resources Review. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Reviews 41
Our communities
We are passionate about contributing to 
the communities in which we operate and 
engaging our people to join together  
to make a difference where it counts. 
Making a difference
During the year we refined our charity 
policy to give a greater emphasis on 
engaging our own employees to support 
their local communities. 
We aim to support our people in their 
own communities around the world 
through local charitable donations, 
fundraising, volunteering activities and 
sports and social events. The network  
of house managers is now helping to 
co-ordinate and promote these activities 
through our offices. A few examples of 
activities that took place around the world 
follow. Fuller information is available on 
our website (www.atkinsglobal.com/cr).
During the year, we received the Caring 
Company award in Hong Kong, recognising 
our involvement in the local community 
and our commitment to being a socially 
responsible corporate citizen. 
Following the earthquake in the Sichuan 
province of China, employees in Beijing 
provided pro bono consultancy advice  
for Chongzhou city to help formulate 
emergency relief proposals and create  
a strategic planning framework for 
reconstruction in the area following the 
damage caused by the earthquake. 
Employees from other offices in China 
donated approximately £10,000 to 
support the victims of the earthquake  
and employee donations were matched  
by the Group.
In the Middle East employees supported 
the sixth Clean Up UAE (United Arab 
Emirates) campaign launched to create 
public awareness on the dangers of waste 
left on beaches or in the water. The 
project, organised by the Emirates 
Environmental Group and held at  
44 independent locations, has become  
a symbol of environmental action and  
a benchmark of cross-sector involvement 
in the region and resulted in more than 
110 tonnes of waste being cleaned up. 
Employees from our Doha office also 
organised basketball and cricket 
tournaments for local schoolchildren. 
Faithful+Gould staff from the Sheffield 
office engaged as volunteers with the 
Archer Project, which helps homeless men 
and women. Our employees supported 
the project once a month in the soup 
kitchen during lunchtime sessions by 
serving, cleaning and washing up.
 
In Newport, Wales employees gave their 
local communities a helping hand by 
revamping the Duffryn Community Link 
Cycle Club with a range of new fittings 
and fixtures to fully utilise the limited 
space available. The Shaftesbury 
Community Centre also benefited from  
a new workbench, flooring, whiteboards 
and notice boards and parts of the centre 
were fully painted and decorated by 
Atkins people.
Engaging with education
We continue to be actively engaged  
in a range of educational initiatives from 
primary schools through to universities.  
In Derby the Rail business ran a poster 
competition asking primary school children 
in the area to depict their thoughts on 
climate change and its impact on the 
environment with the winning posters 
being displayed in the Atkins office.
Our graduates are inspiring the next 
generation of engineers. The Engineering 
Awareness (EA) group, based in Bristol, 
organises and runs initiatives in local 
schools that are designed to develop 
youngsters’ understanding of what 
engineers do and inspire some to enter 
the profession. The EA group is involved  
in a number of events and activities that 
aim to promote and explore engineering 
with young people while simultaneously 
linking in to Key Stage 3 of the National 
Curriculum. Activities include visits to 
schools for engineering-related activities 
or talks, onsite work experience students 
or participation in schemes and events 
such as the Flying Start Challenge. 
Through our University Liaison Directors 
(ULD) programme, our engagement with 
universities has continued to grow and 
develop with the objective of being 
regarded as an industrial partner of 
choice. Our ULDs have further developed 
their relationships with 16 universities  
in the UK and are developing relationships 
overseas with 10 in the USA, two in 
China, two in Singapore and one in Dubai. 42 Reviews
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Corporate Responsibility Review
Continued
Our performance
This section reports on Atkins’ corporate 
responsibility performance during the year.
Health and safety
It is with deepest regret that we report 
that a fatality occurred on the Diego Garcia 
Joint Venture DG21 during a tree-felling 
operation. Atkins has an equity stake of 
24.5% in the Joint Venture and we have 
provided support, including advice on 
how to further improve the health and 
safety arrangements. 
Atkins reports accidents and incidents  
for staff, contractors, Joint Ventures and  
in situations where we are Principal 
Contractor. The Accident Incident Rate 
(AIR) is used to measure our accident 
performance for staff and contractors. 
Last year performance was within the 
Atkins AIR benchmark with the exception 
of staff in the construction category.  
The benchmarks were 146 for office,  
319 for engineering and 1,445 for 
construction activities. 
Atkins sets its own challenging targets  
as these benchmarks are based on a 
reduction on previous year of 5%  
for office and 15% for engineering and 
construction. For staff the AIR for 
engineering decreased from 178 to 147, 
but there was an increase in AIR for office 
from 38 to 89 and, of greatest concern, 
the AIR for construction increased from 
1,042 to 1,833. 
Nevertheless, our performance remains 
better than the industry performance as 
compiled by the HSE Labour Force Survey, 
and we are keen to continue to improve 
by expanding our Safety Leadership 
Programme, and to reduce the number  
of manual handling accidents, which 
account for 23% of serious accidents in 
construction. We also actively encourage 
the reporting of incidents and near-misses, 
of which 1,172 were reported compared 
to 756 in 2008. We view this as a positive 
step towards accident prevention. 
All our operations are now covered by 
OHSAS 18001. The businesses are also on 
target to achieve the revised specification 
OHSAS 18001:2007 by the deadline  
of July 2009.
Our activities regarding health and safety 
throughout the last year have included  
the promotion of risk assessment as part 
of the European Week of Safety, the 
integration of safety leadership into our 
senior management development 
programme and the improvement of 
health and safety information on the 
Group’s intranet.
Three of our businesses also received 
RoSPA awards: Gold for both Highways 
and Transportation, and Design and 
Engineering Solutions; and Distinction for 
Asset Management (which was awarded 
for the 22nd year running).
Environment
We are now able to report on our energy 
consumption for approximately 95% of 
our operations worldwide. The remaining 
parts of the organisation in Poland, the 
USA and offices in India will start collating 
data during 2009. We are not able to 
compare non-UK data as this is the first 
year this information has been collated.
There was significant effort during 2008 
to extend the scope of our reporting to 
include worldwide operations and to 
obtain more accurate data for UK 
operations. More accurate data has 
contributed to a significant reduction  
in energy consumption. In the UK we 
consumed 27.0m kWh in the year to  
31 December 2008 compared to  
34.2m kWh in 2007. In the UK the energy 
data is now verifiable to 72% for gas and 
to 77% for electricity. Data is verifiable to 
100% for energy consumption in Sweden, 
Denmark, Ireland, Portugal, China and the 
Middle East and India. 
Fig. 1
Accident incident rate (AIR)  Office Engineering  Construction
Benchmark  146 319 1,445
Staff 
08/09  89 147 1,833
07/08  38 178  1,042
06/07  12 65 995 
05/06  104 151 556
04/05  59 235 2,763
Contractors
08/09  132 0 619
07/08  0 0 708
06/07  382 441 1,221
05/06  0 124 293
04/05  0 124 317
(AIR = number of accidents per 100,000 staff or contractors) Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Reviews 43
Worldwide, we emitted 15,071 tonnes of 
CO 2 from energy consumption. Fig. 2 
shows the proportion of emissions from 
each region. The calculation for CO 2 
emissions from our energy consumption  
is made using the latest published DEFRA 
figures for electricity in the UK and for  
gas in the UK and Ireland and the five- 
year average from the latest published 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol figures for each 
country other than the UK for electricity.
Remote energy metering was installed at 
five pilot locations in the UK during the 
year. There were immediate results as 
significant reductions in both gas and 
electricity consumption were identified 
and implemented at those locations. The 
remote metering is now being rolled out 
to more properties in the UK. Display 
Energy Certificates have also been 
introduced for some UK offices and these 
will be generated for more locations 
during 2009 to help raise awareness  
on energy performance. 
 
We are now able to report on business 
travel emissions for approximately 90% of 
our operations worldwide. The remaining 
parts of the organisation including Poland, 
Ireland and offices in India will start 
collating data in 2009. Our business travel 
data covers road, air and rail travel for  
the UK and Sweden, road and air travel 
for the Middle East and India region and 
China and air travel for Denmark, the  
USA and Portugal. On this basis, our 
estimated worldwide CO
2 emissions 
associated with business travel were 
23,350 tonnes.
In the UK we travelled 74m km by road, 
36.7m km by air and 21.3m km by rail in 
2008/09, resulting in total business travel 
decreasing by 2.4m km compared to  
last year. There has been a significant 
reduction of 4.1m km in air travel 
compared to last year. However there  
has been an increase of 0.9m km in road 
travel and 0.7m km in rail travel. We are 
not able to compare non-UK data as  
this is the first year this information has 
been collated.
The calculation for CO
2 emissions from 
our business travel is made using the latest 
published DEFRA figures for road and air 
travel, the DEFRA figures for rail travel in 
the UK, and the US Intercity rail emissions 
figure for non-UK rail travel, in the absence 
of valid country-specific information. 
For our UK company car fleet we have 
continued to reduce the average emission 
rating. The figure is now down to 154g/km 
compared to 158g/km last year. 
Our waste management facilities have 
improved significantly throughout our 
worldwide operations. In Sweden 100% 
of the waste that we generate is either 
recycled or converted into energy – no 
waste goes to landfill. A recycling system 
has been trialled successfully with more 
than 60% of waste being recycled in the 
Hong Kong office. Additionally, a new 
system has been implemented across 
some of the centrally managed properties 
in the UK with more than 35% of the 
waste being recycled through these offices. 
Portugal is now covered by ISO 14001 
having achieved this environmental 
management systems standard during  
the year. All of our operations are now 
covered by the standard.
Fig. 2
Tonnes of CO 2 per employee
from energy consumption
Europe
Middle East and India 1.20
UK 0.89
1.01
China 1.01
Company car fleet emissions 
average in the UK
Atkins 154
226+       G
<100 A
101-120 B
121-150 C
151-165 D
166-185 E
186+ F
g/km
Fig. 3  44 Reviews
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Corporate Responsibility Review
Continued
Leadership and behaviour are key 
elements in our environmental 
management approach. Four of the UK 
businesses have now undertaken the 
Institute of Environmental Management 
and Assessment (IEMA) environmental 
senior executive course with the intentions 
in 2009 for the remaining UK business to 
complete the course and to review its 
suitability for all businesses worldwide. 
Our supply chain management team has 
been working with a number of Group 
suppliers in the UK to encourage them  
to adopt sustainable practices in their own 
businesses. The Atkins Environmental 
Strategy has been developed and will be 
communicated to all our Group suppliers 
during the coming year. 
Regulatory activity 
In the UK last year the HSE made three 
visits to Atkins sites with no enforcement 
action. We have not been prosecuted  
for any breaches of health and safety or 
environment regulations.
Governance
The Board sets Group policies on 
corporate responsibility (CR). Our chief 
executive is the Board member responsible 
for corporate responsibility and for the 
Group’s performance, supported by 
Group-wide frameworks. A common 
management structure governs quality, 
health and safety and environment (QSE). 
The Group director for QSE, who reports 
to the chief executive, is responsible for 
Group QSE at a corporate level. Each 
Atkins business also has dedicated QSE 
representatives to manage issues at  
a local level, reporting quarterly.
CR-related Group policies include  
quality, health and safety, environment, 
sustainability, community, business 
conduct, data protection, dignity and 
equality at work, employee disclosure 
(whistle-blowing) and the appropriate use 
of information technology. These are 
published on the corporate intranet and 
are provided externally on request. They 
are reviewed regularly and updated to 
reflect changes to legislation, emerging 
good practice and business needs. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial statements Investor information
Governance
Governance
46 Board of Directors
48 Directors’ Report
52 Corporate Governance Report
58 Remuneration Report
65 Independent Auditors’ Report WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
46 Governance
Board of Directors
Ed Wallis
Chairman
Ed Wallis (69) was appointed a director  
in September 2004, taking up the post  
of chairman in January 2005. He is a 
chartered engineer. He was the founding 
chief executive of Powergen where he 
also held the position of chairman before 
retiring in 2003. Prior to this he gained 
more than 30 years of experience working 
for the Central Electricity Generating 
Board. He has a wide range of other 
board-level experience including the 
chairmanship of Lucas Varity and London 
Underground. He was invited to become  
a companion of the British Institute of 
Management in 1994 and in 1997 
became a fellow of the Royal Academy  
of Engineering. In 1996 he was awarded 
honorary doctorates by both Brunel 
University and Aston University. He 
became chairman of the Natural 
Environment Research Council in 2006.  
He is chairman of the Nomination 
Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Keith Clarke
Chief Executive
Keith Clarke (57) was appointed a director 
in October 2003. He is a chartered 
architect. He joined the Group from 
Skanska AB where he was executive vice 
president responsible for its activities in 
the UK, Poland, Czech Republic, India and 
China. He has over 30 years’ experience  
in construction and engineering, having 
previously worked for the City of New 
York, Olympia and York, Trafalgar House 
and Kvaerner. He is chairman of the 
Construction Industry Council, having 
previously chaired its Health and Safety 
Committee. He is also an advisory board 
member of the Built Environment 
Innovation Centre at Imperial College, 
London, a member of the Supporters  
at Large Group for Open House and 
patron of the Environmental Industries 
Commission. He is a member of the 
Nomination Committee.
Alun Griffiths
Executive Director
Alun Griffiths (54) was appointed  
a director in March 2007. He has a 
background in management consultancy 
and has led a wide range of projects in 
the areas of restructuring, organisational 
development and privatisation in the UK 
and internationally. He is an economics 
graduate and a fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Personnel and Development. 
He was appointed Group HR director in 
February 2003. Alun chairs the Industry 
Board of the UK Resource Centre for 
Women in Science, Engineering and 
Technology (UKRC), an organisation 
charged with progressing the 
government’s strategy for increasing  
the participation of women in science  
and engineering.
Robert MacLeod
Group Finance Director
Robert MacLeod (45) was appointed 
Group finance director in June 2004.  
A chartered accountant, he joined the 
Group as Group financial controller in 
March 2003 having previously worked  
in a variety of senior financial roles at 
Enterprise Oil plc. He is currently a 
non-executive director of Aggreko plc.  
A graduate of Cambridge University, he 
trained at KPMG. Robert will leave the 
Board and the Company on 19 June 2009.
Heath Drewett
Group Finance Director (elect)
Heath Drewett (43) was appointed an 
executive director with effect from  
15 June 2009, and will take over as  
Group finance director on 19 June 2009.  
A graduate in mathematics from 
Peterhouse, Cambridge, he started his 
career at PricewaterhouseCoopers where 
he qualified as a chartered accountant.  
He has held a variety of senior finance and 
corporate development roles at British 
Airways plc and The Morgan Crucible 
Company plc. He has spent the past  
seven years in BA’s finance team, most 
recently holding the position of head of 
business performance. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Governance 47
James Morley
Non-executive Director
James Morley (60), a chartered 
accountant, was appointed a  
non-executive director in 2001. He  
is a non-executive director of The 
Innovation Group plc, Costain Group PLC, 
Clarkson PLC and Speedy Hire Plc. He  
was previously chief operating officer of 
Primary Group Limited and also previously 
finance director at Cox Insurance Holdings 
plc, Arjo Wiggins Appleton plc, Guardian 
Royal Exchange plc and Avis Europe plc. 
He is senior independent director, 
chairman of the Audit Committee and  
a member of the Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees. James will  
retire from the Board on 30 June 2009.
Admiral the Lord Boyce
Non-executive Director
Lord Boyce (66) was appointed a  
non-executive director in May 2004. He 
had a distinguished career in the Royal 
Navy and the Ministry of Defence (MoD) 
that culminated in his becoming First Sea 
Lord, professional head of the Royal Navy, 
in 1998; and then Chief of Defence Staff, 
professional head of the Armed Forces, 
from 2001 to 2003. He was elevated to 
the peerage in 2003 and was appointed 
Lord Warden and Admiral of the Cinque 
Ports and Constable of Dover Castle in 
2004. He is a non-executive director of  
VT Group plc. He is a member of the 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees 
and he will succeed James Morley as senior 
independent director on 30 June 2009.
Fiona Clutterbuck
Non-executive Director
Fiona Clutterbuck (51) was appointed  
a non-executive director in March 2007. 
She is a managing partner within a 
business that owns and controls Pearl 
insurance group. Fiona has substantial 
experience in all areas of corporate 
finance, including a particular focus on the 
financial institutions sector, gained during 
15 years at Hill Samuel and HSBC and 
latterly seven years at ABN AMRO.  
Fiona has advised on a wide range of 
transactions in many countries, including 
mergers and takeovers, public company 
acquisitions and fundraisings, and public 
and private company sales and flotations. 
Fiona has an LLB (Hons) from the 
University of London and qualified as  
a barrister in 1980. She is a member  
of the Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees.
Joanne Curin
Non-executive Director
Joanne Curin (51) was appointed a 
non-executive director in February 2009. 
She is a chartered accountant and has  
a broad range of international experience 
gained during her career as a senior 
finance executive for large scale 
organisations in the property and 
construction, oil and gas, pulp and paper, 
shipping and logistics sectors. She has 
worked in the UK, New Zealand and 
Australia and more recently held finance 
director roles for both Lend Lease 
Corporation and P&O. She is currently  
a director of Intelligent Engineering 
Holdings, which has developed and is 
commercialising a composite material 
technology for use in heavy engineering 
structures. She is a member of the Audit 
and Nomination Committees. Joanne will 
succeed James Morley as chair of the 
Audit Committee on 30 June 2009.
Dr Raj Rajagopal
Non-executive Director
Raj Rajagopal (55) was appointed a 
non-executive director in June 2008.  
He held several positions at BOC Edwards 
before being appointed chief executive,  
a position he held until November 2006. 
He was an executive director of the  
BOC Group plc until November 2006  
and is a non-executive director of Dyson 
Group plc, Bodycote plc and Spirax-Sarco 
Engineering plc. Raj is also chairman of 
HHV Pumps Private Ltd. Raj is a fellow  
of the Institution of Engineering and 
Technology (IET), a fellow of the Royal 
Academy of Engineering, a fellow of  
the Institution of Mechanical Engineers,  
a fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management and a fellow of the Institute 
of Directors. He is also an Audit 
Commissioner and a member of the 
Advisory Board of the Centre for Business 
Research of Cambridge University. He  
was awarded an honorary doctor of 
science degree by Cranfield University in 
2004 and the IET’s IEE Eric Mensforth 
International Gold Medal for outstanding 
contribution to manufacturing technology 
and management in 2003. He is a  
member of the Remuneration  
and Nomination Committees.
Sir Peter Williams
Non-executive Director
Sir Peter Williams (64) was appointed  
a non-executive director in May 2004.  
He graduated from Cambridge University 
with an MA and PhD in physics and 
initially pursued an academic career at 
Cambridge and subsequently at Imperial 
College, London. After a period with  
VG Instruments Limited he joined Oxford 
Instruments plc in 1982. He became its 
chief executive in 1985 and was chairman 
from 1991 until his retirement in 1999.  
He is chairman of the National Physical 
Laboratory and a non-executive director 
of GKN plc. Sir Peter was elected as fifth 
chancellor of the University of Leicester on 
21 October 2005. He is chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and a member 
of the Audit and Nomination Committees. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
48 Governance
Directors’ Report
The directors present their annual report 
on the affairs of the Company and the 
Group, together with the Financial 
Statements and the Independent  
Auditor’s Report, for the year ended  
31 March 2009. These will be laid before 
shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) to be held at 1630 hours 
on Wednesday 9 September 2009. Details 
of the business to be considered at the 
AGM, together with an explanation of all 
the resolutions, are set out in the separate 
Notice of Meeting.
Principal activities and business review
WS Atkins plc is the ultimate holding 
company of a group of companies. 
Detailed information on the Group’s 
principal activities, its performance  
during the past year and its prospects for 
future development are reported in the 
Chairman’s Statement (pages 6 to 7),  
the Chief Executive’s Statement (pages  
8 to 12), the Human Resources Review  
(pages 14 to 17), the Business Review 
(pages 18 to 37) and the Corporate 
Responsibility Review (pages 38 to 44). 
The statements and reviews are 
incorporated into this report by reference, 
together with the list of the principal 
subsidiary undertakings and the countries 
in which they operate (note 40 to the 
Financial Statements on page 116).
Acquisitions and disposals made by the 
Group during the year are described in 
notes 9 and 15 to the Financial Statements 
(pages 90 to 94).
Results and dividends
The Group profit after tax for the year of 
£84.2m (2008: £100.0m) is shown in the 
Consolidated Income Statement (page 68).
The directors recommend a final dividend 
of 17.25 pence per ordinary share in 
respect of the year ended 31 March 2009, 
to be paid on 25 September 2009 to 
ordinary shareholders on the register  
on 14 August 2009. This is subject to 
shareholder approval at the AGM. If 
approved, this will mean a total dividend 
of 26.0 pence per ordinary share will have 
been paid for the year to 31 March 2009 
(2008: 24.0p) when added to the interim 
dividend of 8.75 pence per ordinary share 
paid on 30 January 2009. Further details 
regarding dividend payments can be 
found in Investor Information (page 122).
Directors
The names and biographical details of 
those persons serving as directors of the 
Company as at the date of this report  
are set out in this report (pages 46 to 47).  
Raj Rajagopal and Joanne Curin were 
appointed to the Board during the year  
to 31 March 2009. Heath Drewett was 
appointed as a director with effect from 
15 June 2009 and will replace Robert 
MacLeod as Group finance director when 
he leaves the Company on 19 June 2009.
Under the Company’s Articles of 
Association all directors must retire at the 
first AGM following their appointment by 
the Board and may offer themselves for 
re-appointment. Additionally, one-third  
of directors must retire at each AGM and 
they may offer themselves for re-election.
Raj Rajagopal, following his appointment  
by the Board as a director on  
24 June 2008, was re-appointed by 
shareholders at the 2008 AGM. Joanne 
Curin, who was appointed as a director on 
10 February 2009, and Heath Drewett will 
both retire at the AGM and, being eligible, 
offer themselves for re-appointment.
Lord Boyce and Keith Clarke will retire by 
rotation at the AGM and, being eligible, 
will offer themselves for re-election.  
James Morley, having served on the Board 
since January 2001, will retire from the 
Board on 30 June 2009. Lord Boyce  
and Keith Clarke will be subject to 
retirement by rotation at future AGMs  
in accordance with the Company’s Articles 
of Association.
The Board considers that the performance 
of those directors proposed for re-election 
continues to be effective and that they 
demonstrate a strong commitment to 
their role. In addition, the Board considers 
that the performance of the directors 
proposed for re-appointment will be 
effective and that they demonstrate the 
necessary commitment.
Directors and officers of the Company  
and its subsidiaries benefit from directors’ 
and officers’ liability insurance cover in 
respect of legal actions brought against 
them. In addition, directors of the 
Company are indemnified in accordance 
with Article 143 of the Company’s Articles 
of Association to the maximum extent 
permitted by law. Prior to the adoption  
of new Articles of Association by 
shareholders on 3 September 2008, all 
directors in appointment on that date  
had separate deeds of indemnity. These 
indemnities, which still remain in force, are 
available for inspection by shareholders  
at the Company’s registered office during 
normal business hours and will be 
available for inspection at the AGM.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnities 
provide cover where the relevant  
director or officer has acted fraudulently  
or dishonestly.
The Board of directors may exercise all  
the powers of the Company, subject to 
the provisions of relevant legislation, the 
Company’s Memorandum and Articles  
of Association and any directions given  
by a special resolution of the shareholders.  Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Governance 49
Specific powers are detailed in the 
Company’s Articles of Association, 
including the power to issue and buy back 
shares, along with the rules for the 
appointment and removal of directors.
Directors’ interests in the Company and 
the Group are described in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report in table 5 (page 63).
Articles of Association 
Company law has undergone substantial 
change since January 2007 when the 
phased implementation of the Companies 
Act 2006 (the 2006 Act) commenced. The 
Articles of Association of the Company 
were revised in 2008. At this time it was 
envisaged that further changes to the 
Articles of Association would be made  
at the 2009 AGM as a result of the 
continuing phased implementation of the 
2006 Act and the implementation of  
the EU Shareholders’ Rights Directive. 
However, some uncertainty still surrounds 
the implementation of the latter and it has 
therefore been decided that the prudent 
approach is to delay further changes  
until 2010.
Political donations and expenditure
It is the Group’s policy not to make 
political donations and not to incur 
political expenditure, either in the UK or 
overseas. Accordingly, the Group made no 
political donations and incurred no such 
expenditure during the year and has no 
intention of making any such donations  
or incurring such expenditure in the 
future. However, the provisions previously 
contained in the Companies Act 1985 and 
now enacted in the 2006 Act relating to 
donations and expenditure covered by this 
disclosure are wide. So as to prevent an 
inadvertent breach of the 2006 Act the 
Board has historically sought authority  
for the Company and its subsidiaries to 
make such donations and incur such 
expenditure up to an aggregate limit  
for the Company and its subsidiaries of 
£90,000, subject to the provisions of the 
2006 Act. The Board considers it prudent 
to once again seek such authority at the 
Company’s forthcoming AGM. 
The authority will not be used to make 
political donations within the normal 
meaning of that expression. Further details 
are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
Charitable donations
During the year, the Group made 
charitable donations of £187,757  
(2008: £191,527). The beneficiaries  
of these donations were local charities 
serving the communities in which the 
Group operates or charities working in 
areas relevant to the Group’s activities. 
The Group intends to continue its  
focus on local charities in the current 
financial year.
Corporate governance  
and remuneration
The Company prepares a separate 
Corporate Governance Report (pages  
52 to 57) and Directors’ Remuneration 
Report (pages 58 to 64).
Corporate responsibility 
A summary of the Group’s corporate 
responsibility activities is provided for 
shareholders in the Corporate 
Responsibility Review (pages 38 to 44).  
In addition, the Group provides further 
information on corporate responsibility, 
which includes detailed information  
in respect of health and safety, the 
environment, the community, people  
and suppliers, on the Company’s website  
www.atkinsglobal.com/cr.
Employees
The Group is committed to the fair and 
equitable treatment of all its employees, 
irrespective of sex, race, age, religion, 
disability or sexual orientation. To this end, 
policies have been implemented to ensure 
this is practised at recruitment and then 
continues throughout an individual’s 
employment with the Group. The Group 
encourages recruitment, training, career 
development and promotion on the basis 
of aptitude and ability, without regard to 
disability. It is also committed to retaining 
and retraining as necessary employees 
who become disabled during the course 
of their employment.
Employees are routinely informed of 
financial results and significant business 
issues via the use of email, voice 
conference, the Company’s intranet and 
in-house publications.
An annual survey is carried out to obtain 
feedback from employees. This survey  
is confidential and is used alongside 
consultation with employees and union 
representatives where appropriate.
Employee involvement in the Group’s 
performance continues to be encouraged 
through share ownership. In the UK, 
employees are given the opportunity to 
become shareholders through the 
Company’s Share Incentive Plan. 
Approximately 10% of UK employees 
participate in the Share Incentive Plan.
Suppliers
The Group’s policy is to agree terms and 
conditions for its business transactions 
with suppliers and to endeavour to abide 
by these terms and conditions, subject to 
the supplier performing its obligations.
No one supplier arrangement is 
considered to be essential to the business 
of the Group. 
The Company, as a holding company,  
did not have any amounts owing to trade 
creditors as at 31 March 2009.
Share capital and share purchases
As at the date of this report, the 
Company’s share capital consists of 
104,451,799 issued and fully paid ordinary 
shares each with a nominal value of  
0.5 pence per share, listed on the London 
Stock Exchange. Of these, 4,341,000 
ordinary shares are held in treasury (the 
treasury shares). Shares may be held in 
certificated or uncertificated form. Further 
details of the Company’s authorised and 
issued share capital, including changes 
during the year, can be found in note 31  
to the Financial Statements (page 108). WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
50 Governance
Directors’ Report
Continued
At the AGM held in 2008, the Company 
was granted authority by shareholders  
to purchase up to 10,051,000 ordinary 
shares, representing approximately 10% 
of the Company’s ordinary share capital  
as at 25 June 2008. No ordinary shares 
were purchased pursuant to this authority 
during the year. This authority will expire 
at the forthcoming AGM and, in 
accordance with current best practice,  
the Company will seek to renew it.
The Board, mindful of the benefit of 
maintaining an efficient balance sheet, 
announced a share buyback programme 
on 27 November 2007 intended to return 
up to £100m to shareholders. This 
followed a review of the strength of the 
Group’s balance sheet following the 
disposal of Lambert Smith Hampton and 
resolution of the uncertainty surrounding 
the Group’s investment in Metronet.
The buyback of ordinary shares  
in the Company commenced on  
29 November 2007 and, as at the date  
of this report, 4,341,000 ordinary shares 
of 0.5 pence had been repurchased for an 
aggregate consideration of £45,999,418 
(excluding fees and stamp duty), 
representing approximately 4.2% of the 
Company’s issued share capital. All of 
these shares are held in treasury. In the 
event that the Company purchases further 
ordinary shares in the Company, up to a 
further 6,104,179 ordinary shares could be 
held in treasury. No purchases have been 
made since July 2008. 
The rights and obligations attaching  
to the Company’s ordinary shares are 
contained in the Company’s Articles  
of Association, a copy of which is  
available on the Company’s website  
www.atkinsglobal.com or can be 
obtained on request from the company 
secretary. The Articles of Association  
can only be changed by a special 
resolution passed in a general meeting  
of shareholders.
Each ordinary share (other than treasury 
shares, which have no voting rights) 
carries the right to one vote on a poll  
at a general meeting of the Company.  
There are no restrictions on transfer  
or limitations on the holding of the 
Company’s ordinary shares and no 
requirements for prior approval of any 
transfers. Under the Company’s Articles of 
Association, the directors have the power 
to suspend voting rights and the right to 
receive dividends in respect of shares in 
circumstances where the holder of those 
shares fails to comply with a notice issued 
under Section 793 of the 2006 Act.
Shares acquired through Atkins’ employee 
share schemes rank equally with all other 
ordinary shares in issue and have no 
special rights. The trustees of the 
Company’s Employee Benefit Trusts (EBTs) 
have waived their rights to dividends on 
shares held by the EBTs and do not 
exercise their right to vote in respect of 
such shares. Shares held in trust on behalf 
of participants in the Atkins Share 
Incentive Plan are voted by the Trustee, 
Capita IRG Trustees Limited, as directed  
by the participants. Details of share-based 
payments, including information regarding 
the shares held by the EBTs can be found 
in note 32 to the Financial Statements 
(page 109). The Company is not aware  
of any agreements between shareholders 
that might result in the restriction of 
transfer or voting rights in relation to  
the shares held by such shareholders.
Changes of control
All of the Company’s employee share 
schemes contain provisions relating to  
a change of control of the Company 
following a takeover bid. Under these 
provisions, a change of control of the 
Company would normally be a vesting 
event, facilitating the exercise or transfer 
of awards, subject to any relevant 
performance conditions being satisfied. 
The Company is not a party to any other 
significant agreements that take effect, 
alter or terminate upon a change of 
control following a takeover bid other 
than its bank facility agreement, which 
provides that on a change of control the 
Company is unable to draw down any 
further amounts under the facility.  
Further, it is not party to any agreement 
with the directors or employees providing 
for compensation for loss of office  
or employment (whether through 
resignation, purported redundancy or 
otherwise) that occurs as a result of  
a takeover bid.
Substantial shareholders
As at the date of this report, the Company 
had been notified of the following 
holdings of 3% or more of the total 
voting rights attaching to its issued  
share capital:
 Number of  Percentage of
Name of holder voting rights
1
 total voting rights
1
Legal & General Group plc 3,910,332 3.90%
Lloyds TSB Group plc 3,154,015 3.04%
Newton Investments Management Limited 3,928,108 3.92%
Norges Bank 3,024,392 3.02%
Schroders plc 10,143,360 9.99%
1. Number and percentage of voting rights per last notification received by the Company. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Governance 51
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report, the Remuneration 
Report and the Financial Statements  
in accordance with applicable law  
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to 
prepare financial statements for each 
financial year. The directors have prepared 
the Group and Company Financial 
Statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union. The Financial Statements 
are required by law to give a true and  
fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company and the Group and of the profit 
or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those Financial Statements, 
the directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently
•  make judgements and estimates that  
are reasonable and prudent
•  state that the Financial Statements 
comply with IFRS as adopted by the 
European Union
•  prepare the Financial Statements on the 
going concern basis, unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Group and the Company will continue in 
business, in which case there should be 
supporting assumptions or qualifications 
as necessary.
The directors confirm that they have 
complied with the above requirements  
in preparing the Financial Statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping 
proper accounting records that disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the 
Group and that enable them to ensure 
that the Financial Statements and the 
Remuneration Report comply with 
applicable company law and, as regards 
the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 
of the IAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets  
of the Company and the Group and  
hence for taking reasonable steps for  
the prevention and detection of fraud  
and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information 
included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure of audit information
The directors confirm that, as at the date 
this report was approved, so far as each 
director is aware there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s 
auditors are unaware and that he or she 
has taken all the steps he or she ought to 
have taken as a director in order to make 
himself or herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that  
the Company’s auditors are aware of  
that information.
Going concern
The directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the 
Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future and therefore continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the Financial Statements.
Auditors
The Company’s auditors, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, have 
expressed their willingness to continue  
in office and resolutions for their  
re-appointment and to authorise the 
directors to determine their remuneration 
will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Approved by the Board and signed on its 
behalf by
Richard Webster 
Company Secretary
16 June 2009
Cautionary statement
Under the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006,  
a company’s directors’ report is required, 
among other matters, to contain a fair review 
by the directors of the Group’s business 
through a balanced and comprehensive 
analysis of the development and performance 
of the business of the Group and the position 
of the Group at the year-end, consistent with 
the size and complexity of the business.
The Directors’ Report set out above, including 
the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief 
Executive’s Statement, the Human Resources 
Review, the Business Review and the Corporate 
Responsibility Review incorporated into it by 
reference (together, the Directors’ Report), has 
been prepared only for the shareholders of the 
Company as a whole and its sole purpose and 
use is to assist shareholders to exercise their 
governance rights. In particular, the Directors’ 
Report has not been audited or otherwise 
independently verified. The Company and its 
directors and employees are not responsible  
for any other purpose or use or to any other 
person in relation to the Directors’ Report.
The Directors’ Report contains indications  
of likely future developments and other  
forward-looking statements that are subject  
to risk factors associated with, among  
other things, the economic and business 
circumstances occurring from time to time in 
the countries, sectors and business segments  
in which the Group operates. These factors 
include, but are not limited to, those discussed 
under Principal Risks and Uncertainties  
(page 37). These and other factors could 
adversely affect the Group’s results, strategy 
and prospects. Forward-looking statements  
involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. 
They relate to events and/or depend on 
circumstances in the future which could cause 
actual results and outcomes to differ materially 
from those currently anticipated. No obligation 
is assumed to update any forward-looking 
statements, whether as a result of new 
information, future events or otherwise. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
52 Governance
Corporate Governance Report
The directors of the Company remain 
committed to ensuring appropriate 
corporate governance procedures are 
embedded throughout the Group.  
They base these procedures on the 
requirements of the Combined Code  
on Corporate Governance adopted by  
the Financial Reporting Council (FRC)  
in June 2006 (the Code), available on  
the FRC’s website www.frc.org.uk, plus 
current and emerging best practice.  
This report sets out our commitment to 
corporate governance, how the principles 
of the Code have been applied and the 
extent of our compliance with the Code.
A. Directors
A.1 The Board
The Board of directors is responsible for 
leading the Group by setting its broad 
strategic aims. To deliver these strategic 
aims, the Board reviews the performance 
of management, seeks to ensure that the 
necessary resources are available and that 
appropriate controls, values and standards 
are in place. In pursuance of the Group’s 
strategy, the Board has delegated the 
normal operational management of the 
Group to our chief executive, Keith Clarke, 
but has agreed a formal schedule of 
matters reserved solely for its decision. 
This schedule includes strategy, the 
approval of Financial Statements and 
shareholder circulars, treasury policy, 
major capital investments, risk 
management strategy and significant 
acquisitions and disposals. 
During the year the Board’s discussions 
have included:
•  the Group’s strategic plan
• potential acquisitions
•  our health, safety and corporate 
responsibility performance
•  approval of the Group budget and 
ongoing review of the Group’s  
financial performance
•  the Group’s financial results  
and dividends
•  our corporate governance framework
•  shareholder matters
•  our employees, succession planning and 
the Group’s pension plan arrangements
•  the share buyback programme, 
announced in November 2007.
The Board has a schedule of regular 
meetings and holds further meetings 
when required. In addition, directors meet 
as members of committees. Table 1 sets 
out the name of each Board member, their 
attendance at meetings and those Board 
committees of which they were a member 
during the year ended 31 March 2009. 
The biographical details for these directors, 
and Heath Drewett who was appointed 
since this date, are contained in a separate 
section of the Annual Report (pages 46 
and 47). The chairman and non-executive 
directors also meet without the executive 
directors present at least annually.
Each Board committee has terms of 
reference which are reviewed annually  
by the Board and revised as deemed 
necessary and appropriate. Copies are 
available on the Group’s website  
www.atkinsglobal.com or on request 
from the company secretary. Following 
formal consideration the Board may,  
on occasion, delegate authority to a 
standing committee consisting of any  
two directors to facilitate final sign-off  
for an agreed course of action within 
pre-defined parameters.
Table 1
  Audit Remuneration Nomination
Director Board Committee Committee Committee
Chairman    
Ed Wallis 13/13 – 6/6 2/2
    
Executive directors    
Keith Clarke 13/13 – – 2/2
Alun Griffiths 13/13 – – –
Robert MacLeod 13/13 – – –
    
Independent non-executive directors   
Admiral the Lord Boyce 13/13 – 6/6 2/2
Fiona Clutterbuck 13/13 4/4 – 2/2
Joanne Curin 3/3 1/1 – –
3
James Morley 12/13
1
 4/4 6/6 2/2
Raj Rajagopal 10/10 – 1/1 –
3
Sir Peter Williams 12/13
2
 4/4 6/6 2/2
Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended/number eligible to attend.
1.  One meeting was called to discuss a specific matter where Mr Morley had a potential conflict of interest  
and so he absented himself from the meeting with the agreement of the Board.
2. One meeting was called at short notice and coincided with a prior engagement.
3.  The appointment of Joanne Curin and Raj Rajagopal to the Nomination Committee took effect after all 
meetings in the year ended 31 March 2009 had taken place. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Governance 53
A.2 Chairman and chief executive
It is the Group’s policy that the roles of 
chairman and chief executive are separate, 
with their roles and responsibilities clearly 
defined, divided and recorded.
The chairman’s main responsibility is  
the leadership and management of the 
Board and its governance. Our chairman,  
Ed Wallis, usually spends two days per 
week on the business of the Group.  
His other significant commitments are 
disclosed in his biography (page 46). The 
Board considers that these commitments 
do not hinder his ability to discharge his 
responsibilities to the Company effectively.
The chief executive is responsible for the 
leadership and day-to-day management 
of the Group. This includes formulating 
and recommending the Group’s strategy 
for Board approval in addition to 
executing the approved strategy.
The chief executive has chosen to 
discharge his responsibilities for the 
operational management of the business 
through the Group Executive, his 
executive team. Its members currently 
comprise the managing directors of our 
principal businesses, the Group finance 
director, the Group HR director and the 
Group communications director. The team 
meets regularly during the year. Those 
members of the Group Executive who are 
not directors of the Company are invited 
to attend four Board meetings each year 
and to meet the non-executive directors 
informally without the executive  
directors present.
The respective roles of the Board and 
Group Executive are discussed further  
in relation to internal control (pages 54  
to 56).
A.3 Board balance and independence
Each of the non-executive directors has 
been determined by the Board to be 
independent of management and to have 
no business or other relationship that 
could interfere materially with the exercise 
of their judgement. The independence of 
the non-executive directors is considered 
at least annually and is based on the 
criteria suggested in the Code.
The senior independent director is James 
Morley. Lord Boyce will succeed him as 
senior independent director when he 
retires from the Board on 30 June 2009. 
The responsibilities of the senior 
independent director include leading  
the non-executive directors’ annual 
consideration of the chairman’s 
performance. He is also available to 
shareholders in the event they feel it 
inappropriate to communicate via the 
chairman, the chief executive or the 
Group finance director.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
At the 2008 AGM shareholder approval 
was given to amend the Company’s 
Articles of Association to include 
provisions for dealing with directors’ 
conflicts of interests in accordance with 
the new regime introduced by the 
Companies Act 2006. In advance of 
commencement of the new regime the 
Board considered and, where appropriate, 
authorised potential conflicts of interest 
for all existing directors. When directors 
are appointed to the Board they are 
required to notify the company secretary 
of any potential conflicts of interest and 
these are then considered and authorised 
by the Board as appropriate. As potential 
conflicts of interest arise, directors are 
required to notify the company secretary 
of these interests so that they can be 
considered and authorised by the Board  
as appropriate. In addition, the Company 
has put in place an annual process to 
review conflict authorisations.
A.4 Appointments to the Board
The Nomination Committee currently 
comprises Ed Wallis (committee chairman), 
Keith Clarke, Lord Boyce, Fiona Clutterbuck, 
Joanne Curin, James Morley, Raj Rajagopal 
and Sir Peter Williams. The Committee’s 
responsibilities include:
•  reviewing the structure, size and 
composition of the Board
•  identifying and nominating candidates 
for appointment to the Board and 
ensuring orderly succession
•  making recommendations to the Board 
regarding the continuing service of 
directors and their re-election or 
otherwise to the Board.
The Committee’s terms of reference are 
available for review on the Company’s 
website or on request from the company 
secretary. The non-executive directors’ 
terms of appointment are available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered 
office during normal business hours and 
at the Company’s Annual General 
Meeting (AGM).
During the year, the Committee 
recommended the appointments of  
Raj Rajagopal and Joanne Curin as 
non-executive directors with effect from  
24 June 2008 and 10 February 2009 
respectively. Details relating to Raj 
Rajagopal’s appointment were disclosed  
in the Company’s 2008 Annual Report. 
Joanne Curin was advised prior to her 
appointment of the time commitment 
considered necessary to enable her to 
fulfil her responsibilities. The Committee 
also recommended the appointment of 
Heath Drewett as an executive director 
with effect from 15 June 2009, shortly 
prior to him assuming the role of Group 
finance director from Robert MacLeod  
on 19 June 2009. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
54 Governance
Corporate Governance Report
Continued
The Board believes that Joanne Curin  
and Heath Drewett will be considerable 
assets to the Company, bringing their 
experience to bear as we continue to 
develop the business. External search 
consultancies were used to assist in 
making both appointments. 
A.5 Information and professional 
development
The company secretary, under the 
chairman’s direction, is responsible for 
ensuring that information flows within 
and between the Board, its committees, 
the non-executive directors and senior 
management function effectively. The 
company secretary is also responsible  
for advising the Board on all  
governance matters.
On joining the Board, directors take part 
in a formal induction process. This 
includes the provision of past Board 
materials to provide background 
information on the Group, information  
on Board processes and governance, site 
visits and meetings with key employees. 
The induction is tailored to each new 
director’s specific needs. Raj Rajagopal 
and Joanne Curin received a detailed 
induction programme which included 
meetings with each member of the Group 
Executive. Heath Drewett will also be 
provided with a comprehensive induction 
to the Group.
A continuing professional development 
framework is in place to assist the 
chairman, executive directors and 
non-executive directors in discharging 
their responsibilities effectively following 
appointment to the Board. All  
non-executive directors meet regularly 
with members of the Group Executive.  
Key employees are also invited to  
attend Board dinners during the year  
and this, together with the presentations 
and site visits, helps ensure the non-
executive directors remain informed  
of business developments.
All directors have access to the advice  
and services of the company secretary  
and are entitled to receive independent 
professional advice, at the Company’s 
expense, as required.
A.6 Performance evaluation
The Board, as part of its commitment  
to ensuring its effectiveness, carried out 
an evaluation of its performance and 
processes during the year. Each director 
completed a confidential survey regarding 
the performance of the Board as a whole, 
which was followed by a private meeting 
with the chairman to discuss both the 
Board’s performance and that of the 
director. The recommendations arising 
from this process have been considered  
by the Board and appropriate actions 
were identified and have been 
implemented. During the year, the Audit 
Committee and Remuneration Committee 
also completed formal assessments of 
their performance and processes in the 
form of surveys completed by members 
and key stakeholders. 
The chairman’s performance was reviewed 
by the non-executive directors, led by  
the senior independent director.
A.7 Re-election
In accordance with the Company’s Articles 
of Association, one-third of the Board is 
required to retire by rotation each year.  
In addition, any director appointed since 
the last AGM will stand for re-appointment  
at the AGM. These requirements ensure 
that each Board member is re-elected at 
regular intervals.
B. Remuneration
Details on the directors’ remuneration  
and the work of the Remuneration 
Committee, as required by the Code  
and the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Regulations 2002, can be found in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report  
(pages 58 to 64).
C. Accountability and audit
C.1 Financial reporting
All shareholder communications are 
designed to present a balanced and 
understandable view of the Group’s 
position and prospects. Statements 
regarding directors’ responsibilities and 
the status of the business as a going 
concern are given in the Directors’ Report 
(pages 48 and 51).
C.2 Internal control
The Board is responsible for reviewing  
and approving the Group’s system of 
internal controls and its adequacy and 
effectiveness. This established system  
of internal controls includes financial, 
operational and compliance controls and 
risk management. It is the task of 
management to implement the agreed 
policies on risk and control.
Our system of internal financial and 
operational controls is designed to meet 
the Group’s particular needs and aims to 
facilitate effective and efficient operations, 
to safeguard the Group’s assets, ensure 
proper accounting records are maintained 
and ensure that the financial information 
used within the business and for 
publication is reliable. Our risk 
management process identifies the key 
risks facing each business and reports  
to the Board on how those risks are  
being managed. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Governance 55
Such a system of internal control can  
only be designed to manage rather than 
eliminate risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can provide reasonable, 
but not absolute, assurance against 
material misstatement and loss.
The Board has a process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the risks we 
face. That process is continual and has 
been in place for the year under review  
up to and including the date of this 
report. This process covers subsidiaries in 
which the Group has an interest of 50% 
or more. Joint Ventures in which we do 
not have overall control are not treated, 
for these purposes, as part of the Group. 
For these Joint Ventures, systems of 
internal control are applied as agreed 
between the parties to the venture. 
The Audit Committee formally reviews  
the operation and effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of internal controls on an 
annual basis. The latest review covered  
the financial year to 31 March 2009 and 
included the period to the approval of the 
Directors’ Report and Financial Statements 
by the Board.
Key features of our system of internal 
control are as follows:
•  Group organisation and culture  
By its statements and actions the Board 
emphasises a culture of integrity, 
competence, fairness and responsibility. 
 
The Board focuses mainly on strategic 
issues, senior management performance 
and financial performance. Our chief 
executive and the Group Executive, as 
his senior executive team, concentrate 
on operational performance, operational 
decision-making and the formulation of 
strategic proposals to the Board. The 
Group’s managing directors manage 
their businesses with the support of 
senior managers. The Board determines 
how the chief executive operates within 
a framework of delegated authorities 
and reserved powers which seek to 
ensure that certain transactions, 
significant in terms of their size or type, 
are undertaken only after Board review.
•  Control environment 
Our operational structure has clearly 
documented and communicated 
principles of delegation of authority and 
segregation of duties. The Group’s 
management systems include financial 
policies and procedures, corporate and 
business quality assurance manuals, 
health and safety procedures and 
environmental management procedures. 
These procedures are subject to review 
to ensure that improvements to enhance 
controls can be made.
•  Financial reporting 
The Board approves a strategic plan  
and annual budgets for the Group.  
The financial performance of individual 
business segments is reported regularly 
and compared to annual budgets.  
We report to our shareholders on a 
half-yearly basis. Forecasts for the  
Group are updated and reviewed by  
the Board regularly.
•  Project and contract control 
Procedures seek to ensure that risks  
are identified throughout the project 
lifecycle from bidding to completion. 
Regular review procedures are in place 
to ensure that issues are reported to the 
Board appropriately. A commercial risk 
and audit framework is in place that 
requires peer review to be carried out 
for all significant bids and opportunities 
or where significant investment 
decisions have to be taken.
•  Business conduct policy 
The Board is responsible for the Group’s 
business conduct policy. The Group 
believes that integrity is a fundamental 
prerequisite for successful business 
relationships, both internally and 
externally. Reputation, trust and 
confidence are essential elements that 
we seek to protect and enhance for the 
benefit of all those with whom we have 
a relationship. The Group seeks to 
understand and meet its customers’ 
needs, whilst striving for continuous 
improvement. Across the Group there 
are procedures in place that seek to 
underpin this approach. By so doing  
the Group aims to meet the needs  
of all stakeholders.
•  Individual business controls 
Individual businesses and central 
corporate functions complete an annual 
self-certification statement. Responsible 
managers personally confirm the review 
of their systems of internal control and 
their compliance with Group policies. 
The statement also requires the 
reporting of any significant control 
issues that have emerged so that areas 
of Group concern may be identified and 
addressed and experience shared. The 
results of the process are reviewed by 
the Audit Committee and reported to 
the Board.
•  Functional speciality reporting 
The Board assesses the risks facing the 
business on an ongoing basis and has 
identified a number of other key areas 
that are subject to regular reporting to 
the Board such as health and safety, 
environment, human resources, tax  
and treasury. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
56 Governance
Corporate Governance Report
Continued
•  Risk management review 
The Board assesses risk management 
throughout the Group, aided by the 
Group Risk Committee and detailed 
reviews of internal controls and risk 
management. The Group risk 
management framework requires 
businesses to record formally all 
significant risks facing their business and 
detail the steps being taken to avoid or 
mitigate those risks. A summary of the 
key risks facing the Group is placed on  
a risk register which is reviewed regularly 
by the Audit Committee and the Board. 
 
The Group maintains insurance policies 
to provide protection from losses arising 
through claims from clients. The 
adequacy of the Group’s insurance 
cover, including arrangements within the 
captive insurance company, is reviewed 
by the Board annually.
•  Internal audit 
The internal audit function undertakes  
a programme to address internal control 
and risk management processes with 
particular reference to the Turnbull 
guidance. Its conclusions are 
communicated to the relevant level  
of management and the function has  
a direct reporting responsibility to the 
Audit Committee.
C.3 Audit Committee and auditors
During the year the Audit Committee 
comprised James Morley (Committee 
chairman), Fiona Clutterbuck, Joanne 
Curin and Sir Peter Williams. Joanne  
Curin, a chartered accountant, will 
succeed James Morley as Committee 
chairman when he retires on  
30 June 2009. All members of the 
Committee are considered by the Board  
to be independent and to have recent  
and relevant financial experience. The 
Committee’s terms of reference are 
available for review on the Group’s 
website. The Committee’s activities  
have included:
•  an assessment of the effectiveness  
of the Company’s system of internal 
control, risk management process  
and the Group’s employee disclosure 
arrangements
•  a detailed review of the internal  
audit plan
•  regular examination of the reports 
arising from the work undertaken by  
the internal audit function
•  a review of the continued independence 
of the external auditors including their 
audit and non-audit work, together with 
the adoption of an updated policy with 
respect to the engagement of the 
external auditor for non-audit work
•  a review of the independent external 
auditors’ audit plan and their findings  
in relation to the annual report and 
half-year report
•  a review of the Company’s draft  
annual report, half-year results and 
associated announcements focusing  
on key judgemental areas and 
accounting policies
•  an appraisal of its own effectiveness  
and that of the internal and independent 
external auditors.
The Committee meets the independent 
external auditors and head of internal 
audit privately at each scheduled meeting. 
The independent external auditors  
and head of internal audit also have 
unrestricted access to the Committee  
and its chairman.
The Committee monitors the cost-
effectiveness of audit and non-audit work 
performed by the independent auditors 
and also considers the potential impact,  
if any, of this work on independence. 
Approval is required prior to the auditors 
commencing any material non-audit work 
in accordance with the Group policy. The 
policy identifies certain non-audit work 
that may be awarded with the approval  
of the executive directors whereas other 
work requires specific approval of the 
Committee. Certain work is prohibited. 
The Committee also regulates the 
appointment of former employees of the 
external audit firm to positions in the 
Group. The Committee regularly reviews 
all fees for non-audit work paid to the 
independent external auditors. Details  
of these fees can be found in note 5 to 
the Financial Statements (page 87). 
The independent external auditors also 
operate procedures designed to safeguard 
their objectivity and independence. These 
include the periodic rotation of audit 
partner, use of independent concurring 
partners, use of a technical review panel 
(where appropriate) and annual 
independence confirmations by all staff. 
The independent external auditors report 
to the Committee on matters including 
independence and non-audit work on  
an annual basis. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Governance 57
D. Relations with shareholders
D.1 Dialogue with institutional 
shareholders
The Board regards communication  
with shareholders as key. Relations  
with shareholders are managed mainly  
by the chief executive and Group finance 
director. Meetings are held regularly 
throughout the year with institutional 
investors, fund managers and analysts. 
The Group’s website contains information 
on current activities including the annual 
and half-year results presentations.
The chairman also writes to our 
institutional investors annually to reinforce 
our commitment to open, ongoing 
dialogue. The senior independent director 
and other non-executive directors, along 
with the chairman, make themselves 
available for meetings with major 
shareholders, the chairman particularly 
being available to discuss governance.  
This enables shareholders to take up with 
these individuals any issue they feel unable 
to raise with the chief executive or Group 
finance director.
The non-executive directors are kept 
informed of the views of shareholders 
with the executive directors providing 
updates on investor meetings. The 
Group’s broker provides briefings to  
the Board on shareholder opinions and 
compiles independent feedback from 
investor meetings.
D.2 Constructive use of the AGM
All our shareholders are invited to attend 
the Company’s AGM, at which all 
directors are present. We seek to 
encourage shareholder participation  
by enabling proxy votes to be lodged 
online via our share portal,  
www.myatkinsshares.com.
Statement of compliance  
with the Combined Code
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2009 
the Company complied with the provisions 
of Section 1 of the Code. It also complied 
with the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance adopted by the Financial 
Reporting Council in June 2008, although 
the Company is not obliged to do so until 
the financial year ending 31 March 2010.
Approved by the Board and signed on  
its behalf by
Richard Webster
Company Secretary
16 June 2009 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
58 Governance
This report has been prepared in 
accordance with the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 
(the Regulations). As required by the 
Regulations, a resolution to approve the 
report will be proposed at the Company’s 
AGM at which the Financial Statements 
will be presented for approval.
This report has been divided into separate 
sections for unaudited and audited 
information. The Regulations require the 
independent auditors to report to our 
shareholders on the ‘audited information’ 
section of this report and to state 
whether, in their opinion, that part of  
the report has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 
(as amended by the Regulations).
Unaudited information
Remuneration committee
Our Remuneration Committee at the 
year-end comprised Sir Peter Williams, 
Lord Boyce, James Morley, Raj Rajagopal 
and Ed Wallis. Fiona Clutterbuck joined 
the committee on 15 June 2009. Sir Peter 
Williams, Lord Boyce, Fiona Clutterbuck, 
James Morley and Raj Rajagopal are 
independent non-executive directors.  
Ed Wallis, our chairman, was considered 
independent on his appointment as a 
director. The Committee is chaired by  
Sir Peter Williams. Details of attendance  
at Committee meetings can be found in 
Table 1 of the Corporate Governance 
Report (page 52).
The Committee reviews the remuneration 
policy for the chairman and executive 
directors and, more generally, the 
remuneration policy of the Group. It 
determines the level of remuneration, 
incentives and other benefits, 
compensation payments and terms of 
employment of the chairman and each 
executive director. The Committee seeks 
to provide appropriate incentives to 
enhance performance and align the 
interests of the executive directors with 
those of shareholders. It also reviews the 
salaries and benefits of members of the 
Group Executive, the company secretary 
and other senior managers reporting 
directly to the chief executive. The terms 
of reference of the Committee are 
available for review on the Company’s 
website or on request from the  
company secretary.
The Committee appointed, and continued 
to use, Hewitt New Bridge Street (HNBS) 
to provide advice on structuring executive 
remuneration packages and benchmarking. 
HNBS does not provide any other services 
to the Group. However, Hewitt Associates, 
of which HNBS is a specialist division, 
provided standalone benchmarking 
services to the Company’s Indian 
subsidiary during the year. The Committee 
is satisfied that this does not compromise 
HNBS’s independence. In determining 
remuneration, the Committee also 
consults the chief executive, Keith Clarke, 
the Group HR director, Alun Griffiths, and, 
where required, the company secretary, 
Richard Webster, about its proposals. No 
director or senior manager participates in 
discussions about their own remuneration. 
Remuneration policy
The objectives of the Group’s 
remuneration policy are to attract, retain 
and incentivise management with the 
appropriate professional, managerial and 
technological expertise to realise our 
business objectives and to align their 
interests with those of our shareholders. 
We continue to strive to link total 
remuneration to performance and thereby 
create a performance culture. A significant 
proportion of the executive directors’  
total remuneration is linked to 
performance through participation  
in the performance bonus plan and 
long-term share incentives.
To ensure that we offer the best available 
incentive to enhance shareholder value, 
the Committee continued to assess the 
following constituent elements of the 
remuneration of the executive directors 
and review the same for members of the 
Group Executive and senior managers:
A. salary and other benefits
B. performance bonus payments
C. long-term share incentives
D. all-employee share plan
E. retirement benefits.
In determining remuneration, 
consideration is given to reward levels 
throughout the organisation as well as  
in the external employment market.  
The Committee aims to reward all 
employees fairly based on their role,  
their performance and salary levels in the 
wider market. The remuneration policy 
described below will be kept under 
review, but the current intention is that 
the policy should continue to apply in 
future financial years.
A. Salary and other benefits
The Committee reviews the salaries of  
the executive directors, members of the 
Group Executive and senior managers 
annually to ensure they remain 
appropriate and competitive. A wide 
range of data is utilised, together with 
assistance from HNBS as appropriate. 
Keith Clarke, Robert MacLeod and  
Alun Griffiths have salaries of £425,000, 
£315,000 and £200,000 respectively.  
Mr MacLeod’s salary was increased from 
£300,000 with effect from 1 October 2008 
following a detailed appraisal of market 
data. The Group’s annual pay review, 
which is usually implemented on 1 April 
each year, has been postponed until 
October 2009. In line with the approach 
taken for all Group employees, the salaries 
of the executive directors were not 
reviewed in April 2009. However, in light 
Remuneration Report Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Governance 59
of the current economic circumstances, 
each of Keith Clarke, Robert MacLeod  
and Alun Griffiths requested that 10% of 
their salaries for the financial year ending 
31 March 2010 be waived. This waiver 
does not affect the underlying reference 
salary used to calculate related benefits 
such as bonus, long-term share incentives 
and pension entitlement.
Heath Drewett, who was appointed as 
director on 15 June 2009 and will replace 
Mr MacLeod as Group finance director 
when he leaves the Group, will receive  
an annual salary of £250,000. 
Other benefits for executive directors 
include a car allowance or a car and 
payment of its operating expenses,  
life assurance and entitlement to  
a non-contributory private  
healthcare scheme.
B. Performance bonus payments
Executive directors were eligible to receive 
bonuses of up to 90% of their salary for 
achieving Group financial and individual 
performance targets in respect of the year 
ended 31 March 2009. The Committee 
has the discretion to increase the bonus  
to pay out up to 100% of salary in 
exceptional circumstances. Following  
the performance of the Group, the 
Committee has resolved to pay a bonus  
of 100% of salary to each of Keith Clarke 
and Robert MacLeod. Alun Griffiths will 
receive a bonus of 90% of salary.
The targets against which bonuses are 
paid include challenging financial 
objectives and consideration of Group 
performance in respect of health and 
safety and staff retention. The Committee 
conducted a thorough review of 
remuneration during the financial year  
to determine what changes, if any, should 
be made to both the levels and structure 
of the total reward package of each 
executive director and concluded that  
any changes should be deferred in light  
of the current economic circumstances. 
Executive directors will be eligible to 
receive a bonus of 90% of their salary for  
on-target performance for the year ending 
31 March 2010. The Committee may also 
increase the bonus to pay out up to 100% 
of salary in exceptional circumstances.
Executive directors are required to take 
one-third of any bonus in the form of  
an award over shares under the terms  
of the Atkins Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP). 
The DBP is designed to aid retention, with 
the award being subject to forfeiture on 
resignation within three years of grant. 
There are no further performance 
conditions once the award has been 
made. Dividends declared on DBP awards 
are rolled up and delivered to participants 
in cash on release of the award to align 
their interests further with those of 
shareholders. Members of the Group 
Executive must also take one-third of any 
bonus they receive via an award made 
under the Atkins Retention Bonus Plan (RBP), 
which is similar to the DBP but which 
allows for a flexible vesting period. In prior 
years the vesting period for RBP awards 
has been set at two years but for bonuses 
earned in relation to the financial year 
ending 31 March 2010 this has been set  
at three years. The DBP expires in early 
2010 and the Committee will replace  
it with a deferred bonus plan on  
similar terms.
Bonus awards are non-pensionable  
and non-contractual.
The Company’s bonus and long-term 
incentive plans seek to provide executive 
directors and members of the Group 
Executive with the opportunity to increase 
overall remuneration levels to the upper 
quartile for comparable businesses but 
only following demanding performance 
targets being achieved.
C. Long-term share incentives
The Atkins Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
seeks to motivate and retain the executive 
directors, members of the Group 
Executive and other senior executives. 
Under the LTIP, awards to executive 
directors and members of the Group 
Executive are made on the following basis:
•  50% of the award is subject to the 
Company’s total shareholder return 
(TSR) performance relative to the 
constituents of the FTSE 250 Index 
(excluding investment trusts) on the date 
of award. Full vesting is achieved if the 
Company ranks in the upper quartile, 
30% for a median ranking, and pro rata 
vesting for intermediate performance. 
No vesting occurs for a ranking  
below median.
•  50% of the award is subject to the 
Group’s real growth in normalised 
earnings per share (EPS) over the 
performance period. An increase in  
EPS of more than 10% per annum 
above the UK retail price index (RPI)  
over the three-year performance period 
enables the shares to vest in full; an 
increase of 4% per annum above the 
UK RPI will result in 30% of the shares 
vesting; no shares vest for an increase  
of less than 4% per annum above the 
UK RPI. Pro rata vesting operates for 
growth in EPS between 4% and 10% 
above the UK RPI.
Awards made to other participants may 
be subject solely to the EPS condition as 
set out above. 
Dividends declared on shares subject to 
LTIP awards are rolled up and delivered  
to executives in cash on release of the 
underlying award. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
60 Governance
Remuneration Report
Continued
The Committee believes that EPS growth 
provides a closer ‘line of sight’ between 
management performance and reward 
than can be achieved via TSR alone.
This year the Committee intends to make 
LTIP awards at around 100% of salary  
to the executive directors following the 
announcement of the Group’s preliminary 
results. As in previous years, the number 
of shares subject to the awards will be 
based on a share price on 1 April 2009. 
The upper limit in the LTIP is 150% of 
salary. The Committee has considered the 
impact of the £7.0m tax benefit from the 
purchase of prior year consortium relief 
from the Metronet companies on EPS  
for the year ended 31 March 2009. It has 
concluded that the non-trading nature  
of this benefit is not a fair reflection of 
underlying earnings. Excluding this tax 
benefit, normalised basic EPS for the  
year ended 31 March 2009 was 76.4p. 
This lower EPS figure has been used to 
calculate the vesting of the awards made 
under the LTIP in 2006 and will also be 
used as the base for the 2009 awards.
A full summary of the performance 
conditions attaching to existing share plan 
awards can be found in note 32 to the 
Financial Statements (page 109).
The LTIP allows for the use of market 
purchase, new issue and treasury shares  
to satisfy awards. To date all vested LTIP 
awards have been satisfied using shares 
purchased in the market. The Committee 
reviews the method by which outstanding 
awards under the LTIP and other 
discretionary share plans are satisfied  
on a regular basis. 
The executive directors are encouraged  
to hold shares in the Company (either 
directly or through the DBP) equivalent  
to the level of their annual salary, based 
on the value of such shares at the time  
of their acquisition (or award), or their 
current market value from time to time, 
whichever is the higher.
D. All-employee share plan
The Company’s Share Incentive Plan, as 
approved by HM Revenue and Customs, 
continues to be offered to all eligible  
UK employees, including the executive 
directors. The Plan, which was approved 
by shareholders in 2000, will be presented 
to shareholders for re-approval at the 
forthcoming AGM.
E. Retirement benefits
Pension and retirement benefits provided 
to the executive directors are comparable 
to those provided by other companies.
Performance graph
The Company’s performance, measured 
by TSR, is compared with the performance 
of the FTSE 250 Index (excluding 
investment trusts) over the past five years. 
This is considered the most appropriate 
index against which to measure 
performance as the Company has been  
a member of the FTSE 250 for the whole 
of the five-year period. This is illustrated  
in Fig. 1 (page 62).
TSR is defined as the return shareholders 
would receive if they held a notional 
number of shares and received dividends 
on those shares over a period of time. 
Assuming dividends are reinvested into 
the Company’s shares, it measures the 
percentage growth in the Company’s 
share price together with the value of  
any dividends paid.
External appointments
The Board recognises the benefit which 
we can obtain if our executive directors 
serve as non-executive directors of other 
companies. Subject to review in each case, 
the Board’s general policy is that each 
executive director may accept one 
non-executive directorship with another 
FTSE 350 company from which any fees 
received may be retained. Robert 
MacLeod is currently a non-executive 
director of Aggreko plc and retains  
the fees payable, receiving £41,000 in 
respect of their financial year ended  
31 December 2008.
Directors’ contracts
Chairman and non-executive directors
The Chairman and non-executive directors 
have letters of appointment stating their 
annual fee and that their appointment is 
initially for a term of three years subject  
to satisfactory performance and their 
re-election at forthcoming AGMs. Their 
appointment may be terminated with  
six months’ written notice at any time. 
Table 1 (page 62) summarises the dates of 
appointment and most recent re-election 
dates for the chairman and each of the 
non-executive directors.
Copies of the letters of appointment will 
be available for inspection prior to and 
during the AGM and are also available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered 
office during normal business hours.
The remuneration of the chairman is 
determined by the Committee. The 
remuneration of the non-executive 
directors is determined by the Board on 
the recommendation of the executive 
directors within the limits set out in the 
Articles of Association and on the basis  
of independent advice and the level of 
fees paid to non-executive directors of 
comparator companies. The annual fees 
are specific to each director reflecting 
their individual commitments to the Board 
and various Board committees. The 
current fee structure is shown in  
Table 2 (page 62). Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Governance 61
The chairman and the non-executive 
directors are not eligible for pensions, 
share incentives, annual bonus or any 
similar payments other than out-of-pocket 
expenses in connection with the 
performance of their duties. The chairman 
and the non-executive directors do not 
participate in any meeting at which 
discussions in respect of matters relating 
to their own position take place.
Executive directors
The service agreements of the executive 
directors are summarised in Table 3  
(page 62).
In the event of unsatisfactory 
performance, the notice period for the 
executive directors is reduced to three 
months. Their service agreements  
include a duty to mitigate loss where the 
agreement is terminated and any payment 
in lieu of notice may be reduced to take 
account of such mitigation. No service 
agreement provides for predetermined 
amounts of compensation in the event  
of early termination of service contracts. 
The service agreements will terminate 
when the director reaches the retirement 
age as determined by the Board and are 
otherwise terminable on giving 12 months’ 
notice. Copies of each director’s service 
agreement will be available for inspection 
prior to and during the AGM and are  
also available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office during normal 
business hours.
Audited information
Directors’ emoluments
The remuneration of each director, 
excluding long-term incentive awards  
and pensions, during the year ended  
31 March 2009 is laid out in Table 4  
(page 63).
Retirement benefits
Keith Clarke has a contractual entitlement 
to receive an amount equivalent to 25% 
of his salary as a pension payment. He 
elected to receive this entitlement as an 
additional emolument and this is reported 
in Table 4 (page 63).
Robert MacLeod and Heath Drewett  
also have a contractual entitlement to 
receive an annual amount equivalent to 
25% of their salaries towards their 
pension benefits. During the year the 
Company made payments of £76,875 
(2008: £68,250) into Mr MacLeod’s 
personal pension plan.
Alun Griffiths is 54 and was a member  
of a final salary arrangement until  
30 September 2007 when the scheme 
was closed to future accrual. As at that 
date he had completed 21.5 years 
pensionable service. Since 1 October 2007 
he has participated in a defined 
contribution arrangement on the same 
terms as other UK-based staff. The value 
of his accrued benefit under the final 
salary arrangement at the start of the 
financial year was £63,953 per annum 
with a transfer value of the total accrued 
benefit of £703,523. His accrued pension 
increased by £6,036 per annum during 
the year. This sum will continue to increase 
in line with increases in Mr Griffiths’ 
salary. The increase in the transfer value of 
his accrued benefits was £182,897. As at 
31 March 2009, the value of his accrued 
benefit was £69,989 per annum, with a 
transfer value of the total accrued benefit 
of £886,420. Transfer values before  
1 October 2008 have been calculated in 
accordance with version 8.1 of guidance 
note GN11 issued by the actuarial 
profession. The Trustees of the Atkins 
Pension Plan (the Plan) revised the transfer 
value basis with effect from this date in 
compliance with new legislation. Under 
the defined contribution arrangement he 
receives an annual amount equivalent to 
13% of his salary. This consists of a 10% 
ordinary employer contribution and a 
transitional employer contribution of 3% 
payable until 30 September 2010. The 
transitional contribution is payable to  
all members of the Plan affected by the 
closure of their defined benefit accrual. 
During the year the Company made 
payments of £26,000 (2008: £10,980) 
under Mr Griffiths’ defined contribution 
arrangement and a further £1,792  
(2008: £nil) in respect of National 
Insurance contributions the Company 
would have paid had he not chosen  
to contribute £14,000 to his defined 
contribution pension via salary exchange.
All executive directors receive life 
assurance cover equal to four times  
their salary.
Directors’ interests
The interests of the directors and their 
families in the ordinary shares of 0.5p 
each in the Company as at 31 March 2009 
are shown in Table 5 (page 63).
Details of directors’ share options and 
long-term incentives as at 31 March 2009 
are given in Table 6 (page 64).
Directors’ share options and  
long-term incentives
Directors’ emoluments disclosed in Table 4 
(page 63) do not include any amounts for 
the value of options to acquire ordinary 
shares in the Company granted to or  
held by the directors, which are set out  
in Table 6 (page 64).
For each share under option that had not 
expired at the end of the financial year, 
the mid-market price on 31 March 2009 
was 494.50p and the highest and lowest 
mid market prices during the financial year 
were 1,089.00p and 423.25p respectively.
Approval
Approved by the Board and signed on its 
behalf by
Sir Peter Williams
Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee
16 June 2009 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
62 Governance
Remuneration Report
Continued
Table 1      Date of  Date of
      appointment as a last
      non-executive re-election
Name of director      director at AGM
Lord Boyce
1
      05/05/04 06/09/06
Fiona Clutterbuck      13/03/07 05/09/07
Joanne Curin
1
      10/02/09 n/a
James Morley
2
      01/01/01 03/09/08
Raj Rajagopal      24/06/08 03/09/08
Ed Wallis       08/09/04 03/09/08
Sir Peter Williams      05/05/04 05/09/07
1.  Joanne Curin will stand for re-appointment and Lord Boyce will stand for re-election at the AGM to be held on 9 September 2009.
2.  James Morley will retire from the Board on 30 June 2009.
Table 2
Chairman fee
1
        £200,000
Basic annual fee        £37,000
Committee chair annual fee        £6,000
Committee annual fee
2
        £3,000
1.   Mr. Wallis has requested that 10% of his fees for the financial year to 31 March 2010 be waived, reducing the annual fee payable for the year ending 31 March 2010 
to £180,000.
2.  No fee is paid in respect of membership of the Nomination Committee.
 
Table 3      Effective  Notice Unexpired
     Contract  date of period  term of
     date  contract  (months) contract
Keith Clarke
1
     12/09/03  01/10/03 12 Rolling contract
Heath Drewett
2
     17/04/09 15/06/09 12 Rolling contract
Alun Griffiths     18/04/07 13/03/07 12 Rolling contract
Robert MacLeod
3
     14/07/04 23/06/04 12 to 19/06/09
1.  Keith Clarke will stand for re-election at the AGM to be held on 9 September 2009.
2.  Heath Drewett will stand for re-appointment at the AGM to be held on 9 September 2009.
3.  Robert MacLeod has announced his intention to leave the Company on 19 June 2009.
Fig. 1
TSR
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Atkins
FTSE 250
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
220 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Governance 63
Table 4 
  Salary/  Other Other Non-cash
  fees  Bonus
4
 benefits
5
 payments emoluments Total Total
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
7
 2009 2008
Executive directors       
Keith Clarke  425
2
 283 14 106
6
 142 970 944
Alun Griffiths  200
3
 120 14 – 60 394 361
Robert MacLeod  308 210 14 – – 532 588
Total executive directors  933 613 42 106 202 1,896 1,893
Chairman and non-executive directors       
Lord Boyce  40 – – – – 40 36
Fiona Clutterbuck
1
  30 – – – – 30 –
Joanne Curin  5 – – – – 5 n/a
James Morley  46 – – – – 46 42
Raj Rajagopal  29 – – – – 29 n/a
Ed Wallis  200 – 12 – – 212 197
Sir Peter Williams  46 – – – – 46 42
Total chairman and
non-executive directors  396 – 12 – – 408 317
1. Fiona Clutterbuck elected to waive her fee in favour of a charity of her choice until 30 June 2008.
2. Keith Clarke sacrificed £8,173 of the £425,000 in exchange for additional holiday entitlement under the Group’s flexible leave policy.
3. £14,500 of the £200,000 was contributed voluntarily by Alun Griffiths into his defined contribution pension via salary exchange.
4. Amounts payable in cash.
5. Other benefits include such items as company cars or allowances, fuel and medical insurance.
6. Keith Clarke is entitled to a pension payment equivalent to 25% of his salary. He elected to receive this entitlement as a taxable payment.
7.  Keith Clarke, Alun Griffiths and Robert MacLeod are required to take a minimum of one-third of their bonus payment in the form of a right to acquire shares under 
the DBP. Awards of shares to these values will be made following the announcement of the preliminary results pursuant to the rules of the DBP to Keith Clarke  
and Alun Griffiths. These awards will be disclosed in the directors’ share options and long-term incentives table in the 2010 remuneration report. Robert MacLeod, 
who will leave the Company around the time the grant is made, will not receive an award and will therefore lose one-third of the total value of his bonus. 
Table 5 
      At 16/06/09 At 31/03/09  At 31/03/08 
Chairman and non-executive directors 
Lord Boyce      846 846 846
Fiona Clutterbuck      1,000 1,000 1,000
Joanne Curin      – – n/a
James Morley      3,750 3,750 3,750
Raj Rajagopal      5,000 5,000 n/a
Ed Wallis      2,500 2,500 2,500
Sir Peter Williams      2,500 2,500 2,500
      15,596 15,596 10,596
Executive directors   
Keith Clarke
1
      84,328 84,257 66,949
Heath Drewett      – n/a n/a
Alun Griffiths
1
      22,445 22,374 21,399
Robert MacLeod
1
      27,917 27,846 19,797
      134,690 134,477 108,145
Total      150,286 150,073 118,741
1.  Changes in directors’ interests of Keith Clarke, Alun Griffiths and Robert MacLeod between 31 March and 16 June 2009 relate to shares acquired via the Atkins Share 
Incentive Plan. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
64 Governance
Remuneration Report
Continued
Table 6             
         Mid-  First
   Number    Number  market   date of
   of shares    of shares Market price  exercise/  
   under    under price on at date Gain on end of Date
 Plan  Award option at    option at exercise of grant exercise performance of lapse
 name
1
 date  01/04/08  Granted  Exercised Lapsed   31/03/09
4
  (pence) (pence) (£) condition of option
Keith Clarke LTIP
2
 25/06/04  20,000   –   6,000   14,000   –  968.5 586.5  58,110  01/04/08 25/06/14
  24/06/05  25,000   –   –   –   25,000   670.0  01/04/09 24/06/15
  11/09/06  47,500   –   –   –   47,500   837.0  11/09/09 11/09/16
  03/08/07  44,000
3
  –   –   –   44,000   1035.0  03/08/10 03/08/17
  27/06/08  –   38,600   –   –   38,600   1048.0  27/06/11 27/06/18
 DBP 24/06/05  8,574   –   8,574   –   –  1055.324 670.0  90,483  24/06/08 24/06/15
  29/06/06  6,401   –   –   –   6,401   826.0  29/06/09 29/06/16
  27/06/08  –   13,482   –   –   13,482   1048.0  27/06/11 27/06/18
Total    151,475   52,082   14,574   14,000   174,983     148,593   
Alun Griffiths LTIP
2
 25/06/04  10,000   –   –   7,000   3,000   586.5  01/04/08 25/06/14
  24/06/05  10,000   –   –   –   10,000   670.0  01/04/09 24/06/15
  11/09/06  14,000   –   –   –   14,000   837.0  11/09/09 11/09/16
  03/08/07  18,000
3 
  –   –   –   18,000   1035.0  03/08/10 03/08/17
  27/06/08  –   18,100   –   –   18,100   1048.0  27/06/11 27/06/18
 DBP 26/08/02  1,663   –   –   –   1,663   289.0  26/08/05 26/08/12
  24/06/05  3,037   –   –   –   3,037   670.0  24/06/08 24/06/15
  29/06/06  3,099   –   –   –   3,099   826.0  29/06/09 29/06/16
  29/06/07  2,777   –   –   –   2,777   1022.0  29/06/10 29/06/17
  27/06/08  –   5,233   –   –   5,233   1048.0  27/06/11 27/06/18
Total    62,576   23,333   –   7,000   78,909     –  
Robert MacLeod LTIP
2
 25/06/04  30,000   –   9,000   21,000   –  1053.1981 586.5  94,788  01/04/08 25/06/14
  24/06/05  10,000   –   –   –   10,000   670.0  01/04/09 24/06/15
  11/09/06  28,750   –   –   –   28,750   837.0  11/09/09 11/09/16
  03/08/07  30,000
3
  –   –   –   30,000   1035.0  03/08/10 03/08/17
  27/06/08  –   27,250   –   –   27,250   1048.0  27/06/11 27/06/18
 DBP 24/06/05  4,287   –   4,287   –   –  1055.324 670.0  45,242  24/06/08 24/06/15
  29/06/06  4,388   –   –   –   4,388   826.0  29/06/09 29/06/16
  27/06/08  –   9,514   –   –   9,514   1048.0  27/06/11 27/06/18
Total    107,425   36,764   13,287   21,000   109,902     140,030 
Aggregate gains on share options 2009         288,623   
Aggregate gains on share options 2008         528,756   
 
1. Plan names: LTIP –  Atkins Long-Term Incentive Plan    
  DBP – Atkins Deferred Bonus Plan
2. Subject to performance criteria described in note 32 to the Financial Statements.      
3.  Following the exceptional write down in relation to Metronet, the Company’s EPS for the financial year ended 31 March 2007 was (56.8p). The consequence of this 
was that any LTIP awards made in 2007 would never be capable of vesting. Pursuant to the rules of the plan, the Remuneration Committee considered that it was 
appropriate to remove profit in respect of discontinued operations and the exceptional loss in respect of Metronet and that the EPS for the financial year ending 
immediately before the commencement of the performance period for the 2007 awards be deemed to be 57.3p.    
4. All awards granted under the terms of the LTIP and the DBP are structured as options, for which the exercise price is nil. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Governance 65
Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the members of WS Atkins plc
We have audited the Group and Parent 
Company Financial Statements (the 
‘Financial Statements’) of WS Atkins plc 
for the year ended 31 March 2009  
which comprise the Consolidated  
Income Statement, the Consolidated  
and Parent Company Balance Sheets,  
the Consolidated and Parent Company 
Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated 
and Parent Company Statements of 
Recognised Income and Expense and the 
related notes. These Financial Statements 
have been prepared under the accounting 
policies set out therein. We have also 
audited the information in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report that is described  
as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities  
of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing 
the Annual Report, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and the Financial 
Statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union are set out in the 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial 
Statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited in 
accordance with relevant legal and 
regulatory requirements and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
This report, including the opinion, has 
been prepared for and only for the 
Company’s members as a body in 
accordance with Section 235 of the 
Companies Act 1985 and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving this 
opinion, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown  
or into whose hands it may come save 
where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to 
whether the Financial Statements give  
a true and fair view and whether the 
Financial Statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 
and, as regards the Group Financial 
Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
We also report to you whether in our 
opinion the information given in the 
Directors’ Report is consistent with the 
Financial Statements. The information 
given in the Directors’ Report includes  
that specific information presented in  
the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief 
Executive’s Statement, the Human 
Resources Review, the Business Review 
and the Corporate Responsibility Review 
that is cross-referred from the Business 
Review section of the Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our 
opinion, the Company has not kept 
proper accounting records, if we have  
not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit, or  
if information specified by law regarding 
directors’ remuneration and other 
transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate 
Governance Report reflects the 
Company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the Combined Code (2006) 
specified for our review by the Listing 
Rules of the Financial Services Authority, 
and we report if it does not. We are not 
required to consider whether the Board’s 
statements on internal control cover all 
risks and controls, or form an opinion on 
the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate 
governance procedures or its risk and 
control procedures.
We read other information contained in 
the Annual Report and consider whether 
it is consistent with the audited Financial 
Statements. The other information 
comprises only the information listed on 
the contents page under the headings 
Introduction, Reviews, Governance 
(excluding the audited part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report),  
Five-Year Summary and Investor 
Information. We consider the implications 
for our report if we become aware of  
any apparent misstatements or material 
inconsistencies with the Financial 
Statements. Our responsibilities do  
not extend to any other information. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
66 Governance
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance 
with International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing 
Practices Board. An audit includes 
examination, on a test basis, of evidence 
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in 
the Financial Statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited. It also includes an assessment of 
the significant estimates and judgements 
made by the directors in the preparation 
of the Financial Statements, and of 
whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the Group’s and 
Company’s circumstances, consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit  
so as to obtain all the information and 
explanations which we considered 
necessary in order to provide us with 
sufficient evidence to give reasonable 
assurance that the Financial Statements 
and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are 
free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or other irregularity or 
error. In forming our opinion we also 
evaluated the overall adequacy of the 
presentation of information in the 
Financial Statements and the part of  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report  
to be audited.
Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the members of WS Atkins plc
Continued
Opinion
In our opinion:
•  the Group Financial Statements give a 
true and fair view, in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union, of the state of the Group’s affairs 
as at 31 March 2009 and of its profit 
and cash flows for the year then ended.
•  the Parent Company Financial 
Statements give a true and fair view,  
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted  
by the European Union as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 1985, of the state  
of the Parent Company’s affairs as  
at 31 March 2009 and cash flows  
for the year then ended.
•  the Financial Statements and the part  
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited have been properly 
prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the 
Group Financial Statements, Article 4  
of the IAS Regulation.
•  the information given in the  
Directors’ Report is consistent with  
the Financial Statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and  
Registered Auditors
London
16 June 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
68 Consolidated Income Statement
69 Consolidated and Parent Company
 Statements of Recognised Income 
 and Expense
70 Consolidated and Parent Company 
 Balance Sheets
71 Consolidated and Parent Company 
 Cash Flow Statements
72 Notes to the Financial Statements
118 Five-Year Summary WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
68 Financial Statements
      Group Group
      2009 2008
       £m   £m 
      Notes   Total   Total 
Continuing operations       
Revenue (Group and share of Joint Ventures)        1,532.4   1,399.5 
  
Revenue       3   1,487.2   1,313.6 
Cost of sales        (941.9)  (834.1)
Gross profit        545.3   479.5 
      
Administrative expenses        (442.2)  (392.8)
Operating profit       3,5   103.1   86.7 
      
Profit on disposal of Joint Venture       9   2.5  –
Share of post-tax profit from Joint Ventures       3,4   0.2   0.9 
Profit from operations        105.8   87.6 
      
Finance income       7   6.7   9.8 
Finance cost       7   (9.8)  (5.5)
Net finance (cost)/income       7   (3.1)  4.3 
      
Profit before taxation        102.7   91.9 
      
Income tax expense       8   (18.5)  (23.3)
Profit for the year from continuing operations       84.2   68.6 
      
Discontinued operations       10  –   31.4 
      
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders      33   84.2   100.0 
      
Earnings per share       
From continuing and discontinued operations (total)       
Basic earnings per share       12   86.1p  98.9p
Diluted earnings per share       12   84.8p  97.2p
      
From continuing operations       
Basic earnings per share       12   86.1p  67.9p
Diluted earnings per share       12   84.8p  66.7p
      
Dividends       
Dividends recognised in the year – paid       11   25.25p  21.50p
Dividends relating to the year – proposed       11   26.00p  24.00p
      
The notes on pages 72 to 117 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.     
 
      
Consolidated Income Statement  
For the year ended 31 March 2009        Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 69
 Group Company
    2009 2008 2009 2008
    Notes   £m   £m   £m   £m 
Actuarial (loss)/gain on retirement benefit liabilities    29a   (122.8)  6.4   –   – 
Share of Joint Venture equity items     33   –   0.2   –   – 
Tax on items charged to equity     8c   33.6   (7.8)  –   – 
Cash flow hedges      –   (0.8)  –   – 
Net differences on exchange     33   12.4   3.3   –   – 
Net (expense)/income recognised directly to equity     (76.8)  1.3   –   – 
Profit for the year      84.2   100.0   9.6   68.7 
Total recognised income and expense  
for the year attributable to equity shareholders     7.4   101.3   9.6   68.7 
      
The notes on pages 72 to 117 are an integral part of these Financial Statements. 
Consolidated and Parent Company Statements  
of Recognised Income and Expense     
For the year ended 31 March 2009        WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
70 Financial Statements
 Group Company
    2009 2008 2009 2008
    Notes   £m   £m   £m   £m 
Assets      
Non-current assets      
Goodwill   14  62.3   56.7   –   – 
Other intangible assets    16  9.0   10.9   –   – 
Property, plant and equipment   17  46.6   45.6   –   – 
Investments in subsidiaries   18  –   –   148.9   130.8 
Investments in Joint Ventures   4  3.9   4.2   –   – 
Deferred income tax assets   19  101.6   69.6   –   – 
Other receivables   20  12.9   5.7   6.0   5.6 
      236.3   192.7   154.9   136.4 
      
Current assets      
Inventories   21  0.3   0.3   –   – 
Trade and other receivables   22  353.7   299.7   11.4   8.4 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss  23  28.7   29.7   –   – 
Cash and cash equivalents   24  209.7   154.5   –   7. 1 
      592.4   484.2   11.4   15.5 
      
Liabilities      
Current liabilities      
Borrowings   25  (7.6)  (7.8)  –   – 
Trade and other payables   26  (478.7)  (409.2)  (57.5)  (25.0)
Derivative financial instruments   27  (1.2)  (0.9)  –   – 
Current income tax liabilities     (31.2)  (26.8)  –   – 
Provisions for other liabilities and charges   28  (9.9)  (4.3)  –   – 
      (528.6)  (449.0)  (57.5)  (25.0)
Net current assets/(liabilities)     63.8   35.2   (46.1)  (9.5)
      
Non-current liabilities      
Borrowings   25  (9.5)  (13.6)  –   – 
Provisions for other liabilities and charges   28  (17.8)  (13.5)  –   – 
Post-employment benefit liabilities   29  (311.5)  (219.3)  –   – 
Other non-current liabilities   30  (4.8)  (4.9)  –   – 
      (343.6)  (251.3)  –   – 
      
Net (liabilities)/assets     (43.5)  (23.4)  108.8   126.9 
      
Capital and reserves      
Ordinary shares   31  0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5 
Share premium account   33  62.4   62.4   62.4   62.4 
Merger reserve   33  8.9   8.9   8.9   8.9 
Retained (loss)/earnings   33  (115.3)  (95.2)  37.0   55.1 
Equity shareholders’ (deficit)/funds     (43.5)  (23.4)  108.8   126.9 
          
Keith Clarke Robert MacLeod     
Director Director     
      
Approved by the Board on 16 June 2009.      
      
The notes on pages 72 to 117 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets
As at 31 March 2009        Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 71
 Group Company
    2009 2008 2009 2008
   Notes  £m   £m   £m   £m 
Cash flows from operating activities      
Cash generated from operations   34  125.5   80.9   28.7   55.7 
Interest received     6.3   9.7   0.4   0.2 
Interest paid     (2.2)  (3.3)  –   – 
Income tax paid     (12.8)  (14.7)  –   – 
Discontinued operations   10  –   0.3   –   – 
      
Net cash generated from operating activities     116.8   72.9   29.1   55.9 
      
Cash flows from investing activities      
Distributions received from Joint Ventures     1.3   2.5   –   – 
Investments in Joint Ventures     –   (0.9)  –   – 
Investments in subsidiary companies     –   –   (9.6)  (54.5)
Acquisitions of subsidiaries      
– Consideration   15  (3.5)  (6.4)  –   – 
– Cash acquired   15  1.0   0.7   –   – 
Deferred consideration payments     (0.8)  –   –   – 
Dividend income received     –   –   –   10.9 
Net loans to Joint Ventures     (6.9)  –   –   – 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment     (18.2)  (18.9)  –   – 
Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment    1.1   1.0   –   – 
Proceeds from disposals of investments in subsidiaries    0.2   –   –   50.6 
Proceeds from disposals of investments in Joint Ventures  9  2.5  – – –
Financial assets     1.0   19.9   –   – 
Purchases of intangible assets     (10.5)  (7.8)  –   – 
Discontinued operations   10  –   (17.3)  –   – 
      
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities    (32.8)  (27.2)  (9.6)  7.0 
      
Cash flows from financing activities      
Repayment of short-term loans     (4.3)  (0.2)  –   – 
Repayment of long-term loans     –   (17.6)  –   – 
Finance lease principal payments     (4.5)  (4.4)  –   – 
Share buybacks     (12.3)  (34.0)  (12.3)  (34.0)
Equity dividends paid to shareholders   11  (24.7)  (21.8)  (24.7)  (21.8)
Discontinued operations   10  –   (0.3)  –   –
Loans from Group companies     – – 10.4 – 
      
Net cash used in financing activities     (45.8)  (78.3)  (26.6)  (55.8)
      
Net increase/(decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts   38.2   (32.6)  (7.1)  7. 1 
      
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of year   154.5   187.7   7.1   – 
Exchange movements     17.0   (0.6)  –   – 
      
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 24  209.7   154.5   –   7. 1 
      
The notes on pages 72 to 117 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009        WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
72 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
For the year ended 31 March 2009    
1. Accounting policies    
WS Atkins plc is a public limited company registered and domiciled in the UK. Its registered office is Woodcote Grove, Ashley Road, Epsom, 
Surrey, KT18 5BW, England.
Basis of preparation   
The Consolidated Financial Statements of WS Atkins plc have been prepared in accordance with EU-adopted International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs), IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The 
Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the valuation of pensions,  
share-based payments and financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments). 
      
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of 
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the amount, 
event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates. Material estimates applied across the Group’s businesses and Joint 
Ventures are reviewed to a common standard and adjusted where appropriate to ensure that consistent treatment of similar and related 
issues that require judgement is achieved upon consolidation. Any revisions to estimates are recognised prospectively.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements, are disclosed under ‘Critical Accounting Policies’ on page 36 of the Business Review.   
     
Basis of consolidation   
The accounting policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented including the application of new IFRS standards  
and interpretations. 
The Consolidated Income Statement and Balance Sheet include the accounts of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings and its share  
of Joint Ventures. The results of the subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year are included in the income statement from the date  
of acquisition. The results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the year are included in the income statement up to the date  
of disposal.
 
Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Group. Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that are 
currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.       
 
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition is measured 
as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly 
attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are 
measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest. The excess of the cost of 
acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition  
is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement. Goodwill is 
reviewed on finalisation of fair values and any adjustments required to the accounting are recorded within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Where subsidiaries adopt accounting policies that are different from the Group, their reported results are restated to comply with the 
Group’s accounting policies. All intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation. Where subsidiaries do not adopt 
accounting periods that are co-terminous with the Group’s, results and net assets are based upon accounts drawn up to the Group’s 
accounting reference date based on unaudited accounts.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses  
are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred. 
The accounts of the Employee Benefit Trusts (EBTs) are incorporated into the results of the Group as, although they are administered by 
independent Trustees and their assets are held separately from those of the Group, in practice the Group’s advice on how the assets are 
used for the benefit of employees is normally accepted. The Group bears the major risks and rewards of the assets held by the EBTs until the 
shares vest unconditionally with the employees. Shares in WS Atkins plc held by the EBTs are shown as a reduction in retained loss/earnings. 
Other assets and liabilities held by the EBTs are consolidated with the assets of the Group.
Foreign currency transactions and translation      
Functional and presentation currency      
Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling 
(‘£’), which is the Company’s and Group’s functional and presentation currency. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 73
Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates  
of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity 
as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Group companies
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date. Trading results of 
overseas subsidiaries are translated at average rates of exchange. Differences resulting from the retranslation of opening net assets and 
results for the period at closing rates are taken to the statement of recognised income and expense. 
Segment reporting
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that 
are different from those of other business segments. A geographical segment is engaged in providing services within a particular economic 
environment that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments. 
  
The Group is organised into six operating segments for management purposes, reflecting its key markets and service offerings. The segments 
are Design and Engineering Solutions; Highways and Transportation; Rail; Middle East, China and Europe; Management and Project Services; 
and Asset Management. These segments form the basis for reporting the Group’s primary segment information as it is the main determinant 
of the Group’s risks and returns. The basis for reporting the secondary segment information is the geographical sectors of the United 
Kingdom, other European countries, Middle East, North America and Asia Pacific. These represent the Group’s most significant geographical 
sectors. The majority of central costs are allocated to segments based on revenue or utilisation of resource. All revenue relates to revenue 
from services.
Inter-segment transfers and transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available  
to unrelated third parties. 
Revenue
Revenue from long-term contracts comprises the value of work performed during the period calculated in accordance with the Group’s 
policy for contract accounting set out below. Revenue from other contract activities represents fee income receivable in respect of services 
provided during the period.
Under certain services contracts, the Group manages customer expenditure and is obliged to purchase goods and services from third-party 
contractors and recharge them on to the customer at cost. The amounts charged by contractors and recharged to customers are excluded 
from revenue and cost of sales where the Group is acting as an agent. Receivables, payables and cash relating to these transactions are 
included in the Group balance sheet.
Revenue recognition and contract accounting
The value of contract work in progress comprises the costs incurred on contracts plus an appropriate proportion of overheads and 
attributable profit. Fees invoiced on account are deducted from the value of work in progress and the balance is separately disclosed in trade 
and other receivables as amounts recoverable on contracts, unless such fees exceed the value of the work in progress on any contract when 
the excess is separately disclosed in trade and other payables as fees invoiced in advance.
Profit is recognised on a percentage completion basis when the outcome of a contract or project can be reasonably foreseen. Provision is 
made in full for estimated losses. Where the outcome of a contract cannot be reasonably foreseen, profit is taken on completion. Where 
contracts span two or more accounting periods, profit is not generally recognised until the contract is 50% complete. 
Revenue recognition on outsourcing contracts is determined by reference to the proportion of the annual service delivered to date. Where 
the costs of obligations in relation to the non-renewal or termination of a contract are higher in the final period of the contract a proportion 
of revenue is deferred each period to meet these anticipated costs. Full provision is made for losses on outsourcing contracts if the forecast 
costs of fulfilling the contract throughout the contract period exceed the forecast income receivable. In assessing the amount of the loss to 
provide on an outsourcing contract, account is taken of the Group’s share of the forecast results from any Joint Ventures which the contract 
is servicing.
Interest income is recognised on a time-apportionment basis using the effective interest method. When a receivable is impaired, the Group 
reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest 
rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as interest income. Interest income on impaired loans is recognised using the 
original effective interest rate.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
74 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
Pre-contract costs
The Group accounts for all pre-contract costs in accordance with IAS 11, Construction contracts. Costs incurred before it becomes probable 
that a contract will be obtained are charged to expenses. Directly attributable costs incurred after that point are recognised in the balance 
sheet and charged to the income statement over the duration of the contract or, in the case of PPP/PFI concessions, over the same period  
as the Group’s interest in any Special Purpose Company (SPC) charges the equivalent capitalised amounts to the income statement.
Bid recovery fees are deferred and credited to the income statement over the duration of the contract or, in the case of PPP/PFI concessions, 
over the same period as the Group’s interest in any SPC charges the equivalent capitalised amounts to the income statement. Where the 
Group’s interest in any SPC reduces, the deferred bid recovery fees are credited to the income statement in proportion to the reduction  
of the Group’s interest.
Exceptional items
Where certain expense or revenue items recorded in a period are material by their size or incidence, the Group reflects such items  
as exceptional items and these are shown separately in the income statement. 
Exceptional items are also summarised by class in the segmental analyses, excluding those that relate to interest and tax. 
Retirement benefit schemes
The Group operates defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes which require payments to be made into separately 
administered funds. For defined benefit schemes, regular valuations are prepared by independent professionally qualified actuaries to 
determine the level of contributions required to fund the benefits set out in the scheme rules. 
The Group accounts for pensions in accordance with IAS 19, Employee benefits. The cost of the defined contribution schemes is charged  
to operating profit as incurred. The cost of the defined benefit schemes is charged as follows:     
 
• the current service cost incurred during the period to provide retirement benefits to employees is charged to operating profit  
 
• gains or losses arising from settlements or curtailments not covered by actuarial assumptions are included in operating profit  
        
•  a charge representing the expected increase in scheme liabilities is included in net finance costs. This is based on the present value  
of scheme liabilities at the beginning of the period
•  a credit representing the expected return on scheme assets is included within net finance costs. This is based on the market value of the 
assets of the schemes at the start of the period allowing for expected cash flows during the period.
For defined benefit schemes, all actuarial gains and losses (asset experience, liability experience and changes in assumptions) are recognised 
immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense, together with differences arising from changes in assumptions. The 
difference between the market value of scheme assets and the present value of scheme liabilities is recognised as a retirement benefit asset 
or liability on the consolidated balance sheet. To the extent that it is recoverable, any related deferred tax asset or liability is included in the 
relevant category of receivable/payable.
The Group has elected to recognise actuarial gains and losses in full as they arise through retained loss/earnings.
Share-based payments
In accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based payments, the cost of share-based payments awarded after 7 November 2002 is charged to the 
income statement over the performance and vesting periods of the instruments. The cost is based on the fair value of the awards made 
at the date of grant adjusted for the number of awards expected to vest. In accordance with the transitional provisions within IFRS 2, no 
charge is made in respect of instruments awarded before 7 November 2002. The credits associated with the amounts charged to the income 
statement are included in retained earnings/loss until the awards are exercised. Where awards are settled by new issue shares any proceeds 
received in respect of share options are credited to share capital and share premium. Where awards are settled in shares held by the EBTs any 
proceeds are credited to retained earnings/loss. 
Share awards are granted by the Parent Company to employees of its subsidiaries. The Company charges to cost of investment in subsidiaries 
an amount equivalent to the equity-settled element of the annual IFRS 2 charge, with an equivalent credit to reserves in accordance with 
IFRIC 11, Group and treasury share transactions. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 75
Joint Ventures      
In accordance with IAS 31, Interests in Joint Ventures, the Group accounts for Joint Ventures under the equity method of accounting. 
The Group’s share of a Joint Venture’s profit after tax is included from the date on which the Group acquires joint control. Within the 
consolidated balance sheet the investment is recorded at cost (classified as a non-current asset) and subsequently adjusted to reflect the 
Group’s share of the movements in the Joint Venture’s net assets post-acquisition.
The results, assets and liabilities of Joint Ventures are stated in accordance with Group accounting policies. Where Joint Ventures adopt 
accounting policies that are different from the Group, their reported results are restated to comply with the Group’s accounting policies.
Where Joint Ventures do not adopt accounting periods that are co-terminous with the Group’s, results and net assets are based upon 
unaudited accounts drawn up to the Group’s accounting reference date. 
PPP/PFI concessions
Assets constructed by PPP/PFI concession companies are classified in the accounts of the Joint Ventures as financial assets or intangible 
assets, depending on whether the grantor or user has the primary responsibility to pay the operator for the concession services. To date,  
all of the Group’s PPP/PFI concession assets have been classed as financial assets.
The financial asset represents an interest-bearing, long-term receivable. The cost of the financial asset at any one time is equal to the 
accumulated value of service delivery plus accumulated interest charged to the financial asset less amounts received to date. 
The financial asset is measured at fair value. Where it is classed as a loan receivable any movement in fair value is taken to the income 
statement. Where it is classed as available for sale any movement in fair value is taken to reserves. 
Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received for goods and services provided in the normal course of business  
net of value added tax rebates and discounts. Revenue from contracting activities represents the value of work carried out during the  
year including amounts not invoiced. Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective 
interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial  
asset to that asset’s net carrying value amount.
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be measured reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage  
of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date as measured by the contract costs incurred. Where the outcome of  
a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that contract costs 
incurred will be recovered. 
When it is probable that the total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected resultant loss is recognised as an  
expense immediately. 
Income tax
Current and deferred income tax are recognised in the income statement for the period except where the taxation arises as a result of  
a transaction or event that is recognised directly in equity. Income tax arising on transactions or events recognised directly in equity is 
charged or credited directly to equity. 
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, the deferred income tax is not accounted for if it 
arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction 
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted  
or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised  
or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and Joint Ventures.     
         
    WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
76 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment. Prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful economic life. 
Amortisation ceased on 1 April 2004 and the carrying value of existing goodwill was frozen at that date and subject to annual  
impairment review.
On acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired business at the 
date of acquisition. Goodwill arises when the fair value of the consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value of the net assets. 
In accordance with IFRS 3, Business combinations, goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is subject to impairment review both 
annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Goodwill that arose prior to 1 April 1997 was written off to retained earnings/loss. Profit or loss on disposal of the underlying businesses  
to which this goodwill related will not include goodwill previously recorded as a deduction from equity.
Acquired customer relationships
Acquired customer relationships consist of intangible assets arising on the consolidation of recently acquired business, principally future order 
books, that do not appear within the balance sheet of the acquired entity itself, and which are separable from goodwill in accordance with 
IFRS 3, Business combinations and IAS 38, Intangible assets. Customer relationships are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful 
economic lives of between one and three years. 
Corporate information systems
In accordance with IAS 38, Intangible assets, the Group’s corporate information systems are treated as an intangible asset. Costs included  
are those directly attributable to the design, construction and testing of new systems (including major enhancements and internally 
generated costs) from the point of inception to the point of satisfactory completion where the probable future economic benefits arising 
from the investment could be assessed with reasonable certainty at the time the costs are incurred. Maintenance and minor modifications 
are expensed in the income statement as incurred. The corporate information systems are amortised on a straight-line basis over their 
estimated useful economic life of six years.
Software licences
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software. 
These costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives of between two and five years.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. Cost comprises purchase price after 
discounts and rebates plus all directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis calculated at annual rates to write off the cost less residual value  
of each asset over the term of its estimated useful economic life as follows:
Freehold buildings 10 to 50 years
Short leasehold over the life of the lease
Plant and machinery 3 to 10 years
Special purpose industrial motor vehicles  3 to 12 years
Other motor vehicles  3 to 4 years
Information technology 2½ to 5 years
No depreciation is provided in respect of freehold land.
The directors annually review the estimated useful economic lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment.  
Impairment
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are reviewed for impairment annually and when there are 
indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment wherever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the 
amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value 
less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are 
separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units).   Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 77
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairments.
Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets into the following two categories: at fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
These include fixed interest securities, floating rate notes and certificates of deposit which are valued at mid-market price quoted on  
a recognised stock exchange. Debt securities issued at a significant discount to the maturity value are valued at cost plus amortised discount 
over the life of the security. Also included are restricted cash deposits where withdrawals are restricted under contractual arrangements. 
Changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.  
They are included within current assets except where the maturity is greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date in which case they 
are included as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables consist of trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents, 
which are shown separately within the balance sheet. Trade receivables are recognised at original invoice amount less provision for 
impairment, which, due to their short-term nature, approximates to their fair value. 
Other receivables include loan notes receivable in respect of disposals, which are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method less any provision for impairment. This valuation approximates to their fair value. 
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is 
impaired. Any impairment is charged to the income statement. Impairment testing for trade receivables is described below in the accounting 
policy paragraph relating to trade receivables.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at cost less impairment. Cost is calculated on a first-in, first-out basis.
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are recognised at original invoice amount. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is 
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant 
financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency  
in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, demand deposits and short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible  
to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
Derivative financial instruments are initially accounted for and measured at fair value on the date a contract is entered into and are 
subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Where a derivative is designated as a fair value hedge and is assessed as being effective in accordance with IAS 39, Financial instruments: 
recognition and measurement, the gain or loss on re-measurement is recognised in the income statement together with the corresponding 
changes in the fair value of the hedged item that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Where a derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge and is assessed as being effective in accordance with IAS 39, the gain or loss on 
re-measurement is recognised in equity. Amounts accumulated in equity are transferred to the income statement when the underlying 
transaction being hedged occurs or, if the transaction results in the creation of a non-financial asset or liability, are included in the initial  
cost of the asset or liability.
Where the derivative is designated as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation and is assessed as being effective in accordance 
with IAS 39, the gain or loss on re-measurement is recognised in equity. Amounts accumulated in equity are transferred to the income 
statement on disposal of the foreign operation. Similar treatment is applied where the hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation  
is a non-derivative financial instrument such as a foreign currency loan.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement 
as they arise.  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
78 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
Lease obligations
Finance leases
Lease arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee are treated as finance leases. Assets held 
under finance leases are capitalised within property, plant and equipment and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the useful 
life of the asset. A liability is recognised for the present value of the minimum lease payments within current and/or non-current liabilities 
as appropriate. Rental payments are apportioned between capital and interest expense to achieve a constant rate of interest charge on the 
outstanding obligation. 
Where the Group acts as a lessor in a finance lease, receivables under finance leases represent outstanding amounts due under these 
agreements less finance charges allocated to future periods. Finance lease interest is recognised over the primary period of the lease  
so as to produce a constant rate of return on the net cash investment. 
Operating leases
Where the Group acts as lessee in an operating lease arrangement, the lease payments are charged as an expense to the income statement 
on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives received are also recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Where the Group acts as lessor in an operating lease arrangement, rental income from operating leases is accounted for on a straight-line 
basis over the period of the lease. Lease incentives provided are also recognised over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
Trade payables 
Trade payables are recognised at original invoice amount.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity  
as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges
Onerous contract provisions are recognised for losses on contracts where the forecast costs of fulfilling the contract throughout the contract 
period exceed the forecast income receivable. In assessing the amount of the loss to provide on any contract, account is taken of the Group’s 
share of the forecast results from any Joint Ventures which the contract is servicing. The provision is calculated based on discounted cash 
flows to the end of the contract.
Vacant property provisions are recognised when the Group has committed to a course of action that will result in the property becoming 
vacant. The provision is calculated based on discounted cash flows to the end of the lease.
Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s Financial Statements in the period in which the 
dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when paid. 
Application of new IFRS standards and interpretations
(a) Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in current financial year but not relevant
There are no standards, amendments and interpretations effective in the current year but not relevant to the Group’s activities.
(b) Standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group
•  IFRS 2 (Amendment), Share-based payments (effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009) deals with vesting 
conditions and cancellations. It clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only. Other features 
of a share-based payment are not vesting conditions. All cancellations, whether by the Group or by other parties, will receive the same 
accounting treatment.       
•  IFRS 3 (revised), Business combinations (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009), will impact the calculation  
of consideration and goodwill for future acquisitions, as transaction costs will be expensed and some contingent payments will be  
re-measured at fair value through the income statement.       
       Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 79
•  IFRS 8, Operating segments (effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009) replaces IAS 14 and aligns segment 
reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131, Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information.  
The new standard uses a ‘management approach’, under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for 
internal reporting purposes. The Group will apply IFRS 8 from 1 April 2009 but it is not expected to have a significant impact on the 
Group’s accounts.
•  IAS 1 (revised), Presentation of Financial Statements (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009), is not expected  
to have any significant impact on the results of the Group although it may have a presentational impact.
•  IAS 23, Borrowing costs (effective 1 January 2009). The amendment to the standard is still subject to endorsement by the EU. It requires  
an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset (one that  
takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale) as part of the cost of that asset. The option of immediately expensing  
those borrowing costs will be removed. The group will apply IAS 23 (Amended) from 1 April 2009, subject to endorsement by the EU  
but is currently not applicable to the Group or Company as there are no qualifying assets.
•  IAS 27 (revised), Consolidated and separate Financial Statements (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009),  
is not expected to have any significant impact on the results of the Group.
•  Amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2009) addresses the liability versus equity classification of certain puttable financial instruments and 
instruments, or components thereof, which impose upon an entity an obligation to deliver a pro-rata share of net assets on liquidation.
•  Amendment to IAS 38, Intangible Assets (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009) clarifies the accounting  
for advertising expenditure.
•  Amendment to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 
2008) prohibits designating inflation as a hedgeable component of a fixed rate debt and the inclusion of time value in the one-sided 
hedged risk when designating options as hedges.
•  The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB)’s annual improvements project was published in May 2008 and will be effective from 
1 January 2009. The project makes minor amendments to a number of standards on topics including investments in associates, intangible 
assets, borrowing costs and impairment of assets.
(c) Interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group
The following interpretations have been published that are mandatory for later accounting periods and the Group has not early adopted:  
 
• IFRIC 15, Agreements for construction of real estates (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009).   
       
•  IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008) clarifies 
that only the functional currency of a parent entity creates the exposure to which an entity may apply hedge accounting and not its 
presentation currency. It also concludes that the hedging instruments may be held by any entity or entities within the Group and that  
IAS 39 is applied to determine the amount to reclassify from the foreign currency translation reserve to profit or loss in respect of hedging 
instruments while IAS 21 is applied in respect of hedged items.
• IFRIC 17, Distributions of non-cash assets to owners (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009).
• IFRIC 18, Transfer of assets from customers (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009).
• IFRIC 14, IAS 19, The limit on a defined benefit asset.       
 
(d) Interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and are not relevant to the Group’s operations  
The following interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for later accounting periods but are not relevant 
for the Group’s operations:
•  IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008) clarifies that where goods or 
services are sold together with a customer loyalty incentive (for example, loyalty points or free products), the arrangement is a multiple-
element arrangement and the consideration receivable from the customer is allocated between the components of the arrangement using 
fair values.        
         
   WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
80 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
(e) Interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and the principles have been applied by the Group
The following interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for later accounting periods but the principles 
have been applied by the Group:
•  IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements, which outlines an approach to account for contractual arrangements arising from entities 
providing public services.
2. Financial risk management
Risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange risk, fair value interest rate risk, 
cash flow interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the 
unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses 
derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department (Group Treasury) under policies approved by the Board of directors. Group 
Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Group’s operating units. The Board provides written 
principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, 
credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity. 
These policies are further described within the Treasury Policies and Objectives section of the Business Review.
Where individual sensitivities are disclosed below, all other variables are held constant.
a) Market risk
i) Foreign exchange risk
The Group operates in a number of international territories. Each business undertakes a large proportion of its commercial transactions 
within its local market and in its local functional currency. Foreign exchange risk arises from the small proportion of commercial transactions 
undertaken in currencies other than the local functional currency, from financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than 
the local functional currency and on the Group’s net investments in foreign operations.
Group policy is for each business to undertake commercial transactions in its own functional currency whenever possible. When this is not 
possible, the Group manages its foreign exchange risk from future commercial transactions using appropriate derivative contracts arranged 
via Group Treasury. Cash flows are reviewed on a monthly basis throughout the duration of future projects and the future cover amended  
as appropriate.
Trade receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency arise from commercial transactions and 
are therefore largely hedged as part of the process described above. Remaining financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other 
than the local functional currency include bank accounts, loans and intercompany funding balances. These are unhedged with the exception 
of balances that are themselves designated as hedging instruments used to hedge the Group’s net investment in foreign operations.
The Group’s primary exposure to foreign exchange rate risk on unhedged financial instruments arises mainly in respect of movements 
between the US dollar (including dollar-pegged currencies) and sterling and between the euro and sterling. At 31 March 2009, if sterling had 
strengthened/weakened by 10% against the US dollar then profit after tax would be lower/higher by approximately £0.1m (2008: £0.3m) 
and equity would be £0.1m lower/higher (2008: £0.3m). If sterling had strengthened/weakened by 10% against the euro then profit after 
tax would be lower/higher by approximately £0.5m (2008: £0.6m) and equity would be £0.5m lower/higher (2008: £0.6m). 
ii) Interest rate risk
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk arises from loan notes, cash and cash equivalents and financial assets at fair value through profit 
or loss which are all interest bearing, offset in part by interest bearing borrowings. The majority of items included in the above are at floating 
rates of interest or fixed deposits for periods of less than six months; changes in the interest rate result in changes in interest related cash 
flows. No interest hedging is currently undertaken by the Group or its subsidiaries. If interest rates for the year to 31 March 2009 were 10 
basis points higher/lower, then profit after tax for the year would have been approximately £0.2m (2008: £0.1m) higher/lower, principally 
due to increased interest received on short-term bank deposits.
iii) Price risk
The Group does not have any equity securities in its balance sheet and is not materially exposed to commodity price risk. Certain longer  
term project and framework contracts include indexation clauses that are applied to unit rates to offset the effect of inflation on input costs 
over the duration of the agreement. The Group is exposed to price risk to the extent that inflation differs from the index used and forecast 
project outcomes that form the basis of revenue recognition include an estimate of this risk where it is present. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 81
b) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that the Group will suffer financial loss as a result of counterparties defaulting on their contractual obligations. The 
risk arises on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss, cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables, with the 
maximum exposure to risk equivalent to 100% of the carrying value disclosed in the Group’s balance sheet at 31 March. The Group does  
not hold any collateral as security. The majority of the Group’s cash deposits are placed with its relationship banks, which carry at least an  
A-1/P1 credit rating. For deposits and money market investments placed with banks and financial institutions, only independently rated  
parties with a minimum rating of A are accepted. Investments carry a minimum credit rating of A-1/P1. Cash and investments are not 
concentrated with any one counterparty.
For trade and other receivables, an assessment of credit quality of the customer is made where appropriate using a combination of external 
rating agencies, past experience and other factors. In circumstances where credit information is unavailable or poor, the risk is mitigated  
by use of advance payments and, by exception, through credit risk insurance. Group policy is not to apply individual credit limits, although 
exposure and payment performance are monitored closely both at individual project and client level, with a series of escalating debt recovery 
actions taken where necessary. The Group’s customer base is broad and dispersed. In view of current economic circumstances additional 
management attention has been focused on the recovery of debtors. 
c) Liquidity risk
The Group funds its activities through cash generated from its operations and, where necessary, bank borrowings and finance leases. The 
Group’s banking facilities include cash facilities and bank guarantees. Cash flow forecasts are prepared covering various periods from short  
to long term to ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet the Group’s commitments as they fall due. 
The table below analyses the maturity profile of the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities. Figures shown are undiscounted. 
  
      On demand       
      or within   Between   Between   Over   Carrying
     1 year   1 and 2 years  2 and 5 years  5 years   Discount   value
2009  £m £m £m  £m £m £m
Hire purchase and finance leases   5.4   3.6   4.2   1.2   (0.7)  13.7  
Loan notes   2.9   0.7   –   –   (0.2)  3.4
Trade payables   64.4   –   –   –   –   64.4
           
      On demand       
      or within   Between   Between   Over   Carrying
     1 year   1 and 2 years  2 and 5 years  5 years   Discount   value
2008  £m £m £m  £m £m £m 
Hire purchase and finance leases   4.4   4.7   5.3   1.8   (2.2)  14.0  
Loan notes   4.3   2.9   0.7   –   (0.5)  7.4  
Trade payables   52.0   –   –   –   –   52.0 
Derivative financial instruments consist of forward foreign exchange contracts used to hedge future commercial transactions, as disclosed  
in note 27. The maturity profile of undiscounted inflows and outflows measured at fair values at the balance sheet date was as follows:  
        Within   Between  Between 
         1 year   1 and 2 years   2 and 5 years   Total
2009     £m  £m £m £m
Outflow     9.7   5.7   1.1   16.5
Inflow      (8.9)  (5.5)  (0.9) (15.3)
Net      0.8   0.2   0.2   1.2
  
        Within   Between  Between 
         1 year   1 and 2 years   2 and 5 years   Total
2008     £m  £m £m £m
Outflow      16.1   2.6  1.8   20.5 
Inflow      (15.2)  (2.6)  (1.8)  (19.6)
Net     0.9   –   –   0.9  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
82 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
d) Concentrations of financial instruments
The carrying amounts of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities, excluding derivative financial instruments, were denominated in the 
following currencies.
    Financial Financial Financial Financial
    assets liabilities assets liabilities
    2009   2009   2008   2008 
    £m   £m  £m   £m 
Sterling    327.3   57.2   239.9   55.6 
UAE dirham     67.6   7.8   14.7   0.7 
US dollar     37.9   3.0   95.7   6.2 
Euro     22.8   4.0   16.6   2.3 
HK dollar     15.2   2.5   10.5   2.5 
China RMB     14.2   0.5   6.2   0.2 
Denmark krone     11.2   3.3   5.1   1.6 
Other     38.3   3.2   21.9  4.3
Total     534.5   81.5   410.6   73.4 
The financial assets and liabilities of the Company are all denominated in sterling.
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that it is able to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and  
benefits for other stakeholders, and to minimise its cost of capital by maintaining an optimal capital structure.
The Group maintains or adjusts its capital structure through the payment of dividends to shareholders, issues of new shares and buyback  
of existing shares and through its loan facility. 
For capital management purposes, the Group monitors the ratio of its net debt plus defined benefit pension deficit net of deferred tax  
to EBITDA. This policy is unchanged from prior year. Total capital is calculated as ‘equity’ as shown in the consolidated balance sheet plus  
net debt.
The Group’s banking facilities include a number of financial and non-financial covenants. Compliance with these covenants is monitored  
and as at 31 March 2009 none of the covenants had been breached.
 
3. Segmental reporting
a) Group business segments
Revenue and results
          Share of 
     Inter-     post-tax
    Total   segment   Operating Operating profit from
    revenue revenue Revenue profit margin Joint Ventures
2009    £m   £m   £m   £m   %   £m 
Design and Engineering Solutions   435.2   (16.9)  418.3   31.6  7.6  0.1
Highways and Transportation   312.2   (19.8)  292.4   20.2  6.9  (0.4)
Rail   210.2   (14.1)  196.1   17.0  8.7  –
Middle East, China and Europe   329.9   (26.7)  303.2   22.2  7.3  – 
Management and Project Services   240.6   (11.0)  229.6   18.9  8.2  0.2
Asset Management   50.5   (2.9)  47.6   (6.8) (14.3)  0.3 
Total continuing segments   1,578.6   (91.4)  1,487.2   103.1  6.9  0.2
     Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 83
          Share of 
     Inter-     post-tax
    Total   segment   Operating Operating profit from
    revenue revenue Revenue profit margin Joint Ventures
2008    £m   £m   £m   £m   %   £m 
Design and Engineering Solutions  390.8   (17.2)  373.6   30.2  8.1  – 
Highways and Transportation   291.6   (17.0)  274.6   16.8  6.1  0.7
Rail   224.9   (16.7)  208.2   11.9  5.7  –
Middle East, China and Europe   206.5  (14.9)  191.6   11.4  5.9  –
Management and Project Services   223.5   (10.3)  213.2   13.6  6.4  – 
Asset Management   54.7   (2.3)  52.4   2.8  5.3  0.2 
Total continuing segments   1,392.0   (78.4)  1,313.6   86.7  6.6  0.9 
Discontinued operations   33.3   (0.1)  33.2   17.0  51.2  –
Total from operations   1,425.3   (78.5)  1,346.8   103.7  7.7  0.9
       
Reconciliation of segmental analysis to profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders:
      2009   2008 
       £m   £m
Operating profit (continuing segments)       103.1  86.7
Profit on disposal of Joint Venture       2.5  –
Share of post-tax profit from Joint Ventures       0.2   0.9
Profit from operations       105.8   87.6 
Finance income      6.7   9.8
Finance cost       (9.8)  (5.5)
Net finance (cost)/income       (3.1)  4.3 
Profit before taxation       102.7   91.9
Income tax expense       (18.5)  (23.3)
Profit for the year from continuing operations      84.2   68.6
Discontinued operations       –   31.4 
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders     84.2   100.0 
  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
84 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
Balance sheet
    Investments  Other Total Total
   in Joint  segment   segment   segment   Net assets/ 
  Goodwill   Ventures   assets  assets   liabilities  (liabilities)
2009   £m   £m   £m   £m   £m   £m 
Design and Engineering Solutions   34.5   –   173.7   208.2   (294.6)  (86.4)
Highways and Transportation   2.4   0.6   90.2   93.2   (176.5)  (83.3)
Rail  1.4   –   55.1   56.5   (46.3)  10.2 
Middle East, China and Europe   5.2   –   267.0   272.2   (179.4)  92.8
Management and Project Services   18.8   2.9   72.0   93.7   (73.8)  19.9 
Asset Management   –   0.4   23.9   24.3   (49.8)  (25.5)
Total for continuing segments   62.3   3.9   681.9   748.1   (820.4)  (72.3)
Unallocated assets/(liabilities)   –   –   80.6   80.6   (51.8)  28.8 
Total for Group   62.3   3.9   762.5   828.7   (872.2)  (43.5)
    Investments  Other Total Total
   in Joint   segment   segment   segment   Net assets/ 
  Goodwill   Ventures   assets  assets   liabilities  (liabilities)
2008   £m   £m   £m   £m   £m   £m 
Design and Engineering Solutions   32.5   (0.1)  137.6   170.0   (195.4)  (25.4)
Highways and Transportation   2.2   1.0   67.2   70.4   (129.5)  (59.1)
Rail  1.4   –   76.7   78.1   (87.3)  (9.2)
Middle East, China and Europe  3.9   –   173.0   176.9   (120.4)  56.5
Management and Project Services   16.7   2.5   67.5   86.7   (67.7)  19.0
Asset Management   –   0.8   13.7   14.5   (33.7)  (19.2)
Total for continuing segments   56.7   4.2   535.7   596.6   (634.0) (37.4)
Unallocated assets/(liabilities)   –   –   80.3  80.3   (66.3)  14.0 
Total for Group   56.7   4.2   616.0   676.9   (700.3)  (23.4)
        
Unallocated assets/(liabilities) primarily consist of UK financial assets, UK cash and cash equivalents and payables that cannot be readily 
allocated to segments.
Other segmental information
       Share-based   Capital   Depreciation
        payments   expenditure   & amortisation 
2009      £m   £m   £m 
Design and Engineering Solutions      3.1   11.6   9.9
Highways and Transportation     1.6   7.5   5.7 
Rail      1.2  1.8   3.0 
Middle East, China and Europe      0.9  10.4   8.0 
Management and Project Services      1.8   4.1   6.0 
Asset Management     0.3   0.5   0.8 
Total for continuing segments      8.9   35.9   33.4
       Share-based   Capital   Depreciation
        payments   expenditure   & amortisation
2008       £m   £m   £m 
Design and Engineering Solutions      3.1   17.0  9.5 
Highways and Transportation     1.8   11.4 5.6 
Rail     1.4   4.7  4.3
Middle East, China and Europe     0.1   7.3  3.7
Management and Project Services    1.9   6.9  6.2 
Asset Management     0.3   1.1   1.1 
Total for continuing segments    8.6   48.4   30.4
Discontinued segments     –   0.9   0.5
Total for Group     8.6   49.3   30.9 
        
Capital expenditure includes additions to goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 85
b) Group geographical segments       
The Group’s operations are based in five main geographical areas. The United Kingdom is the home country of the Parent Company.
External revenue is measured by location of operation. There was no material difference between geographic revenue by location  
of operation and by location of customer.
 Revenue  Total segment assets   Capital expenditure 
   2009   2008   2009   2008   2009   2008 
   £m   £m   £m   £m   £m   £m
United Kingdom   1,062.2   1,027.4   466.3   425.7   23.2   39.9 
Other European countries   86.3   63.8   79.4   72.3   3.2  1.4
Middle East   206.8   128.3   195.6   122.3   7.2   5.8 
North America   70.7   55.4   49.3   35.1   1.2   0.8 
Asia Pacific   61.2   38.7   38.1   21.5   1.1   0.5 
Total from continuing segments   1,487.2   1,313.6   828.7   676.9   35.9   48.4 
Discontinued segments   –   33.2   –   –   –   0.9
Total for Group   1,487.2   1,346.8   828.7   676.9   35.9   49.3 
Capital expenditure includes additions to goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
c) Company
The Company’s business is to invest in its subsidiaries and hence it operates in a single segment.    
 
4. Joint Ventures       
a) Share of post-tax profit/(loss) from Joint Ventures
    Total   Discontinued 
    Continuing  Continuing   (note 10)   Total
    2009 2008 2008 2008 
    £m  £m  £m  £m 
Revenue    45.2  85.9   144.7   230.6
Operating expenditure    (44.7) (85.1)  (138.7)  (223.8)
Operating profit    0.5  0.8   6.0   6.8
Finance cost    (5.4)  (4.3)  (8.3)  (12.6)
Finance income    5.1  4.8   0.9   5.7
Profit/(loss) before taxation    0.2  1.3   (1.4)  (0.1)
Income tax (expense)/credit     –  (0.4)  1.4   1.0 
Share of post-tax profit from Joint Ventures    0.2  0.9   –   0.9  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
86 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
b) Investments in Joint Ventures
        Total
       2009
       £m 
Non-current assets
Other non-current assets        73.3
        73.3
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents       15.9
Other current assets       16.2
         32.1
Current liabilities        
Trade and other payables        (12.2)
         (12.2)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings        (86.7)
Other non-current liabilities        (2.6)
         (89.3)
Share of net assets       3.9 
Investments in Joint Ventures        3.9
        Total  
       2008 
       £m 
Non-current assets
Other non-current assets       82.5
         82.5 
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents        7.5
Other current assets       31.5
        39.0
Current liabilities        
Trade and other payables        (32.0)
         (32.0)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings       (81.9) 
Other non-current liabilities        (3.4)
         (85.3)
Share of net assets       4.2 
Investments in Joint Ventures       4.2 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 87
5. Operating profit – analysis of costs by nature 
  Group 
   Total 
   Continuing  Continuing   Discontinued  Total
          2009   2008   2008   2008
         £m   £m   £m   £m
Operating profit is arrived at after charging/(crediting)
Employee benefit costs (see note 6)       776.7   663.7   6.6   670.3  
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses       0.6   (0.8)  –   (0.8) 
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment:     
– owned assets      18.2   17.1   0.5   17.6
– assets held under finance leases (note 17)      2.5   2.2   –   2.2  
Loss/(profit) on sale of property, plant and equipment     0.7   0.1   –   0.1  
Impairment of trade receivables/(reversal of impairment)       
– increase in provisions (note 22)      15.4   4.1   –   4.1
– release of provisions     (3.1)  (3.1)  –   (3.1) 
Amortisation of intangibles (included in administrative expenses)     
– customer relationships (note 16)      0.5   0.8   –   0.8 
– other assets       12.2   10.3   –   10.3  
Receipts under operating leases:       
– plant and machinery       2.1   0.7   –   0.7
– property       1.3   2.9   0.1   3.0  
Payments under operating leases:       
– plant and machinery       6.5   6.7   0.1   6.8
– property      30.7   21.7   0.4   22.1 
Company operating profit was arrived at after charging £0.1m of net foreign exchange gains (2008: £nil) and £9.5m of realised profit  
on disposal of investments (2008: £57.7m).
Services provided by the Group’s auditors
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Group’s auditors at costs  
as detailed below:
  Group 
   Total 
   Continuing  Continuing   Discontinued  Total
          2009   2008   2008   2008
         £m   £m   £m   £m
Statutory audit of Parent Company’s 
and consolidated annual accounts        0.2   0.2   –   0.2
The audit of accounts of Group 
companies pursuant to legislation
 UK       0.5   0.5   –   0.5
 Non-UK
1
       0.2   0.2   –   0.2 
Total audit services       0.9   0.9   –   0.9 
Other services pursuant to such legislation        0.1   0.1   –   0.1 
Other services relating to taxation       0.4   0.2   –   0.2 
Services relating to corporate finance transactions      0.1   –   0.4   0.4 
All other services       –   0.3   –   0.3 
Total non-audit services       0.6   0.6   0.4   1.0 
Total        1.5   1.5   0.4   1.9 
The statutory audit of the Company’s annual accounts was £0.1m (2008: £0.1m). No other services were provided to the Company by the 
Group’s auditors (2008: nil).         
 
The Atkins Pension Plan is audited by Baker Tilly and the audit fee for 2009 was £29,000 (2008: £28,000). This audit fee was borne by the Group.  
       
1. Not previously disclosed.          
           
         WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
88 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
6. Employee benefit costs
    Average  Year-end 
    2009   2008   2009   2008
    No.   No.   No.   No.
Number of full-time equivalent people  
(including executive directors) employed by the Group 
By class of business:
Design and Engineering Solutions    4,805   4,414   4,846   4,673  
Highways and Transportation    2,920   2,930   2,983 2,717 
Rail    1,531   1,588   1,499  1,565 
Middle East, China and Europe    4,253   3,381   4,283   3,787
Management and Project Services    2,292   2,282   2,169   2,337
Asset Management    658   651   653   645 
Corporate    588   523   593   549 
Total continuing operations    17,047   15,769   17,026   16,273 
Discontinued operations     –   223   –   – 
Group Total     17,047   15,992   17,026   16,273
Aggregate employee benefit costs of those people amounted to:
  Group 
   Total 
   Continuing  Continuing   Discontinued  Total
          2009   2008   2008   2008
         £m   £m   £m   £m
Wages and salaries       648.4   547.1   6.0   553.1
Profit share and performance-related bonus      24.1   21.1   –   21.1 
Social security costs      54.2   48.1   0.6   48.7 
Retirement benefit costs (see note 29)      37.1   35.7   –   35.7 
Other post-employment benefit costs (see note 29)     4.0   3.1   –   3.1 
Share-based payments (see note 32)     8.9   8.6   –  8.6
          776.7   663.7   6.6   670.3 
Wages and salaries for 2009 includes £7.7m of redundancy costs (2008: £2.4m) relating to continuing operations. 
Details of remuneration (including retirement benefits) and interests for directors are included in the Remuneration Report, which forms  
part of these Financial Statements. Details of remuneration for key management are included in note 39.
The Company has no employees (2008: nil).  Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 89
7. Net finance cost/(income)
  Group 
   Total 
   Continuing  Continuing   Discontinued  Total
          2009   2008   2008   2008
         £m   £m   £m   £m
Interest payable on borrowings     –   0.8   –   0.8 
Hire purchase and finance leases     1.0   1.0   0.1   1.1 
Unwinding of discount     1.0   1.2   –   1.2 
Net finance cost on post-employment benefits     6.6   1.4   –   1.4 
Other finance costs      1.2   1.1   0.8   1.9 
Finance cost     9.8   5.5   0.9   6.4 
Interest receivable on short-term deposits      (2.9)  (7.1)  (0.3)  (7.4)
Income from held at fair value financial assets      (2.2)  (1.6)  –   (1.6)
Unwinding of discount      (0.4)  (0.3)  –   (0.3) 
Other finance income     (1.2)  (0.8)  –   (0.8)
Finance income     (6.7)  (9.8)  (0.3)  (10.1)
Net finance cost/(income)     3.1   (4.3)  0.6   (3.7)
Company finance income consisted of net interest income of £0.1m (2008: £0.5m) and unwinding of discount on loan notes receivable  
of £0.4m (2008: £0.3m).     
Unwinding of discount disclosed within finance cost comprises £0.7m relating to provisions and £0.3m relating to borrowings.
8. Income tax expense – continuing operations 
a) Analysis of charge in the year
  Group 
       2009   2008
       £m   £m 
Current income tax 
– Current year       16.8  18.9 
– Adjustment in respect of prior year       0.5   (3.6)
Deferred income tax (see note 19)       1.2   8.0 
Income tax on profit per income statement       18.5   23.3 
Adjust for:
– Joint Venture taxation        –   0.4 
Normalised income tax expense      18.5   23.7 
Profit before tax per income statement       102.7   91.9 
Adjust for: 
– Joint Venture taxation       –   0.4 
– Profit on disposal of Joint Ventures       (2.5)  – 
Normalised profit before income tax       100.2   92.3 
Effective income tax rate      18.0% 25.4% 
Normalised effective income tax rate       18.5% 25.7%
The total income tax expense (continuing and discontinued operations) was £18.5m (2008: £28.3m). See note 10.   WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
90 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
b) Factors affecting income tax expense
The income tax expense for the year is lower (2008: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% (2008: 30%).  
The differences are explained below:
       Group 
      2009   2008 
      %   %
UK statutory income tax rate       28.0   30.0
Increase/(decrease) resulting from:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes       0.7   1.5
Adjustment in respect of overseas tax rates       (4.1)  (3.4)
Effect of share-based payments       2.6   0.8
Tax on Joint Ventures      (0.1)  (0.3)
R&D tax credit       (2.4)  (2.9)
Consortium relief      (6.8)  (0.6)
Other       0.8   0.3
Disposal of Joint Ventures       (0.7)  –
Effective income tax rate       18.0   25.4
The normalised income tax expense for the year is lower (2008: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28%  
(2008: 30%). The differences are explained below: 
        Group 
       2009   2008 
       %  % 
UK statutory income tax rate      28.0   30.0
Increase/(decrease) resulting from:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes       0.7   1.4 
Adjustment in respect of overseas tax rates       (4.2)  (3.4)
Effect of share-based payments       2.7   0.8 
Tax on Joint Ventures       (0.1)  – 
R&D tax credit       (2.4)  (2.9)
Consortium relief       (6.9)  (0.6)
Other       0.7   0.4 
Normalised effective income tax rate       18.5  25.7
 
c) Income tax on items charged to equity
       Group
    2009    2008
  Retirement  Share-  Retirement Share-
  benefit based  benefit based  
  liability  payments Total liability payments  Total  
  £m   £m   £m   £m  £m   £m
At 1 April   1.1   2.9   4.0  8.5   3.3  11.8
Deferred income tax   34.3   (1.1)  33.2   (7.4)  (0.6) (8.0)
Current income tax   –   0.4   0.4   –   0.2  0.2
At 31 March    35.4  2.2   37.6   1.1   2.9   4.0 
       
        
9. Profit on disposal of Joint Venture
On 1 April 2008 the Group disposed of its holding in Modern Housing Solutions (Prime) Limited generating a profit on disposal of £2.5m. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 91
10. Discontinued operations (31 March 2008)
Lambert Smith Hampton (LSH)
On 25 June 2007 contracts were exchanged for the disposal of LSH for a total consideration valued at £50.8m. Goodwill disposed of was 
£17.5m, including £2.6m within LSH’s own balance sheet. The profit on disposal was £20.0m. 
Metronet Joint Venture, Trans4m Joint Venture and related discontinued revenues and costs
Metronet BCV Limited and Metronet SSL Limited entered PPP Administration on 18 July 2007 and Trans4m’s contracts were terminated  
on 30 August 2007. 
Financial information relating to LSH, Metronet Joint Venture and Trans4m Joint Venture for the period prior to becoming discontinued  
is set out below. The income statement and cash flow statement distinguish discontinued operations from continuing operations.
        
      Metronet
2008      LSH and Trans4m Total
Income statement and cash flow information    £m   £m   £m
Revenue      16.0   17.2   33.2
Administration and other expenses      (15.8)  (0.4)  (16.2)
Net finance income/(cost)     0.2   (0.8)  (0.6)
Profit before taxation from discontinued operations     0.4   16.0   16.4 
Income tax expense      (0.2)  (4.8)  (5.0)
Profit after income tax of discontinued operations     0.2   11.2   11.4 
Pre-tax profit on disposal     20.0   –   20.0 
Income tax expense      –   –   – 
After-tax profit on disposal      20.0   –   20.0 
Profit from discontinued operations      20.2   11.2   31.4 
Operating cash flows from discontinued operations     2.8   (2.5)  0.3 
Investing cash flows from discontinued operations     (0.2)  (48.0)  (48.2)
Investing cash flows – cash proceeds on disposal net of cash disposed    30.9   –   30.9
Financing cash flows from discontinued operations     (0.3)  –   (0.3)
Total cash flows      33.2  (50.5)  (17.3)
11. Dividends
      Company and Group 
    2009   2008  2009   2008 
    pence   pence   £m   £m
Final dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2008 (2007)   16.50  14.00  16.1   14.2 
Interim dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2009 (2008)   8.75  7.50  8.6  7.6
Dividends recognised in the year    25.25  21.50  24.7   21.8 
Interim dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2009 (2008)  8.75  7.50  8.6   7.6 
Final dividend proposed for the year ended 31 March 2009 (2008)  17.25  16.50  16.9  16.1 
Dividends relating to the year    26.00  24.00  25.5   23.7 
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability  
in these Financial Statements.
As at 31 March 2009 the Employee Benefit Trusts had agreements in place to waive dividends in excess of 0.01 pence per share on  
2,339,512 ordinary shares (2008: 2,697,476) in return for an equivalent gift. These arrangements reduced the dividend paid in year by  
£0.6m (2008: £0.6m). On 29 April 2009 one of the Employee Benefit Trusts entered a new agreement to waive all future dividends in  
their entirety reducing the proposed final dividend by £0.4m (2008: £0.4m).      
      
      WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
92 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
12. Earnings per share (EPS)
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number  
of shares in issue during the year excluding shares held by the Employee Benefit Trusts (EBTs), which have not unconditionally vested  
in the employees, and shares in treasury.
Diluted earnings per share is the basic earnings per share after allowing for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares  
of the number of options outstanding during the year. The options relate to discretionary employee share plans.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below:
       Group 
      2009   2008 
      number  number 
      (000)   (000) 
Number of shares
Weighted average number of shares used in basic and normalised basic EPS     97,790   101,105
Effect of dilutive securities – share options      1,516   1,735
Weighted average number of shares used in diluted and normalised diluted EPS   99,306   102,840
      £m   £m 
Earnings – continuing and discontinued operations
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders     84.2   100.0
Earnings – continuing operations
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders      84.2  68.6
Profit on disposal of Joint Venture (note 9)       (2.5)  – 
Normalised earnings       81.7   68.6 
       pence   pence
From continuing and discontinued operations
Basic earnings per share      86.1   98.9
Diluted earnings per share       84.8  97.2 
From continuing operations
Basic earnings per share      86.1 67.9
Diluted earnings per share       84.8  66.7
Normalised basic earnings per share       83.5  67.9
Normalised diluted earnings per share      82.3 66.7
Normalised diluted EPS is considered to be a more representative measure of underlying trading.
13. Parent Company income statement
The Company has not presented its own income statement as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. The profit for  
the year attributable to equity shareholders was £9.6m (2008: £68.7m), which included £nil (2008: £10.9m) dividend income from  
subsidiary companies. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 93
14. Goodwill
       Group
       2009   2008 
       £m   £m 
Cost at 1 April       63.4   71.0 
Additions (note 15)       2.9   9.1 
Disposals       –   (17.5)
Difference on exchange       5.2   0.8
Cost at 31 March      71.5  63.4 
Aggregate impairment at 1 April      6.7  6.2 
Impairment charge for the year       –   – 
Difference on exchange      2.5   0.5
Aggregate impairment at 31 March       9.2  6.7 
Net book value at 31 March       62.3   56.7 
The adjustment resulting from finalising provisional goodwill in the prior year is not considered material and has been included within  
current year additions.
Goodwill is tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of assets at least annually.
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs) identified according to their business segment. 
The goodwill allocation by CGU, summarised at segmental level, is disclosed in note 3.
The recoverable amount of goodwill for each CGU has been based on value in use as represented by the net present value of future  
cash flows. Cash flows are projected forward for five years based on approved budgets and plans, beyond which they are inflated by  
a GDP-based growth factor. They are then discounted using a discount rate based on the Group’s pre-tax discount rate based on nominal 
weighted average cost of capital. The pre-tax discount rate used was 13.8% per annum which has been applied consistently across each  
CGU based on their similar risk profiles.
The key assumptions used for each CGU are as follows:
       Group
       2009   2008
5-year growth rate      0% – 18% 8% – 15%
Post 5-year growth rate      4% 4%
Taxation rate      25% 12.5% – 40%
As at 31 March 2009, based on these internal valuations, the recoverable value of goodwill required no impairment. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
94 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
15. Business combinations
On 6 October 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of M.G. Bennett & Associates Limited, a UK registered entity, for £3.1m,  
consisting of cash consideration of £2.6m and deferred consideration of £0.5m.
On 1 December 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Trafimark AB, a Swedish registered entity, for £0.8m, consisting  
of cash consideration of £0.5m, deferred consideration of £0.2m and direct expenses paid of £0.1m. 
     Total Provisional Total
     carrying fair value provisional
     value  adjustments fair value
Group      £m   £m   £m
Property, plant and equipment     0.6   (0.5)  0.1 
Trade and other receivables      1.0   (0.1)  0.9
Cash and cash equivalents      1.0   –   1.0
Short-term trade and other payables      (0.8)  –   (0.8)
Current income tax liabilities      –   –   – 
      1.8   (0.6)  1.2 
Goodwill on acquisition        2.7
Consideration        3.9 
Consideration:
Cash paid        3.1
Direct costs relating to the acquisition       0.1
Deferred consideration         0.7
         3.9
All acquisitions in the year have been aggregated above as no single acquisition is considered individually material.
Included in the goodwill recognised above are items that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their nature.  
These include new customers and synergy benefits. The provisional fair value adjustments relate primarily to the alignment to Group  
accounting policies. 
The initial accounting for these acquisitions has been determined provisionally because fair values have not been finalised. Any adjustments  
to the accounting required following finalisation of the fair values to be assigned to the acquired assets and liabilities will be recorded from  
the acquisition date within 12 months of the acquisition date. 
During the year the Group paid additional consideration of £0.1m to the vendors of Atkins (Trinidad) Limited, £0.1m to the vendors of  
Novaplan AB and £0.2m to the vendors of the trade and assets of H Day Ltd T/A Derek Rogers & Associates.
As a result of finalising fair values of previous acquisitions and incurring qualifying direct expenses, additional goodwill of £0.2m was 
recognised for the trade and assets H Day Ltd T/A Derek Rogers & Associates during the year.
Included in the Group’s results for the year is £1.7m of revenue and no profit in relation to the acquisitions above. If the acquisitions had  
been made at the beginning of the year then the Group’s results would have included revenue of £3.8m, profit before taxation of £0.5m and 
profit after taxation of £0.4m for the year in relation to the acquisitions. The Group’s total results would have been revenue of £1,489.3m, 
profit before taxation of £103.2m and profit after taxation of £84.6m.      
         
    Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 95
16. Other intangible assets       
   Acquired   Corporate   Intellectual 
   customer   information   property   Software   Group 
    relationships   systems   rights   licences   Total 
    £m   £m   £m   £m   £m
Cost at 1 April 2007    1.9   15.7   0.2  9.2   27.0 
Additions    –   0.1   –   14.7   14.8
Disposals    –  (0.5)  –   (8.8)  (9.3)
Cost at 31 March 2008    1.9   15.3   0.2   15.1   32.5 
Additions    –   0.2   –   10.3   10.5
Disposals    –   –   –   (4.1)  (4.1)
Difference on exchange    –   –   –   1.2   1.2
Cost at 31 March 2009    1.9  15.5   0.2  22.5   40.1 
 
Amortisation at 1 April 2007    0.5   12.5   –   4.6   17.6
Amortisation charge for the year    0.8   2.9  –   7.4   11.1 
Disposals    –   (0.1)  –   (7.0)  (7.1)
Amortisation at 31 March 2008    1.3   15.3   –   5.0   21.6 
 
Amortisation charge for the year    0.5   0.1   –   12.1   12.7
Disposals    –   –   –   (4.1)  (4.1)
Difference on exchange   – – –  0.9   0.9
Amortisation at 31 March 2009    1.8   15.4   –   13.9   31.1
Net book value at 31 March 2009    0.1   0.1   0.2   8.6   9.0
Net book value at 31 March 2008    0.6   –   0.2   10.1   10.9 
Included within corporate information systems is £0.1m (2008: £nil) of internally generated intangible assets.  
17. Property, plant and equipment
    Freehold  Short-term   Plant, 
    land &   leasehold   machinery   Group
    buildings   property   & vehicles  Total 
    £m   £m   £m  £m
Cost at 1 April 2007    10.1   13.2   84.3   107.6
Additions     –   4.1   21.3   25.4
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings    –  0.1   0.2   0.3 
Disposals    –   (0.2)  (3.8) (4.0)
Disposal of subsidiary undertaking     –   (0.7)  (11.4) (12.1)
Difference on exchange     –   –   0.6   0.6 
Cost at 31 March 2008    10.1   16.5   91.2  117.8 
Additions     –   5.1   17.3  22.4 
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings (note 15)   –   –   0.1  0.1 
Disposals    –   (0.8)  (9.5)  (10.3)
Difference on exchange     –   0.8   5.1   5.9 
Cost at 31 March 2009    10.1   21.6   104.2  135.9  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
96 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
    Freehold  Short-term   Plant, 
    land &   leasehold   machinery   Group
    buildings   property   & vehicles  Total 
    £m   £m   £m  £m
Depreciation at 1 April 2007    7.2   6.1   48.1   61.4
Depreciation charge for the year    0.1   2.1   17.6  19.8 
Disposals    –   (0.1)  (2.8)  (2.9)
Disposal of subsidiary undertaking     –   (0.6)  (6.1)  (6.7)
Difference on exchange     –   –   0.6   0.6
Depreciation at 31 March 2008     7.3   7.5   57.4  72.2
    
Depreciation charge for the year    0.1   3.7   16.9   20.7
Disposals    –   (0.5)  (8.0)  (8.5)
Difference on exchange    (0.1)  0.9   4.1   4.9
Depreciation at 31 March 2009    7.3   11.6  70.4   89.3 
Net book value at 31 March 2009    2.8   10.0   33.8   46.6 
Net book value at 31 March 2008     2.8   9.0   33.8  45.6
  
The market value of freehold land and buildings is estimated at £9.0m (2008: £10.3m).
Included in plant, machinery and vehicles above are equipment and vehicles held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts as follows:
      2009   2008 
       £m   £m 
Cost       24.3   23.3
Accumulated depreciation      (11.1)  (9.9)
Net book value       13.2   13.4 
Additions to property, plant and equipment funded by finance leases were £4.2m (2008: £6.3m).
Included in the above are equipment and vehicles leased to customers under operating leases as follows:
       2009   2008 
       £m  £m
Cost       3.7   3.2
Accumulated depreciation       (2.4)  (2.1)
Net book value       1.3   1.1  Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 97
18. Investments in subsidiaries
       Company 
       Total 
        £m 
Cost at 1 April 2007         121.0 
Additions        133.5
Disposals        (122.9)
Cost at 31 March 2008        131.6 
Additions       18.1 
Cost at 31 March 2009        149.7
Impairment at 1 April 2007        22.7 
Disposals        (21.9)
Impairment at 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2009      0.8
 
Net book value at 31 March 2009        148.9 
Net book value at 31 March 2008        130.8 
The Group’s principal subsidiaries are disclosed in note 40.
During the year the Company increased its investment in Atkins Investments UK Limited (formerly Atkins Metro Limited) in order to facilitate  
the purchase of WS Atkins Insurance (Guernsey) Limited by Atkins Investments UK Limited from another Group company. 
         
19. Deferred income tax 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. The offset amounts are as follows:
       Group
      2009  2008 
       £m  £m 
Deferred tax assets:
– Deferred tax assets to be recovered after more than 12 months    98.9   69.4 
– Deferred tax assets to be recovered within 12 months      2.8   0.4 
       101.7   69.8 
Deferred tax liabilities:
– Deferred tax liabilities to be recovered after more than 12 months     –   – 
– Deferred tax liabilities to be recovered within 12 months      (0.1)  (0.2)
       (0.1)  (0.2)
Deferred tax assets (net)       101.6   69.6 
a) Deferred tax assets
       Group 
       2009   2008
      £m  £m 
Accelerated depreciation       13.8   5.1 
Share-based payments       2.5   4.1 
Overseas       0.4   0.4 
Deferred tax asset on post-employment benefit liabilities      83.0   59.2 
Deferred income       0.9  0.5 
Amortisation of intangibles on acquisitions       (0.1)  (0.2)
Other temporary differences       1.1   0.5 
Total deferred income tax       101.6   69.6 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
98 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
b) Analysis of movements during the year
       Group 
      2009  2008 
       £m   £m 
Deferred tax assets at 1 April       69.6   89.8 
Deferred tax charged to the income statement – continuing operations (note 8a)    (1.2)  (8.0)
Deferred tax charged to the income statement – discontinued operations     –   (3.6)
Deferred tax credited/(charged) to equity (note 8c)      33.2   (8.0)
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings       –   (0.6)
Deferred tax assets at 31 March      101.6   69.6 
      
20. Other receivables
     Group    Company
    2009   2008   2009   2008 
    £m  £m   £m   £m
Non-current assets:
Loan notes receivable    12.9   5.6   6.0   5.6 
Deferred consideration on disposals    –   0.1   –   – 
      12.9   5.7   6.0   5.6
Loan notes receivable of £6m arose on disposal of LSH. These loan notes have no fixed redemption date. 
During the year the Group acquired £7m of interest bearing loan notes in RMPA Holdings Limited which mature in 2039.   
 
All other non-current receivables are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
None of the other receivables are past due or impaired.
      
21. Inventories
        Group
       2009   2008
       £m   £m 
Raw materials and consumables       0.3   0.3
The directors consider that the carrying amount of inventories approximates their fair value.  
There were no amounts of inventories written off during the year (2008: £nil).      
 
22. Trade and other receivables
     Group    Company 
    2009   2008   2009  2008 
    £m   £m   £m  £m 
Current assets:
Trade receivables    301.9   224.1   –  – 
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables    (26.5)  (13.0)  –   – 
Trade receivables – net    275.4   211.1   –   –
Amounts recoverable on contracts     33.3   44.7   –   – 
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings (note 39)   –   –   11.4  8.4 
Amounts due from Joint Ventures (note 39)    7.8   9.7   –   – 
Other receivables     23.0   20.3   – – 
Prepayments and accrued income    14.2   13.9   –   – 
      353.7   299.7   11.4  8.4 
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.   Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 99
At 31 March 2009 £176.2m (2008: £172.2m) of trade receivables were within normal payment terms and considered to be fully performing. 
A further £92.2m (2008: £38.8m) were past due date and aged up to six months from invoice date, which carried a provision for impairment 
of £nil (2008: £1.3m). Trade receivables aged beyond six months of invoice date totalled £33.4m (2008: £13.1m) and carried a provision for 
impairment of £26.5m (2008: £11.7m).
Movements in the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows:
       Group 
      2009   2008
      £m   £m 
Provision for impairment at beginning of year      (13.0)  (11.8)
Increase in provisions       (15.4)  (4.1)
Release of provisions      3.1   3.1
Receivables written off as uncollectable       2.2   0.3 
Difference on exchange      (3.4)  (0.5)
Provision for impairment at end of year       (26.5)  (13.0)
The creation and release of the provision have been included within revenue in the income statement. 
None of the financial assets that are fully performing were renegotiated during the year.
Amounts due from Joint Ventures are shown net of contract-related provisions of £23.1m (2008: £22.6m). The other classes of financial assets 
shown within trade and other receivables were unimpaired both at 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2008. 
23. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
        Group
      2009   2008 
      £m   £m 
Marketable securities       28.7   29.7
24. Cash and cash equivalents
     Group    Company 
    2009   2008   2009   2008 
    £m   £m   £m   £m
Cash at bank and in hand     78.1   61.0   –   7. 1 
Short-term bank deposits    131.6   93.5   –   –
       209.7   154.5   –   7.1 
Included in the Group’s cash and cash equivalents above are amounts held by the Employee Benefit Trusts of £2.9m (2008: £5.4m).
Within the Middle East £0.6m (AED 3.2m) is held within an escrow account in order to cover the liability in respect of visa bonds issued locally.
The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents was 2.0% (2008: 5.5%). WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
100 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
25. Borrowings
       Group 
      2009  2008
      £m   £m 
Current
Hire purchase and finance leases       4.8   3.6
Loan notes       2.8   4.2 
         7.6   7.8
Non-current
Hire purchase and finance leases       8.9   10.4 
Loan notes       0.6   3.2
        9.5   13.6
Loan notes relate to previous years’ Group acquisitions.
The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the non-current borrowings was as follows:
       Group 
  Hire purchase    Hire purchase
  and finance Loan 2009  and finance  Loan 2008
  leases notes Total leases  notes  Total 
   £m   £m   £m   £m   £m   £m
Repayable: 
– between one and two years   3.3  0.6  3.9   4.7   2.6   7.3
– between two and five years   4.2   –   4.2   4.6   0.6   5.2
– after more than five years   1.4   –   1.4   1.1   –  1.1
     8.9   0.6   9.5   10.4   3.2   13.6
The carrying amount of the borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:     
        Group
   Hire purchase    Hire purchase
  and finance Loan 2009  and finance  Loan 2008
  leases notes Total leases  notes  Total 
   £m   £m   £m   £m   £m   £m
Sterling   13.7   3.4   17.1   14.0  7.4   21.4
Total   13.7   3.4   17.1   14.0   7.4  21.4
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows:
        Group 
       2009   2008 
       £m   £m 
Not later than one year       5.4   4.4 
Later than one year but not more than five years      7.8   10.0 
More than five years       1.2   1.8
       14.4   16.2
Future finance charges on finance leases       (0.7)  (2.2)
Present value of finance lease payables       13.7   14.0 
Finance leases are on a fixed repayment basis, with interest rates fixed at the contract date. The average effective borrowing rate was 6.2% 
(2008: 6.9%) over a weighted average remaining period of 44 months (2008: 47 months).  Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 101
Borrowing facilities
The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 March expiring as follows:
        Group 
       2009   2008 
       £m   £m 
Between two and five years       75.0   58.8
All of the Group’s undrawn committed borrowing facilities will be subject to floating rates of interest.
The Group’s principal borrowing facilities of £100.0m signed on 21 June 2006 are unsecured and include borrowings and letter of credit 
facilities. The total letters of credit in issue at 31 March 2009 was £25.0m (31 March 2008: £40.2m). 
The Group’s banking facilities include a number of financial and non-financial covenants. Compliance with these covenants is monitored.  
As at 31 March 2009 none of these covenants had been breached. 
26. Trade and other payables
     Group    Company  
    2009   2008   2009   2008 
    £m   £m   £m  £m
Trade payables    64.4   52.0   –  – 
Fees invoiced in advance    178.7   148.6   –   – 
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings (note 39)    –   –   57.4   23.8
Social security and other taxation    33.7   34.6   –   – 
Deferred consideration on acquisitions    0.8   0.9   –   – 
Accruals and deferred income    179.8   142.3  –   1.1 
Other payables    21.3   30.8   0.1   0.1 
      478.7   409.2   57.5   25.0 
The Group’s opening other post-employment benefit liabilities were previously disclosed within trade and other payables and have been 
restated. The restatement had no impact on the income statement of the Group.
The current year balance for deferred consideration represents £0.8m outstanding in respect of Nedtech Engineering BV to be settled in  
the next 12 months. The prior year balance for deferred consideration represents £0.8m outstanding in respect of MSL Engineering Limited  
and £0.1m outstanding in respect of Nedtech Engineering BV.
The directors consider that the carrying value of the Group’s trade and other payables approximates their fair value.   
    
27. Derivative financial instruments
The fair value of forward currency contracts at the year end, based on their market value, is detailed below:
         Group
      2009   2008
       £m   £m 
Forward currency hedges       1.2   0.9 
The Group did not use any derivative instrument during the year other than forward currency contracts and foreign exchange swaps  
to hedge foreign currency receipts and payments on current contracts. 
The future inflows and outflows associated with these derivative financial instruments is disclosed in note 2. The Group has reviewed  
all contracts for embedded derivatives and does not have any such instruments that are not closely related to the host contract.  
The carrying value of the Group’s derivative financial instruments approximates their fair value. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
102 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
28. Provisions for other liabilities and charges
     2009    2008
     Group   Group
  Onerous   Vacant     Onerous   Vacant   
   contracts   property   Total   contracts   property   Total
   £m   £m   £m  £m  £m   £m 
Current   9.7   0.2   9.9  0.7   3.6   4.3 
Between one and two years   0.4   1.1   1.5   1.0  2.6   3.6
Between two and five years   0.7   3.7   4.4   1.8   1.7   3.5 
Over five years   5.0   6.9   11.9   5.8   0.6   6.4 
Non-current   6.1   11.7   17.8   8.6  4.9   13.5
Total   15.8   11.9   27.7   9.3   8.5   17.8
        Group 
     Onerous   Vacant   
     contracts   property   Total
     £m   £m   £m
Balance at 1 April 2008     9.3   8.5   17.8
Charge to income statement      8.0   6.9   14.9
Provisions utilised      (2.1)  (3.7)  (5.8)
Difference on exchange      –   0.1   0.1 
Unwinding of discount      0.6   0.1  0.7
Balance at 31 March 2009      15.8   11.9   27.7 
The onerous contracts and vacant property provisions are discounted. No provision has been released or utilised for any purpose other than  
that for which it was established.
The onerous contracts provision relates to PFI school and hospital facilities management contracts in the Asset Management segment.  
The PFI provisions held are expected to be utilised over the next 21 years.
The vacant property provision is expected to be utilised over the next 11 years.      
         
       
29. Post-employment benefit liabilities
The Group’s post-employment benefit liabilities are analysed below. The Group’s opening other post-employment benefit liabilities were 
previously disclosed within trade and other payables and have been restated. The restatement has no impact on the income statement  
of the Group.  
       Group 
      2009  2008 
      £m   £m
Retirement benefit liabilities       298.4   213.1 
Other post-employment benefit liabilities       13.1   6.2
         311.5   219.3 
a) Retirement benefit liabilities
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes. The two main defined benefit schemes are the Atkins 
Pension Plan and the Railways Pension Scheme, both of which are funded final salary schemes. The assets of both schemes are held in  
separate trustee administered funds. Other pension schemes include the Atkins McCarthy Pension Plan in the Republic of Ireland, which  
is a final salary funded defined benefit scheme, and a range of defined contribution schemes or equivalent. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 103
At 31 March 2009 the defined benefit section of the Atkins McCarthy pension scheme was closed to future accrual of benefits for members 
who do not enjoy a statutory or contractual right to a final salary pension. These members have transferred to the Personal Retirement  
Savings Accounts – Ireland (PRSA – Irish Life) scheme with effect from 1 April 2009.
In the previous year (30 September 2007) all defined benefit members of the Atkins Pension Plan were transferred to a defined contribution 
section for future service where it was clear they did not enjoy a statutory or contractual right to a final salary pension; although the service 
accrual under the defined benefit sections ceased for these members, the link to final salary remains whilst employed by Atkins Limited  
(unless opting out or retiring if sooner). On 1 October 2007, 1,622 members transferred to a defined contribution section of the plan  
and, following further consultation, an additional 421 members transferred to the defined contribution section of the plan with effect from 
1 October 2008.
The defined benefit sections of all pension schemes are closed to new entrants, who are now offered membership of the defined  
contribution section.
Membership of the Group’s principal pension schemes is as follows:
 Defined benefit schemes Defined contribution schemes
 Atkins Pension  Railways Pension Atkins Pension
 Plan Scheme Plan F+G
    2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
    No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No.
Members  100   495   397  433   8,700   7,868   848   931
Restricted members  1,810   1,622   –   –   –   –   –   –
Deferred pensioners  6,549   6,557   322   325   4,784   3,907   973   849
Pensioners  2,585   2,430   227   192   –   –   –   –
    11,044 11,104 946   950   13,484   11,775   1,821   1,780 
Restricted members consists of staff who are no longer accruing final salary benefits but retain their entitlement to pensions linked to 
final salary based on years of service accumulated prior to the closure of the scheme to future accrual. These staff are also included where 
appropriate within defined contribution schemes. 
The main assumptions used for the IAS 19 valuation of the retirement benefit liabilities for the Atkins Pension Plan and the Railways Pension 
Scheme are listed in the table below:
      2009 2008
Price inflation       3.00% 3.60%
Rate of increase of pensions in payment
 Limited Price Indexation       3.00% 3.60%
 Limited Price Indexation to 2.5%       2.50% 2.50%
 Fixed       5.00% 5.00%
Rate of increase in salaries       4.50% 5.10%
Rate of increase for deferred pensioners       3.00% 3.60%
Discount rate       6.30% 6.50%
Expected rate of return on plan assets       6.60% 7.30%
Expected rate of social security increases       3.00% 3.60%
Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners 
 Men       22.3 years 22.2 years
 Women       24.7 years 24.6 years
Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners (current age 45)
 Men       24.2 years 24.1 years
  Women       26.6 years 26.5 years
The actuarial tables used to calculate the retirement benefit liabilities for the Atkins Pension Plan were the ‘2000 series’ standard tables,  
with medium cohort improvements and a minimum of 1% improvement per annum, based on year of use application. The Railways Pension 
Scheme results have been adjusted on an approximate basis to be based on the same mortality tables. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
104 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
The components of the pension cost are as follows: 
    Atkins  Railways
    Pension  Pension
    Plan Scheme Other  Total 
2009     £m   £m   £m   £m 
Cost of sales
Current service cost     4.6   3.7   0.6   8.9 
Total service cost     4.6   3.7   0.6   8.9 
Finance cost/(income)
Finance cost     52.8   12.5   0.3   65.6 
Expected return on plan assets      (45.9)  (13.5)  (0.3)  (59.7)
Net finance cost/(income)     6.9   (1.0)  –   5.9
Total charge to income statement for defined benefit schemes     11.5   2.7   0.6   14.8 
Charge for defined contribution schemes     –   –   28.2   28.2
Total charge to income statement     11.5   2.7   28.8  43.0
Statement of recognised income and expense
Loss on pension scheme assets      (136.2)  (56.4)  (1.6)  (194.2)
Changes in assumptions     47.7   22.2   1.5   71.4 
Actuarial loss     (88.5)  (34.2)  (0.1)  (122.8)
Deferred tax credited to equity     24.7   9.6   –   34.3 
Actuarial loss (net of deferred tax)     (63.8)  (24.6)  (0.1)  (88.5) 
    Atkins  Railways
    Pension  Pension
    Plan Scheme Other  Total 
2008    £m   £m   £m   £m 
Cost of sales 
Current service cost     12.2   4.0   0.5  16.7
Total service cost     12.2   4.0   0.5   16.7
Finance cost/(income) 
Finance cost     46.1   10.2  0.2  56.5
Expected return on plan assets      (42.6)  (12.4)  (0.4)  (55.4)
Net finance cost/(income)     3.5   (2.2)  (0.2)  1.1
Total charge to income statement for defined benefit schemes    15.7   1.8   0.3  17.8
Charge for defined contribution schemes     –   –   19.0   19.0
Total charge to income statement     15.7   1.8   19.3  36.8
Statement of recognised income and expense  
Loss on pension scheme assets     (68.4)  (18.3)  (1.4)  (88.1)
Changes in assumptions     92.7   2.6   (0.8)  94.5 
Actuarial gain/(loss)     24.3   (15.7)  (2.2)  6.4 
Deferred tax (charged)/credited to equity      (11.9)  4.1   0.4   (7.4)
Actuarial gain/(loss) (net of deferred tax)     12.4  (11.6)  (1.8)  (1.0) Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 105
The expected return on plan assets is based on market expectations at the beginning of the year for returns over the entire life of the  
benefit obligation. 
    Atkins  Railways
    Pension  Pension
    Plan Scheme Other  Total 
2009     £m   £m   £m   £m 
Defined benefit obligation     (812.2)  (184.2)  (7.0)  (1,003.4)
Fair value of plan assets     579.6   121.2   4.2   705.0
Retirement benefit liabilities     (232.6)  (63.0)  (2.8)  (298.4)
     Atkins  Railways
    Pension  Pension
    Plan Scheme Other  Total 
2008     £m   £m   £m   £m 
Defined benefit obligation     (820.1)  (194.7)  (7.1)  (1,021.9)
Fair value of plan assets     638.5   165.7   4.6   808.8 
Retirement benefit liabilities      (181.6)  (29.0)  (2.5)  (213.1)
Other includes the Atkins McCarthy defined benefit pension scheme and an unfunded pension obligation in relation to a former director,  
for £0.5m (2008: £0.5m). 
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows:
 Expected  Atkins Pension Railways Pension
 asset return Plan   Scheme
2009    %  %   £m   %   £m
Equities    7.90 47.0  272.4  80.0  97.0 
Bonds    6.40 45.0  260.8  10.0  12.1
Property    7.15 7.0  40.6  10.0  12.1 
Other/cash    3.50 1.0  5.8 –   –
      100.0  579.6  100.0  121.2
    
 Expected  Atkins Pension Railways Pension
 asset return Plan   Scheme
2009    %  %   £m   %   £m
Equities    8.40 55.0  351.2  81.0  134.2
Bonds    6.50 41.0  261.8  9.0  14.9
Property    7.45 4.0  25.5  10.0  16.6
Other/cash    5.00  –   –  –   – 
      100.0  638.5  100.0  165.7
The plan assets do not include any of the Group’s own financial instruments or property occupied by the Group. 
Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 
    Atkins  Railways
    Pension  Pension
    Plan Scheme Other  Total 
2009    £m   £m   £m   £m 
Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year     820.1   194.7   7.1   1,021.9 
Service cost     4.6   3.7   0.6   8.9
Interest cost     52.8   12.5   0.3   65.6
Change of assumptions      (47.7)  (22.2)  (1.5)  (71.4)
Employee contributions     0.4   1.7   0.2   2.3 
Benefit payments      (18.0)  (6.2)  (0.7)  (24.9)
Difference on exchange      –   –   1.0   1.0 
Defined benefit obligation at end of year      812.2   184.2   7.0   1,003.4  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
106 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
    Atkins  Railways
    Pension  Pension
    Plan Scheme Other  Total 
2008    £m   £m   £m   £m 
Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year     867.3   185.3   5.6  1,058.2 
Service cost     12.2   4.0   0.5   16.7
Interest cost     46.1   10.2   0.2   56.5
Change of assumptions      (92.7)  (2.6)  0.8   (94.5)
Employee contributions     3.9   1.8   0.2   5.9 
Benefit payments      (16.7)  (4.0)  (0.9)  (21.6)
Difference on exchange     –   –   0.7   0.7 
Defined benefit obligation at end of year      820.1   194.7   7.1   1,021.9 
Movements in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 
    Atkins  Railways
    Pension  Pension
    Plan Scheme Other  Total 
2009    £m   £m   £m   £m 
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year     638.5   165.7   4.6   808.8 
Expected return on plan assets     45.9   13.5   0.3   59.7 
Employer contributions     49.0   2.9   0.6   52.5
Employee contributions     0.4   1.7   0.2  2.3
Benefits paid     (18.0)  (6.2)  (0.7)  (24.9) 
Actuarial loss      (136.2)  (56.4)  (1.6)  (194.2)
Difference on exchange      –   –   0.8   0.8 
Fair value of plan assets at end of year      579.6   121.2   4.2   705.0 
    Atkins  Railways
    Pension  Pension
    Plan Scheme Other  Total 
2008    £m   £m   £m   £m 
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year     632.3   170.8   5.0  808.1
Expected return on plan assets     42.6   12.4   0.4   55.4
Employer contributions     44.8   3.0   0.7   48.5
Employee contributions     3.9   1.8   0.2  5.9 
Benefits paid     (16.7)  (4.0)  (0.9)  (21.6)
Actuarial loss     (68.4)  (18.3)  (1.4)  (88.1)
Difference on exchange      –   –   0.6   0.6 
Fair value of plan assets at end of year     638.5   165.7   4.6   808.8 
Movements in the retirement benefit liabilities are as follows:        
     Atkins  Railways
    Pension  Pension
    Plan Scheme Other  Total 
2009    £m   £m   £m   £m 
Retirement benefit liabilities at beginning of year    (181.6)  (29.0)  (2.5)  (213.1)
Service cost     (4.6)  (3.7)  (0.6)  (8.9)
Net finance (cost)/income     (6.9)  1.0   –  (5.9)
Contributions     49.0   2.9   0.6  52.5
Actuarial loss     (88.5)  (34.2)  (0.1)  (122.8)
Difference on exchange      –   –   (0.2)  (0.2)
Retirement benefit liabilities at end of year      (232.6)  (63.0)  (2.8)  (298.4) Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 107
    Atkins  Railways
    Pension  Pension
    Plan Scheme Other  Total 
2008    £m   £m   £m   £m 
Retirement benefit liabilities at beginning of year    (235.0)  (14.5)  (0.6)  (250.1)
Service cost      (12.2)  (4.0)  (0.5)  (16.7)
Net finance (cost)/income      (3.5)  2.2   0.2   (1.1)
Contributions     44.8   3.0   0.7   48.5 
Actuarial gain/(loss)      24.3   (15.7)  (2.2) 6.4 
Difference on exchange      –   –   (0.1)  (0.1)
Retirement benefit liabilities at end of year      (181.6)  (29.0)  (2.5)  (213.1)
Cumulative net actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in equity are as follows:       
     Atkins  Railways
    Pension  Pension
    Plan Scheme Other  Total 
2009    £m   £m   £m   £m 
At beginning of year      (19.5)  (0.5)  (2.7)  (22.7)
Net actuarial loss recognised in the year      (88.5)  (34.2)  (0.1)  (122.8)
At end of year      (108.0)  (34.7)  (2.8)  (145.5)
     Atkins  Railways
    Pension  Pension
    Plan Scheme Other  Total 
2008    £m   £m   £m   £m 
At beginning of year      (43.8)  15.2   (0.5)  (29.1)
Net actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the year      24.3   (15.7)  (2.2)  6.4 
At end of year      (19.5)  (0.5)  (2.7)  (22.7)
The return on plan assets is as follows:         
     Atkins  Railways
    Pension  Pension
    Plan Scheme Other  Total 
2009    £m   £m   £m   £m 
Expected return on plan assets     45.9   13.5   0.3   59.7
Actuarial loss on plan assets      (136.2)  (56.4)  (1.6)  (194.2)
Experience loss on plan assets      (90.3)  (42.9)  (1.3)  (134.5)
    Atkins  Railways
    Pension  Pension
    Plan Scheme Other  Total 
2008    £m   £m   £m   £m 
Expected return on plan assets     42.6   12.4   0.4   55.4 
Actuarial loss on plan assets      (68.4)  (18.3)  (1.4)  (88.1)
Experience loss on plan assets      (25.8)  (5.9)  (1.0) (32.7) WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
108 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
History of experience gains and losses:  
   2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
   Total   Total   Total   Total  Total
Experience gain/(loss) on scheme assets     £(194.2)m  £(88.1)m £3.4m £88.4m £16.1m
Percentage of scheme assets    (27.5)% (10.9)% 0.4% 12.2% 2.8%
Experience gain/(loss) on scheme liabilities    £9.1m £20.7m £(0.5)m  £15.8m £(11.5)m
Percentage of defined benefit obligation    (0.9)% (2.0)% 0.0% (1.5)% 1.4%
Defined benefit obligation     £(1,003.4)m  £(1,021.9)m  £(1,058.2)m  £(1,021.9)m £(843.9)m
Fair value of plan assets    £705.0m £808.8m £808.1m £722.0m £569.7m
Retirement benefit liability     £(298.4)m  £(213.1)m  £(250.1)m  £(299.9)m  £(274.2)m
The Group expects employer contributions to be paid during the financial year to 31 March 2010 to be circa £39.5m, of which £32.0m is in 
relation to the funding of the actuarial deficit, and employee contributions paid to be circa £2.3m. Expected benefit payments made directly  
by the Group to pensioners in the financial year to 31 March 2010 are £nil.
The approximate effect on the liabilities from changes in the main assumptions used to value the liabilities are as follows:
       Effect on plan liabilities
     Change in assumption Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme
Discount rate   increase/decrease 0.5% decrease/increase 10.0% decrease/increase 9.0%
Inflation   increase/decrease 0.5% increase/decrease 8.0% increase/decrease 9.0%
Real rate of increase in salaries   increase/decrease 0.5% increase/decrease 2.0% increase/decrease 3.0%
Longevity   increase 1 year increase 3.0% increase 2.0%
The effect of the change in inflation on liabilities assumes a corresponding increase in salary increases and inflation-related pension increases. 
b) Other post-employment benefit liabilities
The Group operates unfunded gratuity schemes within certain of its non-UK businesses. Members of the schemes are entitled to receive  
a cash gratuity on leaving the business which is dependent on their length of employment and final salary. Valuation of the gratuity obligation  
is carried out in line with the principles of IAS 19, Post-employment benefits. 
         Group
      2009 2008 
      £m   £m 
Other post-employment obligation at beginning of year     6.2   3.3 
Service cost       4.0   3.1 
Interest cost       0.7  0.3
Benefi t payments       (1.0)  (0.4)
Difference on exchange       3.2   (0.1)
Other post-employment obligation at end of year     13.1  6.2
The main assumptions used for the IAS 19 valuation of other post-employment benefits are listed in the table below:
      2009 2008
Discount rate       9% 9%
Salary inflation       7% 9%
Average remaining service period       2 years 3 years Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 109
30. Other non-current liabilities
       Group 
      2009   2008
       £m   £m 
Deferred PFI/PPP bid costs recovered, deferred consideration and development fees:
Maturing between one and two years       0.9   1.6
Maturing between two and five years       1.1   0.4 
Maturing after more than five years       2.8   2.9
         4.8   4.9 
31. Ordinary shares       
      Group and Company 
       2009     2008 
    No. Shares   £m   No. Shares   £m
Authorised
Authorised at 1 April and 31 March ordinary shares of 0.5p each   150,000,000   0.8  150,000,000   0.8
Issued, allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 0.5p each 
At 1 April     104,451,799   0.5   104,451,799   0.5
At 31 March      104,451,799   0.5   104,451,799  0.5
At the 2008 Annual General Meeting (AGM), shareholder authority was obtained for the Company to purchase up to a maximum of 10.1m  
of its own ordinary shares (representing approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company on 25 June 2008) for a period  
ending on the earlier of the next annual general meeting or 3 December 2009, provided that certain conditions (relating to the purchase  
price) are met. The Notice of Meeting for the AGM to be held at 1630 hours on Wednesday 9 September 2009 proposes that shareholders  
approve a resolution updating and renewing this authority. Shares in the Company may also be purchased by Atkins’ Employee Benefit Trusts.
As at the date of this report there were 4,341,000 ordinary shares of 0.5p each (nominal value £21,705) held as treasury shares. 1,123,000 
shares were purchased during the year ended 31 March 2009 (2008: 3,218,000) at a cost of £11.3m excluding fees and stamp duty  
(2008: £34.7m). The 4,341,000 treasury shares, which represent approximately 4.2% of the total (2008: 3.1%) of the called-up share capital  
as at the date of this report, have not been cancelled but are held as treasury shares and represent a deduction from shareholders’ equity. 
32. Share-based payments
Long-Term Incentive Plans
Atkins Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) September 2006 onwards
A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to make awards to employees that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, 
in cash. There are different performance targets for different categories of management. Awards made to executive directors and senior 
employees have 50% of the award subject to the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) performance relative to the constituents of the 
FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) on the date of the award. Full vesting of this portion of the award will take place if the Company  
is ranked in the upper quartile, 30% vesting will be achieved with a median ranking with pro rata vesting for intermediate performance.  
No vesting will occur for a ranking below median. 
The remaining 50% of the award made to executive directors and senior employees is subject to the Company’s real growth in normalised 
earnings per share (EPS) over the performance period. For the 2006 and subsequent awards the growth target required the increase to be 
more than 10% per annum above the UK Retail Price Index (RPI) in the three-year performance period to allow full vesting; if the increase  
is less than 4% per annum above the UK RPI then there will be no vesting. A sliding scale operates between 4% and 10% above the UK RPI.
Awards made to other participants are subject solely to the EPS condition. As a general rule awards made to participants who leave 
employment prior to vesting will lapse. In the event a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason they receive a pro-rated entitlement. 
Subject to vesting, participants are entitled to receive the benefit of dividends declared following award, without interest. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
110 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
Atkins Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) September 2003 to August 2006
A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to make awards to employees that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, 
in cash. The performance condition is TSR with an EPS growth underpin measured over three financial years starting with the financial year 
beginning immediately after the award is granted. Full vesting of any award will take place for a top 20% ranking against a group of up to  
16 comparator companies, 30% vesting for a median ranking and no award if TSR falls below the median. The EPS underpin is the UK RPI  
plus 2% per annum. As a general rule awards made to participants who leave employment prior to vesting will lapse. In the event that  
a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason they received a pro-rated entitlement. All awards have now vested. 
Atkins Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) pre-September 2003
A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to make awards to employees that are settled in equity. Awards have an  
EPS performance condition. EPS is required to be more than 12% per annum above the UK RPI in the relevant three-year performance  
period to enable all of the ordinary shares to be acquired, but if the EPS growth is less than 5% per annum above the UK RPI then none  
of the ordinary shares can be acquired. A sliding scale in relation to the number of ordinary shares that can be acquired operates for growth  
in EPS between 5% and 12% above the UK RPI. Participants are entitled to receive the benefit of dividends declared, without interest,  
on the shares subject to the award between vesting and exercise. As a general rule awards made to participants who leave employment  
prior to vesting will lapse. In the event that a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason they receive a pro-rated entitlement.  
All awards have now vested.
WS Atkins Employees’ Stock Option Plan (ESOP)
A share plan used to make awards to key employees in the US that is settled in equity or in cash and which permits options to be granted  
at an exercise price no lower than the market price of a share at the time of grant. Options vest after three years and must be exercised  
within 10 years of the date of grant. All awards have now vested.
Atkins Restricted Stock Unit Plan (RSU)
A share plan used to make awards to key employees following the acquisition of Hanscomb. There is no performance condition but awards  
are restricted for three years from the date of award. As a general rule awards made to participants who leave employment prior to vesting  
will lapse. In the event that a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason they will receive their award in full.
Deferred Bonus Plans 
Atkins Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP)
A share plan for senior executives and key employees that is settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash. There is no performance 
condition but awards are restricted for at least three years from the date of award. As a general rule awards made to participants who leave 
employment prior to vesting will lapse. In the event that a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason they will receive their award in 
full. In the case of awards to executive directors, the value of the shares over which an award may be granted under the plan shall be taken 
to form part of the annual bonus payable to that participant. Awards may also be granted under the plan to employees below the level of 
executive directors that do not form part of their annual bonus (for instance, on recruitment of the employee).
Atkins Retention Bonus Plan (RBP)
A share plan for senior executives and key employees that is settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash. Awards cannot be made 
to executive directors. There is no performance condition but awards are restricted for a set period, fixed by the Remuneration Committee 
at grant, from the date of the award. As a general rule awards made to participants who leave employment prior to vesting will lapse. In the 
event that a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason they will receive their award in full. In the case of awards to senior executives, 
the value of the shares over which an award may be granted under the plan shall be taken to form part of the annual bonus payable to that 
participant. Awards may also be granted under the plan to employees below the level of senior executives that do not form part of their  
annual bonus (for instance, on recruitment on the employee).
The Group’s share-based payments charge for the year of £8.9m (2008: £8.6m) has been included in administrative expenses in the  
income statement.  Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 111
The effect of the share-based payment transactions on the Group’s result and financial position is as follows:
       Group 
       2009  2008 
      £m   £m
Total expense recognised for equity-settled share-based payment transactions    8.7   8.1 
Total expense recognised for cash-settled share-based payment transactions    0.2   0.5 
       8.9   8.6
Closing balance of liability for cash-settled share-based payment transactions    1.0   0.7 
As at 31 March 2009 the following awards were outstanding:       
    LTIPs
1
  DBP/RBP
2
        Weighted   Weighted
        average  average
        exercise/   exercise/
       Number transfer price  Number  transfer price
Awards outstanding at 1 April 2007    2,701,298  0.61p  926,750   – 
Granted    774,029  –   378,304  – 
Exercised/transferred    (299,152) –   (250,633)  – 
Lapsed     (763,948) –  –  – 
Forfeited    (170,943) – (54,145) –
Awards outstanding at 1 April 2008    2,241,284  0.78p  1,000,276   – 
Granted    441,319  –   798,902   – 
Exercised/transferred     (145,700) –   (213,509)  – 
Lapsed     (359,336) –   (467)  –
Forfeited    (155,712) – (63,007) –
Awards outstanding at 31 March 2009     2,021,855  0.16p  1,522,195  – 
1. Including LTIP, ESOP and RSU awards.
2. Including DBP and RBP awards.    
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 934.86p (2008: 1081.78p).     
         
A summary of awards outstanding as at 31 March 2009 is as follows:
     Weighted
     average Awards Awards
     remaining outstanding exercisable
  Award  Exercise  Scheme  Maximum contractual at 31 March  at 31 March
Scheme date   price  maturity   term  life  2009 2009
LTIPs
LTIP (September 2006  11/09/2006 to
TSR/EPS onwards) 09/01/2009   0.0p   3 years  3 to 10 years  7.88 years  468,132   – 
LTIP (September 2006  11/09/2006 to
EPS onwards) 27/06/2008   0.0p   3 years   3 to 10 years  7.32 years  1,076,554   – 
LTIP (September 2003  17/09/2003 to
to August 2006) 24/06/2005  0.0p   3 to 4 years  3 to 10 years  5.93 years  406,043   57,240 
LTIP (pre-September 2003) 30/11/2001 0.0p 3 years 3 to 10 years 2.67 years 2,297 2,297
ESOP 08/06/2001   832.5p   3 years   10 years  2.19 years  400   400
RSU 29/06/2006  0.0p 3 years 3 years 0.88 years 68,429 – 
  to 29/06/2007            
DBPs        
DBP  26/08/2002  0.0p 3 years 3 to 10 years 6.87 years 501,158 128,339 
  to 27/06/2008            
RBP  29/06/2007  0.0p 2 to 3 years 2 to 10 years 8.31 years 1,021,037 – 
   to 28/11/2008            
On 27 June 2008 the Group issued awards over 423,450 shares to employees under the LTIP, 28,229 shares to employees under the DBP  
and 700,882 shares to employees under the RBP.
On 28 November 2008 the Group issued awards over 10,500 shares to employees under the LTIP and 69,791 shares to employees under  
the RBP. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
112 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
On 1 January 2009 the Group issued awards over 7,369 shares to employees under the LTIP.
At 31 March 2009 the Group’s Employee Benefit Trusts held 2,339,512 shares (2008: 2,697,476 shares) at a nominal value of £0.0m  
(2008: £0.0m) and market value of £11.6m (2008: £28.4m).
For the purposes of valuing LTIP awards with market performance conditions, the Monte Carlo model has been used to arrive at the  
share-based payments charge. The assumptions used in the model are as follows:
       LTIP LTIP
       2009 2008
Exercise price     £nil   £nil 
Risk-free interest rate     n/a n/a
Discount in respect of dividend yield     0% 0%
Volatility of share price     24.5% and 35.8% 22.6%
Share price at grant date 
– 03/08/2007     1,035.0p  1,035.0p 
– 27/06/2008     1,048.0p – 
– 27/11/2008     611.0p –
Expected term     3 years from grant date 3 years from grant date
Volatility was determined based on the movement in the share price over a period prior to the grant date equal in length to the period over 
which the TSR condition applies, which equates to a three-year share price history (2008: a three-year share price history). The fair value  
of share plans involving market performance conditions takes into account market information.
 
In accordance with the rules of the plan, the Monte Carlo model simulates TSR for the Company and a comparator group. In 2009 and 2008 
the comparator group consisted of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts. The model takes into account historic dividends and share price 
volatilities for the Company and the comparator group to produce a predicted distribution of relative share performance.
Awards that do not contain market performance conditions are valued at market value at date of award and discounted in the event that  
the award does not benefit from dividends during the vesting period.
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was 993.70p (2008: 1009.88p).
33. Statement of changes in equity
       Equity 
       Retained  shareholders’ 
   Share Share  Merger (loss)/ (deficit)/ 
   capital premium reserve earnings funds
   £m £m £m £m £m
Group
Balance at 1 April 2007    0.5   62.4   8.9   (147.9)  (76.1)
Profit for the year    –   –   –   100.0   100.0
Dividends    –   –   –   (21.8)  (21.8)
Actuarial loss on retirement benefit liabilities (net of deferred tax)  –   –   –   (1.0)  (1.0)
Share-based movements    –   –   –   7.7   7.7
Share buyback   –  –   –   (34.9)  (34.9)
Share of Joint Venture equity items    –   –   –   0.2  0.2
Cash flow hedges    –   –   –   (0.8)  (0.8)
Net differences on exchange    –   –   –   3.3  3.3
Balance at 31 March 2008    0.5   62.4   8.9   (95.2)  (23.4) 
Profit for the year    –   –   –   84.2   84.2
Dividends    –  –   –   (24.7)  (24.7)
Actuarial loss on retirement benefit liabilities (net of deferred tax)  –   –   –   (88.5)  (88.5)
Share-based movements    –   –   –  8.0   8.0 
Share buyback    –   –   –   (11.5)  (11.5)
Net differences on exchange    –   –   –  12.4   12.4 
Balance at 31 March 2009    0.5   62.4   8.9   (115.3)  (43.5) Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 113
       Equity 
       Retained  shareholders’ 
   Share Share  Merger (loss)/ (deficit)/ 
   capital premium reserve earnings funds
   £m £m £m £m £m
Company
Balance at 1 April 2007   0.5   62.4   8.9   35.0   106.8 
Profit for the year (note 13)    –   –   –   68.7  68.7
Share-based movements    –   –   –   8.1   8.1
Dividends    –   –   –   (21.8)  (21.8)
Share buyback    –   –   –   (34.9)  (34.9)
Balance at 31 March 2008   0.5   62.4   8.9   55.1   126.9
 
Profit for the year (note 13)    –   –   –   9.6   9.6 
Share-based movements    –   –   –  8.5   8.5 
Dividends    –   –   –   (24.7)  (24.7) 
Share buyback    –   –   –   (11.5)  (11.5)
Balance at 31 March 2009   0.5   62.4   8.9   37.0 108.8
Share capital
The balance of the share capital account represents the aggregate nominal value of all ordinary shares in issue.
Share premium
The balance on the share premium account represents the amounts received in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares in issue.
Merger reserve
The balance on the merger reserve represents the fair value of the consideration given in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares 
issued in an acquisition made by shares where the Group took relief under Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 from the requirement  
to establish a share premium account.
   
Retained (loss)/earnings
The balance held in retained (loss)/earnings is the accumulated profits and losses of the Group. WS Atkins plc shares held by the EBTs are 
deducted from retained (loss)/earnings.
Goodwill that arose prior to 1 April 1997 amounting to £15.9m, of which positive and negative goodwill totalled £26.3m and £10.4m 
respectively, has been written off to retained (loss)/earnings. 
The Company opening reserves balances have been restated to take into account the effect of the implementation of IFRIC 11, IFRS 2, 
Group and treasury share transactions. This adjustment had no effect on the Group. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
114 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
34. Cash generated from continuing operations 
 Group Company
    2009   2008   2009   2008  
    £m   £m  £m   £m
Profit for the year     84.2   68.6   9.6   68.7
Adjustments for:
Income tax (note 8)     18.5   23.3   –   – 
Finance income (note 7)     (6.7)  (9.8)  (0.8)  (0.8)
Finance cost (note 7)     9.8   5.5   0.3   –
Share of post-tax profit from Joint Ventures (note 4)    (0.2)  (0.9)  –   – 
Depreciation charges     20.7   19.3   –   – 
Profit on disposal of Joint Venture     (2.5) – – –
Amortisation charges     12.7   11.1   –  – 
Release of deferred income     (0.1)  (3.0)  –   –
Share-based payment charge (note 32)     8.9   8.6   –   – 
Result on disposal of property, plant and equipment    0.7   0.1   –   – 
Dividends received     –   –   –   (10.9)
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries     –   –   –   (57.7)
Movement in provisions (note 28)     9.2   (5.5)  –   –
Movement in inventories (note 21)     –   0.1   –   – 
Movement in trade and other receivables (note 22)    (34.1)  (37.2)  (3.0)  0.1 
Movement in payables (note 26)     45.0   29.8  22.6   56.3
Movement in post-employment benefits (note 29)    (40.6)  (29.1)  –  – 
Cash generated from continuing operations     125.5   80.9  28.7  55.7
       
35. Analysis of net funds
   At 31 March  Cash Other non-  Exchange At 31 March
    2008 flow cash changes movement  2009  
   £m   £m   £m   £m   £m
Cash and cash equivalents    154.5   38.2   –  17.0   209.7
Loan notes receivable    5.6   6.9   0.4   –   12.9
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss   29.7   (1.0)  –   –   28.7
Borrowings due within one year    (4.2)  4.3   (2.9)  –   (2.8)
Borrowings due after one year    (3.2)  –   2.6   –   (0.6)
Finance leases    (14.0)  4.5   (4.2)  –   (13.7)
Net funds    168.4   52.9   (4.1)  17.0   234.2 
36. Contingent liabilities
The Group has given indemnities in respect of overseas office overdrafts, performance bonds, advance payment bonds, Letters of Credit  
and import duty guarantees issued on its behalf. The amount outstanding at 31 March 2009 was £61.5m (2008: £73.1m) including £25.0m  
in respect of Metronet (2008: £25.0m). The indemnities, which arose in the ordinary course of business, are not expected to result in any 
material financial loss. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 115
37. Operating lease arrangements
         Group
     2009    2008
     Vehicles,   Vehicles, 
      plant and  plant and 
    Property equipment Property  equipment
    £m   £m   £m  £m 
Future aggregate minimum lease payments  
under non-cancellable operating leases expiring:
 Within one year     13.3   7.8   20.0   4.1
 Later than one year but less than five years     27.4   10.5   59.3 5.9
 After five years     130.0   0.2   66.5   0.3
       170.7   18.5   145.8  10.3 
The Company had no operating lease commitments as at 31 March 2009 (2008: £nil).
         Group
     2009    2008
     Vehicles,   Vehicles, 
      plant and  plant and 
    Property equipment Property  equipment
    £m   £m   £m  £m 
Amounts receivable under non-cancellable operating leases expiring:
 Within one year     0.1   0.2   1.1  0.4
 Later than one year but less than five years     0.3   2.4   2.4   1.0
 After five years     1.3   0.5   1.3   0.1
      1.7  3.1   4.8   1.5
The Company had no operating lease receivables as at 31 March 2009 (2008: £nil).
38. Capital and other financial commitments 
       Group
      2009  2008 
       £m   £m 
Capital expenditure contracted for but not incurred – property, plant and equipment    2.2   8.2
The Group is committed to make payments for equity and debt into Special Purpose Companies under Public Private Partnership (PPP)  
and Private Finance Initiative (PFI) contracts of £20m (2008: £6.8m).
39. Related party transactions
Details of the directors’ shareholdings, share options and remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report, which forms part of these 
Financial Statements.
Transactions with the retirement benefit schemes are shown in note 29. 
Details of the Company’s principal subsidiaries are shown in note 40 and principal Joint Ventures in note 41. 
a) Group sales and purchases of goods and services to/from Joint Ventures
       Group 
      2009   2008 
       £m   £m 
Sales of goods and services to Joint Ventures      26.4   43.6 
Purchases of goods and services from Joint Ventures      –   –  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
116 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued
b)  Group year-end balances arising from sales/purchases of goods and services to/from Joint Ventures and loans provided 
to Joint Ventures 
       Group  
      2009  2008
      £m  £m
Receivables from Joint Ventures       7.8   9.7 
Receivables from Joint Ventures are shown net of contract-related provisions of £23.1m (2008: £22.6m) which were previously held within 
amounts recoverable on contracts. 
Payables to Joint Ventures      – –
c) Company sales/purchases of goods and services to/from subsidiaries
The Company did not sell any goods or services to subsidiaries during the year (2008: £nil). The Company did not purchase any goods  
or services from its subsidiaries during the year (2008: £nil).
d) Company year-end balances with subsidiaries
       Company 
       2009   2008 
       £m   £m 
Receivables from subsidiaries       11.4   8.4 
Payables to subsidiaries       57.4   23.8
Provision of goods and services to and purchases of goods and services from related parties were made at the rates charged to external 
customers. The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. No provision  
has been made for doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties and £nil charged to income and expense (2008: £nil).
Receivables from subsidiaries are shown net of impairment of £111.5m (2008: £121.0m).
e) Key management compensation
Key management comprises the executive and non-executive directors, and certain senior managers who are members of the Group Executive.
       Group  
      2009  2008
      £m  £m
Salaries and other short-term employment benefits      5.1   4.9 
Post-employment benefi ts       0.2   0.3
Share-based payments       1.3   1.0
        6.6  6.2 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 117
40. Subsidiary undertakings
The following companies were the principal subsidiary undertakings as at 31 March 2009: 
     Country of Class and
     registration/ percentage
     incorporation of shares held Nature of business
Atkins China Limited  China 100% ordinary Consulting engineers
Atkins Facilities Management Limited  England and Wales 100% ordinary Property services
Atkins Investments Limited
1
  England and Wales 100% ordinary Investment company
Atkins Limited
1
  England and Wales 100% ordinary Consulting engineers
Atkins Investments UK Limited  England and Wales 100% ordinary Holding company
Faithful+Gould Inc
1
  USA 100% ordinary Project and programme 
       management consultants
Faithful+Gould Limited
1
  England and Wales 100% ordinary Quantity surveyors and
       cost estimators
WS Atkins & Partners Overseas
1
  Gibraltar 100% ordinary Consulting engineers
WS Atkins Insurance (Guernsey) Limited
1
  Guernsey 100% ordinary Insurance
WS Atkins International Limited
1
  England and Wales 100% ordinary Consulting engineers
1. Owned by a subsidiary undertaking other than WS Atkins plc.
The percentage of the issued share capital held by the Group is equivalent to the percentage of voting rights held. The Group holds the  
whole of all classes of issued share capital.
All the above operate in the country of registration, except for WS Atkins & Partners Overseas, which operates in the Middle East. 
A full list of subsidiary companies will be filed at Companies House with the Company’s Annual Return.
41. Joint Ventures
The following represents the principal Joint Ventures in which the Group participated during the year:     
      Date of last   
      audited 
     Proportion of  financial External
Name Nature of business shares held
2
 statements  auditors
RMPA Holdings Limited
1
 Holding company for companies involved in  14.0% 31 Mar 2008 KPMG Audit PLC
    the design, financing and construction of the 
    MoD garrison facility at Colchester.   
All Joint Ventures operate in the United Kingdom unless otherwise stated.
1. Owned by a subsidiary undertaking other than WS Atkins plc.
2.  Proportion of shares held is in respect of ordinary share capital. There are no special rights or constraints on the shares. There are no restrictions on distributions  
from any of these Joint Ventures.
         
      WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
118 Financial Statements
Five-Year Summary  
Consolidated income statements for years ended 31 March
   2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 
   £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue (Group and share of Joint Ventures)   1,532.4  1,399.5  1,240.3  1,411.0  1,157.3 
Revenue    1,487.2  1,313.6  1,179.8  1,052.5  955.0 
Cost of sales    (941.9) (834.1) (781.1) (637.3) (579.3)
Gross profit    545.3  479.5  398.7  415.2  375.7 
Administrative expenses    (442.2) (392.8) (335.0) (352.3) (332.7)
Operating profit    103.1  86.7  63.7  62.9  43.0 
Profit on disposal of Joint Ventures    2.5  –  –  6.4  3.7
Share of post-tax profit from Joint Ventures    0.2  0.9  2.8  8.8  10.2 
Profit from operations    105.8  87.6  66.5  78.1  56.9 
 
Finance income    6.7  9.8  9.0  7.9  6.8 
Finance cost    (9.8) (5.5) (5.4) (11.2) (10.7)
Net finance (cost)/income   (3.1) 4.3  3.6  (3.3) (3.9)
Profit before taxation    102.7  91.9  70.1  74.8  53.0 
Income tax expense    (18.5) (23.3) (15.2) (17.9) (14.1)
Profit for the year from continuing operations   84.2  68.6  54.9  56.9  38.9 
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations   –  31.4  (112.2) –  – 
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity shareholders  84.2  100.0  (57.3) 56.9  38.9
Basic earnings/(loss) per share    
– continuing operations    86.1p 67.9p 54.4p 57.0p 39.3p
– discontinued operations    –  31.0p (111.2)p –  – 
    86.1p 98.9p (56.8)p 57.0p 39.3p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share 
– continuing operations    84.8p 66.7p 53.8p 55.9p 38.7p
– discontinued operations    –  30.5p (110.6)p –  – 
     84.8p 97.2p (56.8)p 55.9p 38.7p Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Statements 119
Consolidated balance sheets as at 31 March
 
   2009 2008  2007 2006 2005
   £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill   62.3  56.7  64.8  35.6  29.3 
Other intangible assets    9.0  10.9  9.4  10.0  10.8 
Property, plant and equipment   46.6  45.6  46.2  47.2  34.2
Other receivables   12.9  5.7  0.1  21.6  22.8 
Investments in Joint Ventures   3.9  4.2  (26.0) 46.2  41.6
Deferred income tax assets   101.6  69.6  89.8  103.8  97.5
    236.3  192.7  184.3  264.4  236.2 
Current assets
Inventories   0.3  0.3  0.4  0.2  0.2 
Trade and other receivables   353.7  299.7  284.0  272.9  266.7
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss  28.7  29.7  49.6  20.7 11.1 
Cash and cash equivalents   209.7  154.5  187.7  177.4  114.6 
    592.4  484.2  521.7  471.2  392.6
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Borrowings   (7.6) (7.8) (3.7) (6.5) (2.6)
Trade and other payables   (478.7) (409.2) (418.6) (379.5) (332.7)
Derivative financial instruments   (1.2) (0.9) (0.1) –  – 
Current income tax liabilities   (31.2) (26.8) (28.3) (12.3) (10.8)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges   (9.9) (4.3) (8.7) (2.8) (2.8)
    (528.6) (449.0) (459.4) (401.1) (348.9)
Net current assets   63.8  35.2  62.3  70.1  43.7 
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings   (9.5) (13.6) (34.5) (35.1) (21.5)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges   (17.8) (13.5) (14.3) (11.7) (11.1)
Post-employment benefit liabilities   (311.5) (219.3) (250.1) (299.9) (274.2)
Other non-current liabilities   (4.8) (4.9) (23.8) (23.9) (26.5)
    (343.6) (251.3) (322.7) (370.6) (333.3)
Net liabilities   (43.5) (23.4) (76.1) (36.1) (53.4)
Capital and reserves
Ordinary shares   0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5 
Share premium account   62.4  62.4  62.4  62.4  62.4 
Merger reserve   8.9  8.9  8.9  8.9 8.9
Retained loss   (115.3) (95.2) (147.9) (107.9) (125.2)
Equity shareholders’ deficit   (43.5) (23.4) (76.1) (36.1) (53.4) WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
120 Financial Statements
Consolidated cash flow statements for the years ended 31 March
   2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 
   £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Profit for the year   84.2  68.6  54.9  56.9  38.9 
Adjustments for:
Income tax   18.5  23.3  15.2  17.9  14.1 
Finance income   (6.7) (9.8) (9.0) (7.9) (6.8)
Finance cost   9.8  5.5  5.4  11.2  10.7 
Share of post-tax profits from Joint Ventures   (0.2) (0.9) (2.8) (8.8) (10.2)
Profit on disposal of Joint Ventures   (2.5) –  –  (6.4) (3.7)
Depreciation charges    20.7  19.3  18.8  14.7  19.1 
Amortisation charges   12.7  11.1  11.6  9.6  8.7 
Release of deferred income   (0.1) (3.0) (0.2) (0.8) (0.8)
Impairment of goodwill   –  –  –  –  7.2
Share-based payment charge   8.9  8.6  5.1  3.0  2.2 
Result on disposal of property, plant and equipment  0.7  0.1  (0.1) 0.7  (0.4)
Movement in provisions   9.2  (5.5) 8.5  (0.1) 2.8 
Working capital movements   (29.7) (36.4) (13.5) 21.7  6.3 
Cash generated from continuing operations   125.5  80.9  93.9  111.7  88.1 
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year   –  0.3  10.8  –  – 
Cash generated from discontinued operations   –  0.3  10.8  –  – 
Cash generated from operations   125.5  81.2  104.7  111.7  88.1 
Interest received   6.3  9.7  8.9  7.6  7.0 
Interest paid   (2.2) (3.3) (2.1) (2.4) (2.4)
Income tax (paid)/received   (12.8) (14.7) 4.9  (10.9) (18.3)
Net cash from operating activities   116.8  72.9  116.4  106.0  74.4 
Cash flows from investing activities   (32.8) (27.2) (78.0) (41.2) (20.9)
Cash flows from financing activities   (45.8) (78.3) (25.9) (2.9) (25.6)
Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 38.2  (32.6) 12.5  61.9  27.9 
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 154.5  187.7  177.4  114.6  86.2
 
Effect of exchange rate changes   17.0  (0.6) (2.2) 0.9  0.5 
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 209.7  154.5  187.7  177.4  114.6 
Financial assets   28.7  29.7  49.6  40.8  31.2 
Loan notes receivable   12.9  5.6  –  –  – 
Borrowings due within one year   (2.8) (4.2) (0.4) (2.7) – 
Borrowings due after one year   (0.6) (3.2) (23.1) (20.6) (10.5)
Finance leases   (13.7) (14.0) (14.7) (18.3) (13.6)
Net funds   234.2  168.4  199.1  176.6 121.7 
Five-Year Summary  
Continued Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Investor Information WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
122 Investor Information
Investor Information
WS Atkins plc
Registered in England.  
Company no. 1885586
Company Secretary and 
Registered Office
Richard Webster
WS Atkins plc
Woodcote Grove
Ashley Road
Epsom
Surrey KT18 5BW
Financial Calendar
Ex-dividend date 12 August 2009
Record date 14 August 2009
Annual General 
Meeting 9 September 2009
Final dividend 
payment date 25 September 2009
Shareholder Services
Registrar
Enquiries and notifications concerning 
dividends, share certificates, transfers and 
address changes should be sent to the 
registrar, whose address is:
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
West Yorkshire 
HD8 0GA
Telephone: 0871 664 0300 (UK callers,  
calls cost 10p per minute including VAT  
plus any additional network charges)  
or +44 20 8639 3399 (non-UK callers).
Other shareholder enquiries should be 
addressed to the company secretary at the 
registered office.
Investor relations website
Many commonly asked shareholders’ 
questions are addressed in the investor 
relations section of our website 
www.atkinsglobal.com/investors
E-communications
Shareholders can choose to receive all 
Company communications electronically.  
To register please visit our share portal at 
www.myatkinsshares.com
Dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP)
The Company offers a dividend reinvestment 
plan to shareholders as a cost-efficient 
way of increasing their shareholding in the 
Company. Should you wish to participate 
in the DRIP please contact the registrar 
on the telephone number given above to 
request a mandate form and an explanatory 
booklet. Your completed mandate form 
must be received by the registrar no later 
than 26 August 2009 if you wish your final 
dividend for the year to be reinvested to buy 
additional shares.
Amalgamation of accounts
Shareholders who receive duplicate sets 
of Company mailings owing to multiple 
accounts in their name should write 
to the registrar to have their accounts 
amalgamated.
Unsolicited mail
The Company is obliged by law to make 
its share register available to other 
organisations who may then use it for  
a mailing list. If you wish to limit receipt of 
unsolicited mail you may do so by registering 
with the Mailing Preference Service (MPS). 
Registration can be made in writing to: The 
Mailing Preference Service (MPS), Freepost 
29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT or online  
at www.mpsonline.org.uk or via telephone 
on 0845 7034599.
Giving your shares to charity
If you only have a small number of shares 
whose value makes it uneconomic to sell 
them, you may wish to consider donating 
them to charity through ShareGift, an 
independent share donation scheme. The 
relevant share transfer form can be obtained 
from the registrar. ShareGift is administered 
by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 
registered charity number 1052686.  
Further information may be obtained  
on +44 (0)20 7930 3737 or from 
www.ShareGift.org
Identity theft
Identity theft is on the increase. Criminals 
may steal your personal information, putting 
your Atkins shareholding at risk.
Tips for protecting your Atkins shares:
•  Ensure all your certificates are kept in a 
safe place or hold your shares electronically 
in CREST via a nominee.
•  Keep all correspondence from the registrar 
that shows your shareholder reference 
number in a safe place, or destroy your 
correspondence by shredding it.
•  If you change address inform the registrar 
in writing or via our share portal  
www.myatkinsshares.com
•  Know when dividends are paid and 
consider having your dividend paid directly 
into your bank account. This will reduce 
the risk of the cheque being intercepted  
or lost in the post. If you change your bank 
account, inform the registrar of the details 
of your new account. You can do this 
by post or online using our share portal 
www.myatkinsshares.com. Respond to any 
letters the registrar send you about this. Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Investor Information 123
•  If you receive a letter from the registrar 
regarding a change of address or a 
dividend instruction but have not recently 
moved or requested a change to how you 
receive your dividends, please contact 
them immediately as you may have been  
a victim of identity theft.
•  If you are buying or selling shares only deal 
with brokers registered in your country of 
residence or the UK.
Warning to shareholders
Over the last year many companies have 
become aware that their shareholders 
have received unsolicited telephone calls 
or correspondence concerning investment 
matters. These are typically from overseas- 
based ‘brokers’ who target UK shareholders 
offering to sell them what often turn out to 
be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK 
investments. They can be very persistent and 
extremely persuasive and a 2006 survey by 
the Financial Services Authority (FSA) has 
reported that the average amount lost by 
investors is around £20,000. It is not just 
the novice investor that has been duped 
in this way; many of the victims had been 
successfully investing for several years. 
Shareholders are advised to be very wary  
of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy 
shares at a discount or offers of free 
company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment 
advice:
•  Make sure you get the correct name of the 
person and organisation.
•  Check that they are properly authorised by 
the FSA before getting involved. You can 
check at www.fsa.gov.uk/register/
•  The FSA also maintains on its website a list 
of unauthorised overseas firms who are 
targeting, or have targeted, UK investors 
and any approach from such organisations 
should be reported to the FSA so that this 
list can be kept up to date and any other 
appropriate action can be considered. If 
you deal with an unauthorised firm, you 
would not be eligible to receive payment 
under the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by 
completing an online form at http://www.
fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/regulated/law/
alerts/overseas.shtml
•  Inform our registrar.
Details of any share-dealing facilities that 
the Company endorses will be included in 
Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar 
activity can be found on the FSA website 
www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk/ WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
124 Investor Information
Shareholders’ Queries
We provide a number of 
services to help our shareholders 
manage their holdings, keep up 
to date with our progress and 
communicate with us.
Reports and Presentations 
Our reports can be accessed 
and/or downloaded from here. 
Links to results presentations, 
press releases and webcasts are 
also provided.
Share Price Share Price Charts
Latest News
Calendar 
Investor Relations Team 
Corporate Responsibility
Find out more about our  
Corporate Responsibility strategy 
and performance by visiting this 
section of our website. 
Share Price
Chart showing one, two or three 
months’ share price activity. Click 
the chart to see the share price 
table and to access our calculators.
Latest Financial News
Access our latest financial press 
releases here.
Register for e-comms
You can help us to reduce our 
environmental impact by opting 
to receive electronic versions 
of shareholder communications 
(e-comms). Click ‘Register’ 
to sign up.
We will donate £1 to RedR 
(Register for Engineers for 
Disaster Relief) for each 
shareholder who chooses this 
method of communication.
You can help us to reduce our environmental impact  
by opting to receive shareholder communications online 
at www.atkinsglobal.com/investors 
To help you find the information you’re looking for, 
the key features of our investor relations website  
are highlighted below.
Investor information can also be viewed on your 
mobile phone at www.atkinsglobal.mobi  Introduction
01 Financial Highlights
02 Group at a Glance
04 Business Segments
06 Chairman’s Statement
08 Chief Executive’s Statement 
Reviews
14 Human Resources Review
18 Business Review
 18 Overview of the business  
  and performance in the year
 20 Segmental performance
 20  Design and Engineering Solutions
 22 Highways and Transportation
 24 Rail
 26 Middle East, China and Europe
 30  Management and Project Services
 32 Asset Management
 34 Financial performance
 37 Principal risks and uncertainties
38 Corporate Responsibility Review
Governance
46 Board of Directors
48 Directors’ Report
52 Corporate Governance Report
58 Remuneration Report
65 Independent Auditors’ Report
Financial Statements
68 Consolidated Income Statement
69 Consolidated and Parent Company
 Statements of Recognised Income  
 and Expense
70 Consolidated and Parent Company 
 Balance Sheets
71 Consolidated and Parent Company 
 Cash Flow Statements
72 Notes to the Financial Statements
118 Five-Year Summary
Investor Information
122 Company Information
122 Financial Calendar
122 Shareholder Services
Environmental impact
At Atkins we are genuinely concerned 
about our environmental performance.  
As such, we would encourage you to 
access shareholder information online at 
www.atkinsglobal.com/investors or on your 
mobile phone at www.atkinsglobal.mobi 
This Annual Report is printed on Revive Pure White Uncoated,  
a 100% recycled paper made from post-consumer collected 
waste and manufactured to the certified environmental 
management system ISO 14001. It is TCF (Totally Chlorine 
Free), totally recyclable and has biodegradable NAPM 
recycled certification.
 
The Atkins logo, ’Carbon Critical Design‘ and the strapline 
‘Plan Design Enable’ are trademarks of Atkins Limited,  
a WS Atkins plc company.
 
© WS Atkins plc except where stated otherwise. Plan Design Enable
WS Atkins plc
Annual Report 2009
info@atkinsglobal.com
www.atkinsglobal.com
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
