 acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2012
european leader in
advanced technology
solutions
annual report and accounts
for the year ended 31 March 2012
2 Chancellor Court
Occam Road
Surrey Research Park
Guildford
Surrey GU2 7AH
Telephone +44 (0)1483 544500
Fax +44 (0)1483 544550
Email info@acalplc.co.uk
www.acalplc.co.uk Notes to the operating performance and ﬁnancial highlights on page 1
1
‘Underlying Operating Profit’ , ‘Underlying Profit before Tax’ and ‘Underlying Diluted EPS’ are non-IFRS financial measures
used by the Directors to assess the underlying performance of the Group. These measures exclude exceptional costs,
earn out remuneration, amortisation of acquired intangibles and IAS19 pension charge relating to a legacy defined
benefit scheme. ‘Underlying Operating Profit’ , ‘Underlying Profit before Tax’ and ‘Underlying Diluted EPS’ are not defined
by or presented in accordance with IFRS and should not be considered as an alternative to Operating Profit, Profit before
Tax, Fully Diluted EPS or any other IFRS performance measures. These non-IFRS performance measures are not intended
to be a projection or forecast of future results.
2
Free cash flow is defined as net cash flow before exceptionals, payments to the legacy pension fund, dividends and the
cost of acquisitions.
3
3 year highlights cover the period since the adoption of the specialisation strategy in 2009.
4
Acquisitions are BFi Optilas in December 2009; CompoTRON GmbH (“Compotron”) in January 2011; Hectronic AB
(“Hectronic”) in June 2011 and MTC Microtech Components GmbH and its affiliate EMC Innovation Limited (“MTC”) in
October 2011.
Acal is a European specialist provider of technology products and services.
With operations in eleven countries across Western Europe, and in South Africa
and South Korea, the business operates in clearly deﬁned market niches where
customers appreciate the added value that comes from high levels of technical
support and customised solutions.
“The business has performed well during the year delivering a 9% growth in
underlying operating profit and free cash flow of £10.5m, building upon the
significant progress of the last two years. The Group has benefited from taking
market share from smaller independent competitors who are unable to match the
breadth and technical depth of our offer and has continued to attract new supply
partners to our business.
The plan to become a fully specialist business is now largely complete and on
schedule. The business is resourced to take benefit from the growing pipeline of
new opportunities and is well positioned for further growth when economic
conditions improve.
Given the continuing difficult economic conditions in Europe and the uncertainty of
the timing and pace of a recovery, we remain cautious for the year ahead, but well
positioned to accelerate growth as and when conditions improve.”
Nick Jefferies
Group Chief Executive
29 May 2012
contents
ﬁnancial highlights 01
chairman’s statement 02
our board 04
overview
chief executive’s review 06
acquisitions and achievements
CompoTRON 11
Honeywell award 12
Hectronic 13
MTC Micro Tech Components 14
Avago award 15
three year performance 16
group executive committee 18
business review
ﬁnance review 20
governance
corporate information and ﬁnancial calendar 25
directors’ report 26
board report on corporate governance 31
directors’ remuneration report 35
corporate social responsibility 40
directors’ responsibilities statement 42
ﬁnancial statements
group ﬁnancial statements 43
report of the auditors, group 44
consolidated income statement 45
consolidated statement of comprehensive income 46
consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 47
consolidated statement of changes in equity 48
consolidated statement of cash ﬂows 49
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements 50
company ﬁnancial statements 85
report of the auditors, company 86
company balance sheet 87
notes to the company ﬁnancial statements 88
ﬁve year record 91
principal locations 92 01
ﬁnancial highlights
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
highlights
• Underlying operating proﬁt up 9% to £8.1m
• Gross Profit up 4% with gross margin up 1.8ppts to 30.2%
• Underlying diluted EPS up 7%
• Free cash flow
2
up 98% to £10.5m, being 130% of underlying operating profit
• Full year dividend increased by 7% to 8.0p
3 year highlights
3
• Gross profit up 77% driven by gross margin up 3.7ppts
• Underlying operating margin up 3.0ppts to 3.1%
• Underlying diluted EPS up 23.7p to 19.9p
• Working capital ratio to sales reduced by 23%
• Free cash flow
2
generated of £22.4m
• Dividend increased by 14%
• 4 value enhancing acquisitions
4
FY 2012 FY 2011
Revenue £257.8m £264.8m
Gross proﬁt £77.9m £75.2m
Underlying operating proﬁt
1
£8.1m £7.4m
Underlying proﬁt before tax
1
£7.2m £7.1m
Proﬁt before tax £2.7m £1.9m
Underlying diluted EPS
1
19.9p 18.6p
Fully diluted EPS 7.1p 5.7p
Dividend per share 8.0p 7.47p
See inside back cover for the notes to the operating performance and highlights.
operating performance
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 02
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
chairman’s statement
This is the third full year since the Group changed its strategy to become a differentiated specialist
electronics business, and I am pleased to report another year of progress with improvements in both
operating performance and efficiency. The business model of focusing on the supply of technically
demanding, bespoke electronics for industrial applications, is becoming established amongst our key
trading partners, fulfilling a need not met by other channels.
During this three year period, the Group has returned to profitability, increased operating margins
each year, and generated £22m of cumulative free cash flow. This has been achieved through a near
doubling of Electronics sales as well as a sustained increase in gross margins. Over the same period,
total shareholder return increased 130% up to 31 March 2012, and the annual dividend has returned
to growth, up 14% in the last 2 years. All this against a backdrop of unparalleled economic uncertainty
affecting markets globally.
In addition to developing the existing business during this three year period, the Group has invested
£22m in acquiring four Electronics businesses, and disposed of two loss making Supply Chain
operations, ATM Parts and Retail. The Board is pleased with the progress of each acquisition and looks
forward to the benefits of accelerated growth as the acquired businesses gain access to our technical
specialists and larger pan European customer base.
The European economic and Global electronics contraction during the year slowed our rate of
progress, particularly in the second half, but improvements in the quality and efficiency of the core
business continued to be made. Annualised operating costs were reduced by £6m during the year as
the Group reacted quickly to the changing conditions as well as continuing the move away from
lower margin, non specialist business in both the Electronics and Supply Chain divisions. We expect
growth to accelerate when economic conditions improve. 90% of Acal's European business is
conducted in stronger economies with limited exposure to higher risk areas.
The Group is well positioned, and the Board believes that there is significant opportunity to generate
further long term value for shareholders by continuing to build its leading position in the specialist
electronics marketplace, both organically and through acquisition.
Results
Underlying operating profitability for the year grew by 9% to £8.1m, and underlying operating margin
increased by 0.3 percentage points to 3.1%, driven by efficiency improvements and gross margin growth.
Overall Group revenues declined by 3% to £258m, partly as a result of the discontinuation of non
specialist Electronics products as the Group continues to re-align itself as a specialist supplier (£5m
impact this year and a further £11m impact is expected for next year) and partly as a result of the
market slowdown in the second half.
This reduction in revenues was offset by a significant increase in gross margins of 1.8 percentage
points resulting in reported gross profits being up 4%.
Exceptional costs for the year totalled £3.4m (2010/11: £4.4m), of which £2.2m relate to the following
restructuring initiatives: (i) the non-specialist discontinuations referred to above (£0.7m) and (ii) cost
reductions in response to market conditions (£1.5m). Other exceptional costs comprised expenses of
acquisition, disposal and integration, and the development cost of our new web marketing capability.
Operating cost reductions for the year totalled £6m on an annualised basis of which £1.4m arose in
this financial year.
total shareholder
return up
130%
over 3 years
the board believes that there
is significant opportunity to
generate further long term
value for shareholders 03
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
Including exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and IAS19 pension finance charges,
reported profit before tax was £2.7m (2010/11: £1.9m).
Underlying diluted earnings per share were up 7% to 19.9 pence (2010/11: 18.6 pence). Including
underlying adjustments, fully diluted earnings per share were up 25% to 7.1 pence (2010/11: 5.7 pence).
The balance sheet remains robust with net assets at the year end of £49.1m (2010/11: £51.3m), including
net cash of £6.3m (2010/11: £6.7m). The year end net cash balance remained similar to the prior year as
the generation of cash from profits and reductions in working capital were offset by the outflows due
to the acquisitions of Hectronic and MTC, exceptional restructuring projects and dividend payments.
Committed banking facilities of £19m, plus £13m of uncommitted facilities leave the Group well
positioned to capitalise on any new opportunities that may arise.
Acquisitions
Hectronic, based in Uppsala, Sweden, was acquired in June 2011 for £1.2m. The business supplies
custom designed computers for industrial control applications.
MTC, based near Munich, Germany, was acquired in October 2011 for up to £3.3m including earn-out.
The business supplies custom designed electromagnetic shielding products for industrial applications.
Both businesses supply own branded products, providing customised, individually designed solutions
and have significantly enhanced opportunities for accelerated growth throughout the Acal network.
Compotron based in Munich and acquired in January 2011, has performed strongly since acquisition.
The integration into the existing German business of Acal BFi is proceeding ahead of plan, and is
forecast to complete in the autumn.
It remains part of the Board's strategy to accelerate growth through the acquisition of value enhancing
specialist electronic businesses, complementing organic growth. The Group targets businesses where
the opportunity exists to build our market position in either a specific technology or geography, and
where the opportunity for above average growth exists.
Dividend
It is the Board's intention to maintain a progressive dividend policy wherever practical to do so, and as
such the Board is recommending an increase to the final dividend of 7% to 5.5 pence per share, giving
a full year dividend increase of 7% to 8 pence per share and with a cover of 2.5 times on an underlying
basis. In total, the dividend has been increased by 14% over the last 2 years. Over the medium term, it
is the Board's intention to maintain dividend coverage in the range of two to three times earnings.
The dividend is payable on 27 July 2012 to shareholders on the register as at 15 June 2012.
Employees
This year has presented many operational challenges as we integrated further acquisitions, exited the
bulk of our remaining non-specialist products, reduced costs in response to market conditions, and
embarked upon the journey to develop a new web marketing capability. As ever, our employees have
responded to the challenges admirably, and on behalf of the Board I would like to thank them for their
continued dedication and commitment.
I would also like to welcome those employees from Hectronic and MTC who have joined the Group
this year through acquisition.
The year ahead
Economic conditions continue to be very challenging, with little forward visibility. Whilst the business
will undoubtedly continue to feel the effects of such uncertainty, the Board believes that the focus on
supplying highly differentiated electronics to industrial customers will continue to build long term
value for shareholders.
Richard Moon
Chairman
29 May 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
dividend
increase of
14%
over 2 years Richard Moon
Non-Executive Chairman
Richard joined the Board in
September 2004 and became
Chairman in April 2005.
Formerly a Director of Racal
Electronics plc and Chief
Executive of Thales plc, he is
Non-Executive Chairman of
Seven Technologies Holdings
Limited and is a Director of
Synergie Business Limited.
Simon Gibbins ACA
Group Finance Director
Simon was appointed as Group
Finance Director in July 2010.
A Chartered Accountant, he
was previously Global Head of
Finance and Deputy CFO at
Shire plc. Prior to joining Shire
in 2000, he spent 6 years with
ICI plc in various senior finance
roles, both in the UK and
overseas. His earlier career was
spent with Coopers & Lybrand
in London.
Nick Jefferies
Group Chief Executive
Nick joined Acal as Group
Chief Executive in January 2009.
Formerly General Manager
for Electronics globally at
Electrocomponents plc, and
having previously held senior
positions at Arrow Electronics,
he started his career as an
Electronics Design Engineer
for Racal Defence (now part
of Thales plc).
our board
our experienced board focuses
on strategic development, ﬁnancial
control and risk management
04
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012 Eric Barton MA
Senior Non-Executive Director
Eric was appointed as a
Non-Executive Director in
September 2002. Previously,
he was a Director of 3i plc for
13 years. An experienced
Non-Executive Director of both
public and private companies,
Eric has acted as Chairman of
the Audit Committee of three
publicly listed companies,
namely Morse plc, Informa plc
and Telecity plc.
Graham Williams MBA CA
Non-Executive Director
Graham was appointed to the
Board in December 2003. His
early business experience was
gained in private equity with
Charterhouse and Barclays
Private Equity, both in the UK
and France. A board member
of Hays plc for 19 years, and
now on their pension fund’s
investment committee, he is
also a schools’ governor.
Ian Fraser MA(Oxon) MBA
Non-Executive Director
Ian became a Non-Executive
Director in January 2010. He is
the Group Chief Executive of
Brammer plc. Prior to joining
Brammer in 1998, he was
Group Managing Director of
Reliance Security Group plc.
His earlier career was mainly
spent with Raychem
Corporation.
Gary Shillinglaw FCIS
Group Company Secretary
Gary joined Acal as Group
Company Secretary in August
2008. A qualiﬁed Chartered
Secretary, he has previously
held the position of Group
Company Secretary in a
number of listed and
non-listed public companies,
including Countryside Properties
plc, B&Q plc and First Leisure
Corporation plc.
Audit Committee
E A Barton (Chairman)
I R Fraser
G J Williams
Remuneration Committee
G J Williams (Chairman)
E A Barton
I R Fraser
R J Moon
Nomination Committee
R J Moon (Chairman)
E A Barton
N J Jefferies
G J Williams
05
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 06
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
chief executive’s review
Acal is the leading supplier of specialist Electronics in Europe and the only such specialist supplier
offering a broad range of complementary technologies across Europe. Technologies include
Communications, Electromagnetic Shielding, Imaging, Microsystems, Magnetics, Photonics, Power,
Sensors and Specialist Semiconductors. The business operates in technically demanding market niches,
supplying a range of industrial sectors, mostly in high technology manufacturing, where customers
appreciate the added value that comes from high levels of technical support and customised solutions.
As well as being the market leader, Acal is the only specialist supplier in Europe to operate across
multiple territories, technologies and industrial sectors. With an increasing focus on selling solutions
rather than individual components, our customers appreciate the technical expertise that we are able
to provide to their design and manufacturing challenges. Around three quarters of Electronics division
sales come from products that are either uniquely created for one customer and/or exclusively
sourced. With such a model, Acal's risk exposure to any one territory, technology or sector is greatly
reduced. Our suppliers are now able to gain access to around 25,000 customers through Acal, rather
than directly via multiple, country specific vendors.
Group Objectives
The Group has a number of key objectives for the short and medium term in order to build a high
performance, growth oriented business. Significant progress has been made in the three years since
the new strategy was implemented and these remain priorities.
Growth ahead of GDP over the business cycle. Organic growth will be further enhanced
by acquisitions.
Electronics sales have nearly doubled over the last three years (CAGR 21%) and total Group sales are
up 56% (CAGR 16%) over that period, resulting from a combination of organic and acquisitive growth.
Excluding non specialist discontinuations, underlying specialist electronics sales grew by 27% CAGR.
Whilst short term sales will be subject to the influence of wider economic trends, both the rate of high
technology innovation and the proliferation of high technology into every day applications is
expected to continue at rates well in excess of GDP .
Develop and maintain attractive margins
Over the last three years, the Group has moved from loss into profit, achieving an underlying
operating margin of 3.1% in the reported year, with gross margins having risen by 3.7 percentage
points over the same period.
Our target in the medium term remains to achieve 5% underlying operating margins through a
combination of continuing robust gross margins, further improvements in operating efficiency and
increasing volumes.
Enhance growth through selective, value enhancing acquisitions
Acquisitions play an important part in developing the long term performance of the business. The
Group’s strategy is to acquire businesses that provide complementary products and or geographic
coverage, enhancing the combined customer offer as well as enabling efficiency improvements
through varying levels of operational integration.
Over the last three years, four businesses were acquired of which three were immediately earnings
enhancing, whilst the fourth, Hectronic has performed in line with our expectations communicated at
the time of acquisition (namely, earnings neutral for this year and expected to be earnings enhancing
thereafter). The £22.6m invested in acquisitions generated a pre tax return on investment (including
integration costs) of 26% this year.
electronics sales
growth of 21%
CAGR over 3 years
significant progress has
been made in the three
years since the new strategy
was implemented 07
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
We retain staff resources dedicated to delivering suitable acquisitions on an ongoing basis.
Develop healthy cash flow to fund future growth and dividends
The Group focuses on free cash flow generation in order to monitor its ability to convert underlying
operating profits into cash and as such, targets free cash flow in excess of 60% of underlying operating
profit, and dividend cover of between two and three times over the cycle.
Free cash flow for this year was £10.5m, (130% of underlying operating profit) and £22.4m for the last
3 years (151% of underlying operating profit for that 3 year period).
Create strong returns on trading capital employed (“ROTCE”)
ROTCE was 21.7% for the current financial year. This is up 3.4 percentage points over last year and 20.8
percentage points over the year ended 31 March 2009. The Group targets to deliver ROTCE in excess
of 25% in the medium term.
Deliver value growth for shareholders
Long term total shareholder return (“TSR”) is targeted to be within the upper quartile. In the three year
period to 31 March 2012, TSR grew by 130%, being in the top 27% performance ranking when
compared to the FTSE Small Cap Index.
Group strategy
The specialist Electronics market place is highly fragmented, characterised by many medium and
smaller sized businesses throughout Europe.
It is three years since the implementation of the specialist approach, and the Group has made significant
progress re-positioning the Electronics business, improving performance, improving the quality of
earnings, reducing risk and enhancing future prospects. There are three key elements to the strategy;
1 Grow presence in key markets
2 Expand the specialist product offer
3 Increase operational efficiency
Grow presence in key markets
The Group has built its position in the key markets in Europe through organic growth with selective
value enhancing acquisitions. Similar specialist markets exist internationally, and to the extent that
they offer higher growth opportunities within a growth oriented economy, also offer scope for further
geographic expansion.
Currently, 90% of the Group’s European sales come from stronger economies. Within this, 63% comes
from the UK & Germany. The Group has little exposure to the peripheral Eurozone countries. Organic
growth is driven by the design and subsequent conversion into production, of electronic equipment
that require specialist products. Production demand can be influenced by general economic factors,
and as such, the manufacturing PMI index provides a useful indicator of macro-economic demand
trends. However, customers’ design activity is less influenced by such factors. Our design opportunities
have continued to grow during the year.
Hectronic, acquired in June 2011, has strengthened our management capabilities in the Nordic region
while MTC, acquired in October 2011, has further enhanced our capabilities in Germany. Both offer the
opportunity to expand sales throughout the network of Acal companies.
Expand the specialist product offer
The Group continues to expand the range of specialist technologies and products on offer through
the addition of complementary products to existing technology units, the appointment of new
suppliers and the creation of additional technology units.
During the year thirteen new suppliers were engaged, expanding our technology offer in four
technology units, and bringing the total number of new suppliers over the last two years to twenty
four. Of these we expect around two thirds to grow into significant generators of revenue over a three
year period. The nature of the business means that there will always be a degree of churn as
established products become commoditised and replaced by new technologies. We continue to seek
well established and differentiated suppliers that are looking to expand into a broader industrial
90% of the group’s
european sales
come from stronger
economies
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 08
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
customer base. With the rate of technology innovation and proliferation into a wider range of
applications continuing apace, we remain optimistic of future opportunities.
The design cycle for new products takes between six months and two years to reach production.
Once reached, demand may continue for several years, providing a degree of future visibility.
Customer design and development activity has been less affected during the current economic
slowdown, and is expected to help fuel sales growth as economic conditions improve and new
projects are released into production.
The acquisition of Hectronic has expanded an existing technology area into the Nordic region. The
business provides custom designed computers for challenging industrial control applications and
complements the Group's similar existing Microsystems business in the UK. The business has sub
contract manufacturing partners in Sweden, Germany and Taiwan.
The acquisition of MTC brought a new product technology capability to the Group. MTC supply
custom and standard Electromagnetic shielding solutions to industrial customers. Their fast
turnaround on custom designs enables them to offer a high level of service on medium and small
production quantities that is typically not available elsewhere. The business owns a production facility
in South Korea, and has manufacturing capability in Germany.
Increase operational efficiency
The Group continues to target improvements in its operational efficiency through increasing sales
of highly differentiated, higher margin value-added products and solutions whilst maintaining tight
control of operating expenses and working capital.
Higher margin products
Gross margins increased throughout the year, being 3.7 percentage points higher than three years ago.
This has been achieved through a change in the sales mix as the Group focuses on selling more highly
differentiated products and solutions and through acquisitions of wholly specialist businesses as well
as, to a lesser degree, the discontinuation of non specialist products.
Tight control of operating expenses
In response to weaker market conditions, operating expenses were reduced by an annualised total
of £6m (9% of last year’s underlying operational cost base) of which £1.4m was recognised this year.
Of the total annualised savings, £4.7m came from Electronics, and £1.3m from Supply Chain.
There were three areas of cost reduction;
1 General cost reductions, incorporating the integration of sales and marketing in preparation
for a single brand Electronics web launch – £3.7m reduction
The two formerly independent trading brands (Acal Technology & BFi Optilas) are being merged
into one in preparation for the launch of the new web capability later this summer. This
integration was brought forward by nine months in response to economic conditions.
The main cost reduction was in the Spanish business in response to a revenue decline of 35%
in the year, as a result of the difficult economic environment. This cost reduction amounted to
£1.5m or 42%.
In addition cost savings were generated from the consolidation of central administration and
finance functions from two locations into one.
2 Discontinuation of non specialist business – £1.0m reduction
Sales of non specialist Electronics products were further reduced in line with our stated strategy.
The discontinued products were multi distributed and provided less differentiation for Acal in the
eyes of our customers. With total revenues discontinued of £5m this year and £11m next year, 86%
of ongoing Electronics sales now come from specialist products. Over time, this proportion is
expected to further increase to in excess of 90%, mostly as a result of organic growth of existing
specialist products, complemented by further acquisitions.
3 Supply Chain division cost reductions – £1.3m reduction
The loss making Retail sector operation was disposed of to a third party for a nominal consideration,
chief executive’s review continued
24
new suppliers
over the last
2 years 09
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
including the transfer of 11 employees under TUPE. Additionally, reductions were made within the
Division’s low margin operations through the reduction of staff and certain unprofitable sales
contracts. The cost savings are part of an ongoing transition of the business towards more highly
differentiated customer contracts, reducing reliance on standard parts trading.
Tight control of Working Capital
Working capital remained low at 12.0% of sales (2010/11: 12.0%).
Significant gains in working capital efficiency have been achieved and sustained over the three years
since the introduction of the new strategy. With the higher degree of customisation and specialisation,
customers place orders in advance of requirements, reducing the need for the Group to hold
uncommitted inventory.
Average debtor days improved to record low levels, being 50 days at the end of the year, 5 days better
than prior year. As well as being a generally well capitalised customer base, the Group’s customers are
sourcing specialist and often single sourced products and are therefore more likely to pay on time so
as to ensure timely delivery of future requirements.
Operating performance
The year has seen further growth in operating performance and profitability. Underlying operating
profits increased by 9% to £8.1m, and underlying operating margin increased by 0.3 percentage
points to 3.1%.
Despite market conditions weakening during the year with a resulting flattening of sales growth
(leading to reported Group revenues being down 3%), gross and operating margins continued to
increase, as the benefits of the strategy continued to come through. Reported gross profits increased
by 4%, as gross margins increased to 30.9% in H2, one year ahead of our target.
Like for like operating expenses excluding acquisitions were down 3% for the year, with the second
half reduced by 7%, being a reflection of the cost saving initiatives taken. As reported above, actions
were taken in response to weaker economic conditions, which resulted in the reduction of £1.4m of
operating expenses during the year (£6.0m on an annualised basis). There was a one off exceptional
charge of £2.2m, with a further £1.3m to come in the new year. In total, these one off costs represent a
payback period of approximately 7 months.
Divisional performance
2012 2011
Underlying Underlying Underlying Underlying
operating operating operating operating
Sales profit margin Sales profit margin
£m £m % £m £m %
Electronics 207.1 10.8 5.2% 210.5 10.3 4.9%
Supply Chain 50.7 1.3 2.6% 54.3 1.2 2.2%
Unallocated
1
(4.0) -1.6% (4.1) -1.5%
Total 257.8 8.1 3.1% 264.8 7.4 2.8%
1
% of Total Sales
Electronics division
The Electronics division delivered underlying operating profits of £10.8m, up 5% over last year.
Reported sales of £207.1m were down 2% year on year and down 9% on a like for like basis as the
focus on specialisation continued. Excluding the discontinuations of the non specialist business,
reported revenues grew by 1%. Underlying operating margins increased by 0.3 percentage points to
5.2%. The business profile has continued to evolve and improve. Three years ago, 55% of Electronics
division sales were from specialist products. By the second half of the year, this had risen to 86% of
ongoing sales. We expect this figure to continue to rise, albeit more slowly. Three years ago, the largest
supplier represented approximately 7% of Group revenues. Today, the largest supplier accounts for less
than 3% which is a reflection of the Group's move to build a lower risk, more diversified business
model. Based on data provided by IDEA, the European electronics distribution industry association,
our market share grew throughout the year.
During the period, the Group received two awards in recognition of business performance. In January,
Honeywell Sensing and Control awarded Acal the Gold Partner Award, recognising outstanding
further growth
in operating
performance
and proﬁtability
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 10
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
chief executive’s review continued
organic sales growth in the calendar year 2011, and being their fastest growing distributor in Europe.
In March, Avago awarded Acal the Partnership Excellence award, in recognition of three years of
exceptionally high sales growth. Both awards represent significant market share gains.
By region, reported sales in Northern and Central Europe grew by 5% and 8% respectively, including
the effect of recent acquisitions and excluding sales of terminated non-specialist products. In
Southern Europe, comprising France, Italy and Spain, sales declined by 13% on the same basis. Within
this, sales in Spain declined by 35% as a result of the cancellation of a number of public expenditure
projects. Of the four primary technology groups, three reported growth of between 2% and 8%, whilst
the Light and Imaging unit reported a decline of 14% driven principally by the decline of Imaging
projects in Spain.
Web development
During the year the development of a new Electronics web platform began, creating a marketing
platform with which to reach new customers. The web platform will operate under one brand and
provide much greater visibility of, and access to, the Electronic Division’s wide range of specialist
products and solutions, suppliers and technologies. The platform will create a unique capability in this
sector of the market. Access will be provided via local language websites in each of the twelve
countries that the Electronics Division operates in.
The new website is expected to be launched in the second half of the coming financial year.
Under IFRS, software and development expenditure does not qualify for capitalisation over its useful life.
Therefore, a one-off charge of £0.3m has been taken in the year, with a further £1.0m to come in the
year ahead. Beyond that, ongoing running costs will be included within underlying operating expenses.
Supply Chain division
The Supply Chain division provides service parts and inventory solutions to IT service providers, as well
as aftermarket warranty services in the UK and Germany to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs").
Profitability in the Supply Chain division increased by 8% to £1.3m (2011: £1.2m). The business continued
to develop higher margin contract business, reducing dependence on lower margin traded products, and
discontinuing sales of less differentiated products and services as described above. As a consequence,
reported revenues for the year declined by 7% to £50.7m, with like for like sales down 4%. Underlying
operating margin was up 0.4 percentage points on last year to 2.6%.
Roll out of the extension to an existing major contract, announced at the time of the interim results,
has progressed well and is delivering as expected. Additionally, a contract with a large multinational,
market leading hardware and service provider was won in the fourth quarter, to manage the provision
of certain spare parts throughout Europe. Revenues are expected to begin modestly.
Summary and outlook
The business has performed well during the year delivering a 9% growth in underlying operating
profit and free cash flow of £10.5m, building upon the significant progress of the last two years. The
Group has benefited from taking market share from smaller independent competitors who are unable
to match the breadth and technical depth of our offer and has continued to attract new supply
partners to our business.
The plan to become a fully specialist business is now largely complete and on schedule. The business
is resourced to take benefit from the growing pipeline of new opportunities and is well positioned for
further growth when economic conditions improve.
Given the continuing difficult economic conditions in Europe and the uncertainty of the timing and
pace of a recovery, we remain cautious for the year ahead, but well positioned to accelerate growth as
and when conditions improve.
Nick Jefferies
Group Chief Executive
29 May 2012
new web capability
will increase
customer reach acquisition january 2011
CompoTRON GmbH
11
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
The main component of the car
aerial shown in the photgraph
above is a GPS patch antenna
supplied by CompoTRON.
“Joining the Acal
Group is an excellent
opportunity for
CompoTRON to
transfer our experience
and knowledge into
other European
countries and extend
our customer base
by using Acal’s
geographic reach. ”
Werner Brack
Managing Director
May 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
CompoTRON GmbH (“CompoTRON”), a German-based specialist provider of electronic
communication and fibre optics components to the European industrial electronics markets,
was acquired by Acal in January 2011.
As a supplier of radio frequency and microwave components, plus fibre optics transceivers,
CompoTRON complements Acal’s Communications business. Acal’s geographic reach presents
the opportunity for CompoTRON to expand its sales throughout Europe.
The acquisition marked a further step in the implementation of Acal’s European specialisation
strategy, enhancing its position in the German specialist electronics market. achievement january 2012
Honeywell Sensing and Control
Gold Performance Award for EMEA
Honeywell Sensing & Control (HS&C) are a leading global manufacturer of pressure, temperature,
airflow and humidity sensors, and safety, wireless and explosion proof switches for use in harsh
environments such as aerospace, offshore, medical, military and industrial applications.
Acal BFi supports customers with the specification and design adoption of HS&C’s specialist products
throughout Europe.
In 2011 Acal BFi was recognised by HS&C for outstanding sales growth with the 2011 Gold
Performance Award for EMEA.
“Acal BFi developed many new business opportunities with major OEMs and generated significant
growth for Honeywell products during 2011, demonstrating the strong alignment of HS&C’s products
with Acal BFi's sales strategies.” stated Tony Sugalski, President HS&C.
12
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
Paul Webster
Acal’s Group Product
Management and
Operations Director
SENSING AND CONTROL acquisition june 2011
Hectronic AB
“Being a part of the
Acal Group is a major
step for Hectronic
towards reaching
the whole European
market. Many of the
Group’s customers
will benefit from the
increased product
offering from
Acal/Hectronic. ”
Stefan Lof
Managing Director
May 2012
Acquired in June 2011, Hectronic AB (“Hectronic”) is a specialist provider of embedded computing
technology to industrial electronics markets within the Nordic region.
It brings to the Acal Group expertise in additional industrial computing technologies and strengthens
Acal’s Nordic-based specialist electronics business.
Headquartered in Sweden, Hectronic provides its customers with in-house design to their own
specification and an outsourced manufacturing capability. It complements Acal’s UK Microsystems
activity, while Acal’s market access will create sales expansion opportunities for Hectronic products
across Europe.
13
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
Hectronic designs and supplies
customised embedded
computing solutions to the
defence, industrial and control
markets. Solutions are created
either through a full custom
design, or a semi custom design
using standard building blocks
with customised interfaces. acquisition october 2011
MTC Micro Tech Components GmbH
The acquisition of MTC Micro Tech Components GmbH and its affiliate EMC Innovation Limited
(together”MTC”) in October 2011 represented further progress in the implementation of Acal´s
specialisation strategy.
Based in Germany, with an in-house manufacturing facility in South Korea, MTC is a specialist provider
of own brand electromagnetic shielding and thermal management products to the European and
Asian industrial electronics markets.
Operating in a rapidly growing niche market, it is planned to achieve sales growth for MTC by selling
its products through Acal´s European organisation
®
“Due to the recent
large increase in MTC’s
product portfolio, and
the ability to sell MTC´s
products through
Acal´s European sales
organisation, we are
looking forward to
considerable growth
for MTC in Europe. ”
Gerhard Baecher
Managing Director
May 2012
14
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
MTC´s DTR gasket* was
developed in collaboration with
its customer, Schroff, to offer a
perfect solution to shield front
plates in a subrack system.
The gasket is optimized for rack
and mounted plug-in-boards
i.e. MicroTCA as far as shielding
and mechanical exposure is
concerned.
* International patents granted MTC’s DTR gasket achievement march 2012
Avago Technologies
Performance Excellence Award
for RF and Fibre Optics
15
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
Avago are a global market leading manufacturer of Radio Frequency (RF) and Fibre Optic components
for use in communication systems.
The Acal BFi Communications business unit takes Avago’s range of specialist products to market
throughout Europe enabling customers to implement designs using their disruptive FBAR and
emerging WaferCap technologies. This has achieved design success in applications such as Femtocell
base stations, Optical LNBs and Mast Head amplifiers.
In recognition, Acal BFi received the Performance Excellence Award for Best Product Line Performer
2011 for RF and Fibre Optic products from Avago.
“Performance Excellence Awards are given only in recognition of exceptional achievement and Acal
BFi has earned this award by maintaining three consecutive years of high growth against a backdrop
of a difficult and highly competitive market place” , explains Steffi Kircher, Avago Technologies’ director
of distribution, Europe. “The foundations of this growth are based on the strong relationship which
exists between Acal BFi and Avago Technologies through which we have been able to nurture and
support our end-customers through challenging times” .
Lee Austin
Acal BFi’s Business
Development Director,
Communications
T E C H N O L O G I E S 16
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
three year performance
ﬁnancial
• total shareholder return over 3 years of 130%
• £22.4m of cumulative free cash flow, 151% of
underlying operating proﬁt
• 26% pre tax return on acquisition investments
return on trading
capital employed
2
%
dividend per share p underlying earnings
per share p
-3.8
FY09
-6.3
FY10
18.6
FY11
19.9
FY12
7.0
FY09
7.0
FY10
7.5
FY11
8.0
FY12
-2.3
FY09
6.6
FY10
5.3
FY11
10.5
FY12
0.9
FY09
-1.9
FY10
18.3
FY11
21.7
FY12
free cash ﬂow
1
£m
1
Free cash flow before exceptional cash payments
and payments to legacy pension scheme
2
Return on trading capital employed:
Return = underlying operating proﬁt
Trading capital = ﬁxed assets excluding
goodwill plus working capital 17
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
operational
• electronics sales growth of 21% CAGR
over 3 years
• specialist sales account for 86% of
ongoing electronics sales
• gross margins increased by 3.7 percentage
points over 3 years
operating margin %
specialist electronics
sales %
group sales £m
gross margin %
165
FY09
182
FY10
265
FY11
258
FY12
55
FY09
78
FY10
80
FY11
86
FY12
26.5
FY09
27.6
FY10
28.4
FY11
30.2
FY12
0.1
FY09
0
FY10
2.8
FY11
3.1
FY12
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements Nick Jefferies
Group Chief Executive
Nick joined Acal as Group
Chief Executive in January 2009.
Formerly General Manager
for Electronics globally at
Electrocomponents plc, and
having previously held senior
positions at Arrow Electronics,
he started his career as an
Electronics Design Engineer
for Racal Defence (now part
of Thales plc).
Tony Lioveri MBA ACMA MCIM
Group Marketing Director
Tony was appointed as Group
Marketing Director in May 2012.
A member of the Chartered
Institute of Marketing, his
previous roles include Digital
Strategic Consulting Director
of e-Business for Epson Europe
and Head of e-Commerce
and Strategy Executive at
Electrocomponents plc. His
earlier career was spent with
Dow Chemical Company.
Simon Gibbins ACA
Group Finance Director
Simon was appointed as Group
Finance Director in July 2010.
A Chartered Accountant, he
was previously Global Head of
Finance and Deputy CFO at
Shire plc. Prior to joining Shire
in 2000, he spent 6 years with
ICI plc in various senior finance
roles, both in the UK and
overseas. His earlier career was
spent with Coopers & Lybrand
in London.
our group executive committee
our experienced executive committee
focuses on leading and developing
the Group, delivering results and
driving growth for shareholders
18
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012 Paul Neville ACA
Group Commercial Director
Paul was appointed Group
Commercial Director in March
2009. A Chartered Accountant,
he has over 15 years experience
of working in senior
management positions for
listed public companies,
including Wincanton plc and
Uniq plc. Prior to joining Acal,
he was Group Chief Executive
of an AIM listed software
development company.
Martin Pangels
Group Strategy and
Development Director
Martin is Group Strategy and
Development Director. He
joined Acal in July 2010 after
working as an advisor to the
business. Prior to joining Acal,
Martin spent 9 years at
Electrocomponents plc, where
he was Regional General
Manager for Europe, and
6 years with Bain & Company
as a strategy consultant.
Gary Shillinglaw FCIS
Group Company Secretary
Gary joined Acal as Group
Company Secretary in August
2008. A qualiﬁed Chartered
Secretary, he has previously
held the position of Group
Company Secretary in a
number of listed and
non-listed public companies,
including Countryside Properties
plc, B&Q plc and First Leisure
Corporation plc.
Paul Webster
Group Product Management
and Operations Director
Paul joined Acal in June 2010 as
Managing Director, Acal BFi UK.
He has many years experience
in senior management roles,
including Head of Product
Management for Electronics
globally at Electrocomponents
plc. He began his career as a
design engineer for Plessey
Avionics (now part of BAE
Systems).
19
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 20
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
ﬁnance review
Increase in gross margin more than offsets revenue reduction
a) Revenues
Group revenue for the year reduced by 3% to £257.8m (2010/11: £264.8m) and down 8% on a like for
like basis. This reduction reflects three key factors:-
i The previously announced strategic move away from lower margin fulfilment Electronics products
taking the level of specialist Electronics revenues to 86% on ongoing sales (up from 78% at the
end of last year). This resulted in a sales reduction of £5.0m for this year and an additional £11m for
next year.
ii A tougher sales environment since last year. PMI manufacturing indices are a useful barometer for
the industrial markets that Acal sells into. The average European manufacturing PMI is down from
57 in H2 2010/11 to 48 in H2 2011/12 (where above 50 is indicative of growth).
iii Last year strong growth. First half like for like sales in 2010/11 in the Electronics division grew by
over 30%.
As the business shifts to a higher margin, more specialist model, management view gross profit and
operating profit as better indicators of growth in the business than revenues.
In the second half, Group revenues were £124.1m (H2 2010/11: £137.5m). Excluding the planned
discontinuations, reported sales were 7% lower. The first half, which was largely before the market
downturn, saw revenues up 5% to £133.7m (H1 2010/11: £127.3m).
b) Gross margins
The focus on specialisation saw gross margins improve significantly from 28.4% last year to 30.2%, a
rise of 1.8 percentage points. This reflects the impact of three core initiatives during the year:-
i Organic growth in both divisions. Through a series of initiatives focused on selling more highly
differentiated, higher gross margin products, approximately 1.1 percentage points was added to
the Group gross margin.
ii The three recent businesses acquired namely Compotron (January 2011), Hectronic (June 2011)
and MTC (October 2011), are wholly specialist businesses commanding attractive gross margins. In
total, these acquisitions added approximately 0.5 percentage points to the Group gross margin.
iii The active shift away from low margin non-specialist Electronics products as described above. In
addition, Supply Chain disposed of its loss making, low margin Retail operations in January 2012
and its loss making, low margin ATM business in September 2010. These initiatives added
approximately 0.2 percentage points to the Group gross margin.
H2 gross margins were 30.9%, up sequentially by 1.4 percentage points over H1 gross margins of
29.5%, and up 2.4 percentage points over last year’s second half gross margin (H2 2010/11: 28.5%).
Overall, the Group’s change in strategy has driven gross margin up by 4.4 percentage points since
2009 from 26.5%.
gross margins up
by 1.8 percentage
points
specialist focus drives
continuing growth in
margins, earnings and
cash flow generation 21
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
Gross proﬁts continue to grow
The Group’s focus on specialisation and higher gross margins has resulted in gross profit growth to
£77.9m for the year, up £2.7m or up 4% over last year’s gross profit of £75.2m. This overall rise for the
year comprises a reduction in like for like gross profits of 5% which was more than offset by the
benefit of acquisitions +8% and foreign exchange rates +1%.
In H2, gross profit of £38.4m was down only 2% compared to last year (H2 2010/11: £39.2m) as the
strong gross margin growth (up 2.5 percentage points on last year) offset the reduction in sales. H1
gross profit was £39.5m, which was an increase of 10% on last year (H1 2010/11: £36.0m), again driven
by the strong gross margin growth (up 1.2 percentage points over the previous year).
Maintaining a tight cost base
Overall operating costs increased by 2% to £74.0m, up £1.3m from last year. These include exceptional
costs of £3.4m (2010/11: £4.4m) and amortisation of acquired intangibles of £0.8m (2010/11: £0.3m).
Excluding these items, underlying operating costs increased only 3% to £69.8m (2010/11: £68.0m).
Excluding the impact of acquisitions/disposals and foreign exchange, operating costs were down 3%
(or £1.9m).
Key to this reduction has been a continued tight control of the cost base together with the impact of
restructuring initiatives taken during the year. These initiatives, the associated cost savings and one off
exceptional costs are dealt with in the Chief Executive’s Review.
For H2, underlying operating costs were £34.4m, £0.2m below H2 2010/11. Overall operating costs
increased by 1% to £37.1m, up £0.5m from last year. These include exceptional costs of £2.3m (H2
2010/11: £1.5m) and amortisation of acquired intangibles of £0.4m (H2 2010/11: £0.3m). Excluding the
impact of acquisitions/disposals and foreign exchange, operating costs were down 7% (or £2.3m) as
the savings from the cost saving initiatives took effect.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items for the year totalled £3.4m (2010/11: £4.4m) of which £2.2m related to restructuring
costs in both Electronics (£1.8m) and Supply Chain (£0.4m). Associated with these projects, additional
restructuring costs of £1.3m are expected next year.
Other exceptional costs this year totalled £1.2m, comprising £0.7m for the acquisition of Hectronic
and MTC (including related integration expenses), £0.2m related to the disposal of Supply Chain’s
Retail operation and £0.3m development costs related to the new web platform. Total development
costs for the web platform are expected to be £1.3m (£1.0m in 2012/13) with a staggered launch date
commencing in Q3 2012/13.
Growing operational proﬁtability
Underlying operating profits for the year were £8.1m, up 9% on last year (2010/11: £7.4m), giving an
underlying operating margin of 3.1% up from 2.8% from last year.
Second half underlying operating profits of £4.0m were down £0.6m on the strong second half
comparative from last year and down £0.1m from H1. Operating margin for the second half was 3.2%,
which was 0.1 percentage points ahead of the first half, continuing the drive towards our medium
term target of 5%. Since H1 2010, operating margins have risen nearly 6 percentage points.
Reported operating profits for the year (including exceptional items of £3.4m and amortisation on
acquired intangibles of £0.8m) were £3.9m up £1.4m compared with last year’s operating profit of
£2.5m
Increased finance costs reflecting investment in acquisitions and restructuring
Net finance costs for the year of £1.2m (2010/11: £0.6m) comprised a net interest charge of £0.9m and
an IAS 19 pension finance charge of £0.3m relating to a legacy defined benefit pension scheme.
gross proﬁt up
4%
underlying
operating
proﬁts up
9%
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 22
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
Net interest charges of £0.9m were up £0.6m from last year and comprised interest and facility fees
arising from the operation of the Group’s committed and uncommitted facilities. The additional
interest charge reflects the increased use of committed facilities during the year to fund investment in
acquisitions and restructuring.
The IAS 19 charge was £0.3m for the year, in line with last year.
Underlying tax rate remains low
The underlying effective tax rate at 18% was lower than the UK tax rate of 26% mainly due to the
utilisation of tax losses in certain territories which are now profitable. This compares favourably to an
underlying effective rate in 2010/11 of 23% due to the increased use of unrecognised tax losses. At the
year end, the Group had approximately £17m of tax losses covering certain territories that it should
have access to in future depending on the level of profitability in those territories.
The overall effective tax rate was 22% (2010/11:11%). This rate is higher than the underlying effective
tax rate due to the lower rate of tax relief anticipated on exceptional costs.
Losses in Germany have now been fully utilised giving rise to an increase in the amount of tax paid in
the period to £1.1m (2010/11: net tax recovered £0.6m).
Continued earnings improvement
Increased underlying profits and a better underlying tax rate combined to achieve underlying diluted
earnings per share for the year of 19.9 pence, up 7% on last year (2010/11: 18.6 pence). Of this,
underlying earnings per share of 10.2 pence was generated in the second half being marginally higher
than the first half performance of 9.7 pence per share.
Including underlying adjustments, the fully diluted earnings per share for the year was 7.1 pence
(2010/11: 5.7 pence), up 25%.
Further dividend growth
For the year ended 31 March 2012, the Board has recommended a final dividend of 5.5 pence per
share (H2 2010/11: 5.14 pence per share), an increase of 7%. An interim dividend of 2.5 pence per
share was paid in January 2012 (H1 2010/11: 2.33 pence per share), making the total dividend for the
year 8.0 pence per share (2010/11: 7.47 pence per share), an increase of 7%.
The dividend is payable on 27 July 2012 to shareholders on the register as at 15 June 2012.
Continuing acquisition strategy
On 1 June 2011 Acal acquired 100% of Hectronic, for a cash consideration of SEK12m (£1.2m). At the
date of acquisition, Hectronic had an overdraft of SEK 5m (£0.5m) giving a total cost on a debt free
basis of SEK 17m (£1.7m).
On 5 October 2011, Acal acquired 100% of MTC for an upfront cash consideration of €2.6m (£2.3m).
Additionally, deferred contingent cash consideration of up to €1.1m (£1.0m) will be payable in January
2013 subject to the business achieving agreed growth targets over the period to 31 December 2012.
At the date of acquisition MTC had cash of €0.6m (£0.5m), giving a total cost on a debt free basis of
€2.0m (£1.8m).
Expenses for the two acquisitions totalled £0.4m and have been included in exceptional items.
Disposal of non core assets
On 31 January 2012, the Group sold its loss-making Retail spare parts operation (part of the Supply
Chain division) for nominal consideration. Costs of disposal were £0.2m and have been treated as an
exceptional item.
ﬁnance review continued
underlying
diluted EPS up
7% 23
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
Working capital remains low
Working capital remains low at 12.0% of second half sales (2010/11: 12.0%) with working capital
reducing by £3.3m to £29.7m. This was achieved primarily through the improvement in trade debtors
which at the year end reduced to 50 days (31 March 2011: 55 days), reflecting higher German sales
(with lower debtor days, following the acquisitions of Compotron and MTC) and lower Spanish sales
(with higher debtor days) and improved collection processes. Trade capital creditors outstanding at
the year end reduced to 49 days (31 March 2011: 52 days).
Inventory performance continued to be strong, with turns of 7.6 at the year end (2010/11: 7.9), within
which the Electronics division achieved turns of 9.8 (FY 2010/11: 9.8)
Strong free cash flow generation
Underlying operating cash flow generated in the year was £10.2m being underlying operating profit
of £8.1m adjusted for key non-cash items of £2.1m comprising depreciation of £1.2m, amortisation
(excluding amortisation on acquired intangibles) of £0.3m, and share based payments of £0.6m.
Underlying operating cash was up 12% compared to last year (2010/11: £9.1m).
Working capital improvements noted above gave rise to £3.6m of cash inflow (2010/11: outflow of
£2.7m). Capital expenditure totalled £1.3m and was in line with last year (2010/11: £1.3m). Net interest
payments increased from £0.3m last year to £0.9m reflecting utilisation of resources to fund
acquisitions and restructuring costs. Tax payments totalled £1.1m as the Group started paying tax in
Germany (following the utilisation of brought forward losses) and South Africa. This compares to a net
tax receipt last year of £0.5m when the Group benefited from the carry back of losses against
previously taxed profits.
Taking into account the cash impact of working capital, interest and tax, free cash flow totalled £10.5m
and represented 130% of underlying operating profit. This is up 98% on last year (2010/11: £5.3m).
Exceptional cash payments in the period totalled £3.9m (2010/11: £5.1m) and related mainly to the BFI
integration booked last year, and the 2012 restructuring initiatives. A further £2.5m of exceptional cash
payments are due next year in relation to this year’s restructuring initiatives. Payments made to the
legacy defined benefit scheme totalled £0.7m (2010/11: £0.7m). For the year ended 31 March 2013,
this payment will increase to £1.45m in line with the current funding plan agreed with the trustees.
This resulted in free cash flow after exceptionals and legacy pension fund payments, of £5.9m
(2010/11: cash outflow of £0.5m).
The Group invested £4.0m of this free cash flow into acquisitions during the year (2010/11: £4.4m).
This comprised £1.2m for Hectronic paid in June 2011, £0.5m paid as a final working capital
settlement for Compotron and £2.3m for MTC in October 2011. An earn out of £1.4m will be payable
to Compotron management in January 2013, with the company already hitting its required earn out
performance criteria. Up to £1.0m of earn-out will be payable to MTC management, also in January
2013, subject to MTC achieving specific performance criteria.
The dividend paid for the year totalled £2.2m (2010/11: £2.0m). Overall net cash outflow for the year
was £0.3m (2010/11 net cash out flow: £6.9m) Together with a small foreign exchange loss on
translation of £0.1m, the Group’s net cash balance reduced by £0.4m from £6.7m at 31 March 2011 to
£6.3m at 31 March 2012.
Committed funding remains strong
In addition to the year end net cash balance of £6.3m, the Group also had access to committed
working capital facilities of £19m which it requires from time to time to fund inter-month outflows of
working capital. Such inter-month outflows resulted in a net average cash across the final quarter of
the year of £1.0m. In addition to its committed facilities, the Group also had access at the year end to
uncommitted working capital facilities of £13m.
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
working capital
reduction of
£3.3m
free cash ﬂow up
98% 24
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
Pension deﬁcit
The Group has a legacy defined benefit scheme that relates to the acquisition of Sedgemoor Limited
in 1999. The scheme has been closed to both new entrants and new contributions since 2000.
Assets of the defined benefit scheme were valued at £29.8m at 31 March 2012 (31 March 2011:
£29.1m). Scheme liabilities under IAS19 were valued by the actuaries at £36.3m (31 March 2011:
£34.6m). The increase of £1.7m relates to the reduction in yields on long term corporate bonds during
the year. The net deficit at 31 March 2012 is £6.5m (31 March 2011: £5.5m). Further details are given in
note 33 to the Group financial statements.
For existing and new Acal employees, the Group operates a defined contribution scheme.
Net assets
Net assets at 31 March 2012 of £49.1m were £2.2m below net assets at the end of last year (£51.3m)
with net after tax profits for the year of £2.1m and shares based payments of £0.6m being offset by
the cost of dividends in the period of £2.2m, the increased IAS 19 liability on the legacy pension fund
of £1.0m and translational movements on currency net assets of £1.6m.
Risks and uncertainties
The global economy remains vulnerable to major shocks such as a further banking crisis or sovereign
debt defaults. As a result, the Group's sales and profits could be exposed to worsening global
economic conditions and a loss of wider economic business confidence.
The other risks and uncertainties which may have the largest impact on performance are:
• Commercial risks – product demand, loss of major suppliers or customers, technological change,
competition, product liability, loss of contracts, supply chain disruption, major damage to premises,
loss of IT systems and loss of key personnel.
• Financial risks – liquidity, foreign currency, interest rates and credit risks, retirement benefits funding
and acquisitions.
The Group is well positioned to manage such risks and uncertainties if they arise with its strong
balance sheet and combined net cash and committed facilities of over £25m at the end of the period.
Acal’s risk management processes cover identification, impact assessment, likely occurrence and
mitigation actions. Some level of risk, however, will always be present.
Simon Gibbins
Group Finance Director
29 May 2012
ﬁnance review continued
well positioned to
manage risks and
uncertainties 25
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
Registered ofﬁce
Acal plc
2 Chancellor Court
Occam Road
Surrey Research Park
Guildford
Surrey GU2 7AH
Telephone 01483 544500
Incorporated in England
and Wales with
registered number 2008246
Stockbrokers
Oriel Securities Limited
Principal bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP
Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Annual General Meeting 19 July 2012
Results
Interim report for the six
months to 30 September 2012 Late November 2012
Preliminary announcement for
the year to 31 March 2013 Late May 2013
Annual report 2013 Late June 2013
Dividend payments
Final dividend 2011/2012 27 July 2012
Interim dividend 2012/2013 Late January 2013
Final dividend 2012/2013 Late July 2013
governance
directors’ report 26
board report on corporate governance 31
directors’ remuneration report 35
corporate social responsibility 40
directors’ responsibilities statement 42
ﬁnancial statements
group ﬁnancial statements 43
report of the auditors, group 44
consolidated income statement 45
consolidated statement of comprehensive income 46
consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 47
consolidated statement of changes in equity 48
consolidated statement of cash ﬂows 49
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements 50
company ﬁnancial statements 85
report of the auditors, company 86
company balance sheet 87
notes to the company ﬁnancial statements 88
ﬁve year record 91
principal locations 92
contents
corporate information ﬁnancial calendar 2012/2013
corporate information and ﬁnancial calendar
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 2
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
The Directors present their Annual Report with the audited ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012. This report is the
“management report” for the purpose of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules. The Business Review referred to below is to be
treated as being part of this Report.
Results and dividends
The results of the Group for the year to 31 March 2012 are set out in detail in the consolidated income statement on page 45.
The Directors recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 5.50p per share (2011: 5.14p). The ﬁnal dividend together with the interim dividend of 2.50p
(2011: 2.33p) makes a total dividend for the year of 8.00p per ordinary share (2011: 7.47p). The total dividends on ordinary shares will
absorb £2,278,384 (2011: £2,126,000).
Principal activities and business review
Acal plc is the parent company of a sales, marketing and services group with two divisions: Electronics and Supply Chain. During the year the
Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Hectronic AB, a specialist provider of embedded computing technology to industrial
electronic markets. Further details of the acquisition are set out in note 11 to the ﬁnancial statements. The Group also acquired MTC Micro
Tech Components GmbH and its afﬁliate EMC Innovation Limited. MTC is a specialist provider of electromagnetic shielding products to the
European and Asian industrial electronic markets. Further details of this acquisition are set out in note 11 to the ﬁnancial statements. There
were no other major changes to the Group’s activities during the year under review. On a regular basis the Board reviews all businesses
within the Group to ensure that its strategy is being delivered and to examine other opportunities to enhance shareholder value. At the date
of this Report the Board has taken no decisions which could result in any signiﬁcant changes in activities during the current ﬁnancial year.
During the year the Group’s turnover decreased by 3% over the prior year whilst underlying proﬁt before tax was £7.2 million compared
to a proﬁt of £7.1 million in the prior year. The consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position as at the year-end and the equivalent
statement as at 31 March 2011 are shown on page 47. A review of the business and future developments of the Group is presented in
the Chairman’s Statement, in the Chief Executive’s Review and in the Finance Review on pages 2 to 3, 6 to 10 and 20 to 24.
The Group does not have contractual or other arrangements with any contractors, customers or suppliers that are critical to the business.
Key performance indicators
Our progress on our strategic objectives is monitored by the Board of Directors by reference to the following key performance indicators
applied on a Group-wide basis:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 2012 31 March 2011
Underlying operating proﬁt* £8.1m £7.4m
Underlying proﬁt before tax* £7.2m £7.1m
Gross proﬁt £77.9m £75.2m
Gross margin 30.2% 28.4%
Underlying operating margin 3.1% 2.8%
Underlying diluted earnings per share* 19.9p 18.6p
Working capital to sales 12.0% 12.0%
Days sales outstanding 50 55
Stock turns 7.6 7.9
ROTCE* 21.7% 18.3%
Free cash ﬂow* £10.5m £5.3m
* Underlying proﬁts, earnings, ROTCE and free cash ﬂow are deﬁned in note 2 to the ﬁnancial statements on pages 50 to 51.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risks and uncertainties affecting the Group’s electronics and supply chain markets could have a material impact on the Group’s
performance and cause actual results to differ signiﬁcantly from expected and historic performance. Acal’s risk management processes cover
identiﬁcation, impact assessment, likely occurrence and mitigation actions. Some level of risk, however, will always be present.
The global economy remains vulnerable to major shocks, such as a further banking crisis or sovereign debt defaults. As a result, the
Group’s sales and proﬁts could be exposed to worsening global economic conditions and the loss of wider economic business
conﬁdence.
The other principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are described below.
Financial risks
• Liquidity
This is the risk that the Group could have insufﬁcient resources to meet its ﬁnancial liabilities as they fall due. The Group addresses this
risk by maintaining adequate banking facilities and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash ﬂows to ensure that liquidity
requirements will be met. The Group regularly discusses its requirements with its principal bankers and it is considered unlikely that the
Group will face any signiﬁcant funding issues in the foreseeable future.
directors’ report 2
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
• Foreign currency
The Group’s main foreign exchange exposures relate to the translation of results and net assets denominated in overseas currencies into
sterling (translational exposure), and the occurrence of transactions in currencies other than the operational currency of the transacting
company (transactional exposure). The policy of the Group is to use hedges to reduce the foreign currency risk associated with
transactional exposures. These hedges are achieved through forward currency contracts and currency borrowings. The hedging
of translational exposure is restricted to currency borrowings.
• Interest rates
Fluctuations in rates affect the interest the Group receives on its cash deposits and the amount payable on external borrowings. At
31 March 2012, the Group had no such hedges against its interest rate risk.
• Credit
Credit risk exists in relation to customers, banks and insurers. These risks are mitigated by maintaining rigorous credit control procedures
across a wide customer base.
Credit risk attributable to trade and other receivables is minimised by dealing with recognised creditworthy third parties who have been
through a credit veriﬁcation process. The maximum exposure to credit risk is limited to the carrying value of trade and other receivables.
As well as credit risk exposures inherent within the Group’s outstanding receivables the Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk
arising from the placing of deposits and entering into derivative ﬁnancial instrument contracts with banks and ﬁnancial institutions.
The Group manages this credit risk by entering into ﬁnancial instrument contracts only with highly credit-rated counterparties which
are reviewed and approved annually by the Board. The Group has Board approved maximum counterparty exposure limits for speciﬁed
banks and ﬁnancial institutions based on the long term credit ratings of Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s.
Counterparties’ positions are monitored on a regular basis to ensure that they are within the approved limits and that there are no
signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk.
• Retirement beneﬁts funding
The funding position of the Group’s post-retirement beneﬁt scheme (the Sedgemoor Scheme – see note 33 to the ﬁnancial statements
on page 81, may be adversely affected by poor investment performance, changes in interest and inﬂation rates, improved mortality
rates and changes in the regulatory environment. The income statement, and the level of cash contributions required to be made to
the scheme, may be positively or negatively affected by the amount of the retirement beneﬁts obligations.
The Sedgemoor Scheme has been closed to new members since 1999 and shortly thereafter future service beneﬁts ceased to accrue
to existing members. Deﬁcit recovery plans are agreed with the Trustee of the scheme based on actuarial advice and the results of
scheme valuations.
• Acquisitions
The Group considers acquisitions as part of its growth strategy. Such acquisitions may not realise the beneﬁts anticipated. The Group
undertakes due diligence and obtains representations, warranties and indemnities from vendors where possible. The Group implements
comprehensive business integration processes.
Commercial and other risks
• Product demand
A signiﬁcant or prolonged downturn, due to recession, would decrease demand for the Group’s products and adversely affect Group
revenue. The Group spreads its activities across the electronics, supply chain and medical markets to reduce its exposure to any one
business and constantly reviews its costs to partially mitigate any reduction in demand.
• Loss of major suppliers or customer(s)
As with any business, the loss of one or more major suppliers or customers can be a material risk. The nature of the Group’s businesses,
however, ensures that there is not a high level of dependence on any individual suppliers or customers. No supplier represents more
than 3% of total Group revenue with the next largest at 2%. No customer represents more than 1% of total Group revenue.
• Technological change
The Group’s businesses operate in specialised markets offering products which are technical in nature. As a result, there is always the risk
that a technological change will make speciﬁc products less competitive or in the worst case, obsolete. In addition to the write-off of
unsaleable inventory, this can impact the sales performance of the business if replacement products are not available. The Group’s
exposure to this risk is reduced by the spread of businesses and technologies.
The operating businesses monitor the key technologies to ensure early warning of changes in product competitiveness. Also, the
businesses, with sufﬁcient lead time, mostly have the opportunity to change suppliers in the event of a major technology shift.
• Competition
The Group competes in a highly competitive global market that has experienced signiﬁcant consolidation in recent years. Losing
contracts to competitors, many of whom have greater ﬁnancial and marketing resources, or being forced to accept lower margins,
would have an adverse impact on the Group’s results. The Group mitigates exposure to this risk by diversifying its operations across
divisions, geographies and product types.
• Product liability
There is a risk that products supplied may fail in service, which could lead to a claim under product liability. To offset this risk, technically
qualiﬁed personnel and control systems are in place to ensure products meet quality requirements. Further, the Group has established
Group-wide product liability insurance.
directors’ report continued
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 2
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
• Contracts
The Supply Chain division enters into signiﬁcant long-term contracts for the outsourcing of parts services. There is a risk that the Group
could suffer losses on such contracts through incorrect pricing, through an inaccurate assessment of the costs associated with such
contracts or through weak business processes. To mitigate exposure to this risk, major contracts must go through a Board approval
process to ensure that risks associated with such contracts have been properly evaluated.
• Supply chain
The Group relies on independent suppliers for the products which it distributes, some of which may be available from a limited number
of suppliers or distributed under agreement with a speciﬁc supplier. Any disruption to the supply chain could have an impact on the
Group’s ability to meet customer requirements and adversely affect the Group’s results. The Group maintains signiﬁcant investment in
logistics facilities and subjects business continuity plans to regular testing to manage the risk of a loss of a major facility or supplier.
• Major damage to premises
The Electronics business has two central warehouse facilities. Major damage to either of these facilities from ﬁre, malicious damage or
natural disaster would impact the business for a period until the damage is repaired or alternative facilities have been established.
The businesses have developed plans to prevent incidents, and business contingency plans in the event such an incident occurred.
Insurance policies are also in place including property, contents and business interruption cover which would mitigate the ﬁnancial impact.
• Loss of information technology (“IT”) systems
Computer systems are critical to the businesses since their success is built on high levels of customer service and quick response. A
complete failure of IT systems, with the loss of trading and other records, could be very damaging. IT system failure could have a
number of causes including power failure, ﬁre and viruses. Business interruption insurance cover is held across the Group and
contingency plans have been drawn up in all businesses.
• People
The success of the Group depends upon the efforts, experience and expertise of certain senior and specialist employees. Failure to
retain them or recruit suitable replacements would have an adverse effect. To mitigate exposure to this risk, the Group maintains
competitive remuneration packages and good communications at all levels.
Employee involvement
The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment. Employment policies are fair, equitable and consistent
with the skills and abilities of its employees and the needs of the Group’s business. These policies ensure that everyone is accorded equal
opportunity for recruitment, training and promotion. The Group remains supportive of the employment and advancement of disabled
persons, in relation to which further information is included in the Corporate Social Responsibility statement on page 40 and 41.
It is Group policy to communicate with employees on major matters to encourage them to take an interest in the affairs of their
employing company and the Group. Each of the Group’s operating companies is responsible for developing effective arrangements in
this regard, including the creation of a common awareness by employees of the ﬁnancial and economic factors affecting their employing
company’s performance.
Acal recognises the importance of its responsibilities in relation to the environment, to social and community issues and to business
ethics, as well as to its employees. Further information is included in the Corporate Social Responsibility statement on page 40 and 41.
Directors
The current Directors of the Company are detailed in the Board Report on Corporate Governance on pages 31 to 34 which is publicly
available on the Company’s website at www.acalplc.co.uk. Directors’ remuneration, service contracts and Directors’ interests are disclosed
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 39.
The Articles of Association of the Company contain an indemnity in favour of the Directors which is a Qualifying Third Party Indemnity
within the meaning of s. 236 of the Companies Act 2006 and is in force at the time of approval of this Annual Report. Also, Directors of
associated companies are subject to this Qualifying Third Party Indemnity.
In addition, each Director of the Company has entered into a Deed of Indemnity with the Company which operates only in excess of any
right to indemnity which a Director may enjoy under any such other indemnity or contract of insurance.
Additional information for shareholders
The following provides the additional information required for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the Takeover Directive
into UK Law.
At 31 March 2012 the Company’s issued share capital consisted of 28,479,804 ordinary shares of 5p each. On a show of hands at a general
meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares present in person is entitled to vote and on a poll every member present in
person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held. There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary
shares in the Company other than those that may be imposed by law or regulation from time to time.
The Company’s Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders. Directors are
appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders. The Board can appoint a Director but anyone so appointed
must be elected by an ordinary resolution at the next general meeting. Any Director who has held ofﬁce for more than three years since
their last appointment must offer themselves for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Directors have the power to manage the Company’s business subject to the provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association, law
directors’ report continued 2
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
and applicable regulations. The Directors also have the power to issue and buy-back shares in the Company pursuant to the terms and
limitations of resolutions passed by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company are shown in the table on page 37. Substantial shareholder interests of which the
Company has been notiﬁed are shown below.
The Company is party to a number of commercial agreements which, in line with normal practice in the industry, may be affected by a
change of control following a takeover bid. There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for
compensation for loss of ofﬁce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid (but see “Special Award: Mr S M Gibbins” on page 39).
Issue of shares under share option and long-term incentive schemes
No shares were issued during the year under the Group’s executive share option and long-term incentive schemes.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 29 May 2012 the Company has been notiﬁed of the following major shareholdings equal to or in excess of three per cent of the
issued share capital:
Holdings of %
ordinary shares (5p) holding
Aberforth Partners LLP 4,926,150* 17.3
M&G Investment Management Ltd 2,547,551 8.9
Mr & Mrs J A H Curry 2,443,500 8.6
Henderson Global Investors Ltd 1,895,629 6.7
Unicorn Asset Management Ltd 1,642,735 5.8
Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 1,340,509 4.7
Mr & Mrs A J Laughton 1,293,775 4.5
Herald Investment Management Ltd 1,264,992 4.4
Polar Capital European Forager Fund Ltd 1,088,343 4.2
* Includes 1,157,300 shares in relation to which Aberforth have no access to the voting rights.
Acquisition of company’s own shares
At the end of the year, the Directors had authority to purchase through the market up to 2,847,980 of the Company’s ordinary shares,
being approximately 10% of the Company’s issued share capital as at 20 June 2011, at prices ranging between the nominal value and
an amount equal to the higher of (a) 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from
the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofﬁcial List for the ﬁve business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is
purchased and (b) that stipulated by Article 5(i) of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulations 2003.
The authority expires at the conclusion of the 2012 Annual General Meeting or on 27 October 2012, whichever is the earlier. The Directors
will seek to renew this authority at the next Annual General Meeting.
No shares were purchased under this authority during the year.
Donations
During the year £nil (2011: £nil) was donated by Group companies for charitable purposes. No contributions (2011: £nil) were made for
political purposes.
Auditors
A resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of
the Company.
Disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving this Report are listed on pages 4 and 5. Having made enquiries
of fellow Directors and of the Company’s auditors, each of the Directors conﬁrms that:
• to the best of his knowledge and belief, there is no information (ie information needed by the Group’s auditors in connection with •
preparing their report) of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information
and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Supplier payments
The Group makes arrangements for payment of suppliers in the ordinary course of its business, taking into account good practice locally.
It is the Group’s policy to adhere to agreed arrangements, which can vary from supplier to supplier and territory to territory, when goods
or services have been delivered satisfactorily.
Trade creditors of the Group at 31 March 2012 were equivalent to 49 days purchases (2011: 52).
directors’ report continued
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
Use of derivative ﬁnancial instruments
A statement in relation to the use of derivative ﬁnancial instruments by the Group is shown in note 2 to the ﬁnancial statements on pages
54 and 55.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in this
report on pages 26 to 28. The ﬁnancial position of the Group, its cash ﬂows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the
Finance Review on pages 20 to 24. In addition, note 27 to the ﬁnancial statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes
for managing its capital, its ﬁnancial risk management objectives, details of its ﬁnancial instruments and hedging activities and its
exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable ﬁnancial resources, well established distribution contracts with a number of suppliers and a broad and stable
customer base. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite
any uncertain economic conditions.
After making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the Annual Report and Accounts.
By order of the Board
G P Shillinglaw 2 Chancellor Court
Group Company Secretary Occam Road
29 May 2012 Surrey Research Park
Guildford
Surrey GU2 7AH
directors’ report continued 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
The Acal Group is committed to effective corporate governance and continues to operate principles and procedures that are appropriate
to its business. This statement describes how Acal applies the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) published by
the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 by considering each of the main headings included within the Code. Acal complied with all
provisions of the Code throughout the year to 31 March 2012.
As disclosed in the Directors’ Report on page 28, this Report is publicly available on the Company’s website at www.acalplc.co.uk.
The board
Acal is led by a strong and experienced Board with a broad range of business and ﬁnancial skills. Throughout the year under review
it consisted of Mr R J Moon as Non-Executive Chairman; Messrs E A Barton, G J Williams and I R Fraser as Non-Executive Directors;
Mr N J Jefferies as Group Chief Executive; and Mr S M Gibbins as Group Finance Director.
The size and composition of the Board is considered to be appropriate to the Group’s business at present although this is kept under
review by the Nomination Committee.
The Board operates within a framework of controls used to minimise the adverse impact of any risks, including a formal schedule of
matters reserved for its decision. These are important matters and include the determination of the Group’s overall strategy and
management, the approval of ﬁnancial statements, dividends, business plans, ﬁnancing and treasury matters, major capital expenditure
and any litigation of a material nature. The schedule is reviewed on a regular basis.
The Non-Executive Directors challenge management proposals where appropriate and carefully monitor management performance and
reporting throughout the year.
As detailed below, certain matters are delegated to the Group Executive Committee and to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination
Committees. The Board also has a General Purposes Committee consisting of any two Directors of the Company which has delegated
authority to approve certain deﬁned and routine matters between Board meetings. There were ten meetings of the full Board during the
year to 31 March 2012, with all Directors attending all meetings with the exception of one meeting which Mr I R Fraser was unable to
attend. All Directors attended the meetings of all Committees on which they served, with the exception of one meeting of the
Remuneration Committee which Mr I R Fraser was unable to attend.
The Group maintains appropriate Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ Liability insurance.
Chairman and group chief executive
The Company has both a Chairman and a Group Chief Executive. There is a clear division of responsibilities which has been agreed by the
Board and is available from the Company on request. The Chairman is responsible for running the Board which includes the operation of
the Board’s overall procedures, providing a forum for constructive discussion and ensuring receipt of clear and timely information. The
Group Chief Executive is responsible for the management of the Group’s businesses and reporting their progress to the Board. Major
decisions have to be made by the Board as a whole, and no one individual has unfettered power of discretion.
Board balance and independence
As noted above the Board currently comprises two Executive Directors and, including the Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors. Each
Director has a role, and no individual or small group of individuals determines the Board’s decision-making.
No Non-Executive Director who served during the year:
• has been an employee of the Group within the last ﬁve years;
• has, or has had within the last three years, a material business relationship with the Company, either directly or indirectly;
• receives remuneration, other than a Director’s fee, participates in the Companys share incentive schemes or is a member
of the Company’s pension scheme;
• has close family ties with any of the Group’s advisers, Directors or senior employees;
• holds cross-directorships or has signiﬁcant links with other Directors through involvement in other companies or bodies;
• represents a signiﬁcant shareholder; or
• other than Mr E A Barton, has served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their appointment to the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company are, therefore, considered to be independent including Mr E A Barton (who having served
on the Board for more than nine years is considered to be independent for the reasons given below).
Mr E A Barton is the Senior Independent Director and is available to shareholders should they have concerns that cannot be resolved
through other channels.
The Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors, but without Executive Directors present, as and when required. The Non-Executive
Directors meet when required without the Chairman present and, as stated below, the Senior Independent Director leads the process of
appraising annually the Chairman’s performance in conjunction with the other Non-Executive Directors.
Appointments to the board
While appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the full Board, the Nomination Committee has a duty to ensure that, when
making recommendations to the Board on suitable candidates, it takes into account the Board’s existing balance of skills and experience
and has due regard for diversity, including gender.
board report on corporate governance
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 2
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr R J Moon. Messrs E A Barton and G J Williams, as Non-Executive Directors, and Mr N J Jefferies,
as Group Chief Executive, are the other members of the Committee.
Before any appointment to the Board is considered, a job speciﬁcation is prepared and agreed by the Nomination Committee. Unless the
appointment is as an Executive Director for which a suitable candidate is available from within the Group, appropriate executive search or
other organisations with databases of candidates are consulted before a short-list of suitable candidates is produced for agreement by
the Nomination Committee. Candidates meet all members of the Nomination Committee which then makes recommendations to the
Board. All members of the Board would usually meet with the relevant candidate before an appointment is ﬁnally made.
On the appointment of Mr R J Moon as Chairman an assessment was made of the time commitment expected and of Mr Moon’s other
signiﬁcant commitments. Mr Moon is Non-Executive Chairman of Seven Technologies Holdings Limited and a Director of Synergie
Business Limited.
The Nomination Committee met formally three times during the year. The terms of reference for the Nomination Committee are available
on request and are on the Company’s website at www.acalplc.co.uk.
Information and professional development
Papers are circulated in advance of Board and Committee meetings, and Directors are invited to request such further information as they
may require, thereby ensuring that proper consideration can be given to all matters. Between meetings, Directors are kept abreast of
progress by the circulation of monthly reports together with ad hoc meetings and brieﬁngs as and when required. A procedure is in
place whereby Directors may have access to independent professional advice at the Company’s expense and Directors have access to the
advice and services of the Company Secretary. The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary would be a matter for the Board
as a whole. An induction process is in place for any new Director joining the Board which includes meeting with the Group’s senior
management and visits to key locations, as well as a comprehensive brieﬁng pack.
Performance evaluation
During the year the Board repeated the process of evaluating its own performance, together with that of its Committees and individual
Directors, including the Chairman. Each Director is asked to prepare an appraisal of each of these areas. The Chairman co-ordinates
discussion with individual Directors on their performance and the Senior Independent Director co-ordinates discussion with the
Chairman on the Chairman’s performance. The results of the process are then summarised for presentation to and discussion by the
Board and the actions to be taken (if any) are identiﬁed.
Election and re-election of directors
The Company’s Articles of Association require that, at every Annual General Meeting, each Director who (a) was appointed since the
previous Annual General Meeting or (b) was appointed or last re-appointed at or before the Annual General Meeting held at least three
years before the current year or (c) being a Non-Executive Director, as at the date of the Meeting, has held ofﬁce with the Company for a
continuous period of nine years or more, must retire from ofﬁce.
At the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, resolutions will be proposed for the re-elections of Mr E A Barton (being a Non-
Executive Director who has held ofﬁce with the Company for a continuous period of nine years or more), Mr N J Jefferies and Mr G J
Williams. Having taken into account the formal evaluation of their performances, the Board believes that each makes an effective
contribution to the Board, demonstrates commitment to their role and can be recommended for re-election respectively. Further, in the
case of Mr E A Barton, who was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2002, the Board is of the view that his objectivity and willingness
to challenge management have not been compromised in any way by his tenure on the Board and that he remains independent
therefore. Biographical details are shown on pages 4 and 5.
The level and make-up of directors’ remuneration
The level and make-up of the Directors’ remuneration is set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. As this shows, a proportion of an
Executive Director’s overall remuneration is performance-related through annual bonus and share incentive schemes.
Procedure on board remuneration
The remuneration of Executive Directors is the responsibility of the Executive Directors’ Remuneration Committee, as is more fully
described in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Non-Executive
Directors’ Remuneration Committee which consists solely of the Executive Directors. No Director is involved in deciding his own
remuneration.
Financial reporting
The Directors have acknowledged in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement their responsibility for preparing the ﬁnancial statements of
the Company and the Group. The Auditors have included in their report a statement of their responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for the publication of the Interim Report of the Group, covering the ﬁrst six months of the year, which
in their opinion provides a balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s ﬁnancial performance and position. In accordance
with the requirements of The Financial Services Authority’s Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, the Directors also issue an Interim
Management Statement twice in each ﬁnancial year.
board report on corporate governance continued 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
Internal controls
The Code includes a requirement that the Board maintains sound risk management and internal controls systems to safeguard
shareholders’ investment and the Company’s assets. This requirement covers all controls including operational, compliance and risk
management as well as ﬁnancial controls. Formal guidance for Directors on internal controls was published by the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England & Wales in September 1999 and subsequently revised in October 2005 by The Financial Reporting Council,
following which the Board approved a framework for the implementation of this guidance. The relevant procedures have been in place
throughout the year ended 31 March 2012 and up to the date of this Annual Report.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s risk management and internal controls systems and for reviewing their effectiveness
at least annually.
While no system of controls can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Group’s systems are designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss. In establishing and reviewing the systems, the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has regard
to the signiﬁcance of the risks involved, the likelihood and severity of a loss being incurred and the costs of the relevant controls.
The foundation of the Group’s systems is the value placed on the quality and integrity of its employees. Its principal components are:
• a clearly deﬁned organisation structure with short and clear reporting lines;
• an ongoing process for the identiﬁcation, regular review and management of the principal risks and issues affecting the business,
both at Group and operating levels;
• a regular review of the principal suppliers and customers of the Group, and how each impacts upon the Group’s business;
• a comprehensive planning process which starts with a strategic plan and culminates in an annual budget and a long term plan;
• regular forecasting throughout the year of orders, sales, proﬁtability, cash ﬂow, working capital and balance sheets;
• a regular review of actual performance against budget and forecasts;
• clearly deﬁned procedures for the authorisation of major new investments and commitments;
• a requirement for each operating company to maintain a system of internal controls appropriate to its own local business
environment.
The Finance Department is responsible for ensuring that the process for producing ﬁnancial information delivers accuracy and is in
accordance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, it is responsible for the timely distribution of ﬁnancial information, both
internally and externally. Key ﬁnancial and operational performance is reported on a weekly and/or monthly basis and measured against
both budget and rolling forecasts approved by the Board and/or management. A review of the ﬁnancial statements is completed by
management to ensure that the ﬁnancial position and results of the Group are appropriately reﬂected. All ﬁnancial information published
externally by the Group is approved by the Board.
The above procedures encompass Acal plc and its subsidiary companies.
The Board receives regular submissions from management concerning the matters set out above and other matters relevant to internal
controls and the identiﬁcation, evaluation and management of risk. In addition, the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has
conducted a speciﬁc annual review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls, including ﬁnancial, operational and
compliance controls and risk management systems. The Group has embedded risk management and internal control into the operations
of the business and continues to deal with areas of improvement which come to the attention of management and the Board.
The Group has effective procedures in place to deal with conﬂict situations.
Audit committee and auditors
The Audit Committee is comprised of Mr E A Barton, who is the Chairman, together with Mr G J Williams and Mr I R Fraser. The Group
Finance Director attends meetings although no Executive Director has a right of attendance. The Board is satisﬁed that the members of
the Committee have recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience. In addition, Mr G J Williams is a qualiﬁed chartered accountant.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the scope and results of the audit, the accounting policies and systems of internal control of
the Group as well as the effectiveness and cost-efﬁciency of the audit. In addition, it considers and monitors the independence and
objectivity of the auditors as well as the extent of any non-audit services provided by the auditors and the need or otherwise for an
internal audit function. The interim statement, the preliminary announcement of results and the annual ﬁnancial statements are
considered by the Audit Committee prior to their approval by the Board. The Chairman of the Audit Committee maintains direct
communication with the external auditors, independently of the management of the Company.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year and its principal activities during the period included:
• a review of the interim and full year results;
• a review of the risk management and internal controls systems of the Group;
• a review of the scope and results of the external audit;
• ensuring the continued independence and objectivity of the external auditors, including an understanding of the external auditors’
own standards and procedures for maintaining their independence and reviewing the level of non-audit services provided by the
auditors in order to ensure that these were not signiﬁcant enough to prejudice their independence and objectivity;
• a review of the need for an internal audit function;
• reviewing the performance of the external auditors and making a recommendation as to their re-appointment;
• a review of arrangements whereby staff may raise, in conﬁdence, any concern they may have about possible improprieties.
board report on corporate governance continued
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
As regards the review of the need for an internal audit function, the Committee considers that there is no current need for such a
function given the internal controls that are in place.
With regard to recommending the re-appointment of the external auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended that the Board
presents a resolution to shareholders at the 2012 Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of the external auditors. This followed
an assessment of the quality of service provided, including the qualiﬁcation of the external auditors, the expertise and resources made
available to the Group, auditor independence and the effectiveness of the audit process. The decision was based on the consideration of
reports issued by the external auditors and feedback from executive management.
Part of at least one Audit Committee meeting a year is held with only representatives from the external auditors present providing an
opportunity for any concerns to be raised without executive management present.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on any signiﬁcant matters arising from the activities of the Committee.
Tax advice is provided by KPMG LLP , Deloitte LLP and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP .
The Audit Committee has written terms of reference which are available on request and are on the Company’s website at www.acalplc.co.uk.
Group executive committee
The Group Executive Committee is comprised of Mr N J Jefferies, who is the Chairman, together with Mr S M Gibbins, Mr A M Lioveri,
Mr M F Pangels, Mr P H Neville, Mr G P Shillinglaw, who is also the Secretary, and Mr P G Webster. For their biographies see pages 18 and
19. During the year to 31 March 2012 the Committee met every other month. Other senior managers attend the Committee’s meetings
for speciﬁc topics.
The Committee is responsible for leading and developing the Group, for delivering results and for driving growth for shareholders. The
powers delegated to the Committee are contained in its written terms of reference which are available on request and are on the
Company’s website at www.acalplc.co.uk
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Board believes that it is an important part of its responsibilities to maintain effective and timely communications with the Company’s
shareholders and institutional investors. The Company’s Annual Report includes a statement from the Chairman, plus reviews by the
Group Chief Executive and by the Group Finance Director. At the half year an Interim Report is published.
Throughout the year meetings are held with institutional shareholders as well as stockbroking analysts. These meetings include
discussion of governance and strategy as required. It is the responsibility of the Chairman to ensure that shareholder views are
communicated to the Board as a whole. Investor relations information, as well as presentations and news releases, are made available on
the Company’s website (address: www.acalplc.co.uk). Members of the Board and the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit
Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions. The Company responds to any questions from
shareholders generally as they arise.
In order to ensure that members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the Company, any
feedback received by the Company from meetings with institutional shareholders and stockbroking analysts is discussed internally and
raised with the Board, as appropriate. Periodically, the Company’s stockbrokers and public relations advisers follow up meetings held with
institutional investors and stockbroking analysts in order to try and obtain feedback on these meetings which may not have been
provided directly to the Company. The results of such follow-up discussions are circulated to the Board.
Annual general meeting
The level of proxy voting, together with the number of votes cast for and against each resolution and abstentions, will be made available
at the AGM after voting is completed on a show of hands and will be published on the Company’s website. A separate resolution will be
presented on each substantially separate issue and the Chairman of each Board Committee will attend the AGM. The proxy form relating
to the AGM includes an option for votes to be withheld. Notice of the Meeting will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days
before the Meeting.
Approval
This Board Report on Corporate Governance has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
G P Shillinglaw
Group Company Secretary
29 May 2012
board report on corporate governance continued 5
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
This Report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and the ABI Remuneration Guidelines. It also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing
Rules of the UK Listing Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles of Good Governance relating to the Directors’
remuneration. As required by regulation, a resolution to approve the Report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the
Company at which the ﬁnancial statements will be approved.
Unaudited information
Remuneration committee
The Remuneration Committee (“the Committee”) comprises Mr G J Williams as Chairman of the Committee, Mr E A Barton, Mr R J Moon
and Mr I R Fraser. For their biographies see pages 4 and 5. The Committee determines the remuneration of the Executive Directors on
behalf of the Board. Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, and the Group’s overall employment costs, are taken into
account by the Committee in determining the remuneration packages for Executive Directors. The incentive structure for senior
management does not raise environmental, social and governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour. The
Committee held six formal meetings during the year to 31 March 2012, and its terms of reference are available on request and are on the
Company’s website at www.acalplc.co.uk.
The Committee takes advice from external consultants as and when it is deemed necessary. During the year under review the Committee
took advice from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and from MM&K Limited.
The remuneration of Executive Directors centres on ensuring that packages are sufﬁciently competitive in both ﬁxed and variable terms
to attract, retain and motivate senior management of the right calibre. To achieve this, it is necessary to provide packages that reﬂect
individual experience and performance as well as taking account of remuneration paid by companies of similar size and complexity,
operating internationally. The Committee has the discretion to consider corporate performance on environmental, social and governance
issues when setting the remuneration of Executive Directors. The ability to recruit high quality staff in new and higher technology areas is
critical to the Group’s growth. The four main elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors and senior management are:
• Basic annual salary and beneﬁts
• Annual bonus payments (short-term incentives)
• Equity incentive schemes (long-term incentives)
• Pension arrangements
Each of the above is described in detail below.
Executive Directors may accept non-executive appointments outside the Company with the consent of the Board. The Board requires to
be satisﬁed that the time commitment involved is consistent with the responsibilities of the relevant Executive Director. Where fees from
such appointments are not required to be accounted for to the Company, the time commitment is taken into account in determining
the Director’s remuneration. None of the Executive Directors who served during the year held any non-executive appointments outside
the Company.
It is not envisaged that the Company’s policy on Directors’ remuneration for the year to 31 March 2013 will differ materially from that
which applied during the year under review.
Salaries, fees and beneﬁts
An Executive Director’s basic salary is reviewed by the Committee prior to the beginning of each ﬁnancial year and when an individual
changes position or responsibility. In deciding appropriate levels, the Committee considers the role and responsibilities of the relevant
Director as well as his experience and performance and, if considered necessary, takes appropriate external advice. In addition to basic
salary, Executive Directors receive certain beneﬁts-in-kind, principally comprising a car allowance, life assurance and private medical
insurance.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined on behalf of the Board by the Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration Committee
(comprised solely of the Executive Directors) having regard to fees paid to Non-Executive Directors in other similarly sized UK quoted
companies, the time commitment and the responsibilities of the role. Non-Executive Directors cannot participate in any of the Company’s
share incentive schemes.
Short-term incentive arrangements
The Company’s policy is that a substantial proportion of an Executive Director’s overall remuneration should be performance-related. The
Committee reviews and determines the ﬁnancial objectives that must be met around the start of each ﬁnancial year.
While the principal long-term measure of shareholder interests is total shareholder return, the Company believes that, for the purposes of
determining annual bonuses, account has to be taken of those aspects of trading performance which senior management can inﬂuence
by their actions. Thus, annual bonuses depend on speciﬁc targets including turnover and proﬁt as well as the achievement of other non-
ﬁnancial objectives which may be relevant for the year in question. Bonus payments to Executive Directors are capped at a level agreed
by the Remuneration Committee from time to time, currently 100% of basic salary.
directors’ remuneration report
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
Share incentive schemes
(a) Approved and unapproved executive share option schemes
The Group operates an approved and an unapproved executive share option scheme, the rules of which are similar in all material
respects. These schemes were adopted by the Company in 1998 and are now closed to the grant of further options. The exercise of
options under them is subject to the meeting of performance targets set by the Committee. Although there have been variations in
numbers of options granted from year to year depending upon circumstances, it has always been Acal’s policy to grant options to
employees on a phased and regular basis and not in one block. However, at certain times, particularly when recruiting new people or
to reward major achievements, it has been necessary to apply the policy ﬂexibly. It has also been Acal’s policy not to grant executive
share options at a discount to market price.
The performance criterion that must be met before options can be exercised was determined when the two schemes were
established. It requires that the growth in the Company’s earnings per share in any three-year period before exercise must have
exceeded the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period plus two per cent per annum. This criterion has
been kept under review.
The Group also operates an approved share option scheme, known as the Acal plc 2010 Company Share Option Plan (“the CSOP”). On
the grant of an option under the CSOP , the Committee may impose a performance target and any further condition on the exercise
of an option that the Committee determines to be appropriate. For the CSOP options granted to date, their exercise is dependent
upon the option holder’s continued employment for a three-year holding period from the date of grant and the satisfaction by the
Company of certain performance conditions over that period as follows:
• 50% of the award is based on the Company’s comparative total shareholder return against a comparator group made up of the
constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index with vesting as follows: Median = 25% vesting; Upper Quartile = 100% vesting; and
• 50% of the award is based on the Company’s absolute total shareholder return as measured against the Retail Price Index (“RPI”)
with vesting as follows: RPI + 15% = 25% vesting; RPI + 30% = 100% vesting.
(b) Long term incentive plan (“LTIP”)
At the Annual General Meeting on 24 July 2008, shareholders approved the LTIP which involves a conditional award of shares on
grant of a nil-cost option. In the opinion of the Committee, the LTIP provides a strong link between management performance and
reward while encouraging key executives to build and maintain a shareholding.
In each year, Executive Directors and senior managers, selected by the Committee on the basis of such factors as their contribution to
the Group’s success, are eligible to receive an award of shares worth up to 150 per cent of base salary. Subject to this limitation, actual
grant levels will be determined by the Committee.
The release of an award is dependent upon the individual’s continued employment for a three-year holding period from the date of
grant and the satisfaction by the Company of certain performance conditions over that period, which are currently as follows:
• 50% of the award is based on the Company’s comparative total shareholder return against a comparator group made up of the
constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index with vesting as follows: Median = 25% vesting; Upper Quartile = 100% vesting; and
• 50% of the award is based on the Company’s absolute total shareholder return as measured against the Consumer Price Index
(“CPI”) with vesting as follows: CPI + 10% = 25% vesting; CPI + 20% =100% vesting.
These performance conditions are kept under review by the Committee to ensure that they are supportive of the Company’s strategy.
Therefore, they may be subject to change for future grants to better reﬂect this strategy. Any change might require prior consultation
with the Company’s major shareholders.
Pension arrangements
The Group’s pension scheme is a deﬁned contribution (money purchase) scheme. Members are required to contribute at a minimum rate
of 2.5% of contributory salary (i.e. basic salary plus bonuses, overtime and other ﬂuctuating payments) but can pay at a higher rate in
0.5% steps. The Company’s contribution rate depends upon the level of contribution the member has chosen to pay but is capped at
6.5% of contributory salary. In accordance with best practice, no ﬂuctuating payments made to the Executive Directors and to the other
members of the Group Executive Committee are pensionable.
Performance graph
The following graph compares the Company’s performance, measured by total shareholder return, with the performance of the FTSE
Small Cap Index also measured by total shareholder return. Total shareholder return measures share price growth with dividends deemed
to be reinvested gross on the ex-dividend date and the data points are shown using a moving one-month average. Although Acal plc is
not currently a member of the FTSE Small Cap Index, it is considered to be a reasonable comparator in terms of the Company’s size and
its share liquidity.
directors’ remuneration report continued 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
Total shareholder return for period  April 2 to  March 22
Directors’ contracts
It is the Company’s policy that Executive Directors should have service contracts incorporating a maximum notice period of one year.
However, it may be necessary occasionally to apply this policy ﬂexibly and offer longer initial notice periods to new Directors. Under the
terms of their service contracts, any termination payments are not pre-determined but are determined in accordance with the Director’s
contractual rights taking account of the circumstances and the Director’s duty to mitigate loss. The Company’s objective is to protect
itself from exposure to the risk of a termination payment in the event of failure.
Mr N J Jefferies has a service contract with a company within the Acal Group dated 26 November 2008 incorporating a notice period of
one year on a rolling basis. Mr S M Gibbins has a service contract with a company within the Acal Group dated 10 June 2010
incorporating a notice period of one year on a rolling basis. The following letters of appointment are in place in relation to the Chairman
and Non-Executive Directors:
(a) with Synergie Business Limited for the provision of the services of Mr R J Moon dated 31 March 2005 (as amended) which expires on
31 March 2013 and which may be terminated by six months’ notice.
(b) with Mr E A Barton for his services dated 18 July 2002 (as amended) which expires on 30 June 2013 and which may be terminated by
three months’ notice.
(c) with Mr G J Williams for his services dated 29 September 2003 (as amended) which expires on 30 June 2013 and which may be
terminated by three months’ notice.
(d) with Mr I R Fraser for his services dated 1 October 2009 (as amended) which expires on 31 December 2012 and which may be
terminated earlier.
Other than their service contracts, no contract of signiﬁcance to which any member of the Acal Group is a party and in which a Director
is or was materially interested, subsisted at the end of, or during, the year.
Directors’ interests
The interests of the Directors who held ofﬁce as at 31 March 2012 (including family interests) in the shares of the Company were as follows:
At 31 March 2012 At 31 March 2011
Ordinary shares (5p) fully paid Ordinary shares (5p) fully paid
Beneﬁcial Non-beneﬁcial Beneﬁcial Non-beneﬁcial
N J Jefferies 36,735 – 31,672 –
S M Gibbins 5,063 – ––
R J Moon 65,100 – 65,100 –
E A Barton 21,000 – 21,000 –
G J Williams 1,000 – 1,000 –
I R Fraser –– ––
The interests of Directors in the shares of the Company at 29 May 2012 are unchanged from those at 31 March 2012.
directors’ remuneration report continued
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
Acal plc
FTSE Small Cap Index
31 March 07 31 March 08 31 March 09 31 March 10 31 March 11 31 March 12
TSR index at 1.4.07 = 100
source Thomson Datastream
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
Audited information
The total amounts for Directors’ remuneration were as follows:
2012 2011
£ £
Fees 199,000 199,000
Salary and beneﬁts 518,523 434,532
Performance-related bonuses 46,800 416,724
Money purchase pension contributions 33,825 28,487
798,148 1,078,743
Details of the remuneration of Directors who served during the years ended 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011 are as follows:
Salary Total emoluments Pension contribution
or fees Bonus Beneﬁts 2012 2011 2012 2011
££ £ £ £ £ £
Executive Directors
N J Jefferies 306,500 28,800 1,606 336,906 570,501 20,825 19,600
S M Gibbins
1
206,084 18,000 4,333 228,417 280,755 13,000 8,887
Non-Executive Directors
R J Moon 101,000 –– 101,000 101,000 – –
E A Barton 35,000 –– 35,000 35,000 – –
G J Williams 33,000 –– 33,000 33,000 – –
I R Fraser 30,000 –– 30,000 30,000 – –
711,584 46,800 5,939 764,323 1,050,256 33,825 28,487
1 Appointed a Director on 20 July 2010.
Of the Directors who held ofﬁce as at 31 March 2012, Mr N J Jefferies was the highest paid Director during the year under review
(2011: Mr N J Jefferies).
No Director made any gain on the exercise of share options during the year under review, or in the previous year.
Acal plc executive share option schemes (“the Schemes”)
The performance criteria for the Schemes are disclosed in this Report on page 36. Movements in the Directors’ holdings of options under the
Schemes during the year under review relate to the Acal plc 2010 Company Share Option Plan (“the CSOP”) and were as follows:
Number Movements Number
held at during the year held at Date of Exercise
Director 01.04.11 Granted Exercised Lapsed 31.03.12 grant price When exercisable
N J Jefferies 14,705 –– – 14,705 Sept 2010 204.0p Sept 2013
S M Gibbins 9,090 –– – 9,090 Mar 2011 330.0p Apr 2014
Acal plc 2  long term incentive plan (“the LTIP”)
The performance criteria for the LTIP are disclosed in this Report on page 36. Movements in the Directors’ holding of options under the
LTIP during the year were as follows:
Exercise
Number Number price
held at Movements during the year held at (nil-cost
Director 01.04.11 Granted Exercised Lapsed 31.03.12* option) When exercisable
N J Jefferies 269,230 –– – 269,230 – Mar 2013 to Mar 2020
N J Jefferies 131,818 –– – 131,818 – Mar 2014 to Mar 2021
N J Jefferies – 192,307 –– 192,307 – Mar 2015 to Mar 2022
S M Gibbins 54,545 –– – 54,545 – Mar 2014 to Mar 2021
S M Gibbins – 89,134 –– 89,134 – Mar 2015 to Mar 2022
*Mr Jefferies and Mr Gibbins also hold options over 14,705 and 9,090 shares respectively granted under the CSOP . If they exercise these CSOP options, the
value of their LTIP shares will be reduced by an amount equal to the gain on their CSOP options.
The market price of the shares at 31 March 2012 was 215p and the range during the year ended on that date was 166.25p to 344p. The
performance conditions in relation to the Schemes and to the LTIP are described in the unaudited section of the Report above.
directors’ remuneration report continued 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
Special award: Mr N J Jefferies
Movements in Mr Jefferies’s option holding under his special award (details below) during the year were as follows:
Number held at
Number held at Movements during the year 31.03.12 and Exercise price When
01.04.11 Granted Vested Exercised Not vested exercisable (nil-cost option) exercisable
620,498 – 584,777 – (35,721) 584,777 – April 2012 to
March 2019
On 31 March 2009, Mr Jefferies was granted an award in the form of a nil-cost option over 620,498 shares in the Company. The Company
agreed, as a condition of Mr Jefferies accepting the appointment of Group Chief Executive on 25 November 2008, to grant him an award
over the Company’s shares having a market value equivalent to 200% of his base salary at the date of the grant. The number of shares
under the award was determined using a share price of 90.25 pence per share being the closing price of the Company’s shares on
30 March 2009, the last business day prior to the date of grant.
Mr Jefferies’s award was made under LR9.4.2(2) of the Listing Rules in order to facilitate his appointment as Group Chief Executive. The
Board considered that it was important to the success of the recruitment process, and to maximise shareholder value going forward, to
make such an award to him. Made on similar terms to awards granted under the Acal plc 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan (the “LTIP”) (see
“Share incentive schemes” above), the award vested in part on 31 March 2012. The Company’s TSR performance, when measured (in
accordance with the Special Award deed) against the comparator group of companies (ie the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index)
over the period 31 March 2009 to 31 March 2012, meant that 94.2432% of the award vested. Therefore, the option became exercisable
over 584,777 shares in the Company.
The performance conditions were tested, independently, by MM&K Limited on the basis of an analysis produced by JP Morgan Cazenove.
Mr Jefferies has undertaken to retain 50% of the shares under the option until 31 March 2014, at the earliest.
Special award: Mr S M Gibbins
On 20 July 2010, Mr Gibbins was granted an award in the form of a nil-cost option over 179,447 shares in the Company. The Company
agreed as a condition of Mr Gibbins accepting the appointment of Group Finance Director on 10 June 2010 to grant him an award over
the Company’s shares having a market value equivalent to 150% of his base salary at the date of the grant. The number of shares under
the award was determined using a share price of 163 pence per share being the closing price of the Company’s shares on 19 July 2010,
the last business day prior to the date of grant.
Mr Gibbins’s award is on similar terms to awards granted under the Acal plc 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan (the “LTIP”) (see “Share
incentive schemes” above). The award will become exercisable between July 2013 and July 2020 dependent upon certain performance
conditions being achieved by the Company during the three-year holding period ending on 20 July 2013.
The award differs in one main respect from similar awards under the LTIP . If there is a change of control of the Company before the end
of the three-year holding period mentioned above, the award will become exercisable immediately. In such event, the number of shares
available for exercise will not be pro-rated for time and the satisfaction by the Company of performance conditions will not apply.
Mr Gibbins has undertaken to retain at least 50% of any shares that vest under this award, when combined with any that vest under the
LTIP , so as to build up a holding of shares in the Company equal in value (at the point of vesting) to 100% of his annual basic salary.
Approval
This Directors’ Remuneration Report has been prepared on behalf of and approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
G P Shillinglaw
Group Company Secretary
29 May 2012
directors’ remuneration report continued
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
While the management of Acal is primarily accountable to its shareholders, in managing the business it takes into account all stakeholders
in Acal including employees, customers and suppliers, as well as the local communities and environment in which it operates. In a
balanced way, without unnecessarily restricting the optimisation of returns, it endeavours to identify and manage any risks to the value
of Acal’s business from social, environmental and ethical matters, and to take any opportunities presented by a sensible and considerate
approach to such matters to enhance shareholder value. The Board of Acal has adopted policies in relation to corporate social matters
that take into account the interests of the Group’s employees; the need to foster business relationships with suppliers, customers and
others; the impact of the Group’s operations on the community and the environment; and the desirability of the Group maintaining a
reputation for high standards of business conduct. Day-to-day responsibility for implementation of these policies is delegated to the
management of Acal’s operating companies. In implementing these policies the Group endeavours to ensure that the cost of managing
risks is proportionate to their signiﬁcance to Acal and its business partners. More speciﬁcally, Acal’s policies cover the following:
General
Management at all levels in the organisation is committed to taking account of its corporate social responsibility in its actions and
endeavours to show due respect for human rights and works to high standards of integrity and ethical propriety. As an international
organisation, Acal takes account of cultural differences between the various territories in which it operates.
Employees, health and safety
Acal provides equal opportunities to all employees and prospective employees, and does not discriminate on grounds of colour, ethnic
origin, gender, age, religion, political or other opinion, disability or sexual orientation.
Clear and fair terms of employment, as well as a fair and competitive remuneration policy, are put in place. Employees are encouraged to
develop their knowledge and skills and to progress their careers to the mutual beneﬁt of themselves and the companies they work for. It
is the responsibility of management to ensure that they comply with all local regulations, including those relating to the employment of
underage staff. Local business units are responsible for developing and implementing effective arrangements for employee
communication.
A great deal of importance is attached to the provision of clean, healthy and safe working conditions. In addition to compliance with all
local regulations, Acal promotes working practices which protect the health and safety of its employees and other persons who come
onto its premises. The Group endeavours to protect employees from, and does not tolerate, any sexual, physical or mental harassment.
Heath and safety matters are kept under regular review by local management and at Group level. The Group’s statement of intent on
health and safety matters can be found on its website (www.acalplc.co.uk).
The Group operates a ‘whistle-blowing’ policy whereby employees may report in conﬁdence any suspected wrongdoing. This policy can
be found on its website (www.acalplc.co.uk).
Disabled employees
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the candidate’s particular aptitudes and
abilities are consistent with adequately meeting the requirements of the job. Opportunities are available to disabled employees for
training, career development and promotion.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Group’s policy to provide continuing employment wherever practicable in the same
or an alternative position and to provide appropriate training to achieve this aim.
Business ethics
All Acal Group companies seek to be honest, fair and competitive in their relationships with customers and suppliers. Every attempt is
made to ensure that products and services are provided to the agreed standards and all reasonable steps are taken to ensure the safety
and quality of the goods and services provided. Payment is made to suppliers in accordance with the agreed terms, the relevant goods or
services having been satisfactorily delivered. It is Acal’s policy that no one in the Group should offer or accept any bribes or other corrupt
payments, engage in any anti-competitive practices or knowingly be involved in any fraud or money laundering.
So far as it is able to, and taking into account local cultural and regulatory differences, Acal encourages the organisations and people with
whom it does business to abide by principles of good practice in relation to their corporate social responsibility.
The Group’s statement of intent on business ethics can be found on its website (www.acalplc.co.uk).
corporate social responsibility 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
Anti-bribery
Acal is committed to applying the highest standards of integrity, honesty and fairness in its business activities all over the world. A zero-
tolerance approach is taken towards bribery and corruption in all its forms by, or of, its employees or any persons or companies acting for
it on its behalf. The Board and senior management are committed to implementing and enforcing effective procedures to prevent,
monitor and eliminate bribery in accordance with the UK Bribery Act 2010. An updated anti-bribery programme has been developed,
which has been communicated to employees and is in the process of being implemented by the Group’s operating companies.
Community and environment
Community and environmental matters are important to the Group because it is sensitive to the local community’s cultural, social and
economic needs. It seeks to ensure that its activities do not harm the communities as places in which to work and live. The Group
endeavours to ensure that its operations do not have a negative impact on the environment. Apart from compliance with all local
environmental regulations, Group companies try earnestly to promote the effective management of natural resources and encourage
energy efﬁciency as well as waste minimisation and recycling where economically viable means of doing so are available. Although the
vast majority of products Acal deals with are non-hazardous, where such products are involved it minimises the environmental risks by
use of appropriate labelling and technical information in conjunction with proper training and procedures for the handling, storage and
disposal of such products. The Group has implemented procedures to ensure compliance with the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous
Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations 2004 (RoHS), the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations
2006 (WEEE), the Producer Responsibility Obligations (Packaging Waste) Regulations 2005 and the Waste Batteries and Accumulators
Regulations 2009.
corporate social responsibility continued
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 2
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and ﬁnancial statements in accordance with law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements for each year. Under the provisions of this law, the Directors have
prepared the consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the Company ﬁnancial
statements in accordance with United Kingdom (UK) Accounting Standards and applicable law.
In preparing those ﬁnancial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state that the consolidated ﬁnancial statements have complied with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, subject to
any material departures being disclosed and explained; and
• state for the Company ﬁnancial statements whether the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject
to any material departures being disclosed and explained.
The Directors conﬁrm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the ﬁnancial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial
position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the consolidated ﬁnancial statements comply with Companies
Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2012 is published in hard copy printed form and made available on the Group’s website.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on the website in accordance with UK legislation
governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements. Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where
comparable legislation may be different.
Each of the Directors, as at the date of this Report, conﬁrms to the best of his knowledge that :
• the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt or loss of the Company and
the Group; and
• the Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company
and the Group together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
directors’ responsibilities statement 43
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
acal plc
group ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements report of the auditors
44
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Acal plc
We have audited the group ﬁnancial statements of Acal plc for the year ended 31 March 2012, which comprise the consolidated income
statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of financial position, consolidated statement of
changes in equity, consolidated statement of cash flows and the related notes 1 to 36. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone
other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 42, the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the group ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an
opinion on the group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable
assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the
ﬁnancial statements. In addition, we read all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information in the annual report and accounts to identify
material inconsistencies with the audited ﬁnancial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion the group ﬁnancial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at 31 March 2012 and of its proﬁt for the year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is consistent with
the ﬁnancial statements; and
• the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set oiut on pages 31-34 with respect to internal control and risk
management systems in relation to ﬁnancial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the ﬁnancial
statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the directors’ statement, set out on page 30, in relation to going concern; and
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate
Governance Code speciﬁed for our review; and
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company ﬁnancial statements of Acal plc for the year ended 31 March 2012 and on the
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Andy Glover (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor
London
29 May 2012
Notes:
1. The maintenance and integrity of the Acal plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the ﬁnancial
statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions. 4
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
2012 2011
notes £m £m
Revenue 4 257.8 264.8
Cost of sales (179.9) (189.6)
Gross proﬁt 77.9 75.2
Selling and distribution costs (41.1) (39.1)
Administrative expenses (including exceptional items) (32.9) (33.2)
Other operating expenses .– (0.4)
Operating proﬁt 7 3.9 2.5
Finance revenue 9 0.2 0.3
Finance costs 9 (1.4) (0.9)
Proﬁt before tax 2.7 1.9
Tax expense 10 (0.6) (0.2)
Proﬁt for the year 2.1 1.7
Earnings per share 14
Basic 7.4p 6.0p
Diluted 7.1p 5.7p
supplementary income statement information
2012 2011
Underlying performance measure notes £m £m
Operating proﬁt 7 3.9 2.5
Add: Exceptional items 6 3.4 4.4
Earn out remuneration .– 0.2
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 18 0.8 0.3
Underlying operating proﬁt 8.1 7.4
Proﬁt before tax 2.7 1.9
Add: Exceptional items 6 3.4 4.4
Earn out remuneration .– 0.2
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 18 0.8 0.3
IAS 19 charge for pension ﬁnance cost 0.3 0.3
Underlying proﬁt before tax 7.2 7.1
Underlying earnings per share 14
Basic 20.7p 19.3p
Diluted 19.9p 18.6p
The results for the year and prior year relate wholly to continuing operations.
consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 March 2012 46
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 March 2012
2012 2011
notes £m £m
Proﬁt for the year 2.1 1.7
Actuarial loss on deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme 33 (1.3) (0.4)
Deferred tax relating to the deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme 10 0.2 (0.2)
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign subsidiaries (1.6) (0.1)
Other comprehensive loss for the year net of tax (2.7) (0.7)
Total comprehensive (loss)/proﬁt for the year net of tax (0.6) 1.0 4
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
2012 2011
notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 15 3.5 3.8
Intangible assets – goodwill 16 21.6 17.4
Intangible assets – other 18 4.1 3.7
Deferred tax assets 10 3.3 2.8
32.5 27.7
Current assets
Inventories 20 25.7 25.3
Trade and other receivables 21 49.4 59.3
Current tax assets .– 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents 22 12.3 13.6
87.4 98.3
Total assets 119.9 126.0
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 29 (45.4) (51.6)
Other ﬁnancial liabilities 23 (5.2) (5.1)
Current tax liabilities (4.2) (4.3)
Provisions 26 (4.6) (2.9)
(59.4) (63.9)
Non-current liabilities
Other ﬁnancial liabilities 23 (0.8) (1.8)
Pension liability 33 (6.5) (5.5)
Deferred tax liabilities 10 (1.0) (0.2)
Provisions 26 (3.1) (3.3)
(11.4) (10.8)
Total liabilities (70.8) (74.7)
Net assets 49.1 51.3
Equity
Share capital 30 1.4 1.4
Share premium 40.7 40.7
Merger reserve 3.0 3.0
Currency translation reserve 1.2 2.8
Retained earnings 2.8 3.4
Total equity 49.1 51.3
These ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 29 May 2012 and signed on its behalf by:
N J Jefferies S M Gibbins
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position
at 31 March 2012 4
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company
Currency
Share Share Merger translation Retained Total
capital premium reserve reserve earnings equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2010 1.4 40.6 3.0 2.9 4.0 51.9
Profit for the year .– .– .– .– 1.7 1.7
Other comprehensive income .– .– .– (0.1) (0.6) (0.7)
Total comprehensive income .– .– .– (0.1) 1.1 1.0
Share based payment transactions .– .– .– .– 0.3 0.3
Issue of share capital .– 0.1 .– .– .– 0.1
Equity dividends .– .– .– .– (2.0) (2.0)
At 31 March 2011 1.4 40.7 3.0 2.8 3.4 51.3
Proﬁt for the year .– .– .– .– 2.1 2.1
Other comprehensive income .– .– .– (1.6) (1.1) (2.7)
Total comprehensive income .– .– .– (1.6) 1.0 (0.6)
Share based payment transactions .– .– .– .– 0.6 0.6
Equity dividends .– .– .– .– (2.2) (2.2)
At 31 March 2012 1.4 40.7 3.0 1.2 2.8 49.1
Nature and purpose of other reserves:
Merger reserve
The merger reserve arose as a consequence of the acquisition in 1987 of Acal Electronic Holdings Limited and Acal Auriema Limited.
Currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the ﬁnancial statements of
foreign subsidiaries.
consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 March 2012 4
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
consolidated statement of cash ﬂows
for the year ended 31 March 2012
2012 2011
notes £m £m
Net cash ﬂows from operating activities 25 6.9 0.4
Cash ﬂows from investing activities
Acquisition of shares in subsidiaries 11 (4.0) (5.2)
Net cash acquired with subsidiaries 11 .– 0.9
Proceeds from the disposal of shares in subsidiaries (net of disposal costs) .– 0.6
Revision to proceeds from sale of business .– (0.7)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (1.0) (1.1)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangibles 0.1 .–
Purchase of intangible assets – software (0.3) (0.2)
Interest received 0.2 0.3
Net cash used in investing activities (5.0) (5.4)
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
Proceeds from issuance of shares .– 0.1
Net (repayment of )/proceeds from borrowings (0.9) 2.6
Dividends paid 13 (2.2) (2.0)
Net cash (used in)/from ﬁnancing activities (3.1) 0.7
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents
1
(1.2) (4.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April 9.4 13.9
Effect of exchange rate ﬂuctuations (0.3) (0.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 7.9 9.4
Reconciliation to cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement
of ﬁnancial position
Cash and cash equivalents shown above 7.9 9.4
Add back overdrafts 4.4 4.2
Cash and cash equivalents presented in current assets in the consolidated
statement of ﬁnancial position 22 12.3 13.6
1
For further information on consolidated statement of cash ﬂows please refer to notes 24 and 25. 0
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
1 authorisation of ﬁnancial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS
The ﬁnancial statements comprise the results of Acal plc (‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as ‘the Group’) for
the year ended 31 March 2012 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 29 May 2012. Acal plc is a public limited company
incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. The Company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group’s ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted
for use in the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The signiﬁcant accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
2 accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements of Acal plc and all its subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs), as adopted for use in the European Union.
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand
except when otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation
The Group’s ﬁnancial statements consolidate the ﬁnancial statements of Acal plc, entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) and
include the Group’s share of the results of associates.
Subsidiaries and associates
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be
consolidated until the date such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies of the
investee so as to obtain beneﬁt from its activities. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or
presently convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity. All intra-Group transactions, balances,
income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
An associate is an undertaking in which the Group has signiﬁcant inﬂuence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
Signiﬁcant inﬂuence is the power and the ability to participate in its ﬁnancial and operating policy decisions, but not control or joint
control of those decisions.
Acal’s investments in its associates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, investments in
associates are carried in the Group consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share
of net assets of the associate, less distributions received and less any impairment in value.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures
The following new standards, amendments to standards or interpretations are mandatory for the ﬁrst time for the ﬁnancial year
beginning 1 April 2011. They are not relevant and do not have a material effect on the group’s ﬁnancial statements and are as follows:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS/IFRIC) Effective date
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing ﬁnancial liabilities with equity instruments 1 July 2010
IFRS 1 Amendment – Limited exemption from comparative IFRS 7 disclosures 1 July 2010
IAS 24 Amendment – Related party disclosures 1 January 2011
IFRIC 14 Amendment – prepayments of minimum funding requirement 1 January 2011
Improvements to IFRS (issued May 2010) Various
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in
the Strategic and Operational Review. The ﬁnancial position of the Group, its cash ﬂows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are
described in the Finance Review.
The Group has appropriate ﬁnancial resources, well established distribution contracts with a number of suppliers and a broad and stable
customer base. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the annual report and accounts.
Underlying proﬁts and earnings
The Group uses a number of alternative (non Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (“non GAAP”)) ﬁnancial measures which are not
deﬁned within IFRS. The Directors use these measures in order to assess the underlying operational performance of the Group and as
such, these measures are important and should be considered alongside the IFRS measures. The following non GAAP measures are
referred to in this Annual Report:
Underlying operating proﬁt
“Underlying operating proﬁt” is deﬁned as operating proﬁt excluding exceptional items, earn out remuneration and amortisation of
acquired intangible assets. 1
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued
2 accounting policies continued
Underlying proﬁt before tax
“Underlying proﬁt before tax” is deﬁned as proﬁt before tax excluding exceptional items, earn out remuneration, amortisation of acquired
intangible assets and the IAS 19 pension ﬁnance charge.
Underlying effective tax rate
“Underlying effective tax rate” is deﬁned as the effective tax rate on proﬁt before tax excluding the impact of tax on exceptional items,
earn out remuneration, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and the IAS 19 pension ﬁnance charge.
Underlying earnings per share
“Underlying earnings per share” is calculated as the total of underlying proﬁt before tax reduced by the underlying effective tax rate,
divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares (for diluted earnings per share purposes) in issue during the period.
Underlying operating cash ﬂow
“Underlying operating cash ﬂow” is deﬁned as underlying operating proﬁt with depreciation, amortisation and equity settled share based
payments expense added back.
Free cash ﬂow
“Free cash ﬂow” is deﬁned as net cash ﬂow before exceptionals, payments to the legacy pension fund, dividends and the cost of acquisitions.
Return on trading capital employed (“ROTCE”)
“ROTCE” is deﬁned as underlying operating proﬁt as a percentage of net operating assets. Net operating assets are deﬁned as tangible
and intangible assets excluding goodwill plus working capital.
Like for like basis
Reference to ‘like for like’ basis included in the Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review and Finance review, means including
acquisitions for the whole of the comparative period, except any acquired in the year, excluding the ATM Parts business (effective disposal
date 30 September 2010), and at constant exchange rates.
Business combinations and goodwill
Business combinations since 1 April 2010
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the
consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The
choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identiﬁable net assets
is determined on a transaction by transaction basis. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the ﬁnancial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classiﬁcation and designation
in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions at the acquisition date.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent
changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration, which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance
with IAS 39 either in proﬁt or loss or in other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classiﬁed as equity, it should not
be remeasured until it is ﬁnally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred
and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest (and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-
date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree) over the net identiﬁable amounts of the assets acquired
and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to
the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements are
accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs. Identiﬁable intangible
assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criterion are recognised separately from goodwill. Contingent liabilities
representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be measured reliably.
If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling
interest (and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity
interest in the acquiree) is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing
interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in proﬁt and loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing,
goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (or groups
of cash generating units) that are expected to beneﬁt from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the
acquiree are assigned to those units. Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the
entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and not be larger than an operating segment before
aggregation.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated
with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the
operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the
portion of the cash-generating unit retained. 2
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
2 accounting policies continued
Business combinations prior to 1 April 2010
Business combinations were accounted for using the purchase method. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition formed
part of the acquisition costs. The non controlling interest was measured at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identiﬁable net assets.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the business combination over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identiﬁable assets
less liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for
impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
At the acquisition date, goodwill acquired is recognised as an asset and is allocated to each of the cash-generating units expected to
beneﬁt from the combination’s synergies. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually by assessing the recoverable amount of
the related cash-generating units monitored by management. Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the
carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss and is not subsequently reversed. Goodwill arising on the
acquisition of associates is included within the carrying value of the investment.
Any intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are recognised separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or
arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the proﬁt or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 2004 (the date of transition to IFRS) has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amount
having been tested for impairment at that date.
Intangible assets – other
All intangible assets, excluding goodwill arising on a business combination, are stated at their amortised cost or fair value less any
provision for impairment.
a Software
Implementation costs of IT systems, and computer software, are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives at
rates of 12.5-33% per annum. Software is assessed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, ‘Impairment’ , when there are events or
changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
b Acquired intangible assets – business combinations
Intangible assets that are acquired as a result of a business combination, including, but not limited to, customer relationships, supplier
relationships, brands and that can be separately measured at fair value, on a reliable basis, are separately recognised on acquisition at
fair value, together with the associated deferred tax liability. Amortisation is charged to the consolidated income statement on a
straight line basis over the expected useful economic lives.
Customer relationships 5 years
Supplier relationships 5 years
Brands 5 years
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to write off the cost, less residual value, over the estimated useful life at the following rates:
Freehold land nil
Freehold buildings 2-3% per annum
Leasehold improvements 10-20% per annum or over the life of the lease
Plant and equipment 10-33% per annum
Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, ‘Impairment’ , when there are events or changes in
circumstances that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment of assets
At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying value of its assets to determine whether there is any indication that the assets are
impaired. If any such indication exists, or when annual testing for an asset is required in the case of goodwill, the recoverable amount of
the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating
unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash- generating unit) is reduced to its
recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no
longer exist or may have decreased. If an indication exists, an impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the asset’s carrying value does
not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been
recognised. Such reversals are recognised in the consolidated income statement. Any impairment charge on goodwill is not reversed.
Financial assets
Investments are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given and including directly attributable transaction
costs associated with the investment.
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued
3
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
2 accounting policies continued
After initial recognition, investments in equity shares are treated as available for sale ﬁnancial assets and are measured at their fair value
with any gains or losses recognised in equity. When the investment is derecognised or impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously
recognised in equity is included in the income statement.
Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably
valued are measured at cost.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative ﬁnancial assets with ﬁxed or determinable payments. They are included in current assets, except
for those with maturities greater than twelve months after the reporting date which are classiﬁed as non-current assets. Loans and
receivables are presented in trade and other receivables in the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position.
Financial assets are assessed for impairment in accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ , when there
are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Inventories
Inventories comprise goods held for resale and are stated at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value after making
allowance for any obsolete or slow moving items. Cost includes inward carriage incurred.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts. An estimate for
doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. The decision to make a provision for doubtful debts is
determined by using proﬁles, based on past practice in addition to assessment of the credit worthiness of each customer and related
aging of over due balances. Bad debts are written off when identiﬁed.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits
with an original maturity of three months or less. For the purposes of the consolidated statement of cash ﬂows, cash and cash
equivalents comprise cash and cash equivalents as deﬁned above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts to the extent that offsetting
agreements are in place.
Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of any associated issue costs. Borrowings are subsequently recorded at amortised cost,
with any difference between the amount initially recorded and the redemption value recognised in the consolidated income statement
using the effective interest rate method.
Provisions
Provisions for warranties, onerous contracts and restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive
obligation as a result of a past event; it is probable that an outﬂow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and a reliable
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. In relation to provision for onerous contracts, an assessment is made for
impairment of any related assets.
Provisions are discounted to present value where the effect is material using a pre-tax rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the
time value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the liability. The amortisation of the discount is recognised as a ﬁnance cost.
Exceptional items
The Group discloses as exceptional items those items which are exceptional by virtue of their size or incidence so as to allow a better
understanding of the underlying trading performance of the Group. The Group includes, but not limited to, the proﬁt or loss on disposal
of property, investments or businesses and other ﬁnancial assets, impairments and signiﬁcant restructuring and integration charges or
credits in exceptional items.
Foreign currency translation
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the
reporting date and gains or losses on translation are included in the consolidated income statement.
Currency gains and losses arising from the retranslation of the opening net assets of foreign operations are recorded as a movement on
reserves, net of tax. The differences that arise from translating the results of overseas businesses at average rates of exchange, and their
assets and liabilities at closing rates, are dealt with in a separate currency translation reserve. All other currency gains and losses are dealt
with in the consolidated income statement.
Revenue recognition
Revenue represents the invoiced value of goods, commission and other services provided to third parties, after deducting discounts, VAT
and similar taxes levied overseas. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the
Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. In particular:
a Revenue from the sale of products is recognised upon transfer to the customer of the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership. This
is generally when goods are despatched to customers.
b Revenue from maintenance and outsourcing contracts is recognised over the life of the contract reﬂecting performance of the
contractual obligations to the customer.
c Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues using the effective interest method.
d Dividend income is recognised when the shareholders’ right to receive the payment is established. 4
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
2 accounting policies continued
Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker. The
chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments has
been identiﬁed as the Board.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised when they meet the criteria for recognition as a liability. In relation to ﬁnal dividends, this is when approved by
the shareholders in general meeting, and in relation to interim dividends, when paid.
Leases
Leases are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the
lessee. All other leases are classiﬁed as operating leases.
Assets held under ﬁnance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum
lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the consolidated
statement of ﬁnancial position as a ﬁnance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between ﬁnance charges and reduction of
the lease obligations so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, in accordance with the effective interest rate method.
Pensions
Payments to deﬁned contribution schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
In respect of deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes, the obligation recognised in the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position represents
the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation as adjusted for any unrecognised past service cost, reduced by the fair value of the
scheme assets. The cost of providing beneﬁts is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method. Actuarial gains
and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Share-based payments
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted,
calculated using an option pricing model, and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the
relevant employees become fully entitled to the award. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of non-market vesting
conditions.
At each reporting date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has
expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and hence the number of equity
instruments that will ultimately vest. The movement in cumulative expense since the previous reporting date is recognised in the
consolidated income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption permitted under IFRS 1 in respect of equity-settled awards and IFRS 2 has only been
applied to options awarded on or after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005.
Taxation
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on
tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying
amounts in the ﬁnancial statements, with the following exceptions:
• where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a
business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt or loss;
• in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, where the timing of the
reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the
foreseeable future; and
• deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁt will be available against which the
deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related
asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise income tax is
recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The Group principally uses forward currency contracts to hedge risks associated with foreign currency ﬂuctuations.
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
2 accounting policies continued
Forward currency contracts covering assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a contract is entered
into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when
the fair value is negative.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity
proﬁles. For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is required, the hedging relationship is documented
at its inception. This documentation identiﬁes the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being
hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration. Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classiﬁed as cash ﬂow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash ﬂows that
is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a probable forecast transaction.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the income
statement.
For cash ﬂow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the
ineffective portion is recognised in proﬁt or loss.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects proﬁt or loss, such as when a
forecast sale or purchase occurs. Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-ﬁnancial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are
transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-ﬁnancial asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer meets the criteria
for hedge accounting. Any amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs. If a forecast
transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity or as an asset or liability are transferred to proﬁt or loss.
Signiﬁcant accounting judgements and estimates
Estimation uncertainty
Key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, have a signiﬁcant risk of
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next ﬁnancial year. The most signiﬁcant areas in
which assumptions are made and estimates used are in determining:
Goodwill impairment
The group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated on page 51.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations require
the use of estimates of future cash ﬂows and the selection of suitable discount rates (note 17).
The recognition and quantiﬁcation of provisions
Judgement is used in determining the value of provisions carried. For onerous contracts this is primarily based around assumptions on
rent and property related costs for the period the property is vacant and then assumptions over future rental incomes or potential
reverse lease premiums paid. Other provisions are estimated based on factors such as historical experience and expectations of future
events that management believe to be reasonable. Note 26 provides details of the value of the provision carried.
Fair value of assets acquired in a business combination
Judgements and estimates are required in the identiﬁcation of separable assets and liabilities upon acquisition, particularly in the case of
the valuation and identiﬁcation of intangible assets such as brand, supplier contracts and customer databases. Note 11 provides details of
business combinations in the current year.
Retirement beneﬁts
The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number
of assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net expense for pensions include the discount rate. Any changes in these
assumptions will impact the carrying amount of retirement beneﬁt obligations. Note 33 details the actuarial assumptions used in
determining the carrying amount at 31 March 2012.
Taxation
The Group operates in a number of tax jurisdictions around the world. Tax regulations generally are complex and in some jurisdictions
agreeing tax liabilities with local tax authorities can take several years. Consequently, at the reporting date tax liabilities and assets are
based on management’s best estimate of the future amounts that will be settled. While the Group aims to ensure that the estimates
recorded are accurate, the actual amounts could be different from those expected.
Current assets
In the course of normal trading activities, judgement is used to establish the net realisable value of various elements of working capital,
principally inventory and trade receivables. Provisions are made against obsolete or slow-moving inventories, bad or doubtful debts.
The provisions are based on the facts available at the time the ﬁnancial statements are approved and are also determined by using
proﬁles, based on past practice, applied to certain aged inventory and trade receivables categories.
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 6
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
3 new accounting standards and ﬁnancial reporting requirements
New standards and interpretations not applied
The following standards and interpretations, which have been issued by the IASB and are relevant for the Group, become effective after
the current year end and have not been early adopted by the Group:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS/IFRIC) effective date
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classiﬁcation and Measurement 1 January 2013*
IAS 12 (A) Amendment to IAS12 – Recovery of Underlying Assets 1 January 2012
IAS 19 (R) Employee Beneﬁts 1 January 2013
IAS 1 Amendment – presentation of items of other comprehensive income 1 July 2012
IFRS 10 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2013
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements 1 January 2013
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2013
IAS 28 (R) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2013
IFRS 7 Amendment-Disclosures-Transfers of ﬁnancial assets 1 July 2011
IAS 27(R) Separate ﬁnancial statements 1 January 2013
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement 1 January 2013
Improvements to IFRS (issued May 2010) Various
* Not yet adopted by EU and therefore effective date may change
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of theses standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s
ﬁnancial statements in the period of initial application.
The Group has chosen not to early adopt any of these new standards and interpretations.
4 revenue
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows: 2012 2011
£m £m
Sale of goods 245.6 255.1
Rendering of services 12.2 9.7
Total revenue 257.8 264.8
5 operating segment information
For management purposes, the Group is organised into two business units based on their products and services and has two reportable
operating segments as follows:
• Electronics – specialist distribution of electronic and photonic products to industrial manufacturing and design companies. Also the
supply of advanced medical equipment to public and private healthcare providers.
• Supply Chain – service parts, inventory optimisation and outsource solutions to leading IT service providers.
During the year the Group changed the composition of its reportable segments. The previously reported Medical segment has been
amalgamated into the Electronics segment. Comparative ﬁgures have been restated accordingly.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource
allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is reported and evaluated based on operating proﬁt or loss earned by
each segment without allocation of central administration costs including directors’ salaries, investment revenue and ﬁnance costs, and
income tax expense.
Segment revenue and results
Electronics Supply Chain Unallocated Total
2012 £m £m £m £m
Revenue 207.1 50.7 – 257.8
Result
Underlying operating proﬁt/(loss) 10.8 1.3 (4.0) 8.1
Exceptional items – restructuring (1.8) (0.4) .– (2.2)
Exceptional items – acquisition and related integration costs . (0.7) .– .– (0.7)
Exceptional items – disposal costs .– (0.2) .– (0.2)
Exceptional items – web development costs (0.3) .– .– (0.3)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (0.7) (0.1) .– (0.8)
Operating proﬁt/(loss) 7.3 0.6 (4.0) 3.9
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
5 operating segment information continued
Electronics Supply Chain Unallocated Total
2011 £m £m £m £m
Revenue 210.5 54.3 .– 264.8
Result
Underlying operating proﬁt/(loss) 10.3 1.2 (4.1) 7.4
Exceptional items – restructuring (3.6) (0.6) (0.2) (4.4)
Exceptional items – acquisition and related integration costs (0.2) .– .– (0.2)
Exceptional items – write back of unutilised provisions for
retained obligations .– .– 0.6 0.6
Exceptional items – asset impairment .– (0.4) .– (0.4)
Earn out remuneration (0.2) .– .– (0.2)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (0.2) (0.1) .– (0.3)
Operating proﬁt/(loss) 6.1 0.1 (3.7) 2.5
Segment assets and liabilities
2012 Electronics Supply Chain Total
Assets and liabilities £m £m £m
Segment assets (excluding goodwill and intangibles) 58.9 18.2 77.1
Goodwill and intangibles 17.8 7.2 25.0
76.7 25.4 102.1
Unallocated assets 2.2
Cash 12.3
Current and deferred tax assets 3.3
Total assets 119.9
Segment liabilities (40.3) (7.7) (48.0)
Unallocated liabilities (5.1)
Other ﬁnancial liabilities (6.0)
Pension liability (6.5)
Current and deferred tax liabilities (5.2)
Total liabilities (70.8)
Net assets 49.1
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
5 operating segment information continued
2011 Electronics Supply Chain Total
Assets and liabilities £m £m £m
Segment assets (excluding goodwill and intangibles) 68.2 19.9 88.1
Goodwill and intangibles assets 13.2 7.4 20.6
81.4 27.3 108.7
Unallocated assets 0.8
Cash 13.6
Current and deferred tax assets 2.9
Total assets 126.0
Segment liabilities (44.2) (9.0) (53.2)
Unallocated liabilities (4.6)
Other ﬁnancial liabilities (6.9)
Pension liability (5.5)
Current and deferred tax liabilities (4.5)
Total liabilities (74.7)
Net assets 51.3
For the purposes of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments the Directors monitor the net assets
attributable to each segment. Assets and liabilities are allocated to reportable segments, with the exception of pension liability, tax assets and
liabilities, cash and all borrowings, central assets and liabilities and certain property, plant and equipment and intangibles.
Depreciation and amortisation Additions to non current assets
2012 2011 2012 2011
Other segment information £m £m £m £m
Electronics 1.5 1.0 6.0 6.3
Supply Chain 0.7 0.7 0.4 0.4
Unallocated 0.1 .– 0.4 0.1
2.3 1.7 6.8 6.8
Geographical information
The Group’s revenue from external customers based on customer locations and information about its segment assets by geographical
location are detailed below:
Revenue from external customers Non current assets
2012 2011 2012 2011
£m £m £m £m
UK 72.5 79.9 19.6 19.4
Europe 174.9 175.3 12.9 8.3
Rest of the World 10.4 9.6 – –
257.8 264.8 32.5 27.7
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 59
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
6 exceptional items
2012 2011
£m £m
Administrative expenses:
Electronics restructuring costs (a) (1.8) (3.6)
Supply Chain and other restructuring costs (b) (0.4) (0.8)
Acquisitions and related integration restructuring costs (c) (0.7) (0.2)
Disposal costs (d) (0.2) .–
Web development (e) (0.3) .–
Write back of unutilised provisions for retained obligations (f ) .– 0.6
Net operating exceptional costs (3.4) (4.0)
Non operating costs:
Impairment of net assets (g) .– (0.4)
Total exceptional items (3.4) (4.4)
(a) Electronics restructuring comprises (i) the redundancy costs arising from the termination of certain non-specialist products of £0.7m
and (ii) the costs associated with integrating sales and marketing teams in preparation for the launch of a single brand web
marketing platform of £1.1m.
(b) Supply Chain restructuring costs arose on the reduction of staff within low margin operations and exit from certain unproﬁtable sales
contracts.
(c) On 1 June 2011 the Group acquired 100% of the voting shares of Hectronic AB (see note 11 for full details). Acquisition costs were
£0.1m and have been expensed. In addition restructuring costs of £0.3m relating to the merger of the Nordic activities have been
expensed. On 4 October 2011 the Group acquired 100% of the voting shares of MTC Micro Tech Components GmbH and its afﬁliate
EMC Innovation Limited (see note 11 for full details). Acquisition costs were £0.3m and have been expensed.
(d) Disposal costs relate to the sale of the loss making Retail sector operation in the Supply Chain division to a third party for a nominal
consideration.
(e) Software and development expenditure in relation to a new web platform for the Electronics division have been expensed.
(f ) Unutilised provisions for retained obligations set up in 2007 and 2008 in relation to the sale of the Air Conditioning and Refrigeration
and IT Solutions businesses have been released.
(g) On 12 October 2010, the Group sold its loss-making subsidiary, ATM Parts Company Limited (“ATM Parts”) to Cennox plc. As at 30
September 2010, the assets of ATM Parts were written down to their fair value giving rise to an exceptional charge for the impairment
of net assets of £0.4m.
7 operating proﬁt
Amounts charged/(credited) to the income statement are as follows:
2012 2011
£m £m
Employee costs (note 8) 44.3 44.9
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 15) 1.2 1.1
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 18) 1.1 0.6
Net foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.5
Inventories (amounts included in cost of sales):
Cost of inventories 175.0 184.3
Write-down of inventories to net realisable value 1.9 2.4
Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories* (0.1) (0.6)
Operating lease rentals:
Minimum lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense 3.8 3.8
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit of the Group ﬁnancial statements (including parent company) 0.1 0.1
Other fees to auditors – local statutory audits for subsidiaries 0.3 0.3
Tax and transaction services 0.1 0.1
* Reversal relates to sales of goods previously written down.
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued
Acal12 43–92 aw:302 ACAL 07 31-80 20/6/12 15:22  Page 59 60
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
8 employee costs
2012 2011
£m £m
Wages and salaries 36.0 36.6
Social security costs 6.3 6.4
Pension costs 1.4 1.4
Earn out remuneration – 0.2
Share-based payments (note 32) 0.6 0.3
44.3 44.9
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) during the year was as follows:
2012 2011
Number Number
Marketing, sales and service 765 713
Administration 177 207
942 920
At 31 March 2012 the Group had 898 employees (2011: 926).
Details of Directors’ emoluments are disclosed in the remuneration report on pages 35 to 39.
9 ﬁnance costs/(revenue)
2012 2011
£m £m
Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 1.1 0.6
Net pension ﬁnance charge (note 33) 0.3 0.3
Finance costs 1.4 0.9
Interest receivable and similar income (0.2) (0.3)
Finance revenue (0.2) (0.3)
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 61
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
10 taxation
The major components of corporation tax expense/(credit) are:
2012 2011
Consolidated income statement for total operations £m £m
Current taxation
UK corporation tax 0.1 (0.1)
UK adjustments in respect of prior years 0.9 (0.3)
1.0 (0.4)
Overseas tax 1.0 0.9
Overseas adjustments in respect of prior years 0.1 0.5
1.1 1.4
Total current taxation 2.1 1.0
Deferred taxation
Origination and reversal of temporary differences within the UK .– (0.4)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences overseas (0.2) (0.4)
Adjustment in respect of prior years (1.3) .–
Total deferred taxation (1.5) (0.8)
Tax expense reported in the consolidated income statement 0.6 0.2
2012 2011
Tax recognised in other comprehensive income £m £m
Increase/(decrease) in deferred tax asset on pension deﬁcit 0.2 (0.2)
Tax reported in other comprehensive income 0.2 (0.2)
Taxation for the year is lower (2011: lower) than the standard rate of taxation in the UK of 26% (2011: 28%). A reconciliation of the tax
charge applicable to proﬁt before tax at the statutory tax rate to the actual tax charge at the Group’s effective tax rate for the years ended
31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011 respectively was as follows:
2012 2011
£m £m
Proﬁt on continuing operations before tax 2.7 1.9
Proﬁt before taxation multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 26% (2011: 28%) 0.7 0.5
Effect of:
Different tax rates in overseas companies 0.1 0.1
Utilisation of previously unrecognised losses (0.1) (1.5)
Non-deductible expenses 0.2 0.7
Change in tax rate applicable to UK deferred tax .– 0.1
Adjustments to tax expense in respect of prior years (0.3) 0.3
At effective tax rate of 22% (2011: 11%) 0.6 0.2
Tax reported in the consolidated income statement 0.6 0.2
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 62
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
10 taxation continued
2012 2011
Deferred tax £m £m
Deferred tax liabilities:
Accelerated capital allowances .– (0.1)
Other temporary differences (1.0) (0.1)
Gross deferred tax liabilities (1.0) (0.2)
Deferred tax assets:
Decelerated capital allowances 0.3 .–
Pensions 1.4 1.2
Other temporary differences 1.6 1.6
Gross deferred tax assets 3.3 2.8
2012 2011
Deferred tax in the consolidated income statement £m £m
Consolidated income statement
Deferred tax credit:
(Decelerated)/accelerated capital allowances (0.4) 0.1
Other temporary differences (1.1) (0.9)
(1.5) (0.8)
At 31 March 2012, the Group had not recognised any deferred tax asset in respect of tax losses of approximately £17.0m (2011: £18.0m).
Deferred tax assets are not recognised where there is insufﬁcient evidence that losses will be utilised.
At 31 March 2012, there was no recognised deferred tax liability (2011: nil) for taxes that would be payable on the remittance of certain of
the Group’s overseas subsidiaries’ unremitted earnings, as the Group has determined that the undistributed proﬁts of its overseas
subsidiaries will not be distributed in the near future where an additional tax charge would arise.
A reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 28% to 26% was substantively enacted in March 2011 and is effective from 1 April 2011. A
further reduction from 26% to 24% was substantively enacted in March 2012 and will be effective from 1 April 2012. Accordingly, these
rates have been applied in the measurement of the Group’s deferred tax assets and liabilities as at 31 March 2012.
In addition, the Government announced its intention to further reduce the UK corporation tax rate to 23% from 1 April 2013 and to 22%
from 1 April 2014.
The aggregate impact of the proposed reductions from 24% to 22% would reduce the deferred tax asset included in the statement of
ﬁnancial position by approximately £0.2m.
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 63
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
11 business combinations
Acquisition in year ended 31 March 2012
Acquisition of Hectronic AB (“Hectronic”)
On 1 June 2011, the Group announced the acquisition of 100% of Hectronic AB (“Hectronic”), for a cash consideration of £1.2m (sek12m)
before expenses and net debt acquired. Hectronic was acquired from the majority shareholder, Verdane Capital III AS, a private equity
company in the Nordic region. The cash consideration was paid from the Group’s existing cash resources.
Hectronic is a specialist provider of embedded computing technology to industrial electronic markets. Based in Sweden, Hectronic
employs 28 staff and generates revenues across the Nordic region. The company is now a separate technology area within Acal’s
Electronics division. The acquisition is expected to be earnings neutral for this year and earnings enhancing from then on.
The provisional fair values of the identiﬁable assets and liabilities of Hectronic at the date of acquisition were:
Fair value recognised
at acquisition
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.1
Intangible assets – other 0.4
Inventories 0.5
Trade and other receivables 1.4
Short term borrowings (0.5)
Trade and other payables (1.2)
Current tax liabilities (0.1)
Defered tax liabilities (0.1)
Total indentiﬁable net assets 0.5
Provisional goodwill arising on acquisition 0.7
Total investment 1.2
The investment was fully discharged in cash.
Fair value adjustments of £0.1m and £0.1m were recognised on trade receivables and inventory respectively. All other assets were
recorded at book value. The fair values of trade receivables and inventories on acquisition are provisional due to the timing of the
transaction and will be ﬁnalised in the 12 months following the acquisition.
Net cash outﬂows in respect of the acquisition comprise:
Total
£m
Cash consideration 1.2
Transaction costs of the acquisition (included in cash ﬂows from operating activities) 0.1
Net cash acquired (included in cash ﬂows from investing activities) 0.5
Total consideration 1.8
Included in the £0.7m of goodwill recognised above are certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably
measured from the acquiree due to their nature. These items include the expected value of synergies, the experience and skill of the
management team and the value of customer relationships. Goodwill is allocated entirely to Hectronic AB.
Transaction costs of £0.1m have been expensed and are included as exceptional items in administrative expenses (note 6).
From the date of acquisition to 31 March 2012, Hectronic has contributed £5.5m to revenue and £(0.2) to proﬁt after tax of the Group. If
the business combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, the consolidated proﬁt after tax for the Group would have been
£2.1m and revenue would have been £258.6m.
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 64
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
11 business combinations continued
Acquisition of MTC Micro Tech Components GmbH (“MTC”)
On 5 October 2011, the Group announced the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of MTC Micro Tech Components GmbH and its
afﬁliate EMC Innovation Limited (together deﬁned as “MTC”), for a cash consideration of £2.1m (€2.4m) before expenses. MTC has been
acquired from Mr G Bacher. A further £0.2m (€0.2m) relating to working capital settlement was paid in November 2011. Additionally, up
to £1.0m (€1.1m) will be payable in January 2013 subject to the business achieving agreed EBIT targets over the periods to 31 December
2011 and 31 December 2012. As at the acquisition date, the fair value of the contingent consideration was estimated at £0.8m. There has
been no change in the estimate at 31 March 2012.
MTC is a specialist provider of electromagnetic shielding products to the European and Asian industrial electronic markets. Based in
Germany, with a manufacturing operation in South Korea, MTC employs 20 staff.
The provisional fair values of the identiﬁable assets and liabilities of MTC at the date of acquisition were:
Fair value recognised
at acquisition
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.1
Intangible assets – other 0.4
Inventories 0.2
Trade and other receivables 0.4
Cash 0.5
Trade and other payables (0.1)
Current tax liabilities (0.2)
Deferred tax liabilities (0.1)
Total identiﬁed net assets 1.2
Provisional goodwill arising on acquisition 1.9
Total investment 3.1
Discharged by:
Cash 2.3
Contingent consideration 0.8
Total consideration 3.1
Net cash outﬂows in respect of the acquisition comprise:
Total
£m
Cash consideration 2.3
Transaction costs of the acquisition (included in cash ﬂows from operating activities) 0.3
Net cash acquired (included in cash ﬂows from investing activities) (0.5)
2.1
Included in the £1.9m of goodwill recognised above are certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably
measured from the acquiree due to their nature. These items include the expected value of synergies, the experience and skill of the
management team and the value of customer relationships. Goodwill is allocated entirely to MTC GmbH.
Transaction costs of £0.3m have been expensed and are included as exceptional items in administrative expenses (note 6).
From the date of acquisition to 31 March 2012, MTC has contributed £1.3m to revenue and £0.2 to proﬁt after tax of the Group. If the
business combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, the consolidated proﬁt after tax for the Group would have been
£2.3m and revenue would have been £259.1m.
The total cash consideration of £4.0m in respect of business combinations comprises £1.2m for Hectronic paid in June 2011, £0.5m paid
as a ﬁnal working capital settlement for Compotron and £2.3m for MTC in October 2011.
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 6
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
11 business combinations continued
Acquisition in year ended 31 March 2011
Acquisition of CompoTRON GmbH (“Comptron”)
On 12 January 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the voting shares of Compotron, a privately owned specialist provider of electronic
communication and ﬁbre optic components to the European industrial electronics market. The acquisition is a further step in the
implementation of the Group’s European specialisation strategy and enhances the Group’s position in the German specialist electronics
market. The total consideration was £5.7m, of which £5.2m was paid immediately and £0.5m relating to working capital settlement was
paid in April 2011. In addition up to £1.4m earn out remuneration is potentially payable in January 2013 dependent on the business
achieving agreed performance targets.
The Group has reassessed the acquisition accounting and as a result recognised additional goodwill of £1.6m, additional intangible assets
of £0.4m and a deferred tax liability of £0.6m. A liability of £1.4m for deferred consideration has been recognised in the consolidated
statement of ﬁnancial position.
The fair values of the identiﬁable assets and liabilities of Compotron at the date of acquisition were:
Fair value recognised
at acquisition
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.1
Intangible assets – other 2.3
Inventories 0.3
Trade and other receivables 0.9
Cash 0.9
Trade and other payables (1.4)
Current tax liabilities (0.3)
Defered tax liabilities (0.6)
Total indentiﬁable net assets 2.2
Goodwill arising on acquisition 4.9
Total investment 7.1
Discharged by:
Cash 5.7
Deferred cash 1.4
Total consideration 7.1
The fair value and the gross amount of trade receivables are the same.
Net cash outﬂows in respect of the acquisition comprise:
Total
£m
Cash consideration 5.2
Transaction costs of the acquisition (included in cash ﬂows from operating activities) 0.2
Net cash acquired (included in cash ﬂows from investing activities) (0.9)
4.5
Included in the £4.9m of goodwill recognised above are certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably
measured from the acquiree due to their nature. These items include the expected value of synergies, the experience and skill of the
management team and the value of customer relationships. Goodwill is allocated entirely to Compotron GmbH.
Transaction costs of £0.2m have been expensed and are included as exceptional items in administrative expenses.
From the date of acquisition to 31 March 2011, Compotron contributed £2.6m to revenue and £0.4m to proﬁt after tax of the Group. If
the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, the consolidated proﬁt after tax for the Group would have been £2.7m
and revenue from continuing operations would have been £271.3m.
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 66
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
12 disposals
On 12 October 2010, the Group sold its loss-making subsidiary, ATM Parts Company Limited (“ATM Parts”) to Cennox plc for a
consideration of £0.7m on a debt free, cash free basis. As at 30 September 2010, the assets of ATM Parts were written down to their fair
value giving rise to an exceptional charge for the impairment of net assets of £0.4m. For the period to 12 October 2010, ATM Parts
incurred pre-tax losses of £0.2m on revenues of £1.8m (pre-tax losses of £0.5m on revenues of £3.3m for the year ended 31 March 2010).
£m
Sale proceeds 0.7
Costs of disposal (0.1)
Total sales proceeds 0.6
Total net assets sold (0.6)
Proﬁt on disposal .–
The major classes of assets and liabilities disposed of were:
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.1
Inventories 0.4
Trade and other receivables 0.4
Trade and other payables (0.4)
Current tax assets 0.1
0.6
13 dividends
Amounts recognised in equity as distributions to equity holders in the year:
2012 2011
£m £m
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011 of 5.14p (2010: 4.67p) 1.5 1.3
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012 of 2.5p (2011: 2.33p) 0.7 0.7
Total amounts recognised as equity distributions during the year 2.2 2.0
2012 2011
Proposed for approval at the AGM: £m £m
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012 of 5.5p (2010: 5.14p) 1.6 1.5
Summary 2012 2011
Dividends per share declared in respect of year 8.00p 7.47p
Dividends per share paid in year 7.64p 7.00p
Dividends paid in year £2.2m £2.0m
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 6
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
14 earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net proﬁt for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share is the basic earnings per share after allowing for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares of the
weighted average number of options outstanding during the year.
The following reﬂects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations:
2012 2011
£m £m
Earnings for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 2.1 1.7
2012 2011
Number Number
Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share 28,479,804 28,431,486
Effect of dilution – share options 1,169,748 1,214,467
Adjusted weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 29,649,552 29,645,953
Basic earnings per share 7.4p 6.0p
Diluted earnings per share 7.1p 5.7p
At the year end there were 2,203,282 ordinary share options in issue that could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future of which
1,169,748 are currently dilutive (2011: 1,778,754 in issue and 1,214,467 dilutive).
Underlying earnings per share is calculated as follows:
2012 2011
£m £m
Earnings for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 2.1 1.7
Exceptional items 3.4 4.4
Earn out remuneration .– 0.2
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 0.8 0.3
IAS 19 charge for pension ﬁnance costs 0.3 0.3
Tax effects on exceptional items, earn out remuneration, amortisation of acquired
intangibles and IAS 19 charge pension ﬁnance costs (0.7) (1.4)
Underlying earnings 5.9 5.5
2012 2011
Number Number
Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share 28,479,804 28,431,486
Effect of dilution – share options 1,169,748 1,214,467
Adjusted weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 29,649,552 29,645,953
Underlying basic earnings per share 20.7p 19.3p
Underlying diluted earnings per share 19.9p 18.6p
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 6
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
15 property, plant and equipment
Freehold Leasehold Plant and
property improvements equipment Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2010 2.3 3.8 9.8 15.9
Additions – 0.2 0.9 1.1
Disposals (0.4) (0.3) (0.9) (1.6)
Arising from business combinations – .– 0.1 0.1
Business disposals – .– (1.4) (1.4)
Exchange adjustments –– (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 March 2011 1.9 3.7 8.4 14.0
Additions – 0.3 0.7 1.0
Disposals .– (0.2) (1.2) (1.4)
Arising from business combinations – .– 0.1 0.1
Exchange adjustments (0.1) – (0.2) (0.3)
At 31 March 2012 1.8 3.8 7.8 13.4
Depreciation
At 1 April 2010 1.5 2.8 7.7 12.0
Charge for the year .– 0.2 0.9 1.1
Disposals (0.4) (0.2) (0.9) (1.5)
Business disposals .–– (1.4) (1.4)
Exchange adjustments – .– .– .–
At 31 March 2011 1.1 2.8 6.3 10.2
Charge for the year 0.1 0.2 0.9 1.2
Disposals .– (0.1) (1.2) (1.3)
Exchange adjustments (0.1) .– (0.1) (0.2)
At 31 March 2012 1.1 2.9 5.9 9.9
Net book amount at 31 March 2012 0.7 0.9 1.9 3.5
Net book amount at 31 March 2011 0.8 0.9 2.1 3.8
Freehold property includes land with a cost of £0.5m (2011: £0.5m) that is not subject to depreciation. Assets held under ﬁnance leases
with a net book amount of nil (2011: nil) are included in plant and equipment.
16 intangible assets – goodwill
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2010 56.0
Exchange and other adjustments 0.2
Acquisition of shares in subsidiaries 3.3
At 31 March 2011 59.5
Acquisition of shares in subsidiaries 4.2
At 31 March 2012 63.7
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 6
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
16 intangible assets – goodwill continued
Impairment £m
At 31 March 2011 and at 31 March 2012 (42.1)
Net book amount at 31 March 2012 21.6
Net book amount at 31 March 2011 17.4
Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment testing.
Goodwill arising in the year relates to business combinations (note 11).
17 impairment testing of goodwill
The carrying amount of goodwill is analysed as follows:
2012 2011
£m £m
Supply Chain:
Acal Supply Chain Limited 6.5 6.5
Electronics:
UK electronics businesses 6.9 6.8
Compotron 5.0 3.5
Hectronic 0.7 –
MTC 1.9 –
Medical 0.6 0.6
21.6 17.4
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to cash generating units (CGUs).
The recoverable amount of each CGU is based upon value in use calculations and management’s review of the recoverable amount. The key
assumptions in these calculations relate to future revenue and gross margins. The calculation is most sensitive to revenue assumptions,
however senior management believe that the assumptions used are reasonable. Cash ﬂow forecasts for the 5 year period from the reporting
date are based on 2013 budget and management projections thereon. Average annual revenue growth rates between 2% and 13%
(2011: 2%) have been used depending on size and sector the CGU operates in. Annual growth rates beyond the ﬁve-year period are
assumed to be not greater than 2% (2011: 2%) for all CGUs in line with the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets. Discount
rates reﬂect the current market assessment of the risks speciﬁc to each CGU. The discount rate was estimated based on the average
percentage of a weighted average cost of capital for the industry and then further adjusted to reﬂect the management’s assessment of
any risk speciﬁc to the Group. The pre tax discount rate applied to cash ﬂow projections is between 15%-17% (2011: 16%-17%).
5 year average annual growth rate Long term growth rate Discount rate
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
Supply Chain:
Acal Supply Chain Limited 6% 2% 2% 2% 15% 16%
Electronics:
UK electronics businesses 2% 2% 2% 2% 15% 16%
Compotron 3% 2% 2% 2% 17% 17%
Hectronic 11% – 2% 2% 15% –
MTC 13% – 2% 2% 15% –
Medical 6% 2% 2% 2% 15% 16%
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
The Group has conducted sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of each CGU’s carrying value. With regard to all the CGUs tested
above, management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the
unit to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 0
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
18 intangible assets – other
Acquired
Software intangibles Total
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2010 9.7 1.1 10.8
Arising from business combinations .– 1.9 1.9
Business disposals (0.2) .– (0.2)
Additions 0.2 .– 0.2
Disposals (0.4) .– (0.4)
Exchange adjustment .– 0.1 0.1
At 31 March 2011 9.3 3.1 12.4
Arising from business combinations 0.1 1.1 1.2
Additions 0.3 .– 0.3
Exchange adjustment .– (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 March 2012 9.7 4.1 13.8
Amortisation
At 1 April 2010 8.6 0.1 8.7
Business disposals (0.2) .– (0.2)
Amortisation 0.3 0.3 0.6
Disposals (0.4) .– (0.4)
Exchange adjustments .– .– .–
At 31 March 2011 8.3 0.4 8.7
Amortisation 0.3 0.8 1.1
Exchange adjustments .– (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 March 2012 8.6 1.1 9.7
Net book amount at 31 March 2012 1.1 3.0 4.1
Net book amount at 31 March 2011 1.0 2.7 3.7
Included in amortisation of software is an accumulated impairment to date of £2.4m (2011: £2.4m).
The computer software capitalised at 31 March 2012 principally relates to the implementation of one system through the majority of the
Electronics businesses. The ERP system has a carrying amount of £0.4m (2011: £0.5m) and a remaining amortisation period of 1.75 years.
Acquired intangibles relate to intangible assets identiﬁed as part of Business Combinations.
Capital expenditure commitments in relation to IT software at 31 March 2012 were nil (2011: nil).
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 1
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
19 investments in associates
£m
Cost
At 31 March 2011 & 2012 5.4
Impairment
At 31 March 2011 & 2012 (5.4)
Net book amount at 31 March 2011 and 2012 –
Country of % equity interest
Associates incorporation 2012 and 2011
Ceratech Holdings PLC* England 30
Scientiﬁc Digital Business (Pte) Ltd Singapore 40
* Indirectly held.
Impairment of associate investments
In 2009 the Directors took the view that the remaining associate investments should also be fully impaired due to continuing losses in
those businesses. There have been no changes in 2012 that would lead to these impairments being reversed.
20 inventories
2012 2011
£m £m
Finished goods and goods for resale 25.7 25.3
21 trade and other receivables
2012 2011
£m £m
Trade receivables 43.9 56.0
Other receivables 3.6 1.7
Prepayments and accrued income 1.9 1.6
49.4 59.3
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing, are generally on 30-60 days’ terms and are shown net of a provision for impairment. As at 31
March 2012, trade receivables at nominal value of £2.3m (2011: £2.6m) were impaired and fully provided for. Movements in the provision
for impairment of receivables were as follows:
2012 2011
£m £m
At 1 April 2.6 2.9
Charge for the year 0.5 0.9
Amounts written off (0.4) (1.0)
Unused amounts reversed (0.3) (0.2)
Exchange adjustments (0.1) .–
At 31 March 2.3 2.6
As at 31 March, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
Neither past due Past due but not impaired
Total nor impaired <30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-120 days >120 days
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
2012 43.9 34.4 6.9 1.6 0.9 0.1 –
2011 56.0 48.0 5.2 1.7 0.5 – 0.6
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 2
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
22 cash and cash equivalents
2012 2011
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 12.3 13.6
Cash at bank earns interest at ﬂoating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of
between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective
short-term deposit rates. The Group only deposits cash surpluses with major banks of high credit standing, in line with treasury policy.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is £12.3m (2011: £13.6m).
23 ﬁnancial liabilities
Current Non-current
Effective
interest rate 2012 2011 2012 2011
% Maturity £m £m £m £m
Bank overdrafts Variable On demand 4.4 4.2 – –
Unsecured bank loans Variable 0.8 0.9 0.8 1.8
Total other ﬁnancial liabilities 5.2 5.1 0.8 1.8
Trade and other payables 40.7 48.3 – –
Provisions 2.3 0.8 0.4 0.9
Total 48.2 54.2 1.2 2.7
Interest on overdrafts is based on ﬂoating rates linked to LIBOR.
Unsecured bank loan of £1.6m (2011: £2.7m) will be repaid fully on 1 April 2014 and bears interest at 3 month EURIBOR + 3%.
The maturity of gross contractual ﬁnancial liabilities is as follows:
Within 2-5 Over 5
1 year years years Total
At 31 March 2012 £m £m £m £m
Floating rate* 5.3 0.9 – 6.2
Trade payables 40.7 –– 40.7
Provisions 2.3 0.4 – 2.7
48.3 1.3 – 49.6
Within 2-5 Over 5
1 year years years Total
At 31 March 2011 £m £m £m £m
Floating rate* 5.2 2.0 – 7.2
Trade payables 48.3 –– 48.3
Provisions 0.8 0.9 – 1.7
54.3 2.9 – 57.2
* Floating rate ﬁnancial liabilities include future interest payments of £0.1m (£2011: £0.1m) within one year and £0.1m (2011: £0.2m)
between two and ﬁve years.
The carrying amount of the Group’s borrowings is denominated in the following currencies:
2012 2011
£m £m
Euro 4.2 5.8
US dollar 1.5 1.0
Other currencies 0.3 0.1
6.0 6.9
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 3
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
24 movements in cash and net debt
31 March Foreign 31 March
2011 Cash ﬂow exchange 2012
Year to 31 March 2012 £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 13.6 12.3
Overdrafts (4.2) (4.4)
Cash and cash equivalents 9.4 (1.2) (0.3) 7.9
Bank loans under one year (0.9) (0.8)
Bank loans over one year (1.8) (0.8)
Total loan capital (2.7) 0.9 0.2 (1.6)
Net cash 6.7 (0.3) (0.1) 6.3
31 March Foreign 31 March
2010 Cash ﬂow exchange 2011
Year to 31 March 2011 £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 17.3 13.6
Overdrafts (3.4) (4.2)
Cash and cash equivalents 13.9 (4.3) (0.2) 9.4
Bank loans under one year .– (0.9)
Bank loans over one year .– (1.8)
Total loan capital .– (2.6) (0.1) (2.7)
Net cash 13.9 (6.9) (0.3) 6.7
Supplementary information to the statement of cash ﬂow
2012 2011
Underlying performance measure £m £m
Decrease in net cash (0.3) (6.9)
Add: Business acquisitions 4.0 4.4
Exceptional cash ﬂow 3.9 5.1
Legacy pension scheme funding 0.7 0.7
Dividends paid 2.2 2.0
Free cash ﬂow 10.5 5.3
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 4
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
25 reconciliation of cash ﬂows from operating activities
2012 2011
£m £m
Proﬁt for the year 2.1 1.7
Taxation expense 0.6 0.2
Net ﬁnance costs 1.2 0.6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1.2 1.1
Amortisation of intangible assets – other 1.1 0.6
Change in provisions (0.6) (1.1)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment .– 0.1
Impairment of other assets .– 0.4
Pension scheme funding (0.7) (0.7)
Equity-settled share based payment expense 0.6 0.3
Operating cash ﬂows before changes in working capital 5.5 3.2
Increase in inventories (0.3) (2.4)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 9.9 (5.5)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (6.0) 5.2
Decrease/(increase) in working capital 3.6 (2.7)
Cash generated from operations 9.1 0.5
Interest paid (1.1) (0.6)
Income taxes (paid)/received (1.1) 0.5
Net cash ﬂows from operating activities 6.9 0.4
26 provisions
Deferred Severance
consideration indemnity Other Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2011 .– 0.8 5.4 6.2
Released during the year – exceptional .– .– (0.6) (0.6)
Arising during the year – exceptional .– 1.7 0.4 2.1
Arising during the year – contingent consideration and other 2.1 0.1 0.5 2.7
Utilised .– (0.4) (2.2) (2.6)
Exchange .–– (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 March 2012 2.1 2.2 3.4 7.7
2012 2011
Analysis of total provisions £m £m
Current 4.6 2.9
Non-current 3.1 3.3
7.7 6.2
Deferred consideration
The provision relates to £1.4m deferred consideration and £0.7m contingent consideration for business combinations and is expected to
be utilised within one year.
Severance indemnity
The severance indemnity provision relates to severance costs payable to employees. The majority of the provisions are expected to be
used up within one year.
Other
The other provision relates to other claims, long term deferred bonus schemes and general restructuring and is expected to be utilised
within one to three years. Onerous contract provisions are expected to be used over periods of up to six years.
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
27 ﬁnancial risk controls
Management of ﬁnancial risk
The main ﬁnancial risks faced by the Group are credit risk, liquidity risk and market risks, which include interest rate risk and currency risk.
Acal plc also faces risks which are non-ﬁnancial or non-quantiﬁable; these are set out in the Directors’ Report on pages 26 to 30. The
board regularly reviews these risks and approves written policies covering the use of ﬁnancial instruments to manage these risks and sets
overall risk limits.
The Group Finance Director retains the overall responsibility and management of ﬁnancial risk for the Group. Most of the Group’s
ﬁnancing and interest rate risk management is done centrally at Group head ofﬁce, however the foreign exchange risk is managed
centrally and locally, any action being approved by head ofﬁce. The Acal plc board approves policies and procedures setting out
permissible funding and hedging instruments, exposure limits and a system of authorities for the approval of transactions.
Management of interest rate risk
The Group has exposure to interest rate risk arising principally from changes in Euro, Sterling and US dollar interest rates. The Group has
not hedged against interest rate risk.
Based on the Group’s net cash position at the year end a 1% increase in interest rates would decrease the Group’s proﬁt before tax by
approximately £0.1m (2011: £0.1m).
Management of foreign exchange risk
The Group’s shareholders’ equity, earnings and cash ﬂows are exposed to foreign exchange risks due to the mismatch between the
currencies in which it purchases stock and the ﬁnal currency of sale to its customers.
It is Group policy to hedge identiﬁed signiﬁcant foreign exchange exposure on its committed operating cash ﬂows. This is done both
centrally and locally based on actual committed orders and sales. The Group does not hedge contingent exposures. At the reporting date
the fair value of forward contracts was immaterial.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US$ and Euro rates against Sterling, with all other
variables remaining constant, of the Group’s proﬁt/(loss) before tax, due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities.
£ US$ Euro
currency impact currency impact currency impact
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
Proﬁt/(loss) before tax – (loss)/gain £m £m £m £m £m £m
10% appreciation (0.7) (0.4) 0.9 1.4 (0.1) (1.0)
10% depreciation 0.9 0.5 (0.9) (1.5) 0.3 1.1
Management of credit risk
Credit risk exists in relation to customers, banks and insurers. Exposure to this is mitigated by maintaining rigorous credit control
procedures across a wide customer base.
The Group is exposed to some credit risk that is primarily attributable to its trade and other receivables. This is minimised by dealing with
recognised creditworthy third parties who have been through a credit veriﬁcation process. The maximum exposure to credit risk is limited
to the carrying value of trade and other receivables.
As well as credit risk exposures inherent within the Group’s outstanding receivables, the Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk
arising from the placing of deposits and entering into derivative ﬁnancial instrument contracts with banks and ﬁnancial institutions.
The Group manages exposure to credit risk by entering into ﬁnancial instrument contracts only with highly credit-rated authorised
counterparties which are reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
The Group has Board approved maximum counterparty exposure limits for speciﬁed banks and ﬁnancial institutions based on the long-
term credit ratings of Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s.
Counterparties’ positions are monitored on a regular basis to ensure that they are within the approved limits and that there are no
signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risks.
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 6
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
27 ﬁnancial risk controls continued
Management of liquidity risk
The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk and ensures maximum ﬂexibility in meeting changing business needs by managing the
cash generation of its operations, combined with bank borrowings and access to long-term debt. In its funding strategy, the Group’s
objective is to maintain a balance between the continuity of funding and ﬂexibility through the use of overdrafts, bank loans and
facilities.
Excess cash used in managing liquidity is placed on interest bearing deposit with approved counterparties, with maturities ﬁxed at no
more than three months.
At 31 March 2012, the Group had net cash of £7.1m (2011: £8.5m). Net cash excludes long term borrowings of £0.8m (2011: £1.8m). The
Group had total working capital facilities available of £31.2m (2011: £27.9m) with a number of major UK and overseas banks of which
£18.4m (2011: £19.7m) were committed facilities. The Group had drawn £6.0m against total facilities at 31 March 2012. The committed
facilities were taken out as a policy to decrease the Group’s exposure to uncommitted and short term ﬁnancing. The maturity of
committed facilities ranges from January 2013 to December 2014. The facilities are subject to certain performance covenants, which on
review at 31 March 2012 gave signiﬁcant headroom.
Management of Capital
The Group aims to maximise shareholder value by maintaining an appropriate debt/equity capital structure. It uses a number of
mechanisms to manage debt/equity levels, as appropriate, in the light of economic and trading conditions, and the future capital
investment requirements of the business. Capital is made up entirely of equity and is analysed in the statement of changes in equity.
28 ﬁnancial assets and liabilities
Fair values
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments that are carried in the
ﬁnancial statements.
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value
2012 2012 2011 2011
£m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Cash at bank and in hand 12.3 12.3 13.6 13.6
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings (5.2) (5.3) (5.1) (5.2)
Non current interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Floating rate borrowings (0.8) (0.9) (1.8) (2.0)
The fair value of loans and borrowings has been calculated by discounting future cash ﬂows where material at prevailing market interest rates.
Short term trade and other receivables, payables and provisions have been excluded from the above table as their book values approximate fair
values.
29 trade and other payables
2012 2011
£m £m
Trade payables 27.9 33.1
Other payables 9.2 7.2
Accrued expenses and deferred income 8.3 11.3
45.4 51.6
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are settled taking into account local good practice.
Other payables are non-interest bearing and settled throughout the year.
Accruals are non-interest bearing and settled throughout the year.
Deferred income is recognised over the term of the contract.
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
30 share capital
2012 2012 2011 2011
Authorised Number £m Number £m
Ordinary shares of 5p each 44,000,000 2.2 44,000,000 2.2
2012 2012 2011 2011
Allotted, called up and fully paid Number £m Number £m
Ordinary shares of 5p each 28,479,804 1.4 28,479,804 1.4
There were no shares issued during the year (2011: 61,450 at £2.705 per share).
31 commitments and contingencies
Operating lease commitments
The Group leases various buildings under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses
and renewal rights.
The Group also leases certain motor vehicles and items of machinery. These leases have an average life of between 3 and 5 years with no
renewal option included in the contracts. There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2012 2011
£m £m
Due within one year 3.2 3.2
Due after one year but not more than ﬁve years 6.0 7.0
Due after more than ﬁve years 1.3 1.5
10.5 11.7
The future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases are £1m (2011: £0.3m).
32 share-based payment plans
The Group operates various share based payment plans. The various schemes are explained below and have been separated into three
separate disclosures. The charge to the income statement in respect of each of these schemes is:
2012 2011
£m £m
a) Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes .– .–
b) Acal plc long term incentive plan (“the LTIP”) 0.6 0.3
c) “B” Share Scheme .– .–
0.6 0.3
a) Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes
The Group operates an approved and an unapproved executive share option scheme, the rules of which are similar in all material
respects. The grant of options to Executive Directors and senior management is recommended by the Remuneration Committee on the
basis of their contribution to the Group’s success. The options vest after three years.
The exercise price of the options is equal to the closing mid-market price of the shares on the trading day previous to the date of the
grant. The exercise of options is subject to the meeting of performance criterion; namely, that the growth in the company’s earnings per
share in any three year period before exercise must have exceeded the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period
plus two per cent per annum. Exercise of an option is subject to continued employment. The life of each option granted is seven years.
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
32 share-based payment plans continued
Options are valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. No non-market performance conditions were included in the fair value
calculations. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
Grant date 14 June 2007 30 June 2006
Share price at grant date £3.8725 £3.675
Exercise price £3.8725 £3.675
Number of employees 37 46
Shares under option 310,000 116,500
Vesting period (years) 33
Expected volatility 30.8% 30.8%
Option life (years) 77
Expected life (years) 4.5 4.5
Risk free rate of return 5.4% 5.06%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 5.0% 5.0%
Fair value £0.80 £0.74
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the previous ﬁve years. The expected life is the average expected period to
exercise. The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
The total charge for the year relating to the approved and unapproved share option schemes was nil (2011: nil).
Outstanding share options
A summary of the options over ordinary shares that have been granted under various Group share option schemes and remain
outstanding is given below:
31 March 2012
Outstanding Expired Forfeited Exercised Outstanding Exercise
at 1 April during the during the during the at 31 March price Exercise
2011 year year year 2012 (pence) dates
37,750 (37,750) ––– 480.00 2007-2011
39,050 – (11,750) – 27,300 335.00 2008-2012
39,500 – (9,000) – 30,500 367.50 2009-2013
75,000 – (15,000) – 60,000 387.25 2010-2014
191,300 (37,750) (35,750) – 117,800
31 March 2011
Outstanding Expired Forfeited Exercised Outstanding Exercise
at 1 April during the during the during the at 31 March price Exercise
2010 year year year 2011 (pence) dates
36,700 (36,700) ––– 525.00 2006-2010
37,750 ––– 37,750 480.00 2007-2011
41,550 – (2,500) – 39,050 335.00 2008-2012
44,500 – (5,000) – 39,500 367.50 2009-2013
100,000 – (25,000) – 75,000 387.25 2010-2014
260,500 (36,700) (32,500) – 191,300
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
32 share-based payment plans continued
Changes in share options
A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 March 2012 is shown below:
2012 2011
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number exercise Number exercise
(‘000) price (‘000) price
Outstanding at 1 April 191 £3.91 260 £4.08
Granted –– ––
Exercised –– ––
Expired (37) £4.80 (37) £5.25
Forfeited (36) £3.65 (32) £3.80
Outstanding at 31 March 118 £3.70 191 £3.91
Exercisable at 31 March 118 £3.70 191 £3.91
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 March 2012 is 1.5 years (2011: 2.0 years).
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was £3.35 to £3.8725 (2011: £3.35 to £4.80).
b) The LTIP
Since 2008 the Group has operated the LTIP as a replacement for the approved and an unapproved executive share option scheme
detailed above. The LTIP involves a conditional award of shares on a grant of a nil-cost option. The award of shares to Executive Directors
and senior management is recommended by the Remuneration Committee on the basis of such factors as their contribution to the
Group’s success. The LTIPs are equity settled and there are no cash settled alternatives. The release of an award is dependent on the
individual’s continued employment for a three year holding period from the date of grant and the satisfaction by the Company of certain
performance conditions. For awards made in 2011 and 2012 the performance conditions are as follows:
• 50% of the award is based on the Company’s comparative total shareholder return (“TSR”) against a comparator group made up of
the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index; and
• 50% of the award is based on the Company’s absolute total shareholder return as measured against the Retail Price Index (“RPI”).
Awards are valued using the Monte Carlo Simulation and Discounted Share Price models. No non-market performance conditions were
included in the fair value calculations. The 2012 awards were approved by the Remuneration Committee on 28 March 2012 and a
valuation of these awards was carried out in the year ending 31 March 2012. The 2012 awards were granted on 31 March 2012 and
therefore there is no material charge in the year relating to these awards. The fair value per award granted and the assumptions used in
the calculation are as follows:
Awards granted in the year ended 31 March 2012:
31 March 31 March
2012 2012
Grant date TSR RPI
Share price at grant date £2.14 £2.14
Exercise price nil nil
Number of employees 77
Shares under option 257,606 257,606
Vesting period (years) 33
Expected volatility 39% 39%
Option life (years) 10 10
Expected life (years) 33
Risk free rate of return 0.613% 0.613%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 3.3% 3.3%
Fair value £1.29 £1.90
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 0
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
32 share-based payment plans continued
Awards granted in the year ended 31 March 2011:
31 March 31 March 20 July 20 July 01 July 01 July
2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 2010
Grant date TSR RPI TSR RPI TSR RPI
Share price at grant date £3.42 £3.42 £1.69 £1.69 £1.54 £1.54
Exercise price nil nil nil nil nil nil
Number of employees 77 1111
Shares under option 163,142 163,142 89,724 89,724 38,636 38,636
Vesting period (years) 33 3333
Expected volatility 51% 51% 55.3% 55.3% 55.5% 55.5%
Option life (years) 10 10 10 10 10 10
Expected life (years) 33 3333
Risk free rate of return 1.876% 1.876% 1.39% 1.39% 1.36% 1.36%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 3.1% 3.1% 4.7% 4.7% 4.8% 4.8%
Fair value £2.16 £1.85 £1.06 £0.93 £0.92 £0.77
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over a term commensurate with the expected life of each award. The expected life
is the average expected period to exercise. The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term
consistent with the assumed option life.
The total charge for the year relating to the LTIP schemes (including special awards referred to below) was £0.6m
(2011: £0.3m).
Outstanding LTIP
A summary of the awards that have been granted under the LTIP and remain outstanding is given below:
31 March 2012
Outstanding Granted Expired Forfeited Exercised Outstanding
at 1 April during the during the during the during the at 31 March Exercise
2011 year year year year 2012 dates
620,498 –– (35,721) – 584,777 2012-2019
402,490 ––– – 402,490 2013-2020
583,003 ––– – 583,003 2014-2021
– 515,212 ––– 515,212 2015-2022
1,605,991 515,212 – (35,721) – 2,085,482
31 March 2011
Outstanding Granted Expired Forfeited Exercised Outstanding
at 1 April during the during the during the during the at 31 March Exercise
2010 year year year year 2011 dates
620,498 ––– – 620,498 2012-2019
402,490 ––– – 402,490 2013-2020
– 583,003 ––– 583,003 2014-2021
1,022,988 583,003 ––– 1,605,991
c) “B” Share Scheme
Following the acquisition of Service Source Europe Limited, by Acal Supply Chain Limited (“ASC”), Acal has set up a B Share Scheme for
the management of the new division. The B Share Scheme was approved by the Shareholders under the Listing Rules at the General
Meeting on 8 January 2009.
The terms of the B Share Scheme are designed to ensure that the management are incentivised to grow and improve the proﬁtability of
the division in the medium term, thereby increasing its value to the Acal Group.
The principal right of the B Shares is to receive value on the sale of ASC on or prior to 31 March 2013, or by exercise (by put or call) of an
option over the B Shares after 31 March 2013.
The proceeds of such an exit adjusted for any net cash or debt (“Equity Value”) are dependent on the equity value of the business at 31
March 2013.
The share based payments charge has been based on a predicted future value model and was £nil (2011 £nil ).
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 1
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
33 pensions
Deﬁned contribution schemes
The Group makes payments to various deﬁned contribution pension schemes, the assets of which are held in separately administered
funds. In the United Kingdom the relevant scheme is the Acal Group Employee Pension Scheme (‘the Acal scheme’). Contributions by
both employees and Group companies are held in externally invested trustee-administered funds.
The Group contributes a speciﬁed percentage of earnings for members of the Acal scheme, and thereafter has no further obligations
in relation to the Acal scheme. At the year end, 161 employees were active members of the Acal scheme (2011: 178). The total cost
charged to income in relation to the UK based Acal scheme was £535,000 (2011: £527,000). Employer contributions in respect of other
UK based schemes and overseas pension schemes were £84,000 (2011: £47,000) and £751,000 (2011: £844,000) respectively. Total
contributions payable in the next ﬁnancial year are expected to be at rates broadly similar to those in 2011/12 but based on actual
salary levels in 2012/13.
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
The acquisition of the Sedgemoor Group in June 1999 brought with it certain deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes, the principal one of
which was the Sedgemoor Group Pension Fund (together ‘the Sedgemoor Scheme’). The Sedgemoor Scheme is funded by the Company,
provides retirement beneﬁts based on ﬁnal pensionable salary and its assets are held in a separate trustee-administered fund.
Following the acquisition of Sedgemoor, the Sedgemoor Scheme was closed to new members. Shortly thereafter employees were given
the opportunity to join the Acal Scheme and future service beneﬁts ceased to accrue to members under the Sedgemoor Scheme.
Contributions to the Sedgemoor Scheme are determined in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally qualiﬁed actuaries.
Based on the funding valuation conducted at December 2009, the Fund’s Trustees agreed a two year reduction in the funding contributions
until 2012 to £0.7m per year (previously £1.3m), increasing by 3% per annum from a base of £1.5m in 2013 for a further 10 years.
The main actuarial assumptions used are set out as follows:
2012 2011
Rate of increase of salaries n/a n/a
Rate of increase of pensions in payment 2.1% 2.8%
Discount rate 4.6% 5.5%
Inﬂation assumption 2.9% 3.6%
The discount rate is based on over 15 year AA grade sterling corporate bond yields at the reporting date. Overall expected rates of return
are established by applying published brokers forecasts to each category of scheme assets. The expected rate of return on scheme assets
is derived as an average, weighted according to the portfolio allocation at the reporting date. The expected rates of return on each class
of asset are shown below. Pensioner mortality assumptions are based on the ‘P00 series’ tables, issued by the Institute and Faculty of
Actuaries, with medium cohort improvements and a two year age rating. On 8 July 2010, the Government announced that the Consumer
Prices Index ("CPI") would be the inﬂation measure for statutory deﬁned beneﬁt pension increases instead of the Index of Retail Prices
("RPI"). This change applies both to the revaluation of deferred pensions and to the increases applicable to pensions in payment.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are as follows:
2012 2011
£m £m
Expected return on scheme assets 1.5 1.6
Interest cost on scheme liabilities (1.8) (1.9)
Other ﬁnance costs (note 9) (0.3) (0.3)
The net ﬁnance cost is reported within interest expense.
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 2
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
33 pensions continued
The amounts taken to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows:
2012 2011
£m £m
Actual return on scheme assets 2.1 1.0
Less: expected return on scheme assets (1.5) (1.6)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on scheme assets 0.6 (0.6)
Actuarial (losses)/gains on scheme liabilities (1.8) 0.9
Adjustment for onerous minimum funding requirement (0.1) (0.7)
Actuarial gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of comprehensive income (1.3) (0.4)
Since the date of transition the cumulative value of actuarial gains and losses recorded in the consolidated statement of comprehensive
income is £5.7m loss (2011: £4.4m loss).
The fair value of assets and expected rates of return used to determine the amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of
ﬁnancial position are as follows:
2012 2012 2011 2011
£m £m
Equities 5.5% 15.0 6.7% 15.0
Gilts 2.5% 14.5 3.7% 13.9
Cash 0.0% 0.3 0.0% 0.2
Fair value of scheme assets 29.8 29.1
Present value of funded deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (36.3) (34.6)
Liability recognised in the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position (6.5) (5.5)
Changes in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation are as follows:
2012 2011
£m £m
Opening deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 34.6 34.8
Net interest cost 1.8 1.9
Actuarial losses/(gains) on scheme liabilities 1.8 (0.9)
Adjustment for onerous minimum funding requirement 0.1 0.7
Beneﬁts paid (2.0) (1.9)
Closing deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 36.3 34.6
Changes in the fair value of the scheme assets are as follows:
2012 2011
£m £m
Opening fair value of scheme assets 29.1 29.3
Expected returns on scheme assets 1.5 1.6
Actuarial gains/(losses) on scheme assets 0.5 (0.6)
Contributions 0.7 0.7
Beneﬁts paid (2.0) (1.9)
Closing fair value of scheme assets 29.8 29.1
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 3
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
33 pensions continued
History of experience gains and losses
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets 29.8 29.1 29.3 23.7 27.9
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (36.3) (34.6) (34.8) (29.4) (31.7)
Deﬁcit in the scheme (6.5) (5.5) (5.5) (5.7) (3.8)
Experience adjustments on scheme assets 0.5 (0.6) 4.9 (5.5) (2.2)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 0.5 0.8 0.9 (0.2) (0.6)
34 related party disclosures
The Group’s principal subsidiaries are listed in the following table:
Group effective shareholding held
Country of incorporation by parent by subsidiary
Name and nature of business and registration Type of share company undertakings
Agency, marketing and distribution
Acal BFi UK Ltd England Ordinary Shares – 100%
Acal Central Procurement Ltd England Ordinary Shares – 100%
Acal Supply Chain Ltd England Ordinary Shares – 100%
Stortech Electronics Ltd England Ordinary Shares – 100%
Vertec Scientiﬁc Ltd England Ordinary Shares – 100%
Vertec Scientiﬁc SA South Africa Ordinary Shares – 100%
Acal BFi NV/SA Belgium Ordinary Shares – 100%
Acal BFi GmbH Germany Ordinary Shares – 100%
EAF Computer Service Supplies GmbH Germany Ordinary Shares – 100%
Acal BFi Technology AB Sweden Ordinary Shares – 100%
Hectronic AB Sweden Ordinary Shares – 100%
Acal BFi Technology BV Netherlands Ordinary Shares – 100%
Acal BFi Italia Srl Italy Ordinary Shares – 100%
Acal BFi Iberia SL Spain Ordinary Shares – 100%
CompoTRON GmbH Germany Ordinary Shares – 100%
MTC Micro Tech Components GmbH Germany Ordinary Shares – 100%
EMC Innovation Limited South Korea Ordinary Shares – 100%
Management services
Acal Management Services Ltd England Ordinary Shares 100% –
All subsidiaries operate in their country of incorporation. All subsidiaries have a 31 March year end and have the same voting rights as the
effective interest.
Related parties
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the
categories speciﬁed in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in
the Directors Remuneration report on pages 35 to 39.
2012 2011
£m £m
Short term employee beneﬁts 0.9 0.7
Share based payments 0.4 0.2
1.3 0.9
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 4
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
34 related party disclosures continued
Associate Undertakings
For details of the Group’s investments in associates see note 19.
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
All transactions with related parties were on an arm’s length basis. Outstanding balances at year-end are unsecured and settlement
occurs in cash.
Transactions with other related parties
Details of transactions with Directors are detailed in the Remuneration report on pages 35 to 39.
35 events after the balance sheet date
A ﬁnal dividend of 5.5 per share (2011: 5.14p) amounting to a dividend of £1.6m (2011: £1.5m) was declared by the Directors on 24 May
2012. These ﬁnancial statements do not reﬂect this dividend.
36 exchange rates
The proﬁt and loss accounts of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange for the period and
consolidated statement of ﬁnancial positions are translated at period end rates. The main currencies are the US dollar and the Euro.
Details of the exchange rates used are as follows:
Year to 31 March 2012 Year to 31 March 2011
Closing Average Closing Average
rate rate rate rate
US dollar 1.602 1.596 1.608 1.556
Euro 1.1992 1.1585 1.132 1.177
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements continued 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
acal plc
company ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements report of the auditors
6
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Acal plc
We have audited the parent company ﬁnancial statements of Acal plc for the year ended 31 March 2012 which comprise the balance
sheet and the related notes 1 to 10. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone
other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 42, the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the parent company ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and
express an opinion on the parent company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable
assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall
presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. In addition, we read all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information in the annual report and
accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited ﬁnancial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion the parent company ﬁnancial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 March 2012;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006;
and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is consistent with
the parent company ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with
the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the group ﬁnancial statements of Acal Plc for the year ended 31 March 2012.
Andy Glover (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor
London
29 May 2012
Notes:
1. The maintenance and integrity of the Acal plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the
ﬁnancial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions. 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
2012 2011
notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments 4 79.2 79.0
Current assets
Debtors 5 5.6 4.3
Cash at bank and in hand 0.4 3.2
Total current assets 6.0 7.5
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 6 (22.5) (20.7)
Net current liabilities (16.5) (13.2)
Total assets less current liabilities 62.7 65.8
Net assets 62.7 65.8
Capital and reserves
Share capital 7 1.4 1.4
Share premium 8 40.7 40.7
Merger reserve 8 3.0 3.0
Proﬁt and loss account 8 17.6 20.7
Shareholders’ funds 8 62.7 65.8
These ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 29 May 2012 and signed on its behalf by:
N J Jefferies S M Gibbins
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
company balance sheet
at 31 March 2012 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
1 basis of accounting
The ﬁnancial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
2 summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies
Cash ﬂow statement
Under FRS1 the company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash ﬂow statement on the grounds that a parent undertaking
includes the company in its published consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Income recognition
Dividend income is recognised when the company’s right to receive payment is established.
Fixed asset investments
Investments in subsidiary and associate undertakings are stated initially at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given and
including directly attributable transaction costs. The carrying values are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances
indicate the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Financial assets
Investments are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given and including directly attributable transaction
costs associated with the investment.
After initial recognition, investments in equity shares are treated as available for sale ﬁnancial assets and are measured at their fair value
with any gains or losses recognised in equity. When the investment is derecognised or impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously
reported in equity is included in the proﬁt and loss account.
Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value can not be reliably
valued are measured at cost.
At each balance sheet date, the Company reviews the carrying value of its assets to determine whether there is any indication that the
assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists or when annual testing for an asset is required, the recoverable
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised when they meet the criteria for recognition as a liability. In relation to ﬁnal dividends, this is when approved by
the shareholders in general meeting, and in relation to interim dividends, when paid.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, in accordance with the effective interest rate method.
Share-based payment schemes
In preparing the ﬁnancial statements the Company has also applied FRS 20 ‘Share-based payment’ . Although the Company does not
incur a charge under this standard, the issuance by the Company to its subsidiaries of a grant over the Company’s options represents
additional capital contributions by the Company in its subsidiaries. The additional capital contribution is based on the fair value of the
grant issued, allocated over the underlying grant’s vesting period.
Taxation
Corporation tax payable is provided on taxable proﬁts at the current rate.
Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where
transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the
balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable and recognised in the ﬁnancial statements when, on the basis of
available evidence, it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable proﬁts from which the future reversal of the timing
differences can be deducted. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
3 proﬁt of the parent company
The loss of the parent company for the ﬁnancial year amounted to £1.5m (2011: £0.1m proﬁt). By virtue of section 408 of the Companies
Act 2006, the Company is exempt from presenting a separate proﬁt and loss account.
notes to the company ﬁnancial statements 
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
4 ﬁxed asset investments
Subsidiary
undertakings
£m
At 1 April 2010 91.6
Share based payments 0.3
Disposals (12.9)
At 31 March 2011 79.0
Impairment (0.4)
Share based payments 0.6
At 31 March 2012 79.2
The only principal investment held directly by the company is in Acal Management Services Limited. Details of the principal subsidiary
and associate undertakings are provided in notes 34 and 19 respectively of the Group accounts.
The impairment loss of £0.4m has been recognised following the comparison of the recoverable amount of the investments with their
carrying value.
5 debtors
2012 2011
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 5.2 3.8
Corporation tax 0.3 0.4
Deferred tax – 0.1
Prepayments 0.1 –
5.6 4.3
The deferred tax asset arises due to temporary timing differences.
6 creditors
2012 2011
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Bank loans and overdrafts 1.2 0.4
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 20.3 19.7
Other creditors 0.4 0.1
Accruals and deferred income 0.6 0.5
22.5 20.7
notes to the company ﬁnancial statements continued 0
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
7 share capital
2012 2012 2011 2011
Authorised Number £m Number £m
Ordinary shares of 5p each 44,000,000 2.2 44,000,000 2.2
2012 2012 2011 2011
Alloted, called up and fully paid Number £m Number £m
Ordinary shares of 5p each 28,479,804 1.4 28,479,804 1.4
There were no shares issued during the year (2011: 61,450 at £2.705 per share).
At 31 March 2012 there were outstanding options for employees of subsidiaries to purchase up to 2,203,282 (2011: 1,778,754) ordinary
shares of 5p each between 2012 and 2022 at prices ranging from £nil per share to £3.8725 per share. During the year to 31 March 2012
no options were exercised by employees under the terms of the various share option schemes (2011: none).
8 reconciliation of shareholders’ funds and movements on reserves
Share Merger Proﬁt and
Share capital premium reserve loss account Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2010 1.4 40.6 3.0 22.3 67.3
Shares issued .– 0.1 –– 0.1
Proﬁt for the year ––– 0.1 0.1
Share based payment transactions ––– 0.3 0.3
Dividends paid to shareholders ––– (2.0) (2.0)
At 31 March 2011 1.4 40.7 3.0 20.7 65.8
Loss for the year ––– (1.5) (1.5)
Share based payment transactions ––– 0.6 0.6
Dividends paid to shareholders ––– (2.2) (2.2)
At 31 March 2012 1.4 40.7 3.0 17.6 62.7
9 related parties
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption given in FRS 8 not to disclose transactions with other Group companies.
The Company has given guarantees and offset arrangements to support bank facilities made available to subsidiary undertakings.
10 share-based payments
For detailed disclosures of share-based payments granted to the employees of subsidiaries refer to the Acal plc consolidated accounts,
note 32.
notes to the company ﬁnancial statements continued 1
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m
Group income statement
Turnover – continuing operations 257.8 264.8 181.6 165.4 159.5
Proﬁt/(loss) before tax and exceptionals 6.1 6.3 (1.6) 0.5 6.1
Exceptionals (3.4) (4.4) (4.7) (33.1) (3.5)
Proﬁt/(loss) before tax 2.7 1.9 (6.3) (32.6) 2.6
Tax (0.6) (0.2) (0.3) (4.4) (2.1)
Proﬁt/(loss) after tax from continuing operations 2.1 1.7 (6.6) (37.0) 0.5
Discontinued operations – .–– .– 27.4
Proﬁt/(loss) for the year 2.1 1.7 (6.6) (37.0) 27.9
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 2.1 1.7 (6.6) (37.1) 27.9
Minority interests – .–– 0.1 .–
Group balance sheet
Net cash/(debt) 6.3 6.7 13.9 24.5 25.6
Equity shareholders’ funds 49.1 51.3 51.9 58.2 100.7
Statistics
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share 7.4p 6.0p (24.5)p (140.5)p 105.7p
Dividends per share – relating to the period 8.0p 7.0p 7.0p 7.0p 21.9p
Working capital as percentage of sales* 12% 12% 13% 15% 13%
* Working capital is deﬁned as net inventory, trade receivables and other receivables less trade payables and other payables.
ﬁve year record Acal is a European specialist provider of technology products and
services. With operating companies in the UK, Netherlands, Belgium,
Germany, France, Italy, Spain, the Nordic region, South Africa and
South Korea, business activity is in clearly deﬁned market niches
where customers appreciate the added value that comes from high
levels of technical support and customised solutions.
Country Company/division Locations
electronics
United Kingdom Acal BFi UK Ltd Wokingham, Milton Keynes
Acal BFi Central Procurement UK Ltd Wokingham
Stortech Electronics Ltd Harlow
CompoTRON UK Ltd Swindon
Vertec Scientiﬁc Ltd Silchester
Belgium Acal BFi Belgium NV/SA Brussels
France Acal BFi France SAS Evry
Germany Acal BFi Germany GmbH Dietzenbach, Munich
CompoTRON GmbH Munich
MTC Micro Tech Components GmbH Dillingen
Italy Acal BFi Italia Srl Milan
Netherlands Acal BFi Netherlands BV Eindhoven, Alphen an den Rijn
Sweden Acal BFi Nordic AB Stockholm, Uppsala
Hectronic AB Uppsala
Norway Acal BFi Nordic AB Honefoss
Finland Acal BFi Nordic AB Helsinki
Denmark Acal BFi Nordic AB Copenhagen
Spain Acal BFi Iberia SLU Madrid
South Africa Vertec Scientiﬁc SA (pty) Ltd Johannesburg
South Korea EMC Innovation Ltd Incheon City
supply chain
United Kingdom Acal Supply Chain Ltd Warrington, Nottingham
Germany EAF Computer Service Supplies GmbH Goch
Further details of the Group’s locations can be found on the Acal plc website
www.acalplc.co.uk
principal locations
2
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012 Notes to the operating performance and ﬁnancial highlights on page 1
1
‘Underlying Operating Profit’ , ‘Underlying Profit before Tax’ and ‘Underlying Diluted EPS’ are non-IFRS financial measures
used by the Directors to assess the underlying performance of the Group. These measures exclude exceptional costs,
earn out remuneration, amortisation of acquired intangibles and IAS19 pension charge relating to a legacy defined
benefit scheme. ‘Underlying Operating Profit’ , ‘Underlying Profit before Tax’ and ‘Underlying Diluted EPS’ are not defined
by or presented in accordance with IFRS and should not be considered as an alternative to Operating Profit, Profit before
Tax, Fully Diluted EPS or any other IFRS performance measures. These non-IFRS performance measures are not intended
to be a projection or forecast of future results.
2
Free cash flow is defined as net cash flow before exceptionals, payments to the legacy pension fund, dividends and the
cost of acquisitions.
3
3 year highlights cover the period since the adoption of the specialisation strategy in 2009.
4
Acquisitions are BFi Optilas in December 2009; CompoTRON GmbH (“Compotron”) in January 2011; Hectronic AB
(“Hectronic”) in June 2011 and MTC Microtech Components GmbH and its affiliate EMC Innovation Limited (“MTC”) in
October 2011.
Acal is a European specialist provider of technology products and services.
With operations in eleven countries across Western Europe, and in South Africa
and South Korea, the business operates in clearly deﬁned market niches where
customers appreciate the added value that comes from high levels of technical
support and customised solutions.
“The business has performed well during the year delivering a 9% growth in
underlying operating profit and free cash flow of £10.5m, building upon the
significant progress of the last two years. The Group has benefited from taking
market share from smaller independent competitors who are unable to match the
breadth and technical depth of our offer and has continued to attract new supply
partners to our business.
The plan to become a fully specialist business is now largely complete and on
schedule. The business is resourced to take benefit from the growing pipeline of
new opportunities and is well positioned for further growth when economic
conditions improve.
Given the continuing difficult economic conditions in Europe and the uncertainty of
the timing and pace of a recovery, we remain cautious for the year ahead, but well
positioned to accelerate growth as and when conditions improve.”
Nick Jefferies
Group Chief Executive
29 May 2012
contents
ﬁnancial highlights 01
chairman’s statement 02
our board 04
overview
chief executive’s review 06
acquisitions and achievements
CompoTRON 11
Honeywell award 12
Hectronic 13
MTC Micro Tech Components 14
Avago award 15
three year performance 16
group executive committee 18
business review
ﬁnance review 20
governance
corporate information and ﬁnancial calendar 25
directors’ report 26
board report on corporate governance 31
directors’ remuneration report 35
corporate social responsibility 40
directors’ responsibilities statement 42
ﬁnancial statements
group ﬁnancial statements 43
report of the auditors, group 44
consolidated income statement 45
consolidated statement of comprehensive income 46
consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 47
consolidated statement of changes in equity 48
consolidated statement of cash ﬂows 49
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements 50
company ﬁnancial statements 85
report of the auditors, company 86
company balance sheet 87
notes to the company ﬁnancial statements 88
ﬁve year record 91
principal locations 92 acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2012
european leader in
advanced technology
solutions
annual report and accounts
for the year ended 31 March 2012
2 Chancellor Court
Occam Road
Surrey Research Park
Guildford
Surrey GU2 7AH
Telephone +44 (0)1483 544500
Fax +44 (0)1483 544550
Email info@acalplc.co.uk
www.acalplc.co.uk
