 Annual Report
05
WSP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Contents
WSP is a global business with the vision to be the
outstanding supplier of specialist and integrated
services in the built and natural environment.
01 Financial Highlights
02 Chairman’s Statement 
04 Chief Executive’s Review
08 Group Finance Director’s Review
12 Operational Review
13 United Kingdom
17 Europe
19 United States of America
21 Africa and the Middle East
23 Asia and International Development
23 Environmental
26 Board of Directors
28 Performance Committee
29 Directors’ Report 
32 Corporate Governance Report 
37 Remuneration Report 
41 Auditors’ Report
42 Consolidated Income Statement 
43 Balance Sheets 
44 Cash Flow Statements
45 Statements of Recognised Income and Expense
45 Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity
46 Accounting Policies
49 Notes to the Financial Statements
83 Five Y ear Review  WSP Annual Report 2004  1
Financial Highlights
In the above charts, 2004 and 2005 figures reflect the results of the Group, reporting in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). It is not practicable
to re-state previous years’ results according to IFRS, and therefore the charts reflect the results for 1996 through to 2003 according to UK GAAP as originally reported. Due
to differences between IFRS and UK GAAP , there may be some inconsistency in the charts. Refer to note 30 on page 74 for an indication of the adjustments to comply with
IFRS. Set out in Table 3 on page 9, are the adjustments made to the statutory financial information relating to the taxation of joint ventures and associated undertakings and a
pension credit in 2004 which the directors believe assist with understanding the underlying performance of the Group.
Revenue (£m) Adjusted Earnings per share
(pence)
Adjusted Profit before 
Interest and Tax (£m)
Property
WSP is one of the largest consultants providing management and
design expertise in the property sector throughout the world. Our
expertise ranges from the world’s tallest buildings and corporate
headquarters to hospitals, urban regeneration and leisure.
Revenue Profit Before Employees
Interest and Tax
58% 54% 59%
Transport & Infrastructure
WSP provides expert advice on a wide range of transport 
related engineering projects, including roads, rail, bridges, tunnels 
and utility services. Our extensive experience includes planning,
analysing, designing and managing projects for a wide range of
service providers.
Revenue Profit Before Employees
Interest and Tax
29% 31% 30%
Revenue Profit Before Employees
Interest and Tax
13% 15% 11%
Environmental
WSP combines long experience from environmental projects with
commercial awareness and an understanding of the property and
financial sectors. WSP delivers business solutions on a global basis 
that range from sustainability consulting to due diligence auditing to
contaminated land and financial engineering of environmental liabilities. Chairman’s Statement
I am very pleased to report an
excellent performance by the Group in
2005. Our financial results are well
ahead of market expectations showing
significantly increased revenue and
profit, improved net profit margins, a
strengthening order book which has
increased by 15% and substantially
reduced net debt.
Our operations throughout the world
have contributed to this performance
as well as supporting our ongoing
commitment to continually improve
client care and operational efficiency.
We are seeing generally strong and
stable global markets with activity in
the UK, Sweden, the USA and the
Middle East particularly good.The
demand for our services continues to
grow and we have established an
increasingly prominent position in the
sectors in which we operate.
Financial Results and Dividends
The financial statements for 2005 have
been prepared under International
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’)
and consequently the comparative
figures for 2004 have been restated to
reflect this change.
Revenue for 2005, plus our share of
joint ventures and associated
undertakings, increased by 16% to
£373.9m generating adjusted profit
before interest and tax of £22.6m at a
net margin of 6.0%.Adjusted profit
before tax increased by 36% to
£20.2m. Basic and fully diluted earnings
per share were 22.8p and 21.8p
respectively.
In 2004, revenue plus our share of joint
ventures and associated undertakings
was £322.3m, adjusted profit before
interest and tax was £17.6m and net
margins were 5.5%.Adjusted basic and
fully diluted earnings per share were
15.9p and 15.4p respectively and
adjusted profit before tax was £14.8m.
Basic and fully diluted earnings per
share were 24.1p and 23.2p.
Once again we have seen strong
operating cash flows from our trading
activities of £31.9m (2004: £24.0m)
which has resulted in net debt falling to
£32.2m (2004: £45.0m). Net interest
paid of £2.4m (2004: £2.8m) is covered
more than 8 times by operating profit.
In view of these excellent financial
results and in line with our progressive
dividend policy, the directors believe
that it is appropriate to increase the
proposed final dividend to 4.0p (2004:
3.2p) giving a full year dividend of 6.4p
(2004: 5.3p) which represents an
increase for the year of 21%.
Set out in Table 3 on page 9, are the
adjustments made to the statutory
financial information relating to the
taxation of joint ventures and
associated undertakings and a pension
credit in 2004 which the directors
believe assist with understanding the
underlying performance of the Group.
Review of Activities
Our strategic focus to improve our
financial performance whilst continuing
to invest in the development and
diversification of the Group’s activities
has progressed well during the year.
We continue to strengthen our
technical and managerial resource to
facilitate new business initiatives and,
importantly, to maintain and extend
our relationships with major national
and international clients.
Property
As predicted, we have seen an
improvement in the performance of
Property, our largest business segment.
The quality of opportunities in this
area, across all regions, is increasing
thanks to our acknowledged expertise
and the general stability of the markets
particularly in the UK where we are
seeing clear improvements in the
important commercial sector and in
Europe where there are also
encouraging signs. In the USA we have
also been very busy in strong markets
enabling us to deliver excellent results
and we are opening new offices in Las
Vegas and Los Angeles to respond to
client and market needs.
Our position as a leader in high-rise
building design, coupled with
unprecedented worldwide demand, has
ensured an excellent flow of new
projects.We are currently engaged on
notable schemes in the USA, UK,
Europe, Middle East and Asia and
expect the market demand to
continue, thus enhancing our
reputation and overall brand
awareness.
South Africa continues to perform
satisfactorily with well managed
growth.The economy currently enjoys
relatively stable interest and currency
rates, which has encouraged strong
local markets.We have also progressed
in Asia under new direction and
management and I consider we have
now stabilised the business in this
region.As the Group has grown on a
global platform we have won an
increasing number of international
projects in many new regions.
2 WSP Annual Report 2005
David T urner Chairman
I consider the Group to be well placed to build on this year’s excellent performance. Our strategy
is aligned to delivering continued profitable growth, improving profit margins and strong cash
flows supported by the quality of our projects and the strength of our order book. T ransport & Infrastructure
T ransport & Infrastructure has seen 
good organic growth, particularly from
Sweden where we are the leading
consultant in the country’s road and rail
sectors. In the UK, our joint venture with
Carillion to support the Y orkshire area
road network has performed very well
and produced strong financial results.
Elsewhere in the UK we have been less
successful in generating new business
opportunities and we have therefore
restructured the business and recruited a
new managing director who is already
producing results.We continue to deliver
transport solutions in South Africa and
we are extending our skill in this area to
other regions including Eastern Europe
and the Middle East.
Environmental
The Environmental business, which has
been mainly organically grown, has
delivered an improved all round
performance. Our global presence has
been further extended and our share of
international projects for global clients
increased.The markets in which we work
have remained strong, driven by
legislation and an increasing recognition
of the importance of the environment to
all stakeholders.
There are increasing opportunities to
leverage our global skill base to ensure
that we compete for major international
projects and we have seen a particularly
strong corporate market with global
clients who require complimentary
environmental support. I am convinced
that there are enormous market
opportunities to continue to grow our
Environmental business across a broad
range of sectors and to this end we are
presently launching WSP Energy and
WSP Waste to respond to the
requirements of these active and growing
sectors.
Staff
Our staff, that now total more than
6,000, are enormously committed to
WSP and they have worked very hard to
further the Group’s reputation and
produce these excellent financial results.
My thanks to them all for their
dedication and desire to deliver the
Group’s growth strategy.
We have devoted significant resource to
the recruitment and retention of staff
throughout the year.We recognise that
in a world of skill shortages we must
always be the preferred employer and I
believe our commitment and investment
in this business priority will ensure we
achieve this objective.
Board Changes
At the beginning of 2006 we announced
important changes to the Board. Stuart
McLachlan who has worked tirelessly to
build WSP Environmental into a global
business was appointed as an executive
director.
In addition, I would like to welcome
three new non executive directors.
Marisa Cassoni is a chartered accountant
who was, until recently, Group Finance
Director of the Royal Mail Group. Marisa
is a member of the Accounting Standards
Board and will chair the audit
committee. Ernest Sheavills is a chartered
surveyor who recently retired from The
Royal Bank of Scotland as Property
Development and Asset Management
Director and Mark Rollins, who is also a
chartered accountant, is presently Group
Finance Director of Senior plc.
At the end of the year Caroline Brown
retired as a non executive director due
to the pressure of her other work
commitments and I would like to thank
Caroline for her contribution to WSP
during her period as a director.
The Future
We have a clearly defined strategy to
deliver growth, which is understood and
supported by our senior management
and staff, and I am pleased with the
visibility this provides.
We continue to be focused on our
operational activities, thereby providing
the infrastructure to support sustained
improved performance and provide a
reliable platform for future organic and
acquisitive growth.
The increasing breadth of the Group’s
activities throughout the world, and the
global projects on which we work is
impressive and promotes both our
reputation and brand to support our
goal of being a truly global consultant. I
expect our long term strategy of
diversification in the markets we know
to be maintained and to provide resilient
ongoing trading. In addition, our growing
long term order book will provide
support for our organic growth targets.
The markets in which we operate are
generally stable and in some cases
growing.The demand for our services is
strong as we increasingly cross-sell all
our services thus increasing our market
share across most sectors and skills. I
believe the market will support our
growth ambitions and we are well placed
to address changes as and when they
arise.
The niche acquisitions made during the
year have complemented our worldwide
activities and others will continue to be
progressed whilst we remain alert to
larger strategic regional opportunities to
diversify further the business.
Our directors and staff are focused on
managing the expected growth and
delivering improved performance,
supported by the latest technology and
well organised systems.We are
continually active in the need to
reinforce the business with quality
recruitment and the improved retention
of existing staff.
I consider the Group to be well placed
to build on this year’s excellent
performance. Our strategy is aligned to
delivering continued profitable growth,
improving profit margins and strong cash
flows supported by the quality of our
projects and the strength of our order
book.
I therefore look forward to the Group
continuing to deliver strong growth and
enhanced shareholder value in the
coming years.
David T urner 
Chairman
9 March 2006
WSP Annual Report 2005  3 4 WSP Annual Report 2005
Chief Executive’s Review
The future strategy of the Group is clear, ambitious and importantly, achievable.The strategy
does not promote radical change, but it does progress continued diversification which remains
one of the cornerstones of our growth.
I am pleased to report that all aspects
of our business have made excellent
progress in 2005. We have seen
increases in both revenue and profit,
coupled with an improvement to our
overall net profit margin. Careful cash
management has reduced our net debt
ahead of expectations.
Our order book has continued to
increase throughout the year and now
stands at £580m, a 15% improvement
compared to this time last year.
Furthermore, our secured work, on a
rolling 12 months basis, is at a record
level of 70% of targeted revenue, with
framework agreements and other long
term procurement arrangements
making up 40% of our order book.
Our unequalled range of
multidisciplinary skills continues to be
successfully cross-sold to our broad
client base, which in turn has ensured
an increase in our market share.
As we expected, over the course of
2005, the division of work has became
a little more private sector biased.
However there are regional
differences with Sweden remaining
evenly divided between the public and
private sectors. In the UK we are
seeing increasing activity in the private
sector and the busy market in the
USA remains predominantly private.
We have made progress in staff
retention and the recruitment of
quality staff and our worldwide
workforce has increased to more than
6,000 people, thus reinforcing our
prominent position in all our markets.
The Group structure, supported by
effective management and processes,
has ensured a resilient platform to
control our diverse operations.
We are focused on embedding the
culture that excellent client care and
service are paramount business
priorities, providing added value to our
clients and thus improving
performance.We continue to regard
this as the fundamental cornerstone of
our business. This culture, when
combined with our activities to
enhance our efficiency through
improved management and investment
in the latest technologies, has
continued to ensure a sustainable
improvement in all aspects of our
performance.
We have experienced stable and
generally robust markets in the
sectors and regions in which we work.
There has been particularly strong
demand in the USA, Southern Africa
and the Middle East, whilst the public
sectors of the UK and Scandinavia
remain buoyant. Many areas in the
private sector continued to be active
including urban regeneration, aviation
and residential, and we are seeing
improvements in the commercial and
financial markets in the UK and the
industry sector in Scandinavia. In line
with our expectations, the
Environmental business continues to
grow significantly on a global basis in
strong markets with a continual
demand for an increasing range of
expertise and technological solutions.
During 2005 we have made a number
of small acquisitions in the UK,
Scandinavia and in the Middle East. In
order to complement our already
strong position in the UK health and
education market, we acquired front-
end consultancies, IBS and Edunova, to
position us higher up the value supply
chain. In Dubai we acquired a
property design consultancy to
reinforce and extend our existing
small business in the region and since
this transaction was completed in April
we have doubled our local resource to
more than 150 people. In Sweden we
acquired Riskteknik, a risk
management business, and Transek, a
traffic management consultant.
Property
Our Property segment, which is
predominantly private sector focused,
has progressed well and represents
58% of our worldwide revenue and
56% of our operating profit, before the
results of associates and joint
ventures. Net profit margins in this
segment have increased from 5.1% to
5.7%. We now hold a prominent
market position in Property services
across all our principal regions of
operation.
In the UK, I believe WSP is the most
diversified consultant with a leading
position in the majority of sectors.
The stable markets and the improving
commercial activity have supported
our growth and this is demonstrated
by our pre-eminence in the high-rise
design market where we are actively
engaged on ten schemes representing
more than half of the current
opportunities in this country.
Our urban regeneration and retail
skills have ensured our appointment to
major new schemes in Dublin, Bury St
Edmonds and Glasgow. The residential
market remains strong both in terms
of large, high quality city centre
projects and the master planning of
extensive rural developments in cities
such as Swindon, Cambridge and
Exeter.The recovering commercial
sector has provided significant new
appointments from clients including
Land Securities, Hammerson and the
Royal Bank of Scotland.
Christopher Cole Chief Executive WSP Annual Report 2005  5
Our framework activities in the
aviation sector continue where we act
for BAA and British Airways at
Terminal 5, Heathrow. In addition, we
have been won substantial work at
Luton Airport and our existing
appointments on the new Stansted
terminal are progressing well. We
were also pleased to have supported
BAA in their successful management
bid for Budapest Airport.
In the health sector, notwithstanding
the current funding issues faced by the
Local Health Trusts, our existing
projects are unaffected and we
continue to work on new enquiries.
In addition, the Building Schools for
the Future programme is providing
new opportunities in education,
underpinned by our selection as
BECTA framework consultants in this
sector.
In Sweden, similar market dynamics
exist but added to this is our
participation in a strong industrial
sector, including steel, mining, paper
and pulp for clients including Stora
Enso, LKAB and ARLA. Low interest
rates have ensured continued activity
in the residential market where we are
a leading designer with attractive
“green” credentials. Whilst increased
activity in the commercial sector is
not yet evident, there is a new
optimism for imminent progress. The
Government’s strong and predictable
public sector expenditure
commitment underpins our ongoing
workload in health and education, with
service offerings complemented by
our UK experience.
In Finland, where we now employ
nearly 300 people, we completed the
design for the timber office
headquarters project for Finnforest,
the largest such structure in Europe,
which has received national
recognition and awards. To strengthen
our operation and accelerate
integration, we have recently
appointed a new managing director.
Multiconsult, our associated
Norwegian company, has delivered a
strong trading performance from their
diverse markets which notably include
the oil and gas sector. Small local
operations in Germany, Poland and
France have each contributed to
Europe’s significant contribution.
In the USA, where Property is our
principal area of activity, the
performance has been excellent. We
work on some of the world’s largest
and tallest schemes including the 15
million square foot mixed leisure
development in Las Vegas for MGM,
which has enabled us to open a local
office and we have just opened
another local office in Los Angeles.
The USA order book is currently at
record levels underpinned by projects
including the Freedom Tower,Walt
Disney Family Foundation Museum and
Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. Our
USA reputation and experience on
such major projects has contributed
to the winning of other large
international projects in Asia, the
Middle East and the UK.
South Africa has had another good
year with substantial growth in what
are considered strong local market
conditions influenced by more stable
interest and currency rates. Our work
in Africa is carefully developing into
new territories, including Nigeria,
Ghana,Tanzania and Mozambique, and
the future 2010 World Cup continues
to provide business confidence and
opportunities.
We are pleased that our small Asia
business under the direction of a new
managing director has shown
sustainable progress. We have
maintained our presence in Hong
Kong whilst increasing in China,
particularly Shanghai, in addition to
our smaller offices in Beijing and
Shenzhen. We have secured large
leisure projects in Macau and
commercial schemes in Shanghai. The
off-shoring facility in the Philippines
continues to service the Group as a
low-cost production centre. We still
consider the markets unchanged but
we have had some success in
penetrating specific sectors. Our
presence in the region has also aided
our offices in the UK and USA to win
high-value, front-end consultancy work
in the region.
The progress in the Middle East,
particularly Dubai, has been very
satisfying following the local acquisition
of PHB in April 2005. Following the
merging of our local business, the re-
branding as WSP and securing larger
premises, growth and financial
performance have been significant. We
are working on landmark projects
including the City of Arabia with a $1
billion construction value, Dubai
Festival City, Dubai International
Financial Centre and the Mall of the
Emirates, currently the largest
shopping mall outside North America,
which opened recently. As activity 
New Providence Wharf, London
WSP is delivering multi-disciplinary services to this
development that includes 1050 homes and an hotel. increases in other Gulf regions,
notably Qatar and Abu Dhabi, we are
looking to open new offices in these
locations to further build upon the
work other offices have already won
in the area.
We have recently opened an office in
Delhi to explore the opportunities for
the Group in India and provide an off-
shoring production facility for the
Middle East, which will also act as a
back-up for our existing facilities in
the Philippines.
Transport and Infrastructure
Our Transport and Infrastructure
segment, which focuses principally on
the public sector road and rail markets
in the UK, Scandinavia and South
Africa represents 29% of our
worldwide revenue and operating
profit, before the results of associates
and joint ventures. Net profit margins
in this segment, including joint
ventures, have increased from 5.7% to
5.9%. During 2005 we have also
secured transport projects in other
regions including China, Estonia, Serbia
and Romania.
The principal market in the UK
remained unchanged with our
emphasis being on the roads sector.
We were recently appointed to two
significant projects by the UK
Highways Agency, our largest UK
client, which complements our existing
framework agreements. We are
penetrating the Local Authority
market with further wins from Essex
County Council, the London Borough
of Barnet, Dublin Council and
extensions to our major appointments
with Transport for London and
Westminster City Council. I am
pleased to announce the appointment
of a new UK Managing Director
whose brief is to progress our growth
and financial performance in this
sector.
Our joint venture with Carillion for
Yorkshire,Area 12, has performed
excellently throughout the year and
provides encouragement for future
such ventures. The reassessed CAT
(Capability Assessment) score
continued to secure our position as
technically in the top three consultants
operating in the UK. The successful
early completion of the M25 widening
and Terminal 5 Heathrow access has
been positively acclaimed.
Although the Group carries out only
limited rail line work in the UK, we
have seen opportunities arising from
Network Rail’s realisation of their
substantial station assets. In particular,
we were very pleased to be appointed
as lead consultants to the £350m
redevelopment of New Street Station,
Birmingham which complements our
existing extensive activity in the city.
In Sweden we remain the most
prominent consultant in both the road
and rail sectors.The National Rail and
the Road Administration of Sweden
are the Group’s largest clients and we
have continued to win major awards in
all regions, including the Western Link
in Gothenburg and the Botnia line in
the north. Our work on the Southern
Link road tunnel under Stockholm
received a national award. The recent
acquisition of Transek AB in 2005 and
the earlier acquisition of Inregia
presents a high-value transportation
service to the market.
In Finland, where our business has an
international reputation in bridge
design we have completed the Binh
Bridge in Vietnam and we are also
working on projects in Africa and India
as well as securing new projects in
South America. In South Africa, we are
the principal consultant to the N3
motorway between Durban and
Johannesburg, a project that has
generated substantial revenue.
Elsewhere, Aid Agency work has
resulted in projects in the West Indies,
T urkey, Bangladesh,Vietnam, Ukraine
and we have established a significant
presence in Libya to support a major
infrastructure project in Tripoli, which
will continue for some years.
Environmental 
Our Environmental segment, has again
delivered strong organic growth with
revenue growing by 25%, representing
13% of our worldwide revenue and
15% of our operating profit, before the
results of associates and joint
ventures. Net profit margins in this
segment have also increased from
7.0% to 7.3%.
Having grown consistently from a zero
base 10 years ago, we now have
established operations in the UK,
Scandinavia and South Africa with
newer businesses in the USA and the
Middle East.To continue our global
strategy and provide our clients with
increased coverage we have opened
offices in China, Italy, Romania, France
and we are currently reviewing a
future presence in Australia.
Our order book continues to
incorporate global framework
agreements with new clients such as
Chief Executive’s Review – continued
6 WSP Annual Report 2005
Binh Bridge,Vietnam
WSP’s team of bridge specialists prepared the feasibility study and detailed design for the 1,347m bridge at
Haiphong which was opened in May 2005. Seagate, Cisco Systems, and Deutsche
Bank which demonstrates our position
as one of the few global environmental
consultants.
The UK market continues to present
diverse opportunities which last year
included acting for Abbey National on
the UK’s largest property transaction
with ING, the design of the first
carbon neutral airport terminal at
Stansted and environmental planning
for the redevelopment of the
Birmingham Gateway.
We delivered a much improved
performance in Sweden, where we are
moving away from the delivery of
commodity services, and focusing on
innovative environmental and energy
technology, creating a knowledge base
which we transfer to our clients
worldwide.
We are witnessing growth in the areas
of sustainable master planning,
corporate outsourcing of
environmental and social responsibility
reporting, carbon trading and risk
liability transfer, and we are using these
skills to support our entry into new
territories.With regard to energy, we
will shortly be launching WSP Energy,
utilising existing resources and
supplemented, where appropriate, with
new recruitment to provide the global
market with expert management and
design services across a wide range of
energy issues. In addition, to address
the opportunities in waste
management, we have formed 
WSP Waste.
Staff
Firstly, my sincere thanks to all our
directors and staff for their hard work,
commitment and motivation in
delivering an excellent set of results.
During the year we have engaged wide
audiences from within the Group at
conferences, workshops and
presentations to convey to them our
progress, future strategy and thanks. I
am pleased with the confident and
positive demeanour seen throughout
our business regarding our
performance and prospects.
With growth this year of nearly 15%,
recruitment and retention of staff has
been a priority. Our management and
human resource support continually
strive to achieve our objective of being
the preferred employer in all our
sectors.With the exception of Asia,
where we have restructured, we have
improved our overall retention rate
and have different targets set for our
various operations and staff grades
going forward.The Group overall
target is to achieve a voluntary staff
turnover worldwide of 12% and we
achieved 14% in 2005.
Strategy and Outlook
The future strategy of the Group is
clear, ambitious and importantly,
achievable.The strategy does not
promote radical change, but it does
progress continued diversification
which remains one of the
cornerstones of our growth.We
continue to identify new sectors, skills
and regions in which to develop the
Group, while ensuring we maintain a
thorough understanding of the
markets in which we work.We remain
convinced that well researched
diversification ensures resilient growth
and smoothes operational
performance through inevitable
market and economic cycles.
We expect to deliver profitable
growth with increased margins
through organic and niche acquisitions.
In 2005, we more than achieved the
first step of our five year strategy plan
with our goal, over that time, to
increase our revenues by more than
50% and deliver net profit margins of
above 7%, excluding any significant
acquisitions that may arise.
Our commitment to improve
continually the efficiency of our
operations and the embedded culture
of client care and client relationships,
will ensure we continue to improve
our overall performance.As we grow
we are mindful of the need to ensure
a mature management and technology
infrastructure, and we are
implementing the appropriate changes
in a timely manner.
We expect all areas of the Group to
grow in the coming years and
particularly the attractive
environmental, energy, and waste
sectors together with potential PFI
opportunities in Europe.We will
continue to enter and develop new
regions and make further progress in
the Middle East, India and 
Eastern Europe.
We believe our environmental
business will continue to deliver
strong global growth underpinned by
the increasingly growing and diversified
global market, the recognition of our
brand and resource, major company
trends to outsource all aspects of the
environmental and CSR agenda, and
importantly the maturing ability and
motivation of our management and
workforce to manage growth.
We will continue to build upon our
UK success in cross selling our unique
and diverse range of services to our
clients, whilst ensuring the promotion
of a single source consultancy
worldwide. Our focus on developing a
global business and securing an
increased global client base is
supported by our business
development commitment and related
strategic investment.
With our markets expected to remain
stable and generally strong, together
with the continued growth of the UK
commercial sector and recovery of
this business area in Europe, we
remain very confident that our long
term order book will continue to
grow with high quality project wins. In
the UK we are experiencing early
opportunities directly relating to the
2012 Olympic Games, where clients
are already addressing the
enhancement of their strategically
located property portfolios.
I am very pleased with our progress
and performance in 2005. I believe we
are well positioned, financially and
operationally, to responsibly achieve
ongoing strong growth.
I am therefore confident, and know
this view is shared by my management
and staff, that we will continue our
growth in 2006 and beyond.
Chris Cole
Chief Executive
9 March 2006
WSP Annual Report 2005  7 Group Finance Director’s Review
Revenue and adjusted profit before
interest and tax have grown significantly
in 2005 and we are also able to report
strong cash flows resulting in a
substantial reduction in net debt.
These are the first annual financial
statements prepared under
International Financial Reporting
Standards (‘IFRS’).As a result, where
appropriate, comparative figures for
2004 have been restated and
reconciliations of the differing
treatment between IFRS and UK GAAP
are contained on pages 76 to 81.
Set out in Table 3 are the adjustments
made to the statutory financial
information relating to the taxation of
joint ventures and associated
undertakings and a pension credit in
2004 which the directors believe assist
with understanding the underlying
performance of the Group.
Revenue and Profit for the year
Revenue plus the share of our joint
venture and associated undertakings'
revenue, has increased by 16% to
£373.9m (2004: £322.3m), of which
£156.4m (42%) arose in the UK,
£146.9m (39%) in Europe and the
balance of £70.6m (19%) from our
other overseas businesses.
Adjusted profit before interest and tax
amounted to a very satisfactory
£22.6m (2004: £17.6m) producing a net
profit margin of 6.1% (2004: 5.4%), and
adjusted profit before tax has increased
to £20.2m, compared to £14.8m in
2004, which represents an increase 
of 37%.
These results include the relatively
small contribution from a number of
acquisitions made during the year
which contributed £5.0m to revenue
and £0.5m to operating profit.The
initial cost of these acquisitions was
£4.5m, which was paid wholly in cash
and there remains potential deferred
consideration of an estimated
maximum of £3.9m dependent on
future financial performance.At the end
of the year, the total outstanding
deferred consideration on all past
acquisitions amounted to £5.4m.
A summary of the results for the year,
and the segmental analysis, are set out
in Tables 1 and 2 respectively.
Joint V enture and Associated
Undertakings
WSP has a 24.7% equity interest in
Multiconsult, one of the top design
consultants in Norway, which has had a
very good year with record revenue
and profits.The Group's share of
revenue was £13.1m (2004: £9.9m) and
our share of profit before tax was
£1.2m (2004: £0.7m).
In the UK, our joint venture with
Carillion plc for the Y orkshire
motorway and trunk road network
management contract, has produced
significantly improved results. Our share
of joint venture revenue was £11.8m
(2004: £9.6m) and profit before tax was
£0.6m (2004: £0.1m).
Profit Margins
We are pleased to have seen a steady
improvement in overall net profit
margins over the year from 5.4% to
6.1%, slightly ahead of our expectations.
These margins have been calculated
from adjusted profits before interest
and tax. WSP reports its net profit
margins based on reported revenue
plus our share of joint ventures and
associated undertakings revenue.
Revenue is stated inclusive of amounts
charged in respect of sub contractor
costs incurred which amounted to
£26.5m.
In the Property segment we have seen
a satisfying increase from 5.1% to 5.7%
reflecting our ability to leverage our
operational gearing as the market
improves. The profit margin in the
public segment of Transport &
Infrastructure has been more static
increasing slightly from 5.7% to 5.9%.
As anticipated, our Environmental profit
margins have increased once again and
have now reached 7.3% as against 6.9%
in 2004.
Malcolm Paul Group Finance Director
Table 1: 2005 Results
2005 2004
Increase £’000 £’000
Revenue plus share of joint venture and associated undertakings revenue 16% 373,931 322,313
Less: share of joint venture and associated undertakings revenue (24,857) (19,468)
Revenue 349,074 302,845
Adjusted profit before interest and taxation 29% 22,636 17,596
Net interest payable (2,428) (2,796)
Adjusted profit before taxation 37% 20,208 14,800
Taxation (6,215) (5,011)
Adjusted Profit for the financial period 13,993 9,789
Our balanced approach to deliver excellent client service together with a strong commercial
focus will remain our central financial strategy for the year ahead.
8 WSP Annual Report 2005 WSP Annual Report 2005  9
Goodwill
Under IFRS, goodwill is no longer
amortised however it is subject to an
annual impairment test. As a result,
amortisation of goodwill of £5.4m
charged in 2004 under UK GAAP has
been reversed as shown in note 30.
Set out in note 9 is the outcome of the
impairment tests and the assumptions
on which these were based.The
directors are satisfied that there has
been no impairment to the carrying
value of goodwill during 2005.
Bank interest
Positive trading cash flows have again
reduced our net debt position and also
the net charge for interest for the year
which amounted to £2.4m (2004:
£2.8m). Interest is covered more than 9
times by profit before interest and tax.
T axation
The tax charge for the year amounted
to £5.8m (2004: £4.7m before a charge
of £2.1m related to the pension credit).
This represents an effective corporate
tax rate on profit before tax of 29.4%
(2004: 31.9%) reflecting profits arising in
the Middle East on which no local taxes
are payable, and the benefits of tax
relief on such items as research and
development expenditure in the UK.
Full details of how the tax charge is
calculated may be found in note 6 to
the financial statements.
Earnings per share
Adjusted basic and adjusted fully diluted
earnings per share have increased
significantly to 22.8p and 21.8p
respectively when compared to the
comparable figures of 15.9p and 15.4p
in 2004, as adjusted for the pension
credit.The 2004 comparatives including
the pension credit were 24.1p and
23.2p respectively.
Dividends
We intend to continue with our
established dividend policy that reflects
the growth in earnings whilst
recognising the cash flow demands of
the business. In October, the Company
paid an increased interim dividend of
2.4p (2004: 2.1p) and with the excellent
financial performance of the Group
during 2005 and having regard to the
improvement in net debt the directors 
believe that it is appropriate to
substantially increase the proposed final
dividend to 4.0p (2004: 3.2p) giving a
full year dividend of 6.4p (2004: 5.3p)
representing an increase for the year of
21%.The final dividend will be payable
in May 2006.
The proposed total dividend for the
year of 6.4p is covered 3.6 times by the
profit for the financial year.
Cash flow
We continue to generate significant
positive cash flows from our trading
activities of £31.9m (2004: £24.0m), and
whilst revenue has increased we have
effectively managed our working capital
requirement.
Expenditure has been carefully
controlled during the year and at the
end of the year net debt amounted to
£32.2m (2003: £45.0m).
The principal cash flow movements
during the year are set out in T able 4.
Table 3: Reconciliation of statutory to adjusted results
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Revenue 349,074 302,845
Share of joint ventures and associated undertakings 24,857 19,468
T otal 373,931 322,313
Operating profit 20,818 23,769
Add back pension credit - (7,018)
Adjusted operating profit 20,818 16,751
Profit before interest and taxation 22,250 24,379
Add back share of joint ventures and associated undertakings taxation 386 235
Add back pension credit - (7,018)
Adjusted profit before interest and taxation 22,636 17,596
Profit before taxation 19,822 21,583
Add back share of joint ventures and associated undertakings taxation 386 235
Add back pension credit - (7,018)
Adjusted profit before taxation 20,208 14,800
Profit attributable to equity shareholders 13,718 14,507
Add back pension credit, net of taxation at 30% - (4,913)
Adjusted profit attributable to equity shareholders 13,718 9,594
Table 2: Revenue and Operating Profit before amortisation of goodwill
Transport & Joint ventures
Property Infrastructure Environmental & Associates Total
2005 Revenue plus share 
of joint ventures and associated 
undertakings revenue £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
United Kingdom 84,169 31,527 28,879 11,788 156,363
Mainland Europe 63,440 56,986 13,461 13,069 146,956
USA 34,433 - 875 - 35,308
Africa & Middle East 15,920 5,366 1,100 - 22,386
Asia 4,969 6,493 - - 11,462
Other - 1,443 13 - 1,456
202,931 101,815 44,328 24,857 373,931
2005 Adjusted profit before taxation
United Kingdom 4,748 1,631 2,378 572 9,329
Mainland Europe 3,031 3,453 723 1,246 8,453
USA 2,383 - 91 - 2,474
Africa & Middle East 1,453 456 49 - 1,958
Asia (27) 372 1 - 346
Other - 97 (21) - 76
11,588 6,009 3,221 1,818 22,636
2005 Operating margins 5.7% 5.9% 7.3% 7.3% 6.1%
2004 Operating margins 5.1% 5.7% 6.9% 4.5% 5.4%  Group Finance Director’s Review – continued
IFRS and Accounting Policies
Set out on page 74 of the financial
statements are detailed notes on the first
time adoption of IFRS and on pages 46
to 48 the accounting policies that have
been used in these financial statements.
Pensions
The majority of the Group's worldwide
employees are in defined contribution
schemes however in the UK there are a
number of defined benefit schemes taken
over by the Group following acquisitions,
all of which are closed to new members,
and in Sweden a proportion of the multi-
employer Government scheme is treated
as a defined benefit scheme.
Liabilities of £31.0m relating to the defined
benefit pension schemes, including the
Swedish PRI scheme, have been recognised
in full. On the advice of actuaries, pension
contributions in the UK have been
increased, and at £1.9m significantly
exceed the amount charged in the income
statement. In accordance with IAS 19, the
charge to the income statement which
included £1.6m in respect of the Swedish
PRI scheme totalled £2.3m, being the
accumulation of current service costs,
returns on plan assets and interest costs.
In 2004, there was a one off pension credit
of £7.0m as a consequence of UK
pensionable salaries being frozen following
consultation with staff.
Current service costs of £1.8m reflect the
increase in the pension obligation that
results from employee service in the year.
The return on plan assets and interest costs
are based on actuarial assumptions about
the expected financial performance of the
funds.These are used to assess the £2.6m
return on fund investments, together with
interest charges of £3.0m associated with
calculating the present value of defined
benefit pension obligations that are
expected to arise in the year.
Actuarial losses of £10.6m which are
recognised in the Statement of Recognised
Income and Expense comprise actuarial
accounting adjustments for two separate
components. Experience gains of £0.2m are
the differences between previous actuarial
assumptions and what has actually occurred.
The second component takes account of
the impact of changes to actuarial
assumptions which amount to a £10.8m
increase in forecast pension scheme
obligations.
Financial instruments and 
Foreign Exchange
Our policy is to manage centrally the
Group's liquidity, funding and exposure to
foreign currency risk in a manner which
ensures straightforward administration,
the minimisation of risk and operational
flexibility.
Other than derivatives, the financial
instruments used by the Group comprise
internal cash resources, borrowings, and
receivables and payables arising from
normal trading activities. Committed
banking facilities are negotiated to
provide working capital and acquisition
finance to meet the current and future
requirements of the Group.
Most of our trading activity is
denominated in the currencies relevant to
the local subsidiary,thus matching the
currency with its cost base.Where
contracts are awarded in non-local
currency the Group looks to mitigate the
foreign exchange risk having regard to all
the relevant circumstances.We do not
hedge our exposure to exchange
differences on day-to-day trading.
The acquisitions in the USA and Sweden
in 2000 and 2001 respectively created
significant investments in these
territories and thus an exposure to
currency fluctuations in the value of
these assets.We partially mitigate the
effect of currency fluctuations on these
investments using the natural hedge
created by US Dollar and Swedish
Kronor loans.
We have not considered it necessary to
hedge our investments in other overseas
subsidiaries but the matter is kept 
under review.
In addition to these foreign exchange
exposures the Group, by virtue of its
borrowings in US Dollars and Swedish
Kronor, is subject to non-sterling interest
rate risk.We continually review our
exposure to floating interest rates and
assess the cost versus the benefit of
alternative instruments available to
minimise interest rate risks, however at
the present time our exposure to US
Dollar and Swedish Kronor interest
rates remains unhedged.
A summary of the Group's borrowings,
financial risks and use of derivatives is set
out in note 26 to the financial statements
on page 70.
The Future
The financial performance of WSP
during 2005 is a reflection of the action
taken over the past three years to
restructure the business, to control
costs and maximise cash flows.
We continue to place cash management
at the forefront of our financial strategy
and we are focused on minimising the
Group's working capital requirement.
We intend to continue with niche
acquisitions where they supplement our
existing businesses either by improving
our skills or widening our geographic
base and we are likely to finance such
acquisitions using the cash we generate
from our trading activities.
Our balanced approach to deliver
excellent client service, together with a
strong commercial focus, will remain
our central financial strategy for the
year ahead.
Malcolm Paul
Group Finance Director
9 March 2006
Table 4: Cash Flow
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Operating Cash Flow 31,873 24,021 
Closure of currency swap - (6,827)
Bank and finance lease interest (2,428) (2,801)
Tax (5,490) (4,679)
Dividends (3,386) (3,082)
Capital expenditure (net) (7,259) (5,117)
Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries and joint ventures (3,516) (2,139)
Currency and other movements 2,988 198
12,782 (426)
Net Debt at 1 January 2005 (44,996) (44,570)
Net Debt at 31 December 2005 (32,214) (44,996)
M25 Junctions 12-15 widening and
Heathrow Spur, UK
Involving some 19km of motorway and link roads, this
is the busiest section of motorway in Europe, carrying
over 200,000 vehicles a day, and was delivered on
programme with minimal disruption to road users.
WSP Annual Report 2005  11 Operational Review
12 WSP Annual Report 2005
Organisational structure
The WSP Group operates through
autonomous regional businesses
reporting to Executive Committees
with central support in the key areas
of communication, information
technology, human resources and risk
management.
The matrix of the Group structure
facilitates close relationships between
our clients and staff backed by the
knowledge and expertise of 6,000 staff
operating from more than 100 offices
worldwide. Increasingly, projects are
being won in one territory with the
help and support from another and
this is giving true added value to our
diverse client base.
Where services sit comfortably across
borders, such as is the case with
environmental and major international
projects, our structure aims to break
down geographic boundaries and
encourages cross-company working, in
order to maximise our use of the skill
and resource available from
throughout the Group.
The skill transfer between our offices
enables the Group to offer solutions
to clients at the leading edge of
technology and innovation, and where
possible we encourage multinational
teams to support some of the most
prestigious projects in the world. Our
broad spread of regional offices means
we also understand and can react to
the requirements of the local market.
The breadth of services we offer
enables our clients to use a single
source supplier for their design needs
with the obvious economic benefits
that brings.We are able to provide our
clients with unparalleled expertise in
the three principal fields of Property,
Transport & Infrastructure and the
Environment.
WSP is one of a very small number of
companies in the world able to offer
fully integrated multi-disciplined
services.
Regional coverage
Our largest resource is focused in the
UK and Scandinavia where we employ
more than 4,500 people who deliver
approximately 80% of the Group's
revenue from multi-disciplinary
services in all sectors.
In the United States of America our
principal market is in Property, and we
have a significant presence on both the
East and West coasts.
In Africa we provide a full multi-
disciplined service in the Property,
Transportation and Environmental
sectors.We also provide facilities
management services, a relatively new
concept in the region. Following an
acquisition during 2005, our business in
the Middle East has benefited from
significant organic growth, as we have
leveraged skills and client relationships
through cross-selling.
Our principal offices in Hong Kong
and Shanghai provide a hub for
delivering a broad-based service to the
rest of Asia.
Our International Development
business which has two principal
offices, in the UK and Sweden, largely
works on aid-funded projects in
developing countries around the world. WSP Annual Report 2005  13
United Kingdom
WSP UK 2005 2004
Revenue £116m £106m
Staff 1,928 1,731
Our confidence at the beginning of
2005 was well placed. Markets have
remained good across all the sectors
in which we are active, and we have
ensured that the key indicators
reflecting the health of our business
have improved yet again.
The strategy and business plans put in
place during 2005 should result in
steady growth over the next four
years.
Property
The Royal Bank of Scotland's new
World Headquarters building at
Gogarburn, Edinburgh was opened by
the Queen this year to considerable
public and industry acclaim.The
project is a world class benchmark and
was delivered on budget and ahead of
programme thanks to a collaborative
team approach by all involved. This
success has lead to further RBS
commissions for their city centre
rationalisation projects in Glasgow,
Edinburgh and London, as well as the
NatWest branch refurbishment
programme.
Early in the year we secured the lead
consultant appointment for the
redevelopment of Birmingham New
Street Station for Network Rail as
part of our multidisciplinary
framework. The project, known as
Birmingham Gateway, is one of the
UK's largest transport and
regeneration projects with WSP
leading the design team which includes
one of the UK's leading signature
architects, John McAslan + Partners, in
developing an outline design that is
both affordable and deliverable.
Through the year we reinforced our
leading position in the healthcare
market with a number of major
project successes including the £200m
Broadmoor Hospital redevelopment
through the Procure 21 procurement
process and various PFI schemes at
Ipswich and Walsall.We have also
acquired Integrated Building Services
Design which provides front end
added value services to the Local
Healthcare T rusts.
We further enhanced our retail
reputation with major shopping centre
successes including the Dundrum
project in Dublin, the Martineau
Galleries in Birmingham, the Trinity
Quarter development in Leeds with
Land Securities, and The Shires in
Leicester with Sir Robert McAlpine.
We continue to develop close
relationships and framework
arrangements with many of the leading
retailers including Marks & Spencer
and Primark.
A key area for future growth is the
education sector and we have had
major schools success with Midlothian
Schools PFI, North Lanarkshire PFI and
South Lanarkshire PFI, as well as being
invited to join leading contractors'
supply chains bidding for Building
Schools for the Future projects.The
  Principal Offices
  Regional Offices  Operational Review – continued
acquisition of Edunova will also
support our focus on this important
business area.
Over the year we increased the
volume of international work
undertaken out of the UK with
projects in Russia, Romania, the Middle
East, France, Ireland and India where
we focused on the higher value front-
end and value-added concept design
services that international clients and
architects are seeking.
We have secured the planning,
transport, infrastructure and building
design appointment for the next phase
of Luton Airport's development with a
potential capital spend of £250m.This
success capped an excellent year for
our aviation team as we now have
projects at Heathrow, Stansted,
Manchester, Birmingham and Luton, as
well as international airports in
Budapest, Khartoum and Abu Dhabi.
Our involvement at Heathrow
Terminal 5 was supplemented by the
multidisciplinary engineering
appointment by British Airways for
their new lounges and ancillary
buildings.
Prospects for commercial office work
are healthy, particularly in London
where rentals are forecast to grow
over the next four to five years, and
we have secured over 1m sq ft of new
office projects for blue chip clients
including Hammerson, Land Securities
and Canary Wharf.
The outlook is healthy with private
sector workload generating increasing
opportunities particularly in the retail,
office and data centre markets. In the
private sector, education will take over
from healthcare as the main
beneficiary of PFI and PPP funding, and
the investments we have made in this
sector over the last two years mean
that we are well positioned for 
this shift.
The London economy is predicted to
grow at 2.7% per annum between
2005 and 2009, supported by major
infrastructure projects including
Crossrail, Heathrow Terminal 5 and
the Thames Gateway including the
Olympics and we are well placed to
benefit from this growth.
Our strong client care culture has
generated many international
opportunities with global players such
as IBM in Sweden, Morgan Stanley in
Dubai, Standard Chartered Bank in
China and Dubai, Heron in Sweden
and Carillion in the United Arab
Emirates. With our strong
international network and the
proactive role played by the UK in
exploiting these linkages, we are
confident that we are well positioned
to exploit growth in global sectors and
clients. To underpin future growth we
have developed a strategic major bid
team that includes a UK Director
dedicated to our bidding strategy, with
a remit that encompasses not just the
bid process but also evaluation of the
risk-reward dynamic.
In our drive for higher value, front-end
work that complements our core
business, we have established a new
management consultancy business.This
business has grown to around 70
people in four months, delivering high-
level advice in the Education and
Health sectors. Other clients include
the Football Association, where we 
are working for the lenders on
Wembley Stadium.
We aim to further expand the use of
our low cost production facility in
Manila to reduce our cost base and
improve competitiveness.
Transport & Infrastructure
Our Area 12 motorway maintenance
project in Yorkshire continued
successfully through 2005 and we will
be seeking further opportunities of
this nature over the next two years.
The latest widening of the M25
adjacent to Heathrow was opened by
Transport Secretary,Alistair Darling, in
December 2005 and we look forward
to playing a major role in the next
generation of schemes on the M25.
We also completed the prestigious
Eastern Region Control Centre for
the Highways Agency. Our work with
Transport for London continues to
move forward with the award of the
London-wide engineering and project
management framework for the next
four years.
Our successful partnership with Ryan
Hanley in Ireland continues unabated
with appointments that include the N5
Charlestown bypass, the N6 Kilbeggan
to Athlone, and the N11 Enniscorthy
bypass. In Northern Ireland we have
been appointed to the Westlink DBFO
Package 1.
We have seen our street lighting team
grow substantially in 2005, with our
latest appointment as PFI adviser to
Leeds City Council. Our utility
business has been awarded two
frameworks with National Grid
Wireless.
There will be significant continuing
opportunities in our existing core
markets of national and local highways
and communications infrastructure in
the UK and Ireland. We expect the
trend towards fewer large providers
to continue, particularly in the
highways market, and we are
developing strategic alliances to
maintain our pre-eminent position in
this market. We also see
opportunities to further extend our
penetration of the UK and Irish
markets and, for example, are actively
targeting the Scottish highways market
together with local highways markets.
Whilst operating predominantly in the
UK and Ireland, our Civils business will
be proactive in using its extensive
skills and experience to support the
Group's activities in the international
market, particularly in Sweden,
Romania and the Middle East.
London Bridge T ower
WSP Cantor Seinuk is structural engineer for the
310m ‘Shard of Glass’ which will be Europe’s 
tallest building.
WSP Annual Report 2005  15  Operational Review – continued
Europe
WSP Europe 2005 2004
Revenue £120m £111m
Staff 2,043 1,893
Sweden – Property
The property sector in Sweden has
had a successful year, with increased
revenue, and effective staff utilisation.
Economic conditions have been good,
with strong demand and low interest
rates stimulating investment.
The industrial sector has seen high
levels of investment, with major
projects that have included two large
pulp and paper mill extension projects
for Stora Enso, and projects for the
LKAB mining company in Kiruna and
Malmberget aimed at increasing the
production capacity in their dressing
and pellets plants. New projects have
also been commenced for the
steelworks in Oxelösund, where WSP
is the lead engineering consultant, and
we have provided road planning,
training and environmental services to
a new dairy plant in Vimmerby for
ARLA.
Our building service division is now
well established, with a platform in all
regions and improved margins now
comparable to our peer group.
During the year, niche acquisitions
have included Jet VVS, adding improved
coverage of the building services
market in northern Sweden, and
Device Design which has introduced
specialist automotive experience and
skills to Gothenburg.
WSP has been appointed to three of
the five teams that are competing for
the master design of a significant new
hospital in Stockholm. In one of the
teams, we are co-operating with UK
architects Ancher and Dyer.The
competition will come to an end late
this spring.
Our Fire business is now the leader in
its field, and during the year our
coverage in the area of risk
management has further extended to
include designing for more general
risks through the acquisition of market
leader, Riskteknik AB.The
complementary parts of this business
are integrating very well across a
broad client base.
The residential market has recovered
well, aided by low interest rates and
high demand for new dwellings,
particularly in Stockholm.A number of
new residential areas have been
designated, opening up new
opportunities for our architecture
team.Their position has improved
following the launch of 'a room with a
view', a concept for energy-efficient,
high-rise residential buildings. Our
team has also been awarded The Glass
Prize 2006 for their contribution to
Solna Business Park.
While the commercial market has
remained relatively static, general
improvements in the economy are
expected to prompt additional
demand in this sector.
Sweden – Transport &
Infrastructure
The market for Transport &
Infrastructure continues to be good and
we continue to strengthen our position
as the clear market leader in this sector,
working for both the Swedish National
Rail Administration and the Swedish
National Road Administration.
Our diversified position as market
leader in all our regions places us in a
strong position in the event of a shift in
the market.We are also well placed to
develop into the newly opened up
markets in Eastern Europe, which will
require expertise in rail and road
planning and design.
Major rail projects, which include the
Western Link in Gothenburg and the
Botnia Line in the north, are progressing
well.We have also been appointed for
the conceptual design to extend the
Svealand Line between Stockholm and
Arboga, intended to improve the line
capacity, as well as the Ådal Line
between Bollstabruk and Nyland, for
renewal of a section of the railway in
central Sweden.
Major road projects include the
Northern Link, a new highway in
Stockholm that aims to relieve local
traffic pressure in Stockholm, the E6
highway between Lugnet and Vik on the
west coast, and a large design project
for Road 55 in central Sweden.
The acquisition of Transek AB followed
the acquisition of Inregia in 2004 and
introduces to the Group a specialist
team of analysts in the transport sector,
with clients that include the Swedish
National Rail and Road Administrations.
The combined Inregia and Transek team
moves WSP radically up the value chain
and is now well positioned to develop
further in the wider European market.
Most recently, they have had a significant
involvement in the project to introduce
congestion charging to central
Stockholm later in 2006.A connected
acquisition in the area of Distribution
and Logistics has also introduced new
knowledge and skills in route-mapping
and planning for the distribution sector.
WSP Sweden International AB won a
significant project in Libya, over a five-
year project for the urban development
of, and water supply to, the western
part of Libya that includes the Tripoli
region.
Finland
WSP now has a strong presence in the
country, with nearly 300 staff working
accross multi-disciplined services.
Operating through WSP
ConsultingKortes and WSP LT
Consultants, significant projects
included the completion of Finnforest's
wooden modular office, the biggest
wooden commercial office building in
Europe, the Binh Bridge in Haiphong,
Vietnam, which was opened in May,
and the Chenab Bridge in India which
will be the longest single arch steel
railway bridge ever built.Within
Finland, our Transport & Infrastructure
team has completed some large
assignments during the year that have
included the road plan of the
Lappeenranta - Imatra motorway
section of Highway 6, and construction
design of the Lohjanharju-Lohja
section on motorway number 1.
We have also secured long-term
partnership agreements with major
cities including Helsinki, Espoo and
Oulu, and been awarded many new
projects including  the Salmisaari
district of Helsinki municipal planning
assignment and  a number of medium-
sized road-planning assignments for
the Roads Authority.
The Northern Link, Sweden
WSP is responsible for the design of the ancillary
systems such as ventilation, fire safety and traffic
management for the 13km of mainly tunnelled roads,
that will form this important link.
WSP Annual Report 2005  17  Operational Review – continued
Poland
In Poland we have had another good
year, working in the commercial,
residential, aviation and leisure sectors.
Our clients, although predominately
private investors, include local
municipalities and other public sector
clients, with projects including the
opera house in Bialystok and an
airport terminal in Modlin.
Germany
With a presence in Salzgitter, Berlin
and Moenchengladbach, and most
recently Hanover,WSP Consult serves
its biggest client Defence Estates,
which represents 75% of our revenue
in Germany. During the year we have
diversified the business, with increased
revenue and profits coming from the
commercial and retail sectors.
Norway
Our associate company, Multiconsult,
has enjoyed high levels of activity in all
areas of the business.With capabilities
in property, industry, oil and gas,
transport & infrastructure,
environmental, energy and natural
resources, revenues and profit have
been very satisfactory. Oil and gas has
enjoyed a high level of activity that
includes an appointment on the
Ormen Lange oil and gas plant,
believed to be the biggest industrial
project in Europe.There has also been
substantial activity in the energy
sector, particularly exporting expertise
in hydro power plants. International
revenues now account for some 15%
of Multiconsult's total revenue.
United States of America
WSP USA 2005 2004
Revenue £34m £25m
Staff 405 354
Flack + Kurtz
Market conditions in the USA in 2005
showed significant improvement over
2004. Continued strength in the
housing market, particularly high-end
condominium and hotel high-rise
projects, added significantly to our
order book. In addition to further
gains made in the research laboratory
market sector, our New York office
benefited from starting work on a
major mixed-use project for MGM
Mirage in Las Vegas. Our San Francisco
office later succeeded in securing an
extension of the same project. In
Seattle, our presence is increasing as
the office continues to grow.We are
starting to see a pick-up in the
commercial market sector, with build-
to-suit and speculative office building
projects being proposed. Revenue
from Asian based projects has
increased, with limited engagement
design contracts executed in both the
San Francisco and New York offices.
New project wins in 2005 bolstered
our order book to an all-time high,
with high volume expected to persist
throughout 2006.Among the larger
commissions secured are the Metro
Center II located in Connecticut; the
UC Berkeley Cal Memorial Stadium;
Anaheim Hotel and Condominiums;
the Walt Disney Family Foundation
Museum and Library at the Presidio,
Plaza Hotel renovation; the State
Library and Courts Renovation in
Sacramento; the Jacob K. Javits
Convention Center expansion and
renovation and various embassies
around the world.
Due to our high volume of work in
Las Vegas, we have opened an office
there and are starting to relocate staff
to develop and grow the office. In
addition to the CityCenter project in
Las Vegas, we are working on the Hard
Rock Hotel and Casino expansion, a
new corporate office building for
Molasky Development, and several
residential/hotel high-rise projects.
WSP Cantor Seinuk
The improvement in market
conditions seen during 2004 continued
throughout 2005, resulting in WSP
Cantor Seinuk achieving record
revenues.The residential market
provided a significant amount of the
increase, remaining buoyant despite
further interest rate rises.There are
no signs of a slowdown at present, and
this is reflected in our order book
which doubled during the year to an
all-time high.
The order book has also been
bolstered by work beyond the
residential sector - during the year we
were appointed to the Shea Stadium
for the New York Mets baseball team,
the renovation of the Plaza Hotel,
New York and the mixed-use Grand
Avenue project in Los Angeles,
amongst others.We have also won a
number of appointments with
signature architects, many for the first
time, including Frank Gehry with
whom we are working on the
Beekman T ower in New Y ork.
Work continues on the Freedom
Tower and we have also been
commissioned by Silverstein
Properties, Inc. as structural engineer
for the third World Trade Center
tower to be constructed since 9/11.
Located at 200 Greenwich Street, the
sixty-five storey commercial tower,
with Foster & Partners as the
architect, will contain 2.4 million
square feet of office space as well as
approximately 130,000 square feet of
retail.
Our continued efforts to produce
innovative yet economically sound
designs were again rewarded as Dr
Ahmad Rahimian was awarded the
Civil Engineering Research
Foundation's (CERF) Charles Pankow
Award for Innovation for the Torre
Mayor tower in Mexico City.
We have been working in
collaboration with the Group in the
UK and on a number of prestigious
projects in the United Arab Emirates
which include a 70-storey tower in
Sharjah and a further one in Burj
Dubai.
An increasing demand for our services
on the West Coast has led us to open
an office in Los Angeles in 2006.
Hearst Headquarters, New York
Both WSP Cantor Seinuk and Flack + Kurtz
collaborated on this distinctive 46-storey office
tower that will be one of the first to be awarded the
LEED
®
Gold certification by the United States Green
Building Council.
WSP Annual Report 2005  19  Operational Review – continued
Africa and the Middle East
2005 2004
Revenue £21m £13m
Staff 588 370
Africa
Our businesses in Africa continued to
flourish in 2005. For the third
consecutive year, we saw in excess of
20% growth in revenue.We were able
to capitalise on a buoyant economy,
lower and more stable interest rates,
and a stronger and more stable
currency.
We managed to achieve growth in all
the key sectors including building
services, civils and structures,
transportation, industrial engineering,
and facilities management.We have
developed specialist disciplines in the
fields of refrigeration, wet services, fire
engineering and process control, and
have diversified the range of civil
engineering services that we offer.
These additional services set us apart
from our competitors.
We have recently completed a number
of prestigious projects, including the
22-storey, mixed-use Michelangelo
Towers in Sandton, Johannesburg 
and extensions to the Aspen
Pharmaceuticals manufacturing facility
in Port Elizabeth.This is the first
facility to be licensed to manufacture
generic anti retro-virals, and we
received the South African Association
of Consulting Engineers Award for
Engineering Excellence for this project.
Acting for the Gauteng education
department, we were responsible for
all engineering services for the Sci-
Bono Science Center.
We have recently completed the first
phase of the refurbishment of the
National N3 Highway between
Johannesburg and Durban.
Our recent appointments include the
Dakar Hotel in Senegal; the Ikoyi
Towers, a 300 room luxury hotel and a
twin block of 300 residential
apartments in Lagos, Nigeria; a large
distribution centre and cold room
facility for Spinney's in Dubai; the
Caudin Bassin Retail Centre in Port
Louis, Mauritius and the new 50,000 sq
m Standard Bank regional Head Office
in Durban.
We have established a new business in
Tanzania and are currently opening a
business in Kenya.We have been
particularly pleased at the increased
number of project awards in the rest
of Africa which, together with the
growing number of multi-disciplinary
project awards, are improving our
market share. Once again, we saw
extensive co-operation between WSP
Africa and other WSP regions.WSP
has continued to be active in
Corporate Social Investment Projects
and initiatives in Africa.
The economy remains buoyant and it
has received a further boost with the
award of the 2010 Soccer World Cup,
which will create further opportunities
for our business. Our order book for
2006 is stronger than ever and is well
balanced across the public and 
private sectors.
Middle East
Following the acquisition of the PHB
Group and through organic growth,
WSP is well placed as one of the top
engineering consultants in the Middle
East.This year, we have worked on
major developments in Dubai including
City of Arabia, Motor City, Sports City,
Dubai Festival City, Dubai Healthcare
City and Dubai International Financial
Centre with an approximate
construction value approaching 
US$2 billion.
Work has now started on site on City
of Arabia, our largest project, with a
construction value in excess of 
US$1 billion, and design should reach
completion by the middle of 2006.
Our scope includes the Mall of Arabia,
Wadi Walk Apartments, Restless Planet
and the Elite Towers.
Our largest completed project to
date, the Mall of the Emirates, opened
in September 2005 to considerable
acclaim and we are very proud to have
been associated with this landmark
development.
Major project wins have ensured
continued growth of the business and
provided a strong order book for
2006.These include high-rise towers at
Park Plaza and the Ajman Corniche
Development, UP T own residential
development in Motor City and a
number of retail projects at Dubai
Festival City. Our clients include
Union Properties,The Ruler of
Sharjah,The Ruler of Ajman and I&M
Galadari.
Specialist engineering services from
other WSP companies have been
introduced into the region and we see
this continuing; in particular,WSP
Cantor Seinuk's and Flack + Kurtz's
high-rise expertise.
Following the phenomenal growth in
Dubai, surrounding regions are
showing the beginnings of similar
growth.To capitalise on this,WSP
Middle East will be opening offices in
Abu Dhabi and Doha during 2006,
which builds upon the projects in
which we are already involved,
including Etihad's Interim Terminal and
the Sector E35 multi-use development
in Abu Dhabi, the Al Shaqab
International Equestrian Centre in
Doha and involvement in Qatar
Petroleum's new city at Ras Laffan.
We are also setting up an off-shoring
facility in Delhi to assist growth in the
region.
To manage the growth in staff
numbers within the Dubai market, we
will be moving into new offices in
Dubai this year where our full range of
services covering building design,
environmental, infrastructure and
transportation will be integrated in
one location.
As the Middle East grows as both a
leisure and commercial destination, we
are increasingly developing our
existing relationships with global
organisations such as Morgan Stanley
and Standard Chartered Bank.
City of Arabia, Dubai
WSP is providing multi-disciplinary services for the
City which will include the world’s largest shopping
mall together with extensive residential and leisure
facilities.
WSP Annual Report 2005  21
WSP Africa and 
Middle East  Operational Review – continued
Asia and International
Development
2005 2004
Revenue £14m £12m
Staff 327 252
WSP Asia
Progress has been made in our Asia
operations during the year. Despite the
difficult market positions in the region,
we have increased revenues and, with
new management in place, we have also
achieved an improvement in our
project performance and work-winning
during the year.
We have maintained our presence in
Hong Kong during the year and made
progress in delivering some major
projects including hotel refurbishments,
design for developments at Hong Kong
International Airport, together with
engineering designs for projects in the
Middle East, China and Macau.
During the year, we increased our
presence in China and opened new
offices in Beijing and Shenzhen to
supplement our Shanghai operation.
Whilst we continue to work
predominantly on building projects, we
have also started to develop
infrastructure projects. Currently, we
are working on two major on-going
projects in China, one for the
integrated engineering design of a
Business Park development in Shanghai,
and the other for the design of a new
river course and bridges in Hainan.
Our office in Manila continues to
expand, delivering projects in the
Philippines including a major hotel in
Boracay, and residential towers in
Manila, as well as providing design
support to our UK and USA operations.
In Vietnam, we have been commissioned
to deliver three high-rise building
projects.
We expect the improvement of our
operations in Asia to continue,
maintaining our presence in Hong Kong
and expanding our businesses in China
and the Philippines. We have an
improved new management team in
place and an increased order book. We
expect to continue to support increasing
Group activity in the region.
International Development
2005 was another successful year for our
development assistance business, a year
in which we integrated our two aid
businesses in Sweden and the UK,
strengthened our staff resources and
capabilities, expanded our geographical
markets and diversified into new
markets.
Notable project wins include
construction supervision of the trunk
road expansion programme in T rinidad;
the electrification and upgrading of
sections of the Svilengrad Railway
between Bulgaria,T urkey and the Middle
East; construction supervision of the
Jõhvi-T artu-Valga road in Estonia which
forms part of the T rans-European
T ransport Network (TEN-T); developing
a road management and financing plan in
the Ukraine; technical assistance for
supervision works for the improvement
of the border access infrastructure in
Romania; construction supervision of the
Motorway from Novi Sad to Belgrade in
Serbia; the road safety audit of 600km of
expressway in India; institutional
strengthening and capacity building for
the Ethiopian Roads Authority;
organisational development and change
management of Y emen Customs
Authority; developing a road sector
policy and master plan for Jamaica; and
an institutional study of the Ministry of
Roads and T ransport in Ghana.
The India office continued to expand
during 2005 and is pursuing significant
private sector development and build-ings
opportunities, some of which we expect
to secure in the coming months.
Our future strategy is one of growth,
diversification and balance: we will
continue to grow our existing core
businesses in engineering, institutional
development and management in the
road and highway sector; strengthen our
public sector reform business; diversify
to develop our business in infrastructure
economics, maritime and rail businesses;
and get a better balance across the
public and private sectors and developed
and developing countries.
Environmental
WSP Environmental 2005 2004
Revenue £44m £36m
Staff 639 572
WSP Environmental, in their tenth year
of operation, has delivered another
year of strong organic growth in both
revenue and profit.As we emerge into
one of the truly global companies in
this sector, our penetration of the
global market with blue chip
corporations continues and this is
delivering both margin improvement
and order book resilience.We are very
pleased to have opened new offices in
Milan, Paris, Bucharest, Hong Kong,
Shanghai and Beijing, and our
embryonic Australian business is
presenting significant investment
opportunities for us in this region.With
the launch of our new German
business early in 2006, we now have a
permanent presence in 17 countries. In
addition to a sharp increase in
international framework commissions,
we are leveraging value from lower
cost resource bases and have a
particular focus on India in support of
our Middle Eastern interests.
The management team of WSP
Environmental continues to strengthen
and diversify. We have also continued
to build teams with some of the
world's leading experts to create a
dynamic, energetic and entrepreneurial
culture. During 2005 we built on the
commitments we have previously made
and increased our profile of industry-
leading staff, recruiting from a wide
range of backgrounds including major
industrial, financial, management
consulting and engineering
organisations.
The UK remains a strong market and
one in which we continue to grow and
take market share. The emergence of
our global due diligence team has been
particularly notable. Projects have
included vendor due diligence to
support one of the largest commercial
property transaction in UK history, for
which WSP Environmental advised
Abbey National Plc during the sale of
its portfolio of 128 commercial
properties to ING Real Estate
Investment Management (UK Funds)
Ltd for approximately £1.2 billion.We
also assessed the Vendex KBB retail
WSP Asia and
International
Development
Kabul-T orkham Highway,
Afghanistan
WSP has been appointed by the Swedish
International Development Cooperation Authority
to design and supervise the reconstruction of
221km of highway forming part of the route from
Kabul to the port of Karachi in Pakistan.
WSP Annual Report 2005  23 Environmental
1. WSP Environmental is involved in energy efficiency
projects across the world.
2. Environmental due diligence reporting included one of
the largest commercial property transaction in the UK
for Abbey National plc.
3. The School of Business, Ithaca College, New York
commissioned WSP to develop and design this
building that will incorporate sustainable design
principles in order to exemplify the school’s
commitment to sustainable development.
4. WSP is setting standards for environmental
performance in Middle East power stations.
5. Cutting edge acoustics noise mapping techniques are
used by our global acoustics team.
6. Our geotechnical teams remain at the forefront of the
industry across Europe.
12
34
5
6 portfolio in the Netherlands on behalf
of KKR and Cinven - one of the
largest property transactions in Dutch
corporate history. Major projects in
the area of environmental planning
included the redevelopment of
Birmingham Gateway and an
assessment of the electricity
infrastructure in Scotland to ensure
that renewable energy can be
transmitted effectively. Our
sustainability and energy design
specialists are working on a variety of
innovative low carbon solutions for
major capital projects worldwide and
closer to home are assisting our
London based developers to meet the
new planning requirements for on-site
renewable energy.
Our acoustics team, which is one of
the largest acoustic teams globally, has
used advanced modelling methods to
produce a noise map of Cardiff for the
Welsh Assembly. The same team is
also contributing to a new noise
management guide on behalf of the
Department for Food Environment
and Rural Affairs.
Also in 2005,WSP Environmental
secured much of the first national
industrial symbiosis programme in the
world. The programme facilitates links
between industries from different
sectors to create sustainable
commercial opportunities and improve
resource efficiency. We are running
three regions of this groundbreaking
nationwide programme.
In Sweden, our business has been
particularly pleasing, with strong
growth in profits and margin
improvement in line with our stated
aims for this part of our business.
Our market leading experts have won
two major research projects for the
Swedish Environmental Protection
Agency.
The Nordic region is recognised as an
extremely innovative region of the
world for environmental technology
and energy solutions, and our strength
in this area is allowing us to export
this knowledge to the benefit of
clients in other parts of WSP. Notable
activity has included market leading
carbon trading advice for Eesti Energia
and, in Finland, our colleagues have
project managed the move of a power
station from China to Vietnam. WSP
have been commissioned by Ökotec
Management Gmbh to screen the
southern parts of Sweden for suitable
sites for wind energy generation using
computer mapping
We are providing project management,
investigation and remedial design for
the remediation of 12 petrol stations
for the Swedish Petroleum Institute's
Environmental Cleanup Fund.We are
also undertaking remediation design
and supervision on a site that will
form part of the 2012 Olympic site in
London.
Increasingly we are benefiting from the
trend to outsource Environmental,
Health, Safety and Social Responsibility
functions.We are also proud to be
delivering the UK's National Industrial
Symbiosis Programme (NISP) across a
number of regions.
Our North American business made
some very pleasing advances and is
now a leading environmental
consulting business in the technology
sector. The relationship between our
North American team and some of
the world's best known technology
brands such as Seagate Systems,
Lifescan and Harris goes from strength
to strength.
In Italy, we have seen contributions
towards our developing track record
in the oil and gas sector, which sees
Exxon Mobil, Eni, Petronet, Sasol and
Statol amongst our global clients. It is
also very satisfying to have been
awarded the contract to provide a
technical and environmental
assessment for the largest domestic oil
and gas field in Yemen by the Ministry
of Oil and Minerals.
We have seen strong performance
from our rapidly growing Middle East
business. In Saudi Arabia we have
undertaken an Environmental and
Social Impact Assessment for the
Shuaibah Independent Water and
Power Project. The project received
Royal approval from the Presidency of
Meteorology and Environment (PME)
as a new benchmark for assessment of
power and desalination plants in Saudi
Arabia. We have also supported PME
by providing strategic review and
capacity building advice to support the
transition of the organisation into a
world class regulator.
New leadership is strengthening our
business in Poland, with a project
award to develop the first National
pollution register for Polish industry
representing a high profile and
prestigious contract in this region.
In South Africa, we have been
appointed as Independent
Environmental Auditor on the
Gautrain Rapid Rail infrastructure
project in the Gauteng Province, a
highly prestigious project which must
be operational in time for the 2010
Soccer World Cup.
Our long track record with the mining
industry in South Africa continues to
deliver success and our business is a
centre of excellence in this challenging
sector. Our clients include Anglo-Gold
and Anglo-American, and we have
worked across South Africa and
Namibia on a variety of high profile
sites.
Our interests in Asia, particularly
those in China, have rapidly begun to
deliver upon their early potential. We
have strengthened our presence with
the introduction of a new leader for
our Environmental Planning Services in
Beijing and additional senior
recruitment to direct our Energy and
Environmental Design Services in
Hong Kong.
We are global leaders in sustainable
master planning, embracing energy,
water, waste, air quality and
transportation, and have been active
with the high level design of a 13km
waterway linking a development at
Sayna in China to the sea.We have
also acted as advisors to William
McDonough & Partners on the
sustainable master planning and
infrastructure strategies for the new
city of Miyun in China.
We are well set to take a leading
position globally in Environmental,
Health, Safety, Social Responsibility and
Energy Consulting alongside our
specialist Remediation services. Our
international network of offices will
develop rapidly over the next five
years and we anticipate strong growth
in all sectors.
WSP Annual Report 2005  25
Operational Review – continued Board of Directors
from left to right
Thomas Erséus MSc CEng
Executive Director and Chairman of  WSP Europe
Age 42, Thomas was first appointed to the Board in 2001 following
the acquisition of WSP Sweden. After qualifying as a civil engineer,
Thomas joined Caran AB, a Swedish consultancy firm as a
consultant. Having been instrumental in introducing the company to
the Swedish Stock Exchange in 1995, he became Managing Director
in 1997. In 1998, Thomas joined WSP Sweden as Managing
Director, becoming Chairman of WSP Europe in 2002. He is a
principal member of the performance and strategy committees and
is responsible for the operational performance of WSP Europe. He
is also on the Environmental and International Boards. Thomas is a
director of our Associated Company, Multiconsult Holdings AS and
holds two non executive appointments with Hagstromer & Qviberg
AB and DSV Miljo AS.
Shareholding: 352,200
Stuart McLachlan MSc
Executive Director and Managing Director of  WSP Environmental
Age 38. Having worked both as a practising Environmental
Consultant and a Manager of a London based Environmental and
Testing firm, Stuart joined WSP in 1995 to be responsible for the
start-up of the Environmental business. He became Managing
Director of WSP Environmental UK in 1997, and in 2001 he was
appointed Managing Director of WSP's global Environmental
business. Stuart was appointed to the board of WSP Group plc on
1st January 2006 and retains responsibility for the development of
the Environmental business while undertaking a wider Group role. 
Shareholding: 4,214
Christopher Cole CEng FCIBSE MASHRAE
Chief Executive
Age 59, Chris was first appointed to the Board in 1987 at the
time of the WSP IPO. Following initial training and education,
Chris spent the first ten years of his career working for a
major contracting and subsequently consultancy business.  He
joined WSP in 1972 at its inception, becoming Managing
Director in 1987 and Chief Executive in 2001.  He chairs the
Performance and Strategy Committees and is responsible for
both operational control and the strategic direction of the
Group.  Chris maintains significant client contact together
with regular liaison with our offices around the world.  He is
also a Non Executive Director of Ashtead Group plc. 
Shareholding: 928,777
Malcolm Paul FCA
Group Finance Director
Age 54, Malcolm was first appointed to the Board in 1987 at
the time of the WSP IPO. After qualifying as a chartered
accountant, Malcolm worked in both practice and industry
before joining Longcrofts, a city accountancy firm as a partner
specialising in corporate finance. He became Group Finance
Director of WSP in 1987. He is a principal member of the
performance and strategy committees. Malcolm maintains
links with the Group’s professional advisers and is responsible
for the financial control of the Group. 
Shareholding: 842,976
26 WSP Annual Report 2005 David T urner FRICS
Non-Executive Chairman
Age 68, David was first appointed to the Board in 1997. He
was chief executive of Barclays Property Holdings Limited
from 1991 to 1997 and a divisional director of Barclays Bank.
He is also Vice Chairman and Deputy Pro-Chancellor of the
City University, and is a director of a number of private
companies. David has a wealth of knowledge of the property
industry and has broad business experience. He was
appointed Chairman of the Board in 2003 and he also chairs
the Nominations Committee. 
Shareholding: 12,282
Christopher Stephens MA
Independent Non-Executive Director
Age 57, Chris was first appointed to the Board in 2003. He
has many years experience in a range of industries including
Consumer, High Technology and Business Services. Until
2004 he was the Group Human Resources Director of Exel
plc (now DHL), the global logistics company. He is a Civil
Service Commissioner and holds a number of non-executive
positions. Chris is the senior independent non-executive
director and chairs the WSP Remuneration Committee. 
Shareholding: 7,610
Marisa Cassoni BSc ACA
Independent Non-Executive Director
Age 54, Marisa was appointed to the board on 1 January 2006.
She is a chartered accountant who was until recently Group
Finance Director of the Royal Mail Group, having formerly been
Group Finance Director of Britannic Assurance plc. Marisa is a
member of the Accounting Standards Board, and a non-executive
director of Severn Trent plc and GFI Group Inc. Marisa chairs the
Audit Committee. 
Shareholding: Nil
Mark Rollins BEng ACA
Independent Non-Executive Director
Age 43, Mark was appointed to the board on 1 January 2006. He
is a chartered accountant, and has been Group Finance Director
of Senior plc since 2000. He was formerly with The Morgan
Crucible Company plc and, before that, with BDO Binder Hamlyn.
Shareholding: Nil
Ernest Sheavills FRICS ACI Arb
Independent Non-Executive Director
Age 60, Ernest was appointed to the board on 1 January 2006. He
is a chartered surveyor who until his recent retirement was with
The Royal Bank of Scotland as Director, Property Development
and Asset Management, a position that he held since 1992.  He
maintains a close involvement with many national and international
property organisations. 
Shareholding: Nil
WSP Annual Report 2005  27 04 02
03 01 05
06
Performance Committee and Company Secretary
01 Rikard Appelgren MSc 
Managing Director WSP Sweden
Age 40. After working as an
engineering consultant and
contractor in Sweden and Germany,
Rikard joined WSP Sweden in 1996,
becoming Managing Director of
Construction Design in 1998, and
Managing Director of WSP Sweden
in September 2002.
02 Siv Axelsson MBA
Group Human Resources and
Communications Director
Age 52. Siv has broad management
experience with a variety of
organisations and has published
several books addressing the
management of intellectual
businesses. She joined WSP Sweden
in 1995 and was appointed Group
Human Resources and
Communications Director in 2002.
03 Andrew Mather
Pr Eng, BSc Eng B Com
Managing Director WSP South Africa
Age 47. Andrew is an electrical
engineer who specialises in industrial
process control systems. He joined
WSP as Managing Director of WSP
Group S.A. in 1999, when WSP
acquired the WEVS Group.
04 Randy Meyers PE
President and CEO Flack + Kurtz Inc.
Age 49. Originally specialising in
Electrical Engineering, Randy joined
Flack + Kurtz in 1984. He was
appointed President and CEO of
Flack + Kurtz in 2002. 
05 Mike O'Brien C Eng
Managing Director WSP UK
Age 58. Mike has over 35 years
experience with contractors and
consultants in the planning, design
and construction of civil and
structural projects. He joined WSP
in 1979, becoming Managing
Director of WSP UK in 2000.
06 Graham Bisset BAcc CA
Company Secretary
Age 43. Having qualified as a
Chartered Accountant with KPMG,
Graham joined WSP in 1993.
Appointed Company Secretary in
2005, he has had broad
responsibilities throughout the
Group for corporate governance,
risk management, systems
implementation and financial
management.
28 WSP Annual Report 2005 WSP Annual Report 2005  29
The directors have pleasure in presenting their report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December
2005.
Principal Activity
WSP Group plc is an international business supplying specialist management and integrated services in the built and natural environment. 
Review of Business
The results for the Group are set out in the consolidated income statement account on page 42.
Details of the Group’s operations and its future prospects are contained in the Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s Review and
the Group Finance Director’s Review on pages 8 to 11. 
Dividends
The directors propose a final dividend of 4.0p (2004: 3.2p) net per share which, together with the interim dividend of 2.4p (2004: 2.1p)
net per share paid in October 2005, gives a total dividend of 6.4p (2004: 5.3p) for the year. If approved at the Annual General Meeting,
which is convened for 3 May 2006, the final dividend will be paid on 12 May 2006 to shareholders on the register of members at the
close of business on 18 April 2006. The shares will be ex dividend from 12 April 2006. 
In accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, which require that only those dividends paid in the year be included in the
profit and loss account, the dividend charge in the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005 reflects dividends paid during the year
totalling 5.6p (2004: 5.1p) net per share.
Acquisitions
During the year the Group made a number of acquisitions, details of which are set out in note 20 to the financial statements.
Share Capital
During the year the Company has issued the following ordinary 5p shares:
Ordinary 5p
Issue Price Shares
Issued share capital at 1 January 2005 60,458,607
Shares issued during the year:
The WSP 1997 Savings-Related Share Option Plan options exercised 300p 25,003
The WSP 1997 Share Option Plan options exercised 91p – 268p 42,571
Issued share capital at 31 December 2005 60,526,181
At the Annual General Meeting held on 3 May 2005 a resolution was approved to authorise the Company to make market purchases of
up to 10% of its own ordinary shares. The power given by this resolution will only be exercised if the directors are satisfied that any
purchase will increase the earnings per share of the ordinary share capital in issue after the purchase and therefore is in the best interest
of the shareholders. 
At the same meeting a resolution was approved to renew the directors’ authority to allot relevant securities pursuant to Section 80 of
the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of £477,070 (9,541,393 shares) and to dis-apply the statutory pre-emption
provisions of Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 in respect of any rights issue and for cash issues up to an aggregate nominal amount
of £151,146 (3,022,920 shares). 
Similar resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 3 May 2006.
Additionally, the following resolutions will be put to the Annual General Meeting concerning the following:
● To approve an increase in the authorised share capital of the Company from 70,000,000 to 100,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p
each.
● To approve the adoption of the 2006 Performance Share Plan to replace the 1997 Performance Share Plan.
Full details of the Annual General Meeting resolutions are included in the separate circular and notice of Annual General Meeting sent to
shareholders.
Research and Development
To enable WSP to deliver innovative solutions, we maintain research links in many areas that make it possible for us to apply some of the
latest technical solutions to the benefit of our clients. The sharing of knowledge and innovations is encouraged through the use of the
Group’s common databases, the intranet and other staff communication.
Directors’ Report Directors’ Report – continued
30 WSP Annual Report 2005
Directors
The directors who served during the year were:
David Turner Chairman
Christopher Cole Chief Executive
Malcolm Paul Group Finance Director
Thomas Erséus Executive Director
Christopher Stephens Senior Independent Non-executive Director 
Caroline Brown Independent Non-executive Director (resigned 31 December 2005)
The following directors have been appointed following the year end:
Stuart McLachlan Executive Director (appointed 1 January 2006)
Marisa Cassoni Independent Non-executive Director (appointed 1 January 2006)
Mark Rollins Independent Non-executive Director (appointed 1 January 2006)
Ernest Sheavills Independent Non-executive Director (appointed 1 January 2006)
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, Christopher Stephens will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting
and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election. During the year, Christopher Stephens has undergone performance evaluation and
continues to contribute effectively and demonstrates commitment to his role. Stuart McLachlan, Marisa Cassoni, Mark Rollins and Ernest
Sheavills, having been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Stuart McLachlan has a service contract with the Company that requires a one-year rolling notice period. Non-executive directors are
appointed for a three-year period, which may be terminated by three month’s written notice given by either party
Biographical details of all directors are set out on pages 26 to 27, and details of directors’ interests in shares and share options are set out
in the Remuneration Report on page 40.
Other than their service contracts, no director had a material interest in any contract of significance to the Group’s business. Christopher
Cole is a non-executive director of Ashtead Group plc, David Turner is Vice Chairman and Deputy Pro-Chancellor of the City University
and a director of the Royal Mail Group Property Board. Caroline Brown was director of Finance Change with Norwich Union Insurance.
During the year these businesses have occasionally procured services from the Group, and the Group has procured goods or services
from these companies. These contracts are conducted on an arms length basis, without the involvement of the relevant director. The
Company maintains liability insurance for its directors and officers.
Employees
The success of the business depends upon maintaining a highly qualified and well-motivated work force and every effort is made to
achieve a common awareness of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group. 
Regular communication with all employees is essential and this is achieved by formal and informal meetings, through national intranets, the
global internet, and through the distribution of in-house magazines.
WSP is a committed equal opportunity employer and engages employees with broad backgrounds and skills. Within the limitations of its
business, the Group’s policy is to engage disabled persons and to provide training, career development and promotion opportunities
within standard terms of employment. It is also WSP’s policy to retain and re-train those employees who have become disabled. The
Corporate Responsibility Report which may be obtained on request from the Company, and is available on the website,
www.wspgroup.com, provides further details of employees and employee relationships.
Supplier Payment Policy
As a service company, WSP’s principal cost base is its employees who are paid weekly or monthly in arrears. Many other costs, such as
office rents and insurance, are paid in advance. In addition, in common with other businesses in the construction sector, sub-consultants
who provide support or specialist services on projects operate on a paid when paid basis.
The terms and conditions of payment for the supply of other capital and revenue items are normally agreed with the supplier. However,
subject to regional practices, and in the absence of any such agreement it is our policy to make payment 60 days after the end of the
month in which the supplier’s invoice was received.
The average number of days credit taken by the Company for trade purchases for the year ended 31 December 2005 was 51 days (2004:
52 days).
Donations
During the year the Group made charitable donations of £237,556 (2004: £31,127) principally to local charities and foundations serving
the communities in which the Group operates. No political donations were made (2004: £Nil). WSP Annual Report 2005  31
Corporate Responsibility including Social, Environmental and Ethical risks
The Company has published a separate report on Corporate Responsibility which may be obtained on request from the Company and is
available on the website, www.wspgroup.com.
The directors believe that only by ensuring effective relationships with all our stakeholders can WSP deliver long term value and
satisfaction to its shareholders. The Group has established systems of Corporate Governance in line with the Combined Code as set out
on pages 32 to 36. The Board takes account of risk and regularly reviews the Group’s systems of internal control. These include Social,
Environmental and Ethical (‘SEE’) risks which can have differing impacts, reflecting the dynamics of the business.
The potential likelihood and impact of significant risks, including SEE risks, is subject to internal controls and monitored and assessed by
the Board using a combination of quantitative and qualitative measures. Certain directors have received training in SEE risks. As outlined in
the Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 40, the executive directors are incentivised to ensure sustainability through long term incentive
share plans that reward them for the longer term performance of the Group.
No imminent SEE risk that will have a material impact on the Group has been identified, and no significant failure in policies or procedures
for managing SEE risks has been identified. The Board’s review of risk management and systems of internal control that is reported on
page 33 of the Corporate Governance Report includes consideration of significant SEE risks.
Substantial shareholdings
At 9 March 2006 the directors had been notified of the following substantial interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company:
Number of Shares Percentage
Henderson Global Investors 4,454,388 7.4%
Aviva plc 3,604,198 6.0%
Standard Life Investments Ltd 2,996,517 5.0%
Barclays PLC 2,578,371 4.3%
Legal & General Group plc 1,829,102 3.0%
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities for preparing financial statements
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to:
● Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently
● Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent
● State that the financial statements comply with International Financial Reporting Standards
● Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in
business.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act
1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group’s website on the internet; however information is
accessible in many different countries where legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ
from that applicable in the United Kingdom. The responsibilities of the Auditors are set out in the Auditors’ report on page 41.
Going concern
The directors believe, on the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, that the Company and the Group have adequate
resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future. For this reason the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors to the company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board
Graham Bisset
Company Secretary
9 March 2006 32 WSP Annual Report 2005
Corporate Governance Report
Corporate Governance Report
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the Company is required to:
● explain how it applies the main and supporting principles of the 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance, and 
● to confirm whether or not it complies with the Code’s provisions or, where it has not, to provide an explanation.
Directors
The Board of WSP Group plc is collectively responsible for the success of the Group and for its Corporate Governance and aims to
provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective financial controls that enable risk to be
assessed and managed.
As outlined on pages 26 and 27, during 2005 the Board comprised the non-executive Chairman and three executive directors together
with two independent non-executive directors. WSP has taken advantage of the exemption provided by the Combined Code, where
companies fall outside the FTSE 350, which permits Audit Committees, Remuneration Committees and Boards to comprise a minimum
of two non-executive directors. With effect from 1 January 2006, the Board has been enlarged and comprises the non-executive
Chairman, four executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
The Combined Code identifies the fundamental importance of independent non-executive directors in ensuring the objective balance of
the Board, and sets out criteria to be considered in determining the independence of non-executive directors. In accordance with
Provision A3.1 of the Code, the Board considers Christopher Stephens, Marisa Cassoni, Ernest Sheavills and Mark Rollins to be
independent non-executive directors. Prior to her resignation, Caroline Brown was considered to be independent. Christopher Stephens
is the senior independent non-executive director. 
To ensure its effectiveness, the Board’s composition brings together a balance of skills and experience appropriate to the requirements of
the business. Board composition and recommendations for the appointment of directors are delegated to the Nominations Committee
and its activities are set out separately in this report.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the Group’s overall strategy and direction and it usually meets on a monthly basis
throughout the year. A formal schedule sets out those matters specifically reserved to the Board and its Committees. Those matters
include decisions on Group strategy and direction, acquisitions and disposals, capital structure, material contracts, corporate governance
and Group policies.
The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each of the directors during the year was as follows:
Full Audit Remuneration Nomination
Name Board (11) Committee (3) Committee (4) Committee (4)
David Turner 11 – – 4
Christopher Cole 11 – – –
Malcolm Paul 11 – – –
Thomas Erséus 10 – – –
Christopher Stephens 11 3 4 4
Caroline Brown 11 3 4 4
The Board has a standing agenda, including receiving and considering reports from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director
on the Group’s operational performance, finances, ongoing strategy and risk profile, all of which are considered at the monthly meetings.
Where appropriate, matters are delegated to the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees, and reports on their activities are
included on pages 33, 36 and 37 respectively. The committees’ terms of reference, together with directors’ service contracts, are available
for inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal office hours.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive have been established in writing to ensure the clear division of responsibilities, and this has
been agreed by the Board. The Chairman has held regular meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors
present.
The Chairman, who is non-executive, is responsible for leadership of the Board, setting its agenda and taking full account of the issues and
concerns of all board members, ensuring effective communication with shareholders, taking the lead on director induction and
development, encouraging active engagement by all directors and ensuring that the performance of individuals and of the board as a
whole, and its committees, is evaluated at least once a year.
The Chairman ensures that the Board is supplied with accurate, timely and clear information. Directors are encouraged to update their
knowledge and familiarity with the Company through meetings with senior management. As part of the induction process, an induction
pack is provided to non-executive directors. All directors have access to the company secretary who is responsible for ensuring good
information flows within the Board and its committees and between senior management and non-executive directors. The company WSP Annual Report 2005  33
secretary is also responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all corporate governance matters. Directors are
encouraged to seek independent or specialist advice or training at the Company’s expense where this will add to their understanding of
the Group in the furtherance of their duties.
As required by the Combined Code, the Board has a process to formally evaluate its own performance and that of its Committees and
individual directors. In 2004, questionnaires were used to create an evaluation structure, helping to identify objectives and stimulate
discussion. The performance of the Board and its Committees has been the subject of ongoing discussions during the year, with a number
of the identified objectives have been delivered. The evaluations of the Board, its Committees, and individual directors have been the
subject of continuous review. Through this process, led by the Chairman, effectiveness has been evaluated, and performance and
commitment have been addressed.
The individual performances of the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the other executive directors and the independent non-executive
directors have all been reviewed taking account of the views of the other Board directors. In particular, the senior non-executive director
led the non-executive directors’ review of the Chairman. The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the appropriate actions are taken.
The evaluations provide a feedback mechanism and have helped in identifying Board performance objectives as well as individual actions
such as training.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, directors are required to retire by rotation on the third anniversary of their
appointment or re-appointment to the Board.
Directors appointed during the year are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment. The
names of those directors submitted for re-election are detailed in the Directors’ Report on page 30. Biographies of each of the directors
are set out on pages 26 and 27.
Nomination Committee Report 
The Nomination Committee has written Terms of Reference to lead the process for board appointments and make recommendations to
the board thereon.
The Nomination Committee, which met on four occasions during the year, comprised the Chairman of the Board, David Turner
(Committee Chairman), and the two independent non-executive directors, Christopher Stephens and Caroline Brown. Where
appropriate, the Nomination Committee receives proposals from, and consults with, the Chief Executive regarding their proposals. From1
January 2006, the Nomination Committee comprises the four independent non-executive directors along with David Turner, the
Committee Chairman, and Christopher Cole.
The Nomination Committee has considered the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board. In the light of non-executive
director performance evaluations, it has also reviewed the time commitment required from non-executive directors to fulfil their duties
and has considered the succession of executive and non-executive directors. The Board has developed succession plans which evaluate
the risks associated with changes to directors and identify contingency provisions intended to mitigate the potential down-side impact of
such an event.
During the year the Nomination Committee made recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment of Stuart McLachlan,
Marisa Cassoni, Ernest Sheavills and Mark Rollins to the Board. In accordance with the Committee’s terms of reference, it developed
proposals to the Board, that included the likely capabilities of suitable candidates and the likely time commitment. As regards the non-
executive appointments, these proposals were put to an external search consultant which was engaged to advertise the positions,
conduct initial interviews and provide advice on the proposed appointments.
Remuneration Committee Report
A report on executive directors’ remuneration and the activities of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 37 to 40.
Audit Committee Report
The Report of the Audit Committee on page 36 sets out in more detail its delegated role in advising and making recommendations to
the Board on matters including financial reporting, internal controls, risk management, and the appointment of Auditors.
Internal Control
The directors have ultimate responsibility for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The system of internal
control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. In pursuing these objectives, internal
control can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 34 WSP Annual Report 2005
Corporate Governance Report – continued
The operational and strategic direction of the Group is monitored through the following Committees which provide direction and control
throughout the Group:
● The Performance Committee has written terms of reference and meets once a month to review and consider the operational and
financial performance of the Group. Each meeting has a formal agenda that includes risk management issues. The Committee
consists of the executive directors and the chairmen of the Executive Committees. The discussions of the Performance Committee
are reported to the Board.
● Three Executive Committees meet monthly and are responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group. These Committees
embrace the regional businesses in the UK and Sweden, while the Global Environmental Executive Committee is formed from
representatives of the environmental businesses in its key regions. The Committees comprise the Managing Directors of each of the
principal operating subsidiaries. The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director regularly visit and attend Board meetings of the
key subsidiary operations in the USA and the rest of the world.
● The Strategy Committee met twice during the year and has written terms of reference to develop the strategic direction of the
Group and consider strategic proposals. The Committee consists of the executive directors, the chairmen of the Executive
Committees together with such other senior executives as are deemed appropriate. The Committee reports to the Board.
The members of the Executive Committees and subsidiary directors are responsible for the management and operation of their
businesses and clearly defined levels of authority have been established between the Group’s executive directors, the Executive
Committees and subsidiary Boards. Subsidiaries subscribe to the Group’s Vision and Values but have autonomy to develop appropriate
and effective ways of working, while operating a control environment established in accordance with Group policies and systems of
reporting and internal control.
Management are responsible for reviewing risks and for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks applicable to their areas of
business. Risks are reviewed and assessed on a regular basis by the Performance Committee, the Group Financial Risk Manager, the Audit
Committee and the Board. On an annual basis, individual businesses complete internal control questionnaires from which an assessment
of compliance with the Group’s systems of internal control is prepared. The effectiveness of controls is considered in conjunction with the
range of risks and their significance to the operating circumstances of individual businesses.
Working throughout the Group, the role of the Group Financial Risk Manager is to identify, monitor and report on the significant financial
and operating risks faced by the Group to provide assurance that WSP meets the highest standards of corporate governance expected
by its stakeholders. Reporting to the Audit Committee, key risks are prioritised.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in its review of the effectiveness of internal controls and is responsible for setting the strategy for
the internal control review. In doing so, it takes account of the organisational framework and reporting mechanisms embedded within the
Group and the work of the Group Financial Risk Manager.
During the year the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls. In its deliberations the Board has taken account
of the advice of the Audit Committee, reports received from the external Auditors, and any other related factors which have come to its
attention. 
The Board is satisfied that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, that
it has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, and that it accords with
the Turnbull Guidance on internal control. The process does not extend to associate companies or joint ventures where the Group does
not have a controlling interest. In joint ventures, systems of internal control are agreed in conjunction with joint venture partners. Details
of associate companies and joint ventures are provided in note 12 to the accounts.
Relations with Shareholders
In the interests of developing mutual understanding of objectives, the executive directors have met regularly with institutional investors to
discuss the performance of the Group and its future strategy. Invitations have been extended to institutional investors to meet the
Chairman and non executive directors.
The Board is kept informed of shareholder views and correspondence as well as the views of institutional investor advisory bodies such as
PIRC and the ABI. Where it is considered appropriate, the Board has consulted with institutional shareholders on matters such as
directors’ remuneration.
Corporate and financial presentations are regularly made to fund managers, brokers and the media, particularly when interim and final
results are announced. Copies of the presentations are published on the Group web site. All shareholders are welcome to attend the
Annual General Meeting in May where they have opportunity to put questions to the directors, including the chairmen of Board
Committees. WSP Annual Report 2005  35
At the Annual General Meeting separate resolutions are proposed for each substantially different issue to enable each one to receive
proper consideration. Proxy votes are disclosed after each resolution has been dealt with by a poll. Notice of the Annual General Meeting
and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days in advance. Further information on the activities of the Group,
including shareholder information and copies of regulatory announcements can be accessed via the WSP Group web site,
www.wspgroup.com.
Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code
Throughout the year under review, the Group has complied with all the provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate
Governance as laid down in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority. 36 WSP Annual Report 2005
The Audit Committee advises and makes recommendations to the Board on matters including financial reporting, internal controls, risk
management, and the appointment of Auditors. The role of the Committee is set out in its written terms of reference.
The Audit Committee, which met three times during 2005, comprised the two independent non-executive directors, Caroline Brown as
chairperson and Christopher Stephens. Caroline Brown is a finance professional, and her understanding of corporate financial matters
brought recent and relevant financial experience to the Committee. From 1 January 2006, the committee has comprised Marisa Cassoni
(Chairperson), Mark Rollins and Christopher Stephens. Both Marissa Cassoni and Mark Rollins are finance professionals with recent and
relevant financial experience. Where appropriate, the Committee consulted with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and the
Group Finance Director in its deliberations and in developing proposals. The Chairman, Executive Directors and Group Financial Risk
Manager are invited to meetings of the Committee for parts of the agenda. The external Auditors also attended two of the meetings
during the year, and a portion of their time is spent in private with the Audit Committee.
Responsibilities include monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the
Group’s financial performance. The Committee has reviewed the Group’s financial statements and formal announcements relating to the
Group’s financial performance before their presentation to the Board. In so doing, it considered accounting policies, areas of judgement or
estimate, and reporting requirements, as well as matters brought to their attention by the external Auditors. During the year, the
Committee monitored and was kept informed of progress in implementing International Financial Reporting Standards.
The Audit Committee is responsible for assessing the requirement for a separate internal audit function. The Committee remains satisfied
that the culture of embedded controls and continual peer review, together with the work of the Group Financial Risk Manager, is effective
in monitoring the established systems. An internal audit function would have limited benefit at this time, although the potential
requirement remains under review.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Group’s systems of internal control and risk management, and determines the scope of
work undertaken by the Group Financial Risk Manager. It receives reports from the Group Financial Risk Manager, with whom the results
are discussed on a regular basis. The Committee concluded its annual review of the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of risk
management and internal control at its December meeting. As required by the Combined Code, the Committee has reviewed
arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties. The Committee considers that these
arrangements are appropriate given the nature of the risks involved.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of external Auditors. It is
responsible for monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external Auditors, and for agreeing the level of remuneration and the
extent of non-audit services.
During the year, PricewaterhouseCoopers (‘PwC’) reported to the Committee on its audit strategy and the scope of audit work. The
Committee has reviewed the performance of PwC and the level of non-audit fees paid to PwC during the year. These are set out in note
4 on page 53. The provision of non-audit services, except tax compliance and routine taxation advice, must be referred to the
Committee where it is likely to exceed a pre-determined threshold of £10,000. Any work that falls below that threshold must be pre-
approved by the Group Finance Director. No material consultancy work has been carried out by PwC during the year. By monitoring and
restricting both the nature and quantum of non-audit services provided by the external Auditors, the Committee seeks to safeguard
auditor objectivity and independence.
Marisa Cassoni
Chairperson of the Audit Committee
9 March 2006
Corporate Governance Report – Report of the Audit Committee Remuneration Report
WSP Annual Report 2005  37
The Remuneration Committee has written Terms of Reference to determine, on behalf of the Board, the Group’s policy on executive
remuneration and to consider and approve remuneration packages for executive directors. In addition, the Committee monitors and
makes recommendations on the level of senior management remuneration across the Group. The Board’s report is set out below.
The Remuneration Committee, which met four times during the year, comprises two independent non-executive directors, Christopher
Stephens as chairman and Caroline Brown. Following Caroline Brown’s resignation on 31 December 2005, Marisa Cassoni and Ernest
Sheavills have been appointed to the committee. Where appropriate, the Committee consults with the Chairman of the Board and the
Chief Executive regarding its proposals.
Remuneration Policy (unaudited information)
The policy of the Board is to attract, retain and motivate the best executive directors by rewarding them with competitive salary and
benefit packages linked to achieving the Group’s strategic goals. Presently, three of the executive directors have very significant beneficial
holdings of WSP shares and as such their interests are closely aligned with other shareholders. The Board proposes to introduce a
policy requiring executive directors to build and maintain a minimum shareholding that is linked to their level of remuneration. Under
this policy, it is anticipated that directors will be required to build their holdings by investing a sum at least equivalent to 50 per cent of
their after tax annual bonus, until such time as they establish the requisite holding.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee appointed New Bridge Street Consultants LLP to provide independent remuneration
advice to the Committee. New Bridge Street Consultants LLP has no other relationships with the Company. The Remuneration
Committee has considered a variety of independent information including comparisons of the executives’ remuneration with companies
of a similar size and diversification. As WSP is an international business the Remuneration Committee takes into account employment
practices both in the UK and overseas, and has taken due regard of the remuneration packages throughout the Group.
The performance related elements of executive remuneration comprise annual bonuses and awards under the WSP Performance Share
Plan. These incentives are designed to be relevant to the overall objectives of the Group and to enhance the business. The performance
targets set by the Remuneration Committee are reviewed annually and are intended to be stretching and to reward superior
performance in the light of the prevailing economic climate.
Shareholders will have received a circular accompanying this Annual Report in which the Board, on the recommendation of the
Remuneration Committee, proposes to amend and extend the WSP share schemes for a further 10 years.
The members of the Remuneration Committee have no personal interest in the outcome of their decisions and give due regard to the
interests of shareholders and to the continuing financial and commercial health of the business.
The remuneration packages of the executive directors comprise:
● Basic salaries that are reviewed annually having regard to individual performance, responsibility and skills, and comparable evidence of
other companies in the sector, together with specific employee benefits.
● The executive directors are members of defined contribution pension schemes and annual contributions are calculated by reference
to basic salaries with neither annual bonuses nor awards under the share incentive schemes taken into account in calculating the
amounts due.
● Performance related annual bonuses, up to a maximum of 100% of the executive directors’ salary, are calculated by reference to the
Group meeting preset annual profit targets.
● The executive directors also qualify for the WSP Deferred Bonus Share Plan that allows them and other senior executives to invest
up to 50% of their after tax annual bonus in shares of the Company. If these shares are held for more than three years the Company
will grant an award of the right to acquire a matching number of shares for a nominal price. This plan is designed to retain senior staff
for at least a three-year period from the date the individual invests in the shares of the Company. For awards made after 2003,
performance criteria have been set that require fully diluted earnings per share to have grown by at least 5% per annum plus the
Retail Price Index by the vesting date. The final cycle of awards under the WSP Deferred Bonus Share Plan will be made in 2006
(linked to the annual bonus earned in 2005) but this plan will be discontinued after 2006.
● The WSP Performance Share Plan will soon expire on reaching the end of its ten-year life and will be replaced by a new Performance
Share Plan, which will be operated as the sole long-term incentive vehicle. The new plan (details of which are contained in the
circular accompanying this Annual Report) are fundamental to the Remuneration Committee’s policy and, if approved at the Annual
General Meeting on 3 May 2006, will form the basis of future share-based awards.
For 2006, it is anticipated that awards will be made over shares worth between 20% and 50% of base salary for the most senior
executives. Dividends will accrue on performance shares from the date of grant, payable on vesting (to the extent that the shares
ultimately vest.) Remuneration Report – continued
38 WSP Annual Report 2005
The performance condition attached to the awards in 2006 will require stretching earnings per share growth targets to be achieved
over a single three year period. It is currently intended that the initial target will require average annual earnings per share growth of
RPI plus 4% to 10% for 30% to 100% of an award to vest.
The Remuneration Committee considers that earnings per share is the most appropriate measure of performance for the initial
awards as it will reward significant and sustained increases in profitability that would be expected to flow through into shareholder
value. Earnings per share is a transparent performance measure at WSP as the Company’s approach to revenue recognition is firmly
established in accounting practices and the strong trading cash flow is clearly linked, on an annual basis, to profit. In addition, as 40%
of the executives who will be participating in the new Plan are based overseas, earnings per share will deliver a strong focus.
Directors’ Service Contracts (unaudited information)
The Board’s policy is to offer service agreements to executive directors with notice periods of not more than 12 months. The directors’
service contracts may be summarised as follows:
Director Contract Date Unexpired Notice Period Contractual Termination
Term Payments
David Turner 01.06.1997 3 months 3 months 3 months in lieu of notice
Christopher Cole 01.01.2004 12 months 12 months One year’s remuneration
Malcolm Paul 01.01.2004 12 months 12 months One year’s remuneration
Thomas Erséus 29.05.2001 12 months 12 months One year’s remuneration
Stuart McLachlan (appointed 01.01.06) 01.01.2006 12 months 12 months One year’s remuneration
Caroline Brown (resigned 31.12.05) 01.07.2003 3 months 3 months 3 months in lieu of notice
Christopher Stephens 10.01.2003 3 months 3 months 3 months in lieu of notice
Marisa Cassoni (appointed 01.01.06) 01.01.2006 3 months 3 months 3 months in lieu of notice
Ernest Sheavills (appointed 01.01.06) 01.01.2006 3 months 3 months 3 months in lieu of notice
Mark Rollins (appointed 01.01.06) 01.01.2006 3 months 3 months 3 months in lieu of notice
The terms of the service contracts of Christopher Cole and Malcolm Paul allow for liquidated damages that extend beyond basic
salaries to include bonuses, which the Remuneration Committee considers reflects the true financial entitlement of the individuals
concerned.
The non-executive directors of the Company are appointed for a three-year term, which may be terminated on three months’ written
notice, with their remuneration determined by the Board. Renewal of their appointment is not automatic and they stand for re-election
in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association.
The targeted composition of each director’s remuneration for the forthcoming year is as follows:
Director Position Non Performance Performance
Related Related
David Turner Non-executive Chairman 100% –
Christopher Cole Chief Executive 42% 58%
Malcolm Paul Group Finance Director 42% 58%
Thomas Erséus Executive Director 41% 59%
Stuart McLachlan (appointed 01.01.06) Executive Director 46% 54%
Christopher Stephens Non-executive Director 100% –
Marisa Cassoni (appointed 01.01.06) Non-executive Director 100% –
Ernest Sheavills (appointed 01.01.06) Non-executive Director 100% –
Mark Rollins (appointed 01.01.06) Non-executive Director 100% –
Directors’ Remuneration (audited information)
The following table shows an analysis of the remuneration of each director who served during the year:
Director Salary Performance Employee Termination 2005 2004 2005 2004
and fees Bonus Benefits Payments T otal T otal Pension Pension
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
David Turner 45 –- – – 45 45 – –
Christopher Cole 281 281 21 – 583 515 98 94
Malcolm Paul 260 260 20 – 540 477 91 87
Thomas Erséus 220 220 12 – 452 407 74 67
Christopher Stephens 25 – – - 25 25 – –
Caroline Brown 25 – – 12 37 25 – –
856 761 53 12 1,682 1,494 263 248
In 2005, annual bonus targets required profit before exceptional items and tax to grow by 13%, at which point an annual bonus of 40%
would be payable and this would increase pro rata up to a maximum of 100% if 25% growth was achieved. In 2005 the profit growth
was such that the performance related annual bonus amounted to 100% of the executive directors’ salary. WSP Annual Report 2005  39
Employee benefits include a car allowance, together with medical and health insurance cover.
Where executive directors have received approval to serve in a non-executive capacity with other companies, the Board has agreed
that they may retain any remuneration received. In 2005 the remuneration received in respect of such appointments by Christopher
Cole and Thomas Erséus amounted to £30,000 and £16,204 respectively.
Long Term Incentive Share Plan (audited information)
a) The WSP Performance Share Plan
At 31 December 2005, the Committee had made the following awards under the WSP Share Performance Plan, which are dependent
upon the Company’s future earnings per share growth. The awards made to directors on 1 April 2002 have lapsed, unexercised as a
result of the failure to meet the required growth in earnings per share since that date. Awards are made at nil exercise price.
Market
Earliest price at Number of Number Number Number of 2005 2004
Award Vesting Award shares at Granted of shares of shares shares at Value of Value of
Director Date Date Date 01.01.2005 in year Lapsing Vesting 31.12.2005 entitlement entitlement
No. No. No. No. No. £’000 £’000
Christopher Cole
01.04.2002 01.04.2005 320.0p 51,563 – (51,563) – – – 134
01.04.2003 01.04.2006 75.0p 220,000––– 220,000 814 572
01.04.2004 01.04.2007 200.0p 65,000––– 65,000 240 169
01.04.2005 01.04.2008 275.0p – 41,000 – – 41,000 152 –
336,563 41,000 (51,563) – 326,000 1,206 875
Malcolm Paul
01.04.2002 01.04.2005 320.0p 50,391 – (50,391) – – – 131
01.04.2003 01.04.2006 75.0p 215,000––– 215,000 796 559
01.04.2004 01.04.2007 200.0p 60,000––– 60,000 222 156
01.04.2005 01.04.2008 275.0p – 33,000 – – 33,000 122 –
325,391 33,000 (50,391) – 308,000 1,140 846
Thomas Erséus
01.04.2002 01.04.2005 320.0p 44,063 – (44,063) – – – 115
01.04.2003 01.04.2006 75.0p 210,000––– 210,000 777 546
01.04.2004 01.04.2007 200.0p 55,000––– 55,000 204 143
01.04.2005 01.04.2008 275.0p – 26,000 – – 26,000 96 –
309,063 26,000 (44,063) – 291,000 1,077 804
Stuart McLachlan (appointed 01.01.06)
01.04.2002 01.04.2005 320.0p 10,000 – (10,000) – – – 26
01.04.2003 01.04.2006 75.0p 75,000––– 75,000 277 195
01.04.2004 01.04.2007 200.0p 20,000––– 20,000 74 52
01.04.2005 01.04.2008 275.0p – 15,000 – – 15,000 56 –
105,000 15,000 (10,000) – 110,000 407 273
b)  The WSP Deferred Bonus Share Plan
At 31 December 2005, outstanding awards to directors under the Deferred Bonus Share Plan were as follows:
Market
Earliest price at Number Number 2005 2004
Award Vesting Award of shares Exercised Granted of shares Value of Value of
Director Date Date Date 01.01.2005 in year in year 31.12.2005 entitlement entitlement
No. No. No. No. £’000 £’000
Christopher Cole 01.04.2003 01.04.2006 75.0p 83,333 – – 83,333 308 217
30.04.2005 30.04.2008 268.0p – – 33,333 33,333 123 –
83,333 – 33,333 116,666 431 217
Malcolm Paul 01.04.2003 01.04.2006 75.0p 83,333 – – 83,333 308 217
30.04.2005 30.04.2008 268.0p – – 33,333 33,333 123 –
83,333 – 33,333 116,666 431 217
Thomas Erséus 01.04.2003 01.04.2006 75.0p 83,333 – – 83,333 308 217
83,333 – – 83,333 308 217
The value of entitlements under the WSP Share Performance Plan and the WSP Deferred Bonus Share Plan are calculated by reference to
the middle market share price at 31 December 2005 which was 370p (2004: 260p) and the range in the year was 250p to 385p.  40 WSP Annual Report 2005
Remuneration Report – continued
In accordance with the Group’s accounting policy for Employee Share Schemes, long term incentive compensation arising out of the
above plans is disclosed in directors’ remuneration when they crystallise, which will normally be after the third anniversary of the award,
and appropriate provisions are built up over the vesting period.
Directors’ interests (unaudited information)
The beneficial and contingent interests of the directors in the 5p ordinary shares of the Company were as follows:
Beneficial Performance Deferred Bonus Total
Director Shares Share plan Share plan Shares
No. No. No. No.
At 31 December 2005
David Turner 12,282 – – 12,282 
Christopher Cole 928,777 326,000 116,666 1,371,443 
Malcolm Paul 842,976 308,000 116,666 1,267,642 
Thomas Erséus 352,200 291,000 83,333 726,533 
Stuart McLachlan (appointed 01.01.06) 4,214 110,000 – 114,214 
Christopher Stephens 7,610 – – 7,610 
Caroline Brown (resigned 31.12.05) ––––
Marisa Cassoni (appointed 01.01.06) ––––
Ernest Sheavills (appointed 01.01.06) ––––
Mark Rollins (appointed 01.01.06) ––––
At 1 January 2005
David Turner 10,910 – – 10,910 
Christopher Cole 908,777 336,563 83,333 1,328,673 
Malcolm Paul 822,976 325,391 83,333 1,231,700 
Thomas Erséus 352,200 309,063 83,333 744,596 
Christopher Stephens 5,000 – – 5,000 
Caroline Brown ––––
There have been no changes in directors’ share interests since 31 December 2005.
Performance Graph (unaudited information)
Set out below is a Performance Graph that compares the total shareholder return of WSP shares with the FTSE Small Cap index. The
FTSE Small Cap index has been selected because it includes UK quoted companies of a similar size to WSP .
WSP Group plc Total Shareholder Return compared to the FTSE Cap
Index in the 5 years to December 2005
Total shareholder return is defined as the return shareholders would receive if they held a notional number of shares and received
dividends on those shares over a period of time. The graph demonstrates that WSP’s position continues to strengthen by comparison
with the FTSE Small Cap index.
Christopher Stephens
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
9 March 2006
0
20
40
60
80
PERFORMANCE INDEX
100
120
140
WSP FTSE Small Cap
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 WSP Annual Report 2005  41
Auditors’ Report
Independent Auditors’ report to the members of WSP Group plc
We have audited the Group and Company financial statements (the “financial statements’’) of WSP Group plc for the year ended 31
December 2005 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Company Cash
Flow Statements, the Group and Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense, the Group and Company Statements of
Change in Shareholders’ Equity and the related notes. These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set
out therein. We have also audited the information in the Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of
Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant
legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been
prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no
other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom
this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and
the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors’ Report is not consistent with the financial
statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not
required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors’ Report and the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report, the Chairman’s
Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the Group Finance Director’s Review, the Operational Review and the Corporate Governance
Report. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with
the financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the
part of the Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the
directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and
Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to
be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to
be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
●
the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the
Group’s and the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of the Group’s and the Company’s profit and the Group’s and
Company’s cash flows for the year then ended; and 
● the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with
the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
1 Embankment Place
London WC2N 6RH
9 March 2006 42 WSP Annual Report 2005
2005 2004
Notes £’000 £’000
Revenue 349,074 302,845
Cost of sales
Subcontractor costs (26,455) (24,912)
Employee benefits costs
– standard 5 (221,155) (195,135)
– pension scheme settlements and curtailments – 7,018
Gross profit 101,464 89,816
Administrative expenses (80,646) (66,047)
Operating profit 20,818 23,769
Joint ventures and associated undertakings 2
– share of profit 1,818 845
– share of taxation (386) (235)
1,432 610
Profit before interest and taxation 22,250 24,379
Interest payable 3 (2,645) (3,054)
Interest receivable 3 217 258
Profit before taxation 19,822 21,583
Taxation 6 (5,829) (6,881)
Profit for the financial year 13,993 14,702
Profit attributable to
– Equity shareholders 13,718 14,507
– Minority interests 275 195
13,993 14,702
Basic earnings per share 8 22.8p 24.1p
Diluted earnings per share 8 21.8p 23.2p
The above results all relate to continuing activities.
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2005 WSP Annual Report 2005  43
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
Non–current assets
Goodwill 9 97,060 94,534 1,357 1,357
Intangible assets 10 1,946 1,018 – –
Property, plant and equipment 11 15,669 15,661 55 105
Investment in subsidiary and joint 
venture undertakings 12 – – 38,527 38,751
Financial assets available for sale 12 604 1,090 – –
Investments accounted for using the equity method 12 5,467 4,917 – –
Deferred taxation asset 13 9,249 6,310 1,470 396
129,995 123,530 41,409 40,609
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 14 114,510 95,891 90,705 99,322
Cash and cash equivalents 16,090 10,749 293 888
130,600 106,640 90,998 100,210
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities 15 (5,574) (6,772) (1,600) (8,935)
Trade and other payables 16 (85,362) (63,713) (12,586) (11,129)
Liabilities for current taxation (3,208) (1,843) – (709)
(94,144) (72,328) (14,186) (20,773)
Net current assets 36,456 34,312 76,812 79,437
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities 15 (42,730) (48,973) (20,600) (23,800)
Pension liabilities 25 (31,037) (20,500) – –
Deferred taxation liability 13 (4,342) (6,219) – (47)
Provisions 17 (5,407) (1,599) (169) (102)
(83,516) (77,291) (20,769) (23,949)
Net assets 82,935 80,551 97,452 96,097
Equity
Called up share capital 18 3,026 3,023 3,026 3,023
Share premium account 19 76,681 76,537 76,681 76,537
Shares to be issued 18 – 207 – 207
Other reserves 19 – – 8,210 8,210
Profit and loss account 19 2,646 477 9,535 8,120
Total shareholders’ equity 82,353 80,244 97,452 96,097
Minority interests 582 307 – –
Total equity 82,935 80,551 97,452 96,097
The financial statements on pages 42 to 82 were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2006 and signed on their behalf by:
CHRISTOPHER COLE, Chief Executive
MALCOLM PAUL, Group Finance Director
Balance Sheets
As at 31 December 2005 44 WSP Annual Report 2005
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 21 31,873 24,021 448 965
Interest paid (2,645) (3,062) (1,469) (1,786)
Interest received 217 261 821 918
Taxation paid (5,490) (4,679) (141) (117)
Net cash from operating activities 23,955 16,541 (341) (20)
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings 
(net of cash acquired) (3,365) (1,672) – –
Deferred consideration paid (219) (467) – –
Purchase of intangible assets (1,623) – – –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (8,438) (5,346) – –
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 2,802 229 – –
Return of capital from joint venture 68 – – –
Disposal of financial asset (available for sale) 1,325 – – –
Net repayment of intercompany loans to the Company – – 9,059 31,748
Intercompany loans advanced to the Company – – 2,000 50
Dividend received from associated undertaking 478 169 – –
Net cash used in investing activities (8,972) (7,087) 11,059 31,798
Cash flows from financing activities 
Net proceeds of share issues 147 28 147 28
Purchase of shares (406) (148) – –
Drawdown of loan facilities – 51,855 – 23,800
Repayment of loan facilities (5,284) (58,491) (1,600) (57,364)
Repayment of finance leases (284) (422) – –
Closure of Swedish Kronor currency swap – (6,827) – (6,827)
Equity dividends received – – 2,461 5,000
Equity dividends paid (3,386) (3,082) (3,386) (3,082)
Net cash used in financing activities (9,213) (17,087) (2,378) (38,445)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 5,770 (7,633) 8,340 (6,667)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 7,699 15,332 (8,047) (1,380)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 24 13,469 7,699 293 (8,047)
Cash Flow Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 WSP Annual Report 2005  45
Statements of Recognised Income and Expense
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the financial year 13,993 14,702 2,903 3,963
Actuarial loss on pension scheme (net of taxation) (7,468) (1,333) – –
Foreign exchange differences (1,887) (249) 302 750
Net (losses)/gains not recognised in the income statement (9,355) (1,582) 302 750
Total income and expense recognised in the year 4,638 13,120 3,205 4,713
There is no material difference between the historical cost and the reported profit.
Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the financial year 13,993 14,702 2,903 3,963
Dividends 7 (3,386) (3,082) (3,386) (3,082)
Retained profit for the financial year 10,607 11,620 (483) 881
New ordinary shares issued 147 28 147 28
Movement in shares to be issued (207) (46) (207) (46)
Performance share plan adjustment 534 619 938 619
Deferred taxation related to the performance share plan adjustment 658 247 658 247
Actuarial loss on pension schemes (10,599) (1,904) – –
Deferred taxation related to the actuarial loss on pension schemes 3,131 571 – –
Foreign exchange differences (1,887) (249) 302 750
Net addition to shareholders’ funds 2,384 10,886 1,355 2,479
Opening issued capital and reserves – 
Equity shareholders 80,244 69,553 96,097 93,618
Minority interests 307 112 – –
80,551 69,665 96,097 93,618
Net addition to shareholders’ funds attributable to –
Equity shareholders 2,109 10,691 1,355 2,479
Minority interests 275 195 – –
2,384 10,886 1,355 2,479
Closing issued capital and reserves –
Equity shareholders 82,353 80,244 97,452 96,097
Minority interests 582 307 – –
82,935 80,551 97,452 96,097 46 WSP Annual Report 2005
Accounting Policies
For the year ended 31 December 2005
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) and IFRIC
interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act, 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, are set out below.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for financial assets available for sale and
pension assets and liabilities, all of which have been measured at fair value.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the accounts of WSP Group plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year
prepared under IFRS using consistent accounting policies.
The consolidated balance sheet and income statement include the Group’s equity interests and results of the Group’s associated
undertakings, along with the Group’s interests and results of the Group’s joint venture undertakings in accordance with the net equity
method. In accordance with Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, a separate profit and loss account for the Company is not
presented.
Foreign currency translation
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences are
taken to the income statement.
On consolidation, income statements and cash flows of foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling using average rates that existed
during the accounting period. The balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries are translated into pounds sterling at the rates of exchange ruling
at the balance sheet date. Gains or losses arising on the translation of opening and closing net assets are recognised in the statement of
recognised income and expense.
Revenue
Revenue is stated net of sales tax and is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and
can be reliably measured. Revenue represents fee income recognised in respect of services provided during the period.
The Group has a number of long term contracts that span more than one financial period. In calculating revenue, the percentage of
completion method is used, based on a review of contract progress and the proportion of contract work completed in relation to the
total contract works. Profits are only recognised where they can be reliably measured. Full provision is made for all known or anticipated
losses on each contract immediately such losses are identified. Contract costs include direct staff costs and disbursements.
Amounts due from customers are stated at the proportion of the anticipated net sales value earned to date less amounts billed on
account. To the extent that fees paid on account exceed the value of work performed, they are included in trade and other payables.
Segmental reporting
The directors regard the Group’s primary segments of business to be Property, Transport & Infrastructure and Environmental. The
secondary segments of business are the geographic regions in which the Group operates. Costs are allocated to the appropriate segment
as they arise with central overheads apportioned on a fair basis.
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment by equal annual instalments over their
expected useful lives, having regard to their residual values. The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment are also subject to an
impairment review at each balance sheet date. The annual depreciation rates applicable are as follows:
Freehold and long leasehold property 1%
Short leasehold property lease term
Motor vehicles 25%
Office equipment 20-33%
Fixtures and fittings 10%
Depreciation is not charged on assets held for sale. WSP Annual Report 2005  47
Goodwill
Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, is stated at net book value as at this date.
Goodwill on business combinations recognised subsequent to 1 January 2004 is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of
the business combination over the interest in the net fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. Following initial recognition, goodwill
is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired are capitalised at cost and those identified in a business combination are capitalised at fair value as at the date of
acquisition. Following initial recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any accumulated amortisation and any
accumulated impairment provisions. Useful lives of intangible assets are assessed on acquisition to be either indefinite or finite.
Amortisation is charged as appropriate on those intangibles with finite lives, while those with indefinite lives are tested for impairment.
The annual amortisation rates applicable are as follows:
Software 20-33%
Assets arising on business combinations over the life of the asset
Investments
Available for sale investments are carried at their fair value and held in non-current assets, unless it is anticipated that they will be sold
within 12 months of the balance sheet date. Realised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of available for sale assets are
included in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they are realised. Unrealised gains and losses are recorded in a
separate category of reserves. Investments that the Group has the intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held to maturity
and are included in either current or non current assets as appropriate. They are carried at amortised cost.
Trade Receivables
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for uncollectable amounts. An estimate of
uncollectable amounts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Uncollectable amounts are written off when
identified.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and those deposits held with banks having a maturity date of less than 3 months from
the date the deposit was made and being available on demand within one working day without significant penalty. They are carried in the
balance sheet at cost.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement cash and cash equivalents are net of bank overdrafts.
Pension schemes
The Group maintains a number of defined contribution schemes and contributions are charged to the income statement in the year in
which they are due. In addition, the Group operates defined benefit schemes which require contributions to be made to separately
administered funds. The cost of providing benefits under defined benefit schemes is determined separately for each scheme using the
projected unit credit actuarial valuation method. The employer’s portion of current and past service costs, curtailment and settlement
costs, together with interest costs and expected return on assets, is charged to operating profit. Actuarial gains and losses are fully
recognised in equity through the statement of recognised income and expense as they arise such that the balance sheet reflects the
schemes’ full surplus or deficit at the balance sheet date.
Leasing
Finance leases which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are capitalised at the inception
of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Finance costs are
charged to the income statement over the period of the agreement. Obligations under finance leases are included in financial liabilities net
of finance costs allocated to future periods. Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset or
the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. Rentals
paid under operating leases are charged to the income statement as incurred on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Earnings per share
The Group presents both basic and diluted earnings per share for the current and preceding years. The basis of calculation is given in
note 8 to the financial statements. 48 WSP Annual Report 2005
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is likely that an
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and that amount can be reasonably estimated.
Where the Group expects all or some of the obligation to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset to the
extent that it is virtually certain to be reimbursed. The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any
reimbursement.
Provisions are measured at the present value of management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation
at the balance sheet date. If material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows using rates that reflect
current market assessments of the time value of money.
Deferred taxation
Full provision has been made for deferred taxation balances on all temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities
and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the balance sheet date using the full liability method.
A deferred taxation asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available to offset against the asset.
Deferred taxation assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient
taxable profit will be available to utilise the asset.
Deferred taxation assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or
the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Income
tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Share based payments
The Company operates a number of executive and employee share schemes. For all grants of share options and awards, the fair value as
at the date of grant is calculated using an appropriate option pricing model and the corresponding expense is recognised over the period
to which the associated employee’s service relates. The Company has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 ‘Share-
based Payments’ in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity settled awards granted after 7 November 2002
that had not vested before 1 January 2005.
Employee Benefit Trust (EBT)
The Company’s EBT is a separately administered discretionary trust for the benefit of employees. The assets of the EBT mainly comprise
shares in the Company. The assets, liabilities, income and costs of the EBT are consolidated in the financial statements. The investment in
own shares is treated as a deduction in Shareholders’ Funds.
Sources of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of the financial statements requires the Group to make estimates, judgements and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The directors base their
estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that they believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of
which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other
sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
Significant judgements
The Group believes that the most significant critical judgement area in the application of its accounting policies is revenue recognition and
the assessment of the percentage of completion achieved. The Group assesses contract progress and determines the proportion of
contract work completed at the balance sheet date in relation to the total contract works. The other principal areas where judgements
have been made are defined benefit assumptions and provisions for deferred consideration under acquisition earn-out arrangements.
Accounting Policies – continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005 WSP Annual Report 2005  49
1. Segmental analysis
a) Primary segmental analysis Continuing
operations Acquisitions T otal T otal
Revenue 2005 2005 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Property 197,978 4,953 202,931 175,930
Transport & Infrastructure 101,815 – 101,815 91,363
Environmental 44,328 – 44,328 35,552
Revenue 344,121 4,953 349,074 302,845
Joint ventures
Transport & Infrastructure 11,787 – 11,787 9,569
Associated undertakings
Property 4,570 – 4,570 3,861
Transport & Infrastructure 7,573 – 7,573 5,148
Environmental 927 – 927 890
Share of joint venture and associated undertakings revenue 24,857 – 24,857 19,468
T otal 368,978 4,953 373,931 322,313
Profit Joint ventures & associates
Continuing Share of Share of
operations Acquisitions profit tax T otal T otal
2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Property 11,093 495 11,588 8,952
Transport & Infrastructure 6,008 – 6,008 5,325
Environmental 3,222 – 3,222 2,474
20,323 495 – – 20,818 16,751
Pension settlements and curtailments –––– – 7,018
Operating profit 20,323 495 – – 20,818 23,769
Joint ventures
Transport & Infrastructure 572 (172) 400 82
Associated undertakings
Property 435 (75) 360 206
Transport & Infrastructure 739 (127) 612 275
Environmental 72 (12) 60 47
Profit before interest and taxation 1,818 (386) 22,250 24,379
Net finance costs (2,428) (2,796)
Profit before taxation 19,822 21,583
Taxation (5,829) (6,881)
Profit for the financial year 13,993 14,702
A segmental analysis of net finance costs has not been disclosed as the directors are of the opinion that its components cannot be
meaningfully analysed across regions and classes of business.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005
50 WSP Annual Report 2005
1. Segmental analysis (continued)
Assets, liabilities and other items
Transport & Transport &
Property Infrastructure Environmental Group Property Infrastructure Environmental Group
2005 2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segment assets 169,649 61,650 23,829 255,128 149,765 55,323 20,165 225,253
Investment in equity accounted
investments 2,547 2,419 501 5,467 2,438 2,001 478 4,917
T otal Assets 172,196 64,069 24,330 260,595 152,203 57,324 20,643 230,170
Segment liabilities 64,345 27,362 9,499 101,206 48,514 19,788 8,665 76,967
Unallocated liabilities
– Financial liabilities – bank loans 45,417 52,152
– Pension liabilities 31,037 20,500
Total liabilities 177,660 149,619
Other items
Capital expenditure 4,545 3,289 604 8,438 3,025 2,012 457 5,494
Depreciation 3,084 2,035 621 5,740 2,872 1,909 588 5,369
Amortisation of intangibles 948 56 38 1,042 337 20 13 370
Impairment of trade receivables 1,881 36 53 1,970 1,216 144 175 1,535
b) Secondary segmental analysis
The tables below are based on the location of the client, which is not materially different from the location where the order is received
and the assets are based.
Revenue Continuing
operations Acquisitions
2005 2005 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
United Kingdom 141,784 2,791 144,575 127,990
Mainland Europe 133,013 874 133,887 120,197
United States of America 35,308 – 35,308 28,552
Africa & the Middle East 21,098 1,288 22,386 13,703
Asia 11,462 – 11,462 10,227
Other 1,456 – 1,456 2,176
Revenue 344,121 4,953 349,074 302,845
Joint ventures
United Kingdom 11,788 – 11,788 9,569
Associated undertakings
Mainland Europe 13,069 – 13,069 9,899
T otal 368,978 4,953 373,931 322,313 WSP Annual Report 2005  51
Profit Joint ventures & associates
Continuing Share of Share of
operations Acquisitions profit tax T otal T otal
2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
United Kingdom 8,506 251 8,757 7,940
Mainland Europe 7,142 65 7,207 5,998
United States of America 2,474 – 2,474 1,362
Africa & the Middle East 1,779 179 1,958 1,256
Asia 346 – 346 47
Other 76 – 76 148
20,323 495 – – 20,818 16,751
Pension settlements and curtailments –––– – 7,018
Operating profit 20,323 495 – – 20,818 23,769
Joint ventures
United Kingdom 572 (172) 400 82
Associated undertakings
Mainland Europe 1,246 (214) 1,032 528
Profit before interest and taxation 1,818 (386) 22,250 24,379
Net finance costs (2,428) (2,796)
Profit before taxation 19,822 21,583
Taxation (5,829) (6,881)
Profit for the financial year 13,993 14,702
Assets and capital expenditure Segment assets Capital expenditure
2005 2004 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
United Kingdom 105,821 85,875 4,277 2,733
Mainland Europe 107,226 101,733 3,181 2,030
United States of America 29,346 26,863 568 299
Africa & the Middle East 8,675 6,897 343 272
Asia 4,060 3,886 69 160
255,128 225,254 8,438 5,494
Investments accounted for using the equity method 5,467 4,916 – –
T otal 260,595 230,170 8,438 5,494
c) Revenue by category 2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Revenue from construction contracts 202,931 175,930
Revenue from consultancy contracts 146,143 126,915
349,074 302,845
In the opinion of the directors, work in the property sector is substantially related to construction contracts as set out in IAS 11
‘Construction Contracts’. Work in the transportation and environmental sectors is more generally in the nature of consultancy. As at the
balance sheet date, the cumulative revenue attributable to those construction projects in progress at the year end was £235.6m. This
reflects the aggregate of costs incurred and recognised profits from the inception of such projects up until the balance sheet date. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005
52 WSP Annual Report 2005
2. Joint venture and associated undertakings 2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Share of associated undertakings’ revenue 13,069 9,899
Share of joint ventures’ revenue 11,788 9,569
24,857 19,468
Share of operating profit of associated undertakings 1,205 720
Share of operating profit of joint ventures 527 95
1,732 815 
Interest receivable 102 140 
Interest payable (16) (110)
Share of profit before taxation 1,818 845 
Taxation (386) (235)
Share of profit after taxation 1,432 610 
Share of net assets of joint venture and associated undertakings 2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Goodwill 253 995 
Property, plant and equipment 851 1,861 
Current assets 7,891 8,828 
8,995 11,684 
Current liabilities (2,986) (5,991)
Non-current liabilities (542) (776)
5,467 4,917 
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Group revenue with joint venture and associated undertakings 12,932 3,454 
Included in joint venture and associated undertakings’ current assets are:
Trading balances with WSP 289 105 
Included in joint venture and associated undertakings’ current liabilities are:
Trading balances with WSP 33 1,246 
The Group’s balances in respect of joint venture and associated undertakings relate mainly to its 40% interest in Carillion WSP and its
24.7% interest in Multiconsult AS.
3. Net finance costs 2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Interest on loans and other borrowings wholly repayable within five years:
Bank overdrafts 405 395
Bank loans 2,192 2,589
Finance leases 48 70
Interest payable 2,645 3,054
Interest receivable (217) (258)
Net finance costs 2,428 2,796 WSP Annual Report 2005  53
4. Profit before taxation 2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Is stated after charging/(crediting):
Property lease rentals 12,812 11,786
Equipment lease rentals 2,530 2,515
Auditors’ remuneration for the statutory audit:
Principal auditor 420 490
Other auditors 70 60
Other fees paid to principal auditor:
Taxation services 81 42
Interim review 33 32
Other services 45 –
Amortisation of intangibles 1,042 370
Depreciation of owned assets 5,084 4,967
Depreciation of assets held under finance leases 656 402
Research and development expenditure 2,672 2,492
Rents receivable (34) (44)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 51 12
Impairment of trade receivables 1,970 1,535
The audit fee for the Company was £65,000 (2004: £58,000).
5. Directors and employees Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Staff costs, including directors, were as follows:
Wages and salaries 167,739 145,684 1,809 1,843
Social security costs 26,910 24,286 157 127
Pension costs 13,593 14,722 240 224
Pension schemes settlements and curtailments – (7,018) – –
Contract and agency staff 12,913 10,443 35 82
Total staff costs 221,155 188,117 2,241 2,276
Number Number Number Number
The weekly average number of employees, contract and agency staff, including
directors, was as follows:
Engineering and technical 5,448 4,801 – –
Administration 474 406 13 11
Total Staff 5,922 5,207 13 11
Group
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Aggregate emoluments of the directors of the Company was as follows:
Salaries and benefits 1,575 1,399
Pension contributions 263 248
Non executive directors’ fees 107 95
Aggregate emoluments 1,945 1,742
Full details of the directors’ emoluments, share options, long term incentive plans including gains on exercise and pension entitlements
are included in the remuneration report on pages 37 to 40. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005
54 WSP Annual Report 2005
5. Directors and employees (continued)
The directors have identified 46 (2004:42) (Company 2005: 2; 2004: 2) key management personnel whose compensation was as
follows:
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Short term employment benefits 8,560 7,478 1,280 1,131
Post employment benefits 616 555 189 181
Share based payments 842 560 371 247
10,018 8,593 1,840 1,559
6. Taxation
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
a) Analysis of charge in the year
UK corporation tax on profits of the year at 30% (2004:30%) 2,211 2,293
Adjustments in respect of previous years (37) 352
2,174 2,645
Foreign taxation on profits of the year 4,275 1,546
Adjustments in respect of previous years (113) (55)
Total current taxation – note 6 (b) 6,336 4,136
Movement in deferred taxation (507) 2,745
Taxation 5,829 6,881
b) Factors affecting taxation for the year
The taxation assessed for the year is lower (2004: higher) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK which is 30% (2004:30%).
The differences are explained below:
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Profit before taxation 19,822 21,583
Profit before taxation multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% (2004:30%) 5,947 6,475
Effect of different taxation rates on overseas earnings (347) (68)
Expenses not deductible for taxation purposes 383 433
Other timing differences 718 (2,750)
Adjustments to current taxation in respect of previous periods (150) 297
Unrelieved overseas losses 151 (251)
Current taxation attributable to joint venture and associated undertakings (366) –
Total current taxation 6,336 4,136
Current year deferred taxation (517) 2,745
Adjustments to deferred taxation in respect of previous periods 10 –
Total taxation 5,829 6,881
c) Taxation items charged to equity
Deferred taxation asset related to the performance share plan adjustment 658 247
Deferred taxation asset related to the actuarial loss on pension scheme 3,131 571
Deferred taxation credited to equity 3,789 818
The directors are not aware of any factors which may materially affect the future tax charge. Further details of deferred taxation can be
found in note 13. WSP Annual Report 2005  55
7. Dividends 2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Dividends charged to equity in the period
Final dividend paid in May 2005 of 3.2p (2004: 3.0p) per share 1,935 1,813
Interim dividend paid in October 2005 of 2.4p (2004: 2.1p) per share 1,451 1,269
Total dividend paid in 2005 of 5.6p (2004: 5.1p) per share 3,386 3,082
Final dividend proposed for payment in May 2006 of 4.0p (2004: 3.2p) per share 2,416 1,935
If approved at the 2006 AGM, which is convened for 3 May 2006, the proposed final dividend of 4.0p per share will be paid on 12 May
2006 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 18 April 2006.
8. Earnings per share
The directors believe that the presentation of an adjusted earnings per share, being the basic and diluted earnings per share adjusted for
the credit for pension settlements and curtailments in 2004, assists with the understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 13,718 14,507
Exclusion of pension settlements and curtailments, less tax at 30% – (4,913)
Adjusted profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 13,718 9,594
No.’000 No.’000
Weighted average number of shares in issue 60,169 60,280
Earnings per share calculated by reference to the profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders
Basic earnings per share 22.8p 24.1p
No.’000 No.’000
Weighted average number of shares in issue 60,169 60,280
Dilution effect of shares to be issued – 104
Dilution effect of share options 2,723 2,071
62,892 62,455
Diluted earnings per share 21.8p 23.2p
Earnings per share calculated by reference to the adjusted profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders
Adjusted basic earnings per share 22.8p 15.9p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 21.8p 15.4p
The weighted average number of shares in issue excludes 314,772 (2004: 167,146) shares held by the WSP Employment Benefit Trust,
which are treated as cancelled for the purposes of IAS 33 calculations. In 2004, the dilutive effect of shares to be issued is calculated
with reference to the market value of shares at the year end as applied to the total performance related deferred consideration where
conditions have been met at the year end. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005
56 WSP Annual Report 2005
9. Goodwill
Group Company
£’000 £’000
Cost at 1 January 2005 94,534 1,357
Additions 6,572 –
Foreign exchange differences (4,046) –
Cost at 31 December 2005 97,060 1,357
Aggregate impairments at 1 January 2005 and 31 December 2005 – –
Net book value
At 31 December 2005 97,060 1,357
At 31 December 2004 94,534 1,357
At the balance sheet date, the value of capitalised goodwill has been tested for impairment using the following key assumptions:
a) Budgeted revenue for 2006, growing at the rate of 5% for 3 years and 3% thereafter which compares to our strategy plan of 5% per
annum organic growth.
b) Maintaining margins at 2005 levels, despite a target to grow margins through operational leverage.
c) Applying the weighted average cost of capital of 6%.
On the basis of the above assumptions the directors have concluded that there is no goodwill impairment.
The carrying values of goodwill by both primary and secondary segments is as follows:
Transport &
Property Infrastructure Environmental T otal
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
United Kingdom 4,456 355 128 4,939
Mainland Europe 36,481 28,833 7,208 72,522
United States of America 14,468 – – 14,468
Africa & the Middle East 2,567 856 – 3,423
Asia 1,708 – – 1,708
59,680 30,044 7,336 97,060 WSP Annual Report 2005  57
10. Intangible assets
Group Computer Sales order Customer Trading Other
software books lists names intangibles T otal
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost at 1 January 2005 3,565–––1 3,566
Additions – separately acquired 1,622–––1 1,623
Additions – on business combinations 16 143 132 36 – 327
Disposals (45) –––– (45)
Foreign exchange differences 72–––– 72
Cost at 31 December 2005 5,230 143 132 36 2 5,543
Amortisation at 1 January 2005 2,548–––– 2,548
Charge for the year 965 42 27 8 – 1,042
Disposals (45) –––– (45)
Foreign exchange differences 52–––– 52
Amortisation at 31 December 2005 3,520 42 27 8 – 3,597
Net book value
At 31 December 2005 1,710 101 105 28 2 1,946
Cost at 1 January 2004 3,564–––1 3,565
Foreign exchange differences 1––––1
Cost at 31 December 2004 3,565–––1 3,566
Amortisation at 1 January 2004 2,160–––– 2,160
Charge for the year 370–––– 370
Foreign exchange differences 18–––– 18
Amortisation at 31 December 2004 2,548–––– 2,548
Net book value
At 31 December 2004 1,017–––1 1,018
Where appropriate, intangible assets identified in business combinations have been recognised in accordance with the provisions of IFRS
3 ‘Business Combinations’ and IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’. Intangible assets have only been recognised where they have identifiable future
economic benefits that are controlled by the entity, it is probable that these benefits will flow to the entity and their fair value can be
measured reliably. 
The useful lives for the intangible assets acquired during the year were assessed to be as follows:
Y ears
Computer software Between 3 and 5 
Sales order books Between 2 and 4
Customer lists Between 2 and 4
Trading names 3
There are no intangible assets with indefinite lives. Amortisation has been charged to administrative expenses.
There are no intangible assets in the Company (2004:£Nil). Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005
58 WSP Annual Report 2005
11. Property, plant and equipment
Long Short Motor Office Fixtures
Freehold leasehold leasehold vehicles equipment & fittings Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Group
Cost at 1 January 2005 1,398 2,838 1,996 1,544 29,666 10,223 47,665
On acquisition of subsidiaries – – 133 140 252 84 609
Additions during year 9 5 539 132 5,952 1,801 8,438
Disposals during year (121) (2,821) (152) (203) (3,751) (726) (7,774)
Foreign exchange differences (97) (2) 65 (39) (795) (317) (1,185)
Cost at 31 December 2005 1,189 20 2,581 1,574 31,324 11,065 47,753
Depreciation at 1 January 2005 274 405 820 1,068 23,046 6,391 32,004
On acquisition of subsidiaries – – 19 65 62 33 179
Charge for the year 23 22 274 229 4,053 1,139 5,740
Disposals during year – (427) (88) (170) (3,727) (509) (4,921)
Foreign exchange differences (19) – 31 (27) (655) (248) (918)
Depreciation at 31 December 2005 278 – 1,056 1,165 22,779 6,806 32,084
Net book value
At 31 December 2005 911 20 1,525 409 8,545 4,259 15,669
Cost at 1 January 2004 1,174 2,786 1,859 1,673 29,998 10,430 47,920
On acquisition of subsidiaries 18 – – 46 368 52 484
Additions during year 241 – 238 119 4,193 703 5,494
Disposals during year (48) (5) (8) (323) (5,033) (993) (6,410)
Foreign exchange differences 13 57 (93) 29 140 31 177
Cost at 31 December 2004 1,398 2,838 1,996 1,544 29,666 10,223 47,665
Depreciation at 1 January 2004 263 377 630 1,099 23,661 5,999 32,029
On acquisition of subsidiaries – – – 10 223 9 242
Charge for the year 29 28 211 218 3,598 1,285 5,369
Disposals during year (21) – (6) (273) (4,507) (934) (5,741)
Foreign exchange differences 3 – (15) 14 71 32 105
Depreciation at 31 December 2004 274 405 820 1,068 23,046 6,391 32,004
Net book value
At 31 December 2004 1,124 2,433 1,176 476 6,620 3,832 15,661
The net book value includes an amount of £0.3m (2004: £0.6m) in respect of office equipment held under finance leases. WSP Annual Report 2005  59
Company
Short Office Fixtures
leasehold equipment & fittings Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost at 1 January 2005 and at 31 December 2005 12 519 397 928
Depreciation at 1 January 2005 11 506 306 823
Charge for the year 1 13 36 50
Depreciation at 31 December 2005 12 519 342 873
Net book value
At 31 December 2005 – – 55 55
Cost at 1 January 2004 and at 31 December 2004 12 519 397 928
Depreciation at 1 January 2004 10 494 271 775
Charge for the year 1 12 35 48
Depreciation at 31 December 2004 11 506 306 823
Net book value
At 31 December 2004 1 13 91 105
The net book value includes an amount of £Nil (2004: £Nil) in respect of assets held under finance leases.
12. Financial assets
The Group’s interest in joint ventures, associated undertakings and available for sale financial assets was as follows:
Financial
assets Investment in
available for Investment in associated
sale joint ventures undertakings
Note 12 (a) Note 12 (b) Note 12 (b)
£’000 £’000 £’000
Value at 1 January 2005 1,090 115 4,802
Additions 38–8
Disposals (617) – (12)
Share of profit for the year – 400 1,032
Dividends received/capital returned – (68) (478)
Foreign exchange differences 93 – (332)
Value at 31 December 2005 604 447 5,020
The Company’s interest in subsidiary and joint venture undertakings was as follows:
Subsidiary
and joint
venture
undertakings
Note 12 (c)
Cost at 1 January 2005 38,838
Inter group transfer (224)
Cost at 31 December 2005 38,614
Provision at 1 January and 31 December 2005 (87)
Net investment 
At 31 December 2005 38,527
At 31 December 2004 38,751 Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005
60 WSP Annual Report 2005
12. Financial assets (continued)
a) Financial assets available for sale
Financial assets available for sale primarily relate to the capital value of life assurance policies written on the lives of certain vendors of
Flack + Kurtz that were transferred to the Group at the time of the acquisition of that business, and minor other property interests. The
cost of these is materially equivalent to the fair value and therefore there are no material unrealised gains or losses to be recognised.
b) Principal joint venture and associated undertakings
Group’s Class of Country of
interest shares held Registration Principal activities
Associated undertakings:
Gifford Graham & Partners Limited 50.0% ordinary England Civil engineering
Multiconsult AS 24.7% ordinary Norway Multi-disciplined consultancy
Talone AS 49.0% ordinary Estonia Structural building design
Joint ventures:
Ryan Hanley WSP Limited 50.0% ordinary Ireland Civil engineering
Carillion WSP 40.0% unincorporated England Civil engineering
Diarchon TSA 50.0% ordinary Greece Project management
Knowledge Based Management Limited 50.0% ordinary England Asset management planning
Carillion WSP is unincorporated and operates from offices in Dewsbury Road, Tingley, West Yorkshire, WF3 1SW.
c) Principal subsidiary undertakings
Unless otherwise indicated the following principal subsidiary undertakings are registered in England and Wales and operate throughout
the UK.
The Group’s interest entirely comprises ordinary equity shares.
Principal subsidiary undertakings Group’s interest Principal activities
WSP Buildings Limited 100% Multi-disciplined building design
WSP Civils Limited* 100% Civil engineering and network management
WSP Development Limited* 100% Infrastructure and transport planning
WSP Environmental Limited* 100% Environmental and geotechnical services
WSP Knowledge Solutions plc 100% Facilities management
WSP Management Consultants Limited* 100% Management consultancy
Integrated Building Services Design Partnership plc* 100% Healthcare consultants
Edunova Limited* 100% Education consultants
WSP International Management Consulting Limited* 100% Management consultancy and infrastructure support
WSP Management Services Limited 100% Management services
WSP Remediation Limited* 100% Remediation of contaminated land
WSP Sweden AB* 100% Multi-disciplined consultancy, registered in Sweden
WSP LT Konsultit Oy* 100% Multi-disciplined consultancy, registered in Finland
WSP Kortes Oy* 100% Structural engineering design, registered in Finland
WSP Environmental Oy* 100% Environmental and geotechnical services, registered in Finland
WSP Cantor Seinuk Inc.* 100% Structural building design, registered in U.S.A.
Flack + Kurtz Inc.* 100% Building services design, registered in U.S.A.
Flack + Kurtz UK Limited* 100% Building services design
WSP Group South Africa (Pty) Limited* 100% Multi-disciplined building design, registered in South Africa
WSP Middle East Limited 100% Multi-disciplined consultancy, registered in Jersey
WSP Asia Limited 100% Multi-disciplined building design, registered in Hong Kong
WSP Hong Kong Limited* 100% Building services design, registered in Hong Kong
WSP Asia Philippines Inc* 100% Building services design, registered in Philippines
Shanghai WSP Consulting Limited – * 100% Building services design, registered in China
* The investment in these companies is held through subsidiary undertakings. WSP Annual Report 2005  61
13. Deferred taxation
Deferred taxation asset
Group Accelerated Other short
capital term timing T otal T otal
allowances differences 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 253 6,057 6,310 7,481
Charged during the year (163) (111) (274) (2,017)
Deferred taxation arising on acquisitions (5) – (5) –
Movement in reserves – 3,104 3,104 872
Foreign exchange differences – 114 114 (26)
At 31 December 85 9,164 9,249 6,310
Company
At 1 January – 396 396 149
Movement in reserves – 658 658 247
Charged during the year – 416 416 –
At 31 December – 1,470 1,470 396
Deferred taxation liability
Group Other short
Work in term timing T otal T otal
progress differences 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 6,008 211 6,219 5,431
Charged during the year 349 (1,130) (781) 728
Reserves movements – (685) (685) –
Foreign exchange differences (424) 13 (411) 60
At 31 December 5,933 (1,591) 4,342 6,219
Company
At 1 January –47 47 47
Charged during the year – (47) (47) –
Movement in reserves – – – –
At 31 December – – – 47
Full provision has been made for deferred taxation assets and liabilities. Deferred taxation assets and liabilities have been offset only to
the extent they relate to the same taxation regime. In the UK, a deferred taxation asset of £8,217,000 (2004:£5,537,000) primarily
relates to pension liabilites and the taxation treatment of employee share awards. In Sweden, a deferred taxation liability of £5,934,000
(2004: £6,008,000) arises in relation to the the taxation treatment of work in progress, offset by a deferred taxation asset in relation to
pension liabilities. In the United States, a deferred taxation asset of £877,000 (2004: £686,000) relates to short term timing differences
on certain provisions.  Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005
62 WSP Annual Report 2005
14. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
Current £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade receivables 73,451 60,817 – 34
Amounts recoverable on contracts 29,763 24,203 – –
Amounts due from group undertakings – – 90,139 98,857
Amounts due from joint ventures and associated undertakings 33 1,246 – –
Other receivables 5,036 3,718 517 60
Prepayments and accrued income 6,227 5,907 49 371
114,510 95,891 90,705 99,322
15. Financial liabilities
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
Current £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Bank loans 2,800 3,386 1,600 –
Bank overdrafts 2,621 3,050 – 8,935
Obligations under finance leases 153 336 – –
5,574 6,772 1,600 8,935
Non-Current
Bank loans 42,617 48,766 20,600 23,800
Obligations under finance leases – due in not more than five years 113 207 – –
42,730 48,973 20,600 23,800
Principal bank facilities are negotiated in the UK and Sweden and comprise two £30m lines of credit renewable in February 2007. Each
consists of £25m reducing revolving credit and an overdraft of £5m.
There is no material difference between the total of the future minimum finance lease payments at the balance sheet date and their
present value.
16. Trade and other payables
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
Current £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade payables 13,540 10,490 58 238
Amounts due to group undertakings – – 11,043 9,375
Amounts due to joint ventures and associated undertakings 289 105 – –
Payments received on account 12,305 6,099 – –
Other taxes and social security costs 13,079 12,042 27 11
Other payables and accruals 44,729 34,977 1,458 1,505
Deferred consideration 1,420 – – –
85,362 63,713 12,586 11,129 WSP Annual Report 2005  63
17. Provisions
Group Deferred Property 2005 2004
consideration provisions T otal T otal
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 1,497 102 1,599 870
Created during year 3,110 1,390 4,500 1,256
Reclassification to current trade and other payables (490) – (490) –
Release of unused provisions (33) (73) (106) (122)
Foreign exchange differences (88) – (88) 5
Provisions utilised during the year – (8) (8) (410)
At 31 December 3,996 1,411 5,407 1,599
Deferred consideration may become payable depending on the future financial performance of certain businesses acquired. Provision for
this liability has been calculated based upon the estimated deferred consideration that will fall due, amounts being payable in more than
one but less than four years.  Amounts the Group deem to be payable within one year are included within trade and other payables.
The property provision relates to the rent, service charge and other associated costs relating to properties that are vacant or nearing
the end of their lease term. The amount and timing of payments will depend on future commercial agreements.
In the Company accounts, provisions relate solely to property and amount to £169,000 (2004: £102,000). During the year, the
Company utilised £73,000 in relation to costs incurred on vacant property and created a further £140,000 in relation to estimated
future vacant property costs.
18. Called up share capital
The share capital of the Company comprises 5p ordinary shares.
Authorised Allotted and fully paid
2005 2005 Issue 2005 2005
No’000 £’000 price No’000 £’000
At 1 January 2005 70,000 3,500 60,459 3,023
Issued during the year 91p to 300p 67 3
At 31 December 2005 70,000 3,500 60,526 3,026
In 2004, the following shares to be issued in respect of acquisitions assumed that the performance targets set were to be achieved and
therefore the maximum deferred consideration would become payable. The performance targets were duly met however the directors
chose to settle the deferred consideration in cash and, as a result, the number of shares to be issued has been cancelled.
2005 2005 2004 2004
No’000 £’000 No’000 £’000
Shares to be issued – – 80 207
As at 31 December 2005, the Employee Benefit Trust owned 314,772 ordinary shares of the Company (2004: 167,146), some or all of
which may be used during 2006 to meet obligations under the WSP Share Option Plans. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005
64 WSP Annual Report 2005
19. Reserves
2005 2004
Group Share Profit Share Profit
premium Merger and loss premium Merger and loss
account reserve account account reserve account
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 76,537 – 477 76,510 – (10,232)
Retained profit for the year – – 10,332 – – 11,425
Foreign exchange differences – – (1,887) – – (249)
Performance share plan adjustment – – 534 – – 619
Deferred taxation related to the performance share plan adjustment – – 658 – – 247
Actuarial loss on pension scheme – – (10,599) – – (1,904)
Deferred taxation related to the actuarial loss on pension scheme – – 3,131 – – 571
Premium arising on the issue of ordinary shares 144–– 27––
At 31 December 76,681 – 2,646 76,537 – 477
Company
At 1 January 76,537 8,210 8,120 76,510 8,210 5,623
Retained (loss)/profit for the year – – (483) – – 881
Foreign exchange differences – – 302 – – 750
Performance share plan adjustment – – 938 – – 619
Deferred taxation related to the performance share plan adjustment – – 658 – – 247
Premium arising on the issue of ordinary shares 144–– 27––
At 31 December 76,681 8,210 9,535 76,537 8,210 8,120
The profit after taxation for the Company for the year amounted to £2,903,000 (2004: £3,963,000).
20. Acquisitions and disposals
The principal entities acquired during the year are set out in the table below. In all cases, the Group acquired 100% of the equity voting
capital.
Initial cash
consideration Deferred Book value Fair value
Place of Date of including cash of assets of assets
Acquisition incorporation Acquisition legal fees consideration acquired acquired Goodwill
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The PHB Group United Arab Emirates April 2005 507 718 308 362 863
Edunova Limited England April 2005 135 300 – – 435
Riskteknik Martin Uulas AB Sweden May 2005 292 403 108 162 533
Integrated Building Services
Design Partnership plc England July 2005 1,640 1,575 838 995 2,220
GW Building Services Limited England September 2005 257 400 – 60 597
Transek AB Sweden December 2005 598 241 364 216 623 WSP Annual Report 2005  65
The assets and liabilities of the businesses acquired in the year are set out below:
Carrying
values Provisional
pre fair
acquisition value
£’000 £’000
Goodwill 148 –
Intangible assets 16 16
Property, plant and equipment 431 431
Other financial assets 35 35
Amounts recoverable on contracts 342 353
Trade and other receivables 1,665 1,665
Other financial assets 1,602 1,602
Cash and cash equivalents 1,120 1,120
Trade and other payables (1,400) (1,400)
Current financial liabilities (2,212) (2,212)
Net assets acquired 1,747 1,610
Goodwill acquired 6,572
Intangible assets acquired 311
Consideration 8,493
In addition to the figures above, the Group may pay additional sums amounting to £3,947,000 dependent on a number of performance
targets being met. The fair value adjustments contain some provisional amounts which will be finalised in the 2006 accounts.
The outflow of cash and cash equivalents on acquisitions during the year is calculated as follows
£’000
Initial cash consideration 4,485
Cash acquired (1,120)
3,365
Had all acquisitions been made at the beginning of the year, the Group’s revenue and profit before interest and taxation would have
been reported as £376,164,000 and £22,549,000 respectively. This information is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations
that would have occurred had the purchase been made at the beginning of the year or the future results of the combined operations.
The intangible assets identified as part of businesses acquired in the year are analysed below. Further details of these are given in note
10.
£’000
Computer software 16
Sales order book 143
Customer lists 132
Trading names 36
T otal 327 Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005
66 WSP Annual Report 2005
21. Reconciliation of operating profit to operating cash flows
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the financial period 13,993 14,702 2,903 3,963
Employee benefits costs – pension scheme settlements and curtailments – (7,018) – –
13,993 7,684 2,903 3,963
Taxation 5,829 6,881 (2,179) –
Depreciation 5,740 5,369 50 48
Performance share plan 938 619 938 619
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 51 12 – –
Gain on disposal of other investments 26 – – –
Amortisation of intangibles 1,042 370 – –
Dividend income – – (2,461) (5,000)
Interest income (217) (258) (821) (918)
Interest expense 2,645 3,054 1,469 1,786
Share of results of joint venture and associated undertakings after taxation (1,432) (610) – –
Changes in working capital (excluding effects of acquisitions of subsidiaries):
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (15,001) (5,662) 59 (392)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 16,914 6,458 (236) 242
Increase/(decrease) in other provisions 1,009 104 67 (92)
Other non cash items 336 – 659 709
Cash generated from operations 31,873 24,021 448 965
22. Financing
2005 2004 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Net proceeds of share issues 147 28 147 28
Purchase of shares (406) (148) – –
Drawdown on loan facilities – 51,855 – 23,800
Repayment of loan facilities (5,284) (58,491) (1,600) (57,364)
Repayments on finance leases (284) (422) – –
Closure of Swedish Kronor currency swap – (6,827) – (6,827)
Equity dividends received – – 2,461 5,000
Equity dividends paid (3,386) (3,082) (3,386) (3,082)
Total financing (9,213) (17,087) (2,378) (38,445)
23. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2005 2004 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Increase/(decrease) in cash balances in the year 5,341 (5,695) (595) 846
Decrease/(increase) in bank overdrafts in the year 429 (1,938) 8,935 (7,513)
Increase/(decrease) in cash in the year 5,770 (7,633) 8,340 (6,667)
New finance leases – (148) – –
Net debt acquired with acquisitions – (443) – –
Finance lease repayments 284 422 – –
Bank loan and property mortgage repayments 5,284 58,491 1,600 57,364
New bank loans/drawdowns on existing facilities – (51,855) – (23,800)
Movement in net debt resulting from cash flows 11,338 (1,166) 9,940 26,897
Foreign exchange differences 1,444 740 – –
Movement in net debt in the year 12,782 (426) 9,940 26,897
Net debt at 1 January (44,996) (44,570) (31,847) (58,744)
Net debt at 31 December (32,214) (44,996) (21,907) (31,847) WSP Annual Report 2005  67
24. Analysis of net debt
Group 1 January Net cash Other Foreign 31December
2005 flows movements Exchange 2005
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash balances 10,749 5,196 – 145 16,090
Bank overdrafts (3,050) 326 – 103 (2,621)
Cash and cash equivalents 7,699 5,522 – 248 13,469
Current
Bank loans (3,386) 5,284 (4,764) 66 (2,800)
Finance Leases (336) 284 (95) (6) (153)
Non-current
Bank loans (48,766) – 4,764 1,385 (42,617)
Finance Leases (207) – 95 (1) (113)
(44,996) 11,090 – 1,692 (32,214)
Company 1 January Net cash Other Foreign 31December
2005 flows movements Exchange 2005
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash balances 888 (595) – – 293
Bank overdrafts (8,935) 8,935 – – –
Cash and cash equivalents (8,047) 8,340 – – 293
Current
Bank loans – – (1,600) – (1,600)
Non-current
Bank loans (23,800) 1,600 1,600 – (20,600)
(31,847) 9,940 – – (21,907)
25. Pensions
Pension costs included in employee benefit costs consist of the following:
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Defined benefit schemes 2,276 3,435
Effect of curtailment – (7,018)
2,276 (3,583)
Defined contribution schemes 11,317 11,287
13,593 7,704
The Group operates both defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes. Defined contributions are charged to the profit
and loss account as they are incurred.
In the UK, there are six separate defined benefit schemes, all of which are closed to new members. The assets of the schemes are held
separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds. In 2004, pensionable salaries were frozen following
consultation with staff.
In Sweden, a proportion of the multi-employer Government run plan is treated as a defined benefit scheme. This liability is unfunded
and is carried in the Group’s balance sheet. The multi-employer Government plan retains substantial other assets to meet the balance of
pension liabilities. As the directors are unable to identify the underlying assets and liabilities of this portion of the scheme, this portion is
treated as a defined contribution scheme for the purposes of IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005
68 WSP Annual Report 2005
25. Pensions (continued)
For funded and unfunded defined benefit plans, any deficit of the fair value of plan assets over the present value of the defined benefit
obligation is recognised as a liability in the balance sheet, taking into account any unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service
cost. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full as they arise in the statement of recognised income and expense. These reflect
changes in actuarial assumptions and differences between actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
The actuarial cost charged to the income statement in respect of defined benefit plans consists of current service costs, interest costs,
expected return on plan assets, past service costs and costs of curtailments.
The liabilities of the Group arising from defined benefit obligations and their related current service cost are determined using the
projected unit credit method. Valuations are performed annually for the largest plans and on a regular basis for other plans. Actuarial
advice is provided both by external consultants and actuaries. The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the benefit obligations vary
according to the economic conditions of the country in which the plan is located and are set out below.
UK 2005 2004
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries nil nil
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.7% 2.5%
Discount rate 4.8% 5.4%
Inflation assumption 2.7% 2.5%
Expected return on plan assets 6.6% 6.9%
Sweden
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 2.8% 2.8%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.8% 2.8%
Discount rate 3.8% 4.5%
Inflation assumption 2.0% 2.0%
Expected return on plan assets n/a n/a
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows:
2005 2004
Equities 60% 57%
Bonds 23% 14%
Property 1% 2%
Other 16% 27%
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Fair value of plan assets 44,948 36,939
Present value of funded obligations (66,876) (51,973)
(21,928) (15,034)
Present value of unfunded obligations (9,109) (5,466)
Pension liability (31,037) (20,500) WSP Annual Report 2005  69
Amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004
Charge Charge
excluding the excluding the
effect of Effect of effect of Effect of
curtailments Curtailments T otal curtailments Curtailments T otal
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’0000
Current service costs 1,827 – 1,827 2,835 – 2,835
Curtailments –– – – (7,018) (7,018)
Interest cost 3,036 – 3,036 2,985 – 2,985
Expected return on plan assets (2,587) – (2,587) (2,385) – (2,385)
Total charge/(credit) to the income statement 2,276 – 2,276 3,435 (7,018) (3,583)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Present value of obligation as at 1 January 57,439 57,171
Service cost 1,827 2,835
Contributions 466 708
Benefits paid (1,028) (1,521)
Interest cost 3,036 2,985
Settlements and curtailments – (7,018)
Actuarial losses 14,643 2,237
Foreign exchange differences (398) 42
Present value of obligation as at 31 December 75,985 57,439
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
Fair value of plan assets as at 1 January 36,939 33,350
Expected return on plan assets 2,587 2,385
Contributions 2,403 2,392
Benefits paid (1,025) (1,521)
Actuarial gains 4,044 333
Fair value of plan assets as at 31 December 44,948 36,939
Analysis of the movement in pension scheme liabilities:
As at 1 January 20,500 23,821
Total charge/(credit) 2,276 (3,583)
Contributions (1,937) (1,684)
Net actuarial losses recognised in the year 10,599 1,904
Benefits paid (3) –
Foreign exchange differences (398) 42
As at 31 December 31,037 20,500
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity
As at 1 January (1,904) –
Net actuarial losses recognised in the year (10,599) (1,904)
As at 31 December (12,503) (1,904) Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005
70 WSP Annual Report 2005
25. Pensions (continued)
History of experience gains and losses
2005 2004
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets:
Amount (£’000) 4,044 333
Percentage of scheme assets 9% 1%
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities:
Amount (£’000) (3,883) (556)
Percentage of scheme liabilities (5%) (1%)
Changes in the assumptions underlying the value of scheme liabilities:
Amount (£’000) (10,760) (1,681)
Percentage of scheme liabilities (14%) (3%)
Present value of scheme liabilities (£’000) (75,985) (57,439)
Fair value of scheme assets (£’000) 44,948 36,939
Deficit (£’000) (31,037) (20,500)
The combined employee and employer contributions expected to be paid during the financial year ended 31 December 2006 amount
to £2.6m.
26. Financial instruments
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, including the effects of foreign currency exchange rates, liquidity and
interest rates. An explanation of the Board’s objectives, policies and strategies for holding and issuing financial instruments to manage
these risks is set out in the Group Finance Director’s Review on page 11.
a) Foreign currency risk
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk primarily with respect to the Swedish Kronor and the US Dollar. Most of our trading
activity is denominated in the currencies relevant to the local subsidiaries, thus matching the currency with its cost base.
Cash and cash equivalents by major currency
Functional currency of the local operation
Group Company
2005 2005 2004 2004 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Sterling Other Sterling Other Sterling Sterling 
Sterling 6,127 7 1,916 46 276 74 
US Dollars 117 4,093 609 2,853 26 546 
Swedish Kronor 3 1,016 342 834 3 342 
Euro – 1,844 – 1,761 – – 
South African Rand – 1,117 – 1,240 – – 
Other 674 1,092 792 356 – – 
6,921 9,169 3,659 7,090 305 962
The Group and the Company have £16.1m and £0.3m respectively of cash and cash equivalents at the year end held in bank accounts
(2004: £10.7m the Group; £1.0m the Company) which is immediately available for use. Cash surplus to short term requirements is
usually invested overnight on the money market to earn interest at rates close to the prevailing local base rates. WSP Annual Report 2005  71
b) Liquidity risk
The maturity of financial liabilities is as follows:
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
In one year or less, or on demand 5,573 7,125 1,600 10,535
In more than one year but not more than two years 24,574 18,432 20,769 102
In more than two years but not more than five years 13,747 31,409 – 22,200
In more than five years 40,854 20,878 – –
84,748 77,844 22,369 32,837
In addition to medium-term bank loans the Group has negotiated working capital facilities with local relationship banks in the countries
in which it operates. These facilities are negotiated annually and are normally repayable on demand. At 31 December 2005 committed
but undrawn working capital facilities amounted to £19.8m (2004:£16.7m) all of which are renewable in 2007 (2004: £0.5m in one year
or less and £16.2m in more than one year). 
c) Interest rate risk
Non- Non-
Floating Fixed interest Floating Fixed interest
rate rate bearing rate rate bearing 
liabilities liabilities liabilities T otal liabilities liabilities liabilities T otal
2005 2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Sterling 22,200 27 24,593 46,820 23,800 186 15,186 39,172
US Dollars 2,131 7 – 2,138 2,797 58 – 2,855
Swedish Kronor 22,642 – 11,687 34,329 27,757 – 6,882 34,639
Hong Kong Dollars 432 – – 432 461 – – 461
South African Rand 864 – 165 1,029 685 – 32 717
48,269 34 36,445 84,748 55,500 244 22,100 77,844
The floating rate liabilities apply to short and medium-term bank overdrafts and loans with interest rates falling within the range 0.75%
to 1.5% over the relevant country national bank base rates. The fixed rate liabilities apply to finance leases with a weighted average
interest rate of between 7% and 9%. The weighted average period on which interest rates on the fixed rate financial liabilities are fixed is
2 years (2004: 3 years). The Group’s worldwide banking facilities are secured by fixed and floating charges over a variety of the Group’s
assets including cross-guarantees from subsidiaries. Finance lease obligations are secured on the assets to which they relate.
Financial assets are non interest bearing with the exception of cash and cash equivalents as detailed in (a) above.
d) Credit risk
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks
on potential customers before sales commence.
e) Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
There were no outstanding currency swaps or derivatives at 31 December 2005 (2004:nil) and no designated hedges as defined by IAS
39, ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. In accordance with IAS 39, the Group has reviewed all contracts for
embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements. No such
arrangements have been identified.
f) Fair values
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities of the Group are considered to be materially equivalent to their book value. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005
72 WSP Annual Report 2005
27. Guarantees, contingent liabilities and other commitments
At the year end the Company and certain of its subsidiary undertakings cross guarantee the bank loans of the Group.
In common with other professional firms, the Group maintains professional indemnity insurance against claims for professional
negligence which in the ordinary course of business have been, or may in the future be, received. The directors assess each claim and
make provision for legal and settlement costs where, on the basis of advice received, it is considered that a liability may exist.
No other commitments, either authorised or contracted for, existed at 31 December 2005.
At the year end there existed the following annual commitments under operating leases which expire:
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Equipment and plant:
Within one year 468 724 16 16 
Between two and five years 2,947 2,163 – – 
3,415 2,887 16 16 
Property:
Within one year 1,367 1,067 113 114 
Between two and five years 12,612 10,570 1,124 675 
After more than five years 744 1,009 – – 
14,723 12,646 1,237 789 
28. Related party transactions
Group
During the year the Group entered into arm’s length transactions with its joint ventures and associated undertakings. Turnover with
these companies amounted to £12.9m (2004: £3.5m) and the Group purchased services of £0.6m (2004: £Nil). 
At 31 December 2005 a net balance of £256,000 was due to joint ventures and associated undertakings by the Group (2004:
£1,141,000 due from the Group to joint ventures and associated undertakings).
As disclosed in the Directors’ Report, the Group has entered into arm’s length transactions in the normal course of its business with
companies with which the non-executive Directors are associated by virtue of their employments. These Directors have no controlling
influence over these companies or a material interest in the outcome of these contracts.
Certain senior employees are entitled to receive deferred consideration payable in cash and shares in respect of the acquisition of
businesses in which they formerly held equity interests. At 31 December 2005, the maximum total due to these senior employees was
£5,416,000 (2004: £1,257,000), subject to meeting performance targets.
Details of the aggregate remuneration of key management personnel of the Group are set out in note 5.
Company
The Company operates as a holding company for the group and, as such, receives management fees for services supplied to Group
companies. Mangement fees received from other Group companies amounted to £4,507,000 (2004: £3,788,000). During the year, the
Company received interest on loans to other Group companies amounting to £816,000 (2004: £888,000).The Company received
dividends from subsidiary undertakings amounting to £2,461,000 (2004:£5,000,000).
The Company has outstanding balances with other Group companies that are disclosed in notes 14 and 16, and has investments in
group companies as detailed in note 12(c).
Compensation of the Company key management personnel is detailed in note 5. WSP Annual Report 2005  73
29. Share options, the performance share plan and the bonus share plan
At 31 December 2005 outstanding options and awards to subscribe for ordinary shares of 5p each in the Company, granted in
accordance with the rules of the relevant share option schemes, the bonus share plan and the performance share plan were as follows:
Exercisable Exercisable 
Exercise At At 31 Dec at 31 Dec at 31 Dec  
Exercise or vesting date price 1 Jan 2005 Exercised Lapsed Awarded 2005 2004 2005
WSP Group plc 1997 Save As You Earn
11.04.2001 – 11.04.2004 420.0p 3,227 – (3,227) – – 3,227 – 
11.04.2002 – 11.04.2005 300.0p 149,301 (25,003) (124,298) –––– 
152,528 (25,003) (127,525) – – 3,227 – 
WSP Group plc 1997 Share Option Scheme
08.04.2001 – 08.04.2008 91.0p 70,696 (16,441) – – 54,255 70,696 54,255 
30.06.2002 – 30.06.2009 183.0p 89,879 (14,053) (192) – 75,634 89,879 75,634 
26.05.2003 – 26.05.2010 242.0p 150,161 (6,576) – – 143,585 150,161 143,585 
06.04.2004 – 06.04.2011 429.0p 302,515 – (176,486) – 126,029 302,515 126,029 
06.04.2005 – 06.04.2012 334.0p 371,750 (5,500) (197,750) – 168,500 – 168,500 
10.04.2006 – 10.04.2013 75.0p 104,500 – (2,500) – 102,000 – – 
1,089,501 (42,570) (376,928) – 670,003 613,251 568,003 
WSP Group plc 1997 Performance Share Plan
01.04.2005 0.0p 206,455 – (206,455) –––– 
01.04.2006 0.0p 1,190,000–––1,190,000 – – 
01.04.2007 0.0p 300,000––– 300,000 – – 
01.04.2008 0.0p––– 281,000 281,000 – – 
1,696,455 – (206,455) 281,000 1,771,000 – – 
WSP Group plc 1997 Deferred Bonus Share Plan
01.04.2005 0.0p 2,275 (2,275) –––––
20.05.2005 0.0p 6,017 (6,017) ––––– 
01.04.2006 0.0p 308,293––– 308,293 – – 
01.04.2007 0.0p 17,482––– 17,482 – – 
01.04.2008 0.0p––– 82,312 82,312 – – 
334,067 (8,292) – 82,312 408,087 – – 
3,272,551 (75,865) (710,908) 363,312 2,849,090 616,478 568,003 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised in the period was 334.25p. In accordance with the
rules of the various WSP Share Option Schemes the number and price of options have been subject to appropriate adjustment to
reflect the impact of the rights issue in June 2001.
a) Ordinary options
The exercise of ordinary options are contingent upon meeting performance targets set by the Remuneration Committee that presently
require Earnings Per Share to grow by at least the equivalent to the increase in the Retail Price Index plus, on average, 3% per annum.
b) Performance share plan and deferred bonus share plan – The WSP Employee Benefit Trust
The Group operates the WSP Performance Share Plan and the WSP Deferred Bonus Share Plan for the benefit of its executive
directors and senior management. The WSP Employee Benefit Trust, which was set up in 1997, holds ordinary shares in the Company
to meet commitments in respect of the share awards granted under these schemes. The shares of the Trust are presented as a
deduction in shareholders’ funds in accordance with IFRS 2.
WSP Group plc has provided loans totalling £1,859,141 (2004: £1,529,141) to the Trust in the form of interest free loans to enable the
Trust to purchase shares in the Company. Subsidiary undertakings of the Group will make cash contributions to the Trust which will be
used to repay the loans. 29. Share options, the performance share plan and the bonus share plan (continued)
The fair value of the potential future awards of the two schemes is accrued over the 3-year performance periods of each plan. The fair
value of future awards charged in 2005 in the accounts of WSP Group plc was £938,501 (2004: £619,425).
In respect of share awards granted during the period of 363,312, the weighted average fair value of the shares amounted to 251.1p
calculated using the Black Scholes valuation model. The inputs to this model included, inter alia, an average yield of 4.38% from British
government securities and an average dividend yield of 2.5%. The volatility has been calculated as the annualised standard deviation of
the continuously compounded historic rates of return on WSP shares.
As at 31 December 2005 the Trust owned 314,772 ordinary shares of the Company (2004: 167,146), all of which are due for transfer
at nil exercise price, to directors and senior management under the conditions of the Performance Share Plan and the Deferred Bonus
Share Plan. The performance conditions applicable to awards granted under the Performance Share Plan are set out in the
Remuneration Committee Report. The market value of each share held at 31 December 2005 was 370p per share (2004: 260p). All
shares held are reserved to meet existing commitments under the employee incentive schemes.
30. International Financial Reporting Standards
WSP Group plc (‘the Company”) has prepared its consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) and IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies
Act, 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. References to IFRS throughout these financial statements refer to the
application of International Accounting Standards and International Financial Reporting Standards.
Previously, the Company prepared financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (‘UK GAAP’).
These are the first financial statements prepared under IFRS and this note explains the differences that have arisen when the Group’s
financial statements are prepared under IFRS rather than UK GAAP . Reconciliations of the Group’s and the Company’s UK GAAP
balance sheets to those prepared in accordance with IFRS as at 1 January 2004 (the opening balance sheet as at the date of transition to
IFRS) and 31 December 2004 are set out on pages 77, 78, 80 and 81. In addition, reconciliations of the Group’s and Company’s income
statements prepared under UK GAAP to those prepared in accordance with IFRS for the year to 31 December 2004 are set out on
pages 76 and 79.
The restatement has been prepared on the basis that all IFRSs, International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee (‘IFRIC’)
interpretations and current IASB exposure drafts will be issued as final standards and endorsed by the EU.
First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards
The Company has applied IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’ for its initial implementation of
IFRS. The Company’s date of transition to IFRS is 1 January 2004 and comparative information in the financial statements has been
restated to reflect the Company’s adoption of IFRS except where otherwise required or permitted by IFRS 1.
IFRS 1 requires an entity to comply with each IFRS effective at the reporting date for its first financial statements prepared under IFRS.
As a general rule, IFRS 1 requires such standards to be applied retrospectively. However, the standard permits several optional
exemptions from full retrospective application. The Company has elected to take advantage of the following exemptions:
  The Company has adopted IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ to the extent that it applies to acquisitions after 1January 2004.
Acquisitions before that date will be recorded under previous accounting rules as the Company intends to take advantage of the
exemption permitted in IFRS 1. All goodwill and intangibles have been tested for impairment in accordance with our accounting
policy. In addition, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption allowed in IFRS 1 which means that IAS 21 ‘The Effects of
Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’ will not apply retrospectively to fair value adjustments and goodwill arising in business
combinations that occurred before the date of transition to IFRSs.
  The Company has elected to take advantage of the exemption which allows cumulative actuarial gains or losses on defined benefit
pension schemes at the date of transition to IFRS to be recognised immediately.
  The Company has elected to take advantage of the exemption allowed in IFRS 1 regarding cumulative translation differences.
Accordingly, the cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations are deemed to be nil at the date of transition to IFRS.
  The Group has elected to apply the exemptions in IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’ and IAS 39 ‘Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, and will apply these standards from 1 January 2005 only.
  The Company has elected to take advantage of the exemptions allowed in IFRS 1 regarding IFRS 2 ‘Share based payments’. The
Company has applied the exemptions for share based payments granted on or before 7 November 2002. The Company has met all
the disclosure requirements of IFRS 2.
Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005
74 WSP Annual Report 2005 WSP Annual Report 2005  75
Main impacts of International Financial Reporting Standards
Outlined below are those International Financial Reporting Standards which have had an impact upon the financial statements of WSP
Group plc. Details of adjustments are set out in the reconciliations to UK GAAP on pages 76 to 82.
IFRS 3 – ‘Business Combinations’
The standard deals with accounting for business combinations including goodwill and intangible assets. The Company’s previous policy
under UK GAAP was to capitalise goodwill and then amortise the balance over its useful economic life. Under IFRS, goodwill is
reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Where appropriate, in respect of business combinations completed after the date of transition to IFRS, separately identified intangible
assets will be valued and will be subject to amortisation or impairment review.
IAS 19 – ‘Employee Benefits’
The standard covers all forms of employee benefits, in particular post-retirement benefits and defined benefit pension schemes. The
Group previously accounted for defined benefit pension schemes using SSAP 24 and also complied with the transitional rules of FRS 17.
As at 1 January 2004, the impact of IAS 19 on the financial statements has been the introduction of a liability on the balance sheet in
respect of the deficit in defined benefit pension schemes and the reduction of shareholders’ equity by a corresponding amount, net of
deferred taxation.
IAS 1 – ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’
Previously, under UK GAAP , the Group’s profit before taxation included the profits of joint venture and associated undertakings,
determined on a pre-tax basis. IAS 1 requires that the profits of associated undertakings and joint ventures should be presented net of
taxation, and consequently the impact of this standard is to present the Group’s profit before taxation inclusive of profits of joint venture
and associated undertakings after taxation.
IAS 12 – ‘Income Taxes’
This standard requires entities to provide for deferred taxation based on temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets
and liabilities and their tax base. Consequently, the Company has made additional provision for deferred taxation on tax deductible
purchased goodwill amortisation, share based payments and pension costs.
IAS 21 – ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’
Income statements and cash flows of foreign subsidiaries are reported in sterling using average rates of exchange that existed during the
accounting period rather than the closing rates at the end of the accounting period as was previously permitted by UK GAAP .
IAS 10 – ‘Events after the balance sheet date’
The standard does not permit dividends declared after the balance sheet date to be recognised as a liability. Consequently the Company
no longer makes provision for dividends not approved by the period end. Actual dividends paid in the period are charged to
shareholders’ equity.
IFRS 2 – ‘Share-based Payments’
Historically, provision has been made for the cost of awards to employees (including conditional rights) based on the share price ruling
at grant date. Under IFRS 2, share awards will be measured at fair value at grant date and recognised as an expense over the period to
which the employees performance relates. The impact of this standard on the financial statements of the Company has been a small
reduction in the charge to the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2004 and an equivalent increase in shareholders’
funds, net of deferred tax. Additionally there is a small reduction in the cumulative charge to retained earnings at the date of transition
to IFRS.
IAS 38 – ‘Intangible Assets’
Previously, all software was classified as tangible assets. IAS 38 attaches additional focus on software as a separate class of intangible
assets, and the impact of this standard has been the reclassification of certain acquired software applications as intangible assets.
IAS 14 – ‘Segment Reporting’
Previously, the Group presented segment reporting based on its three primary business segments being Property, Transport &
Infrastructure, and Environmental. Secondary segments are reported on the basis of the five principal geographic regions in which those
services are provided. The Group now reports additional segmental analysis in accordance with IAS 14. Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005
76 WSP Annual Report 2005
30. International Financial Reporting Standards (continued)
Reconciliation of IFRS profit for the year ended 31 December 2004
Translation 
of foreign Accounting
Audited exchange Defined for JVs and
UK GAAP Write-back at average benefit associates by IFRS
31 December amortisation Exchange pension net equity Other 31 December
2004 of goodwill Rates schemes method adjustments 2004
Group Note 31 (f) (g) (c) (a) (d)
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 308,246 – (5,401) – – – 302,845
Cost of sales
Subcontractor costs (25,163) – 251 – – – (24,912)
Employee benefits costs
– standard (198,866) – 3,603 128 – – (195,135)
– pension scheme settlements and
curtailments – – – 7,018 – – 7,018
Gross profit 84,217 – (1,547) 7,146 – – 89,816
Administrative expenses (67,270) – 1,224 – – (1) (66,047)
Amortisation of goodwill (5,446) 5,446 – – – – –
Operating profit 11,501 5,446 (323) 7,146 – (1) 23,769
Joint venture and associated undertakings
– share of profit 866 – (51) – 30 – 845
– share of taxation – – 14 – (249) – (235)
866 – (37) – (219) – 610
Profit before interest and taxation 12,367 5,446 (360) 7,146 (219) (1) 24,379
Interest payable (2,801) – 38 – (30) (261) (3,054)
Interest receivable – – (3) – – 261 258
Profit before taxation 9,566 5,446 (325) 7,146 (249) (1) 21,583
Taxation (4,777) – 86 (2,143) 249 (296) (6,881)
Profit for the financial year 4,789 5,446 (239) 5,003 – (297) 14,702
Profit attributable to
– Equity shareholders 4,580 5,446 (225) 5,003 – (297) 14,507
– Minority interests 209 – (14) – – – 195
4,789 5,446 (239) 5,003 – (297) 14,702 WSP Annual Report 2005  77
Reconciliation of equity as at 1 January 2004 (date of transition to IFRSs)
Audited Balance
UK GAAP sheet IFRS
31 December reclass- Pension Other 31 December
2003 ifications schemes adjustments 2003
Group Note 31 (b) (c) (d),(e)
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill 92,556––– 92,556
Intangible assets – 1,405 – – 1,405
Property, plant and equipment 16,845 (954) – – 15,891
Financial assets 1,164––– 1,164
Investments accounted for using the equity method 3,224––– 3,224
Deferred taxation asset – 1,250 6,082 149 7,481
113,789 1,701 6,082 149 121,721
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 88,661 (451) – – 88,210
Cash and cash equivalents 16,444––– 16,444
105,105 (451) – – 104,654
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities – (60,044) – – (60,044)
Trade and other payables (127,374) 62,046 – 1,813 (63,515)
Liabilities for current taxation – (2,002) – – (2,002)
(127,374) – – 1,813 (125,561)
Net current assets (22,269) (451) – 1,813 (20,907)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities (1,027) – – – (1,027)
Pension liabilities – – (23,821) – (23,821)
Deferred taxation liability (5,174) (1,250) 993 – (5,431)
Provisions (870) – – – (870)
(7,071) (1,250) (22,828) – (31,149)
Net assets 84,449 – (16,746) 1,962 69,665
Equity
Called up share capital 3,022––– 3,022
Share premium account 76,510––– 76,510
Shares to be issued 253––– 253
Profit and loss account 4,552 – (16,746) 1,962 (10,232)
Total shareholders’ equity 84,337 – (16,746) 1,962 69,553
Minority interests 112––– 112
Total equity 84,449 – (16,746) 1,962 69,665 Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005
78 WSP Annual Report 2005
30. International Financial Reporting Standards (continued)
Reconciliation of equity as at 31 December 2004
Audited
UK GAAP Balance sheet Write-back IFRS
31 December reclass- Pension amortisation Other 31 December
2004 ifications schemes of goodwill adjustments 2004
Group Note 31 (b) (c) (f) (d),(e)
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill 89,088 – – 5,446 – 94,534
Intangible assets – 1,018 – – – 1,018
Property, plant and equipment 16,663 (1,002) – – – 15,661
Financial assets 1,090 – – – – 1,090
Investments accounted for using the equity method 4,917 – – – – 4,917
Deferred taxation asset – 1,645 4,510 – 155 6,310
111,758 1,661 4,510 5,446 155 123,530
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 95,907 (16) – – – 95,891
Cash and cash equivalents 10,749 – – 10,749
106,656 (16) – – – 106,640
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities (6,772) – – – – (6,772)
Trade and other payables (65,648) – – – 1,935 (63,713)
Liabilities for current taxation (1,843) – – – – (1,843)
(74,263) – – – 1,935 (72,328)
Net current assets 32,393 (16) – – 1,935 34,312
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities (48,973) – – – – (48,973)
Pension liabilities (1,881) – (18,619) – – (20,500)
Deferred taxation liability (5,578) (1,645) 1,004 – – (6,219)
Provisions (1,599) – – – – (1,599)
(58,031) (1,645) (17,615) – – (77,291)
Net assets 86,120 – (13,105) 5,446 2,090 80,551
Equity
Called up share capital 3,023 – – – – 3,023
Share premium account 76,537 – – – – 76,537
Shares to be issued 207 – – – – 207
Profit and loss account 6,033 – (13,105) 5,446 2,103 477
Total shareholders’ equity 85,800 – (13,105) 5,446 2,103 80,244
Minority interests 320 – – – (13) 307
Total equity 86,120 – (13,105) 5,446 2,090 80,551 WSP Annual Report 2005  79
Reconciliation of IFRS profit for the year ended 31 December 2004
Audited
UK GAAP Write-back Employee IFRS
31 December amortisation benefit Other 31December
2004 of goodwill trust adjustments 2004
Company Note 31 (f) (h) (b),(d),(e)
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 13 – – – 13
Cost of sales –– – – –
Subcontractor costs – – – – –
Employee benefits costs
– standard (2,845) – – – (2,845)
– pension scheme settlements and
curtailments – – – – –
Gross profit (2,832) – – – (2,832)
Administrative expenses 7,620 – 18 25 7,663
Amortisation of goodwill (86) 86 – – –
Operating profit 4,702 86 18 25 4,831
Joint venture and associated undertakings
– share of profit – – – – –
– share of taxation – – – – –
–– – – –
Profit before interest and taxation 4,702 86 18 25 4,831
Interest payable (1,786) – – – (1,786)
Interest receivable 921 – (3) – 918
Profit before taxation 3,837 86 15 25 3,963
Taxation – – – – –
Profit for the financial year 3,837 86 15 25 3,963 Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005
80 WSP Annual Report 2005
30. International Financial Reporting Standards (continued)
Reconciliation of equity as at 1 January 2004 (date of transition to IFRSs)
Audited
UK GAAP Employee IFRS
31 December benefit Other 31 December
2003 trust adjustments 2003
Company Note 31 (h) (d),(e)
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill 1,357 – – 1,357
Property, plant and equipment 153 – – 153
Investments in subsidiary and joint venture undertakings 25,025 – – 25,025
Deferred taxation asset – – 149 149
26,535 – 149 26,684
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 137,112 1,529 – 138,641
Cash and cash equivalents 131 (89) – 42
137,243 1,440 – 138,683
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities (58,786) – – (58,786)
Trade and other payables (13,956) – 1,813 (12,143)
Liabilities for current taxation (579) – – (579)
(73,321) – 1,813 (71,508)
Net current assets 63,922 1,440 1,813 67,175
Non-current liabilities
Deferred taxation liability (47) – – (47)
Provisions (194) – – (194)
(241) – – (241)
Net assets 90,216 1,440 1,962 93,618
Equity
Called up share capital 3,022 – – 3,022
Share premium account 76,510 – – 76,510
Shares to be issued 253 – – 253
Other reserves 8,210 – – 8,210
Profit and loss account 2,221 1,440 1,962 5,623
Total shareholders’ equity 90,216 1,440 1,962 93,618
Minority interests ––––
Total equity 90,216 1,440 1,962 93,618
5. Notes [c93677]  29/3/06  15:59  Page 80 WSP Annual Report 2005  81
Reconciliation of equity as at 31 December 2004
Audited
UK GAAP Write-back Employee IFRS
31 December amortisation benefit Other 31December
2004 of goodwill trust adjustments 2004
Company Note 31 (f) (h) (d),(e)
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill 1,271 86 – – 1,357
Property, plant and equipment 105 – – – 105
Investments in subsidiary and joint venture undertakaings 38,751 – – – 38,751
Deferred taxation asset – – – 396 396
40,127 86 – 396 40,609
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 97,793 – 1,529 – 99,322
Cash and cash equivalents 962 – (74) – 888
98,755 – 1,455 – 100,210
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities (8,935) – – – (8,935)
Trade and other payables (13,089) – – 1,960 (11,129)
Liabilities for current taxation (709) – – – (709)
(22,733) – – 1,960 (20,773)
Net current assets 76,022 – 1,455 1,960 79,437
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities (23,800) – – – (23,800)
Deferred taxation liability (47) – – – (47)
Provisions (102) – – – (102)
(23,949) – – – (23,949)
Net assets 92,200 86 1,455 2,356 96,097
Equity
Called up share capital 3,023 – – – 3,023
Share premium account 76,537 – – – 76,537
Shares to be issued 207 – – – 207
Other reserves 8,210 – – – 8,210
Profit and loss account 4,223 86 1,455 2,356 8,120
Total shareholders’ equity 92,200 86 1,455 2,356 96,097
Minority interests – – – – –
Total equity 92,200 86 1,455 2,356 96,097 Notes to the Financial Statements – continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005
82 WSP Annual Report 2005
31. Explanation of reconciling items between UK GAAP and IFRS
(a) Under UK GAAP , the profits before taxation of joint venture and associated undertakings were included in the Group’s profit
before taxation. IAS 1 requires that the profits of joint venture and associated undertakings should be presented net of taxation.
Consequently the Group’s profit before taxation is presented based on the Group’s share of joint venture and associated
undertakings profit after taxation.
(b) In accordance with IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’, certain software applications are reclassified as intangible assets.
(c) In accordance with IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’, as at 1 January 2004 defined benefit pension scheme deficits net of deferred
taxation are recognised on the Group balance sheet. Pension settlements and curtailments are recognised in the income
statement.
(d) In accordance with IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’, share awards are measured at fair value at grant date and recognised as an
expense over the period to which the associated employees’ service relates.
(e) In accordance with IAS 10 ‘Events after the Balance Sheet Date’, dividends declared after the balance sheet date have been written
back.  Actual dividends paid in the period are recognised in shareholders’ equity.
(f) In accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’, goodwill in respect of acquisitions before 1 January 2004, together with any
unamortised pre-existing goodwill, is no longer amortised but is subject to an annual impairment review. Amortisation recognised
in 2004 is written back.
(g) In accordance with IAS 21 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’, profit and loss accounts and cash flows of foreign
subsidiaries are translated into sterling using average rates that existed during the accounting period rather than the closing rates at
the end of the accounting period as was allowed under UK GAAP .
(h) As there is no equivalent of UITF 38 in IFRS, the Employee Benefit Trust is no longer consolidated in the Company’s financial
statements.
Explanation of material adjustments to the cashflow statements for 2005
Under IFRS cash flows are categorised under three separate headings rather than the seven under UK GAAP . Apart from presentation
there are no material differences between the cash flow statement under IFRSs and the cash flow statement under UK GAAP . WSP Annual Report 2005  83
Five Year Review
Consolidated income statements
IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP UK GAAP
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Group revenue and share of joint venture and associated 
undertakings revenue 373,931 322,313 298,868 272,024 230,545 
Less: share of revenue of joint venture and associated undertakings (24,857) (19,468) (15,315) (10,574) (5,812)
Revenue 349,074 302,845 283,553 261,450 224,733 
Profit before interest, taxation,
exceptional items and goodwill 22,250 17,361 16,004 14,451 17,502 
Exceptional items – 7,018 (2,250) (6,505) – 
Amortisation of goodwill – – (5,269) (5,128) (3,592)
Profit before interest and taxation 22,250 24,379 8,485 2,818 13,910 
Profit on sale of subsidiary undertaking – – 409–– 
Net finance costs (2,428) (2,796) (3,313) (2,444) (2,408)
Profit before taxation 19,822 21,583 5,581 374 11,502 
Taxation (5,829) (6,881) (3,429) (1,988) (4,696)
Profit/(loss) after taxation 13,993 14,702 2,152 (1,614) 6,806 
Minority interests (275) (195) (90) (17) – 
Dividends (3,386) (3,082) (3,010) (2,662) (2,657)
Retained profit/(loss) for the year 10,332 11,425 (948) (4,293) 4,149 
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 22.8p 24.1p 3.6p (3.1p) 14.9p 
Basic earnings per share before operating exceptional items
and profit on sale of subsidiary undertaking 22.8p 15.9p 15.0p 15.2p 22.7p 
Consolidated balance sheets
IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP UK GAAP
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Property, plant & equipment 129,995 123,530 113,789 115,815 120,662 
Current assets 130,600 106,640 105,105 103,245 98,571 
260,595 230,170 218,894 219,060 219,233 
Current financial liabilities and trade payables (94,144) (72,328) (127,374) (66,789) (63,824)
Non-current receivables – – – – 7,594 
Total assets less current liabilities 166,451 157,842 91,520 152,271 163,003 
Non-current liabilities and provisions (83,516) (77,291) (7,071) (66,097) (67,464)
Net assets 82,935 80,551 84,449 86,174 95,539 
Called up share capital 3,026 3,023 3,022 2,662 2,657 
Share premium account 76,681 76,537 76,510 71,253 70,976 
Shares to be issued – 207 253 5,769 7,748 
Profit and loss account 2,646 477 4,552 6,468 14,158 
Equity shareholders’ funds 82,353 80,244 84,337 86,152 95,539 
Minority interests – equity 582 307 112 22 – 
82,935 80,551 84,449 86,174 95,539 
In the above table, 2004 and 2005 figures reflect results and the state of affairs of the Group, reported in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). It is not practicable to re-state previous years’ results according to IFRS, and therefore the above
table reflects the results and the state of affairs for 2001, 2002 and 2003 according to UK GAAP as originally reported. Due to
differences between IFRS and UK GAAP , there may be some inconsistency in the above tables. Refer to note 30 for an indication of the
adjustments that would be required to comply with IFRS. Notes
Design by Accrue
Produced by Imprima de Bussy UK and Registered Office
WSP Group plc
Buchanan House
24-30 Holborn
London
EC1N 2HS
UK
Tel  + 44 (0)20 7314 5000
Fax + 44 (0)20 7314 5111
WSP Group plc is registered in England.
Company Number: 2136404
USA
Flack + Kurtz
475 Fifth Avenue
New Y ork
NY 10017
USA
Tel  + 1 212 532 9600
Fax + 1 212 689 7489
WSP Cantor Seinuk
3rd Floor
228 East 45th Street
New Y ork
NY 10017
USA
Tel  + 1 212 687 9888
Fax + 1 646 487 5501
SWEDEN
WSP Sweden AB
121 88 Stockholm-Globen
Arenavagen 7
Stockholm
Sweden
Tel  + 46 (0)8 688 6000
Fax + 46 (0)8 688 6999
FINLAND
WSP LT -Konsultit Oy
Heikkiläntie 7
FIN-00210
Helsinki
Finland
Tel  + 358 9 615 811
Fax + 358 9 6158 1430
WSP SuunnitteluKortes Oy
Rautionkatu 2C
FIN-90400
Oulu
Finland
Tel  + 358 8 3171 300
Fax + 358 8 3171 301
AFRICA
WSP South Africa
WSP House
Arivia.kom Business Park
Simba Road
Sunninghill
Sandton 
Johannesburg 2157
South Africa
Tel  + 27 (0)11 233 7800
Fax + 27 (0)11 803 7430
ASIA
WSP Asia
1/F, K.Wah Centre
191 Java Road
North Point
Hong Kong
Tel  + 852 2217 2000
Fax + 852 2802 9626
MIDDLE EAST
WSP Middle East
PO Box 7497
Dubai
United Arab Emirates
Tel  + 971 4 286 1080
Fax + 971 4 286 1090
STOCKBROKERS
Hoare Govett Limited
250 Bishopsgate
London
EC2M 4AA
REGISTRARS
CAPITA IRG PLC
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent
BR3 4TU
SOLICITORS
Nabarro Nathanson
Lacon House
Theobald's Road
London
WC1X 8RW
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Barclays Bank plc
50 Pall Mall
London
SW1A 1QB
Fleet National Bank
1185 Avenue of the Americas
New Y ork
New Y ork 10036
USA
AUDITORS
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1 Embankment Place
London
WC2N 6RH
HSBC Bank plc
70 Pall Mall
London
SW1Y 5EZ
Swedebank
S-105 34
Stockholm
Sweden
Principal Offices
Advisers
Further information regarding WSP office addresses can be found on our website: www.wspgroup.com
This Report is printed on both Challenger Art and Challenger Offset paper.These papers are sourced from sustainable forests, totally
chlorine free (TCF), suitable for recycling, and suitable for archive storage.
Accreditations:
Cover: FMO Tampiola . Developer: Finnforest, Architect: Helin & Co, Contractor: Peab Seicon.William Jefferson Clinton Presidential Library. Client;William Jefferson Clinton Foundation. Diocesan Boys
School, Hong Kong. Page 5 : New Providence Wharf, London. Client: Ballymore Properties Limited. Architect: Skidmore Owings and Merrill Inc; Page 6 : Binh Bridge,Vietnam. Client: Finnish Ministry for
Foreign Affairs and Haiphong Bridge Projects Management Unit; Page 10 : M25 Junctions 12-15 widening and Heathrow Spur, UK. Client:The Highways Agency and Heathrow Airport Limited (BAA).
Photograph courtesy of Balfour Beatty; Page 14 : London Bridge Tower, London. Client:Teighmore Ltd. Architect: Renzo Piano Building Workshop; Page 16 : The Northern Link, Stockholm. Client:The
Swedish National Road Administration. Copyright: Per-Erik Adamsson; Page 18 : Hearst Headquarters, New York. Client:The Hearst Corporation. Architect: Foster and Partners. Copyright: Alex Troesh.
Photography, Michael Ficeto,The Hearst Corporation; Page 20 : City of Arabia, Dubai. Client: Ilyas and Mustafa Galadari Group. Architects: P&T. WSP Group plc
Buchanan House
24-30 Holborn
London
EC1N 2HS
UK
Tel +44 (0)20 7314 5000
Fax +44 (0)20 7314 5111
www.wspgroup.com
