 Xchanging
34 Leadenhall Street
London
EC3A 1AX
UK
T: +44 20 7780 6999
F: +44 20 7780 6998
Registered in England and Wales 
company number 5819018
Foundations
 f o r gr ow t h
Foundations for growth      Xchanging Annual report 2012
Annual report 2012 01
Xchanging is a technology-enabled 
provider of business processing, 
technology and procurement 
services internationally to customers 
across many industry sectors.  
We are a truly international 
outsourcing specialist.
More online: www.xchanging.com 01
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Company overview 
Corporate description IFC
Highlights of 2012 01
Chairman’s statement 02
Xchanging at a glance 04
Our business model 06
Key performance indicators 08
Xchanging’s four key strengths 10
Our year in review 12
Market review 14
Business review 
Chief Executive Officer’s report 16
Principal risks and uncertainties 24
Business review 28
Financial review 36
Corporate social responsibility 44
Corporate governance 
Board of Directors 46
Executive Board 48
Directors’ report 50
Corporate governance report 53
Remuneration report 61
Financial statements 
Independent auditors’ report (Group) 70
Consolidated income statement 71
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 72
Consolidated cash flow statement 73
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net cash 74
Movement in net cash 74
Consolidated balance sheet 75
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 76
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 78
Independent auditors’ report (Company) 134
Company balance sheet 135
Company cash flow statement and reconciliation 136
Notes to the Company financial statements 137
Other information 
Shareholder information 141
Glossary of terms 142
Adjusted revenue 
(£million)
Adjusted revenue
 
(£million)
  668.3
650.0
2012
2011
Adjusted operating profit 
(£million)
Adjusted revenue
 
(£million)
  50.4
43.2
2012
2011
Adjusted operating margin 
(%)
Adjusted revenue
 
(£million)
  7.5
6.6
2012
2011
Operating cash flow 
(£million)
Adjusted revenue
 
(£million)
  62.6
35.9
2012
2011
Highlights of 2012
Financial highlights
   Delivered stated objective of year-on-year 
improvement in financial performance on all key 
performance indicators.  
   Organic revenue grew by 5.6% on a like-for-like basis. 
   Delivered full year cost efficiencies as planned.
   Financial disciplines and strong cash flow enabled 
investment in the business.
   Board recommends reinstating dividend at  
1 pence per share.
Operational highlights
   Insurance performed well again; reinforced position 
in Lloyd’s and the London insurance market (won  
five year contract to continue running Insurers’ 
Market Repository).
   In Financial Services, acquired AR Enterprise S.r .L. and 
merged with existing Italian business, Kedrios S.p.A., 
resolving last loss-making business.
   Launched a number of new products including 
Xuber (specialist insurance software), Netsett (global 
net settlement service), Vault and Torque. 
   A number of new appointments strengthen both 
Board, and the executive team, bringing depth of 
technology experience. 03
Chairman’s statement 
Technology-enablement and constant innovation,  
not just cost effectiveness, are vital if we are to  
win business and ensure that customer satisfaction 
remains high.
02
 X changi ng plc 
Annual report 2012
wo years ago, in 2011, we 
evaluated Xchanging’s portfolio 
of businesses in order to 
understand intrinsic value, 
identify underperforming assets 
and assess how best to redefine our strategy. 
We also recognised that significant work had  
to be done to regain the confidence and trust  
of some of our customers. 
Our aim was to re-energise the business and 
unlock value for shareholders in a company whose 
business model and strategy had not kept pace 
with market developments and which, frankly, in 
some instances, had lost touch with its customers.  
The business was also too complex for its size. 
Last year we were able to report good progress 
implementing the outcome of that assessment.
This year we pressed on with the next stage  
of our turnaround plan, continuing the 
reshaping of our business portfolio, putting  
the foundations for sustainable growth and 
value creation in place and, most importantly, 
listening and responding to our customers. 
The sound financial performance for the year 
and the steadily growing flow of new business 
wins in the second half indicates that we are 
moving in the right direction. 
Strategic progress
Our turnaround process is well under way.  
The optimisation of our business assets sees 
Xchanging in much better shape. Many of the 
issues we faced have been dealt with, and this 
year, most notably, we have resolved the 
strategic future of our Italian business.  
However, more still needs to be done.
Our strategic planning is fundamentally driven 
by the fact that we must increase the value  
of our offerings and improve their propensity  
to become embedded in our customers’ 
processes. Technology-enablement and 
constant innovation, not just cost effectiveness, 
are vital if we are to win business and ensure 
that customer satisfaction remains high. 
T 03
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Company overview 01-15
The innovation vision 
 Inspiring innovation by challenging the status 
quo and approaching our business with 
creativity, fresh ideas, lateral thinking and  
a commitment to the way we do things.
This was reflected during the year in the 
appointment of new Heads of Innovation and  
of Technology, the introduction of the new role 
of Chief Information Officer and the signing  
of a joint venture with our customer YTL 
Communications Sdn. Bhd. (“YTL ”) in Malaysia.  
Following new appointments, we now also have 
significant technology expertise at Board level. 
Board
There have been a number of changes to the 
composition of the Board during 2012. In May, 
after a long period of illness, Pat O’Driscoll 
stepped down from the Board, and sadly 
passed away shortly afterwards. We would  
like to note the valuable contribution Pat  
made during her tenure. 
In July, Stephen Wilson joined the Board as  
a Non-executive Director and in August he 
became Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
taking over from Dennis Millard. 
In September, Saurabh Srivastava joined the 
Board as a Non-executive Director and Dennis 
Millard stepped down to enable him to move  
at short notice to be Executive Chairman at 
Halfords plc. 
I would like to thank Dennis Millard for his 
dedicated service to Xchanging, particularly 
through some difficult times. 
In October, Ian Cormack joined the Board as  
a Non-executive Director and was appointed 
Senior Independent Non-executive Director. 
I believe the Board and its newly constituted 
committees now have the appropriate balance 
of skills, experience, independence and 
knowledge necessary for the long-term success 
of Xchanging, and its challenge to drive the 
regeneration of profitable growth in the next 
phase of our development. 
People
It has been another year of change in the 
make-up of our leadership team, at both  
Board and Executive levels (see pages 53 to 60). 
We have significantly increased the talent to 
execute our strategy, drive the pursuit of growing 
economic value and, crucially, improve 
relationships with our customers and the  
value we provide to them.
We have reviewed our remuneration structure  
to ensure our leadership is motivated to succeed, 
and that incentives are linked to the right 
measures of value creation. You can read  
more about this on pages 61 to 69.
Any service organisation is only as good as its 
people. Once again this year, I would like to thank 
all our employees who have worked so hard and  
in such a dedicated way to drive our plans forward. 
It has been a year of building foundations for  
future growth and it was gratifying that the two 
management ‘Business Week India’ conferences, 
held in February and October, showed such a high 
level of enthusiasm and energy.
Dividend
The year was more rewarding for investors  
with the share price, which almost doubled, 
reflecting growing confidence in our business 
prospects and the impact of our turnaround 
plan on the intrinsic value of the business.  
The Board has duly considered whether the 
time is right to re-introduce the dividend. 
After due consideration, the Board is pleased  
to recommend a dividend of 1 pence per share. 
This reinstatement of the dividend reflects 
progress to date, the significantly healthier 
financial condition of the company and its  
cash generation capabilities.
Future
Looking forward, we are focusing our resources 
on what we do best, positioning ourselves 
strategically in markets where we can compete 
most effectively, continuing to listen and 
innovate, and to simplify the business. 2013 will 
be dedicated to increasing the momentum we 
started to see in the second half of 2012. 
Geoff Unwin, Chairman 
28 February 2013
Our innovation vision in action
Encourages individuals to bring forward innovative 
ideas to Xchanging management, who will be able 
to invest in bringing the idea to fruition.
Provides an independent entrepreneurial 
framework and capital investment for early stage 
ideas, concepts and companies to develop into 
flourishing businesses.
Creates an innovation culture throughout the 
business to improve key operations and services 
within Xchanging, as well as for the end  
customer. Successful ideas will be rolled  
out to other parts of the business.
“Ken’s Den”
The  
Incubator
Service Innovation  04
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 05
Xchanging at a glance 
We take our customers’ non-core and back office 
functions and perform them better, faster and more 
cost-effectively, allowing our customers to focus on 
strategic activities that add value to their business.
Services we offer
 I ns u r a n c e Se r v i c e s
  Policy & Claims administration
  Broking Services Processing
  Workers’ Compensation
Financial Services
  Securities processing
  Investment account, fund and  
portfolio administration
  Banking services
Enterprise Services
 Finance & Accounting
  P r o c u re -t o - p a y
  A na l y t i c s
  Human resources
  Customer administration (CRM)
  Industry specific services
Insurance Software (Xuber)
  Insurance Software (commercial insurance 
software for insurers, reinsurers, brokers  
and managing agents)
Application  
management services
 Application lifecycle management
  Enterprise application integration services
 Mobility & location-based services
  Engineering services (CAD/CAM)
  A na l y t i c s
  Testing services
Infrastructure 
management services
 Cloud enablement
  Security services
  Network & systems management services
  Data centre & infrastructure services
  Managed application services
Sourcing 
 Sourcing & category management
  A na l y t i c s
  Supply chain
Our offering
Business Processing 
Services
Technology
Procurement 05
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Company overview 01-15
We have particular expertise in complex and critical 
business processing services. We have unique 
domain knowledge in insurance where we process 
policies and premiums as well as handling claims. 
We are also specialists in financial services where  
we handle securities processing, investment account 
and fund administration. We hold a strong position 
in the London insurance market where there are 
currently no other providers and no comparable 
offerings within this market.
In 2012, Xchanging launched Netsett, a global  
net settlement solution to handle the cash flow 
between brokers, cedents and carriers efficiently, 
including effective management across borders  
and currencies.
We provide technology support that is often critical to 
the functioning of a customer’s business. Xchanging 
has a strong track record in integrating business 
critical systems.
In 2012, Xchanging’s technology, delivery expertise 
and international domain knowledge were utilised 
when we formed a joint venture with YTL: Xchanging 
Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.. This initiative was focused on 
developing and delivering enhanced mobile internet 
and cloud-based hosting offerings in Malaysia.  
This year, Xchanging re-launched Xuber, our software 
for the insurance industry, the culmination of a  
£20 million+ investment. Xuber is the only single 
platform solution with global capability available 
today. Our offering boasts unparalleled configurability 
and flexibility with unrivalled expertise in the market.
By leveraging our supplier relationships and applying 
our trading experience and buying power, we are able 
to drive savings to our customers’ bottom lines and 
improve visibility and control over spend. Xchanging 
offers a Gainshare Procurement model: an innovative 
commercial model that enables Xchanging to share the 
risks and reward with the customer. Value is realised 
through any savings generated from sourcing of 
indirect goods and services at a lower cost compared 
to the customer’s own sourcing costs. These savings 
are shared with the customer. 
In 2012, Xchanging developed Vault: an innovative 
custom-built technology platform. Vault has the ability 
to measure, track and report realised savings helping  
to ensure planned savings are delivered.
Principal locations
Industries we serve Why Xchanging
External adjusted revenue 
(£million)
 Procurement and Other BPO  209.0
 Insurance Services 197.5
 Financial Services 163.0
 Technology 98.8
 
Adjusted operating profit 
(£million)
 Insurance Services 37.5
 Financial Services 10.6
 Technology 9.6
 Procurement and Other BPO 8.0
 
Adjusted operating margin 
(%)
 Insurance Services 19.0
 Technology 9.7
 Financial Services 6.5
 Procurement and Other BPO 3.8
 
1. United Kingdom
London, Basildon, Chatham, Folkestone, Romford
2. Germany
Frankfurt, Hof, Munich, Dusseldorf
3. France
Paris
4. Italy
Milan
5. India
Bangalore, Chennai, Gurgaon, Mumbai, Shimoga
6. Singapore
7 . Malaysia
Kuala Lumpur
8. Australia
Sydney, Melbourne
9.  United States of America
Chicago
 Insurance Services
 Financial Services
 – Aerospace & Defence
 – Automotive
 – Education
 – Energy & Utilities
 – FMCG
 – Food & Beverage
 – Healthcare
 – Manufacturing
 – Public Sector
 – Real Estate
 – Retail
 – Supply Chain & Logistics
 – Telecommunications
 – 
 
Transportation, travel  
& leisure
9.
8.
5.
1.
3.
7.
6.
2.
4. 06
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 07
Our business model
Xchanging has been evolving since early 201 1 when  
we recognised that the business model on which  
the company had been founded in 1999 was no 
longer aligned with our markets. 
We are no longer focusing only  
on a small number of very large,  
long-term contracts serviced under 
complex partnership arrangements. 
The market has evolved and the 
requirement is more generally for 
lower value contracts of shorter 
duration. Customers are seeking 
flexibility in the way services are 
delivered so that they fit with their 
own ways of working. Most of all, 
customers are looking for innovation 
and creativity from their service 
providers so as to create value in 
their own businesses. 
Much of this innovation and 
creativity is driven by technology. 
Although cost arbitrage remains  
an important ingredient, delivering 
at a lower cost is no longer enough.  
The buyers of services today are 
sophisticated and demanding, 
frequently seeking guidance from 
advisers when making a choice  
of service provider. 
At the core of our planning is  
the knowledge that constant 
innovation and technology-
enablement is essential. We must 
bring fresh ideas and new offerings  
to our customers, and use technology 
to create greater value from the 
processes we carry out, for example 
with analytics and the introduction of 
mobile delivery. You can read about 
examples of this – Xuber, Netsett, 
Vault and Torque, all launched in  
2012 – on pages 23, 21 and 12.
In evolving our Business Model we 
benefit from a valuable legacy from 
the company’s early years. Notably, 
we have developed considerable 
domain expertise, particularly in 
Insurance and Financial Services,  
but also in other industries.  
What makes us different
Innovation Technology
 M ar k et
Business  
Processing Services
Technology
Procurement
Innovation Technology
1. 2. 3. 07
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Company overview 01-15
We have a good balance between,  
and experience of, on, near  
and offshore facilities. We have 
accumulated valuable intellectual 
property from our experience 
working, in particular, with the 
London insurance market. We are 
experts at handling complex and 
critical processes for customers such as 
the London Metal Exchange, Gatwick 
Airport and Lloyd’s of London.
We are more agile and flexible than 
many of our larger competitors. We 
seek to provide innovative solutions 
for our customers’ particular needs 
and we offer a high degree of 
accessibility to senior management. 
These are some of the differentiating 
factors which, combined with our 
particular assets, are why customers 
choose Xchanging. In each of our 
business segments there are further 
factors. In procurement for example, 
we were amongst the first to 
introduce the Gainshare model which 
sees the customer sharing directly in 
the savings we generate (see pages 
34 to 35). In our Technology business, 
our newly launched Xuber insurance 
software offers the most comprehensive 
suite of components and deployment 
options of their kind in the world (see 
pages 32 to 33).  
In Insurance, we have a unique body  
of expertise and a workforce with 
decades of cumulative experience  
of working with the London 
insurance market. 
We are experts at understanding  
our customers’ business ambitions. 
We embrace the complexity of their 
challenges and work with them  
to unlock value and realise their 
growth potential.
Through technology-enablement 
and innovation we create value for 
our customers’ businesses, thereby 
bringing value to our own.
In the Chairman and Chief Executive 
reports on pages 2 to 3 and 16 to 23 
you can read about the progress  
we have made in re-orienting our 
strategy, and the measures taken  
in 2012 to continue the evolution  
of our Business Model. 
Strengths Assets
Our objective
Value for Xchanging
Strengths Assets
Unlock value  
for customer
4. 5. 6 . 08
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 09
Key performance indicators 
Xchanging uses five key performance indicators (“KPIs”) 
to measure the Group’s performance over time in line 
with its strategy. The KPIs have been selected to ensure 
that profitability, financial stability and shareholder 
value are comprehensively monitored.
Key performance indicators Relevance Performance (see page 36 to 43 for more detail) Chart
Adjusted operating profit margin % 
2012: 7 .5% (201 1: 6.6%)
Adjusted operating profit (operating profit excluding exceptional items, 
acquisition-related expenses and amortisation of intangible assets 
previously unrecognised by an acquired entity) expressed as a 
percentage of revenue. 
  Places focus on increasing the proportion of 
revenue from those markets where higher returns 
can be made.
  Measures ongoing performance in managing the 
efficiency and cost effectiveness of the business.
  Adjusted operating profit benefited from the 
impact of cost saving initiatives across the Group,  
a reduction in depreciation and amortisation, and 
to a smaller extent an increase in higher margin 
revenues within the Insurance Services sector. 
Economic profit £m 
2012: £22.3m (201 1: £12.3m)
Adjusted operating profit less a tax charge at the Group’s effective rate, less 
a charge for invested capital. The charge for invested capital is calculated as 
the Group’s invested capital multiplied by the Group’s weighted average 
cost of capital. Invested capital is defined as net assets less net cash. 
 Measures the value generated for shareholders.
  Performance condition of the Group’s Long-Term 
Incentive Plan in 2013.
  Economic profit increased largely from new contract 
wins combined with efficient cost management.
Return on invested capital % 
2012: 28.0% (201 1: 18.3%)
Adjusted operating profit less a tax charge at the Group’s effective  
rate, divided by invested capital.
  Measures the efficiency of the use of the  
Group’s assets.
  Measures shareholder value over the long-term.
  Return on invested capital was driven by rigorous 
cost management of the business, the exiting of 
loss making or low margin businesses, and the 
related growth in cash generation.
Equity free cash flow £m 
2012: £50.3m (201 1: £21.3m)
Operating cash flow less interest and tax. Operating cash flow is defined 
as adjusted operating profit less net capital expenditure (excluding 
pre-contract costs) and dividends to non-controlling interests.
  Provides an assessment of how much cash is 
generated by the Group, which is available to invest 
in acquisitions, return to shareholders and pay down 
outstanding debt.
  Indicates cash available to the Group’s shareholders, 
which includes movements on customer cash 
accounts held by Fondsdepot Bank (“FdB”).
  Key drivers included an increase in cash generated 
from continuing operations and a lower level of 
capital expenditure.
Adjusted cash conversion % 
2012: 122.0% (201 1: 1 12.0%)
Percentage of adjusted operating profit converted to adjusted operating 
cash flow. Adjusted operating cash flow is defined as operating cash 
flow after adding back the cash impact of exceptional items, acquisition-
related expenses and movements on customer cash accounts held by 
FdB. See above for definition of adjusted operating profit.
  Ensures the Group has the financial strength to 
reinvest in the development of the business. 
  Effective measure of the quality of earnings.
  Key drivers included an increase in cash generated 
from continuing operations and a lower level of 
capital expenditure. 
Adjusted operating proﬁt margin
 
2012  7.5
2011 6.6
2010 8.2
(%)
Economic proﬁt
 
(£m)
2012  22.3
2011 12.3
2010 21.8
Return on invested capital
 
(%)
2012  28.0
2011 18.3
2010 22.2
Equity free cash ﬂow
 
(£m)
2012  50.3
2011 21.3
2010 33.8
Adjusted cash conversion
 
(%)
2012  122.0
2011 112.0
2010 100.9 09
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Company overview 01-15
Key performance indicators Relevance Performance (see page 36 to 43 for more detail) Chart
Adjusted operating profit margin % 
2012: 7 .5% (201 1: 6.6%)
Adjusted operating profit (operating profit excluding exceptional items, 
acquisition-related expenses and amortisation of intangible assets 
previously unrecognised by an acquired entity) expressed as a 
percentage of revenue. 
  Places focus on increasing the proportion of 
revenue from those markets where higher returns 
can be made.
  Measures ongoing performance in managing the 
efficiency and cost effectiveness of the business.
  Adjusted operating profit benefited from the 
impact of cost saving initiatives across the Group,  
a reduction in depreciation and amortisation, and 
to a smaller extent an increase in higher margin 
revenues within the Insurance Services sector. 
Economic profit £m 
2012: £22.3m (201 1: £12.3m)
Adjusted operating profit less a tax charge at the Group’s effective rate, less 
a charge for invested capital. The charge for invested capital is calculated as 
the Group’s invested capital multiplied by the Group’s weighted average 
cost of capital. Invested capital is defined as net assets less net cash. 
 Measures the value generated for shareholders.
  Performance condition of the Group’s Long-Term 
Incentive Plan in 2013.
  Economic profit increased largely from new contract 
wins combined with efficient cost management.
Return on invested capital % 
2012: 28.0% (201 1: 18.3%)
Adjusted operating profit less a tax charge at the Group’s effective  
rate, divided by invested capital.
  Measures the efficiency of the use of the  
Group’s assets.
  Measures shareholder value over the long-term.
  Return on invested capital was driven by rigorous 
cost management of the business, the exiting of 
loss making or low margin businesses, and the 
related growth in cash generation.
Equity free cash flow £m 
2012: £50.3m (201 1: £21.3m)
Operating cash flow less interest and tax. Operating cash flow is defined 
as adjusted operating profit less net capital expenditure (excluding 
pre-contract costs) and dividends to non-controlling interests.
  Provides an assessment of how much cash is 
generated by the Group, which is available to invest 
in acquisitions, return to shareholders and pay down 
outstanding debt.
  Indicates cash available to the Group’s shareholders, 
which includes movements on customer cash 
accounts held by Fondsdepot Bank (“FdB”).
  Key drivers included an increase in cash generated 
from continuing operations and a lower level of 
capital expenditure.
Adjusted cash conversion % 
2012: 122.0% (201 1: 1 12.0%)
Percentage of adjusted operating profit converted to adjusted operating 
cash flow. Adjusted operating cash flow is defined as operating cash 
flow after adding back the cash impact of exceptional items, acquisition-
related expenses and movements on customer cash accounts held by 
FdB. See above for definition of adjusted operating profit.
  Ensures the Group has the financial strength to 
reinvest in the development of the business. 
  Effective measure of the quality of earnings.
  Key drivers included an increase in cash generated 
from continuing operations and a lower level of 
capital expenditure. 
Adjusted operating proﬁt margin
 
2012  7.5
2011 6.6
2010 8.2
(%)
Economic proﬁt
 
(£m)
2012  22.3
2011 12.3
2010 21.8
Return on invested capital
 
(%)
2012  28.0
2011 18.3
2010 22.2
Equity free cash ﬂow
 
(£m)
2012  50.3
2011 21.3
2010 33.8
Adjusted cash conversion
 
(%)
2012  122.0
2011 112.0
2010 100.9 10 11
Xchanging’s four key strengths
In building our ability to compete in our markets we 
have redefined our service offerings and our go-to-
market strategy. We also draw on four key strengths. 
 Domai n e xpertise
Although we have capabilities in all the industries  
that we serve, we have particular domain expertise in 
Insurance and Financial Services. Our relationship with 
the Lloyd’s market is unique: we administer their policies 
and premiums, handle claims and back office systems. 
Xchanging has had a relationship with the Lloyd’s market  
for over 10 years and, through its partnerships, has 
ownership in the intellectual property inherent in the 
data systems. We also have operational depth in India 
where we serve customers from other parts of the  
Group as well as domestic customers. We undertake 
securities processing, investment account and fund 
administration through our operations in India as  
well as in Germany and Italy.
Xchanging’s back office proficiency is not confined to 
Insurance and Financial Services. Our expertise is fully 
transferable and delivers efficiency and savings for 
customers beyond these industries. We combine 
innovative approaches and deep industry knowledge 
with our functional and technological skill sets to 
provide services for our customers. 
 
See pages 6 to 7 for more information
 1. 2.
Complex business processing  
and critical technology
We specialise in the management of complex and critical 
processing, managing systems that must not fail for 
example at Gatwick Airport, the London Metal 
Exchange and Lloyd’s. Our sophisticated management 
capability takes the burden away from our customers, 
allowing them to focus on their strategic priorities and 
core operations. Our refined operations are highly 
skilled, with high barriers to entry.  
This year, Xchanging secured a 5 year £65.5 million 
contract to continue running the Insurers’ Market 
Repository (IMR). The IMR is a key piece of infrastructure 
for the London insurance market supporting the 
electronic processing of premiums, policies and claims. 
Xchanging strives towards continuous improvement;  
in 2012 we significantly improved the data recovery 
capability following business interruption from up  
to 24 hours to as early as 15 minutes.
 
See pages 6 to 7 for more information 11
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Company overview 01-15
 3. 4.
On/near/offshore
Labour arbitrage is no longer necessarily the prime 
incentive for offshoring but is considered a prerequisite 
for competing for contracts. This is discussed further on 
pages 14 to 15. Xchanging was one of the first 
multinational companies in the industry to establish 
operations in a Tier-3 location of India, Shimoga, in 2012. 
This centre has enabled Xchanging to address wage 
inflation in India as well as lower attrition. 
We also have lower cost offshore centres in Malaysia, 
Singapore and throughout India as well as nearshore 
centres in the countries where our customers are 
situated. Our geographical mix enables us to tailor the 
right balance of onshore, nearshore and offshore 
resources for each individual customer in a flexible 
manner, arranging an approach which prioritises  
the customer’s needs. Our approach is driven by the 
organisations we serve: customers that require bespoke 
solutions rather than a ‘one size fits all’ solution. 
 
See pages 6 to 7 for more information
Adaptability and flexibility
Customers choose Xchanging because we are 
approachable, adaptable and flexible, offering access  
at executive level throughout the business – up to and 
including the Chief Executive Officer. We employ an 
approach to our way of working that provides a bespoke 
solution for each individual customer. 
Xchanging’s insurance software business re-launched as 
Xuber this year. Xuber’s significant configurability and 
flexibility gives the product an advantage over rivals.  
We can offer as little or as much of a service as the 
customer needs, ensuring that we deliver relevant 
solutions that are a good fit for business needs.
 
See pages 6 to 7 for more information 12
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 13
Our year in review 
The sound financial performance for the year and  
the steadily growing flow of new business wins  
in the second half indicates that we are moving in  
the right direction.
JANUARY: Technology
 Ne w j oi ner
Andrew Binns appointed Executive Director, 
Technology and a member of the Executive 
Board. With strong experience in both the 
financial and technology sectors, Andrew has 
played a key role this year in driving the final 
stage of investment and launch of Xuber.
 APRIL: Technology
Joint venture
A 50-50 joint venture was formed with  
YTL called Xchanging Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.  
The venture, with about 200 employees at  
the year end, develops and delivers enhanced  
mobile internet and cloud-based hosting 
offerings in Malaysia.
 SEPTEMBER: Technology
 N e w c o n tr ac t
New contract signed with existing customer, 
Gatwick Airport, to partner in delivering its 
telephony services for the next four years. 
 JUNE: Technology
 P r o du c t la u n c h
The quality control service Torque was  
launched. This independent, automated  
testing and validation service, reduces  
overall testing times by a minimum of 40%.
JULY & SEPTEMBER: Group
 B o a r d ch a ng e
Stephen Wilson joined the Board as Non- 
executive Director in July and from 1 August  
became Chairman of the Audit Committee. In 
September Saurabh Srivastava was appointed 
as a Non-executive Director and member of the 
Audit Committee. See pages 46 to 47 for how 
Stephen and Saurabh will further strengthen the 
expertise of the Board.
FEBRUARY: Procurement
 Co n tr act r e n e w a l
BAE Systems UK extended its procurement 
services contract in the UK for a further three 
years. The renewal further strengthened the 
relationship with this valuable customer whilst 
enabling benefits of scale and core expertise  
to be retained in the UK.
JUNE: Technology
 N ew  
 c o n tr ac t w i n
One of the largest global mobile operators 
awards Data Integration Limited, our   
network and systems integration company,  
a contract to re-architect their core  
customer network. 
JULY: Business Processing Services
 N ew c e n t r e
A global delivery centre was opened in  
a new special economic zone in Shimoga, 
Karnataka. Xchanging became one of the  
first multinational companies in the industry  
to establish business in a a Tier-3 location  
of India. 13
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Company overview 01-15
 OCTOBER: Technology
 X ub e r r e l a un c h
The software business was re-launched  
as ‘Xuber’, to compete more assertively in the 
insurance software market. The offering was 
strongly positioned to meet the positive shift in 
market demand.
 NOVEMBER: Insurance Services
Contract awarded to build platform for  
the Lloyd’s market Claims Reporting Suite 
(CRS). Both the Lloyd’s Corporation and 
managing agents will be provided with 
consistent, benchmarked, claims management 
information delivered against a market-agreed 
set of key performance indicators.
 NOVEMBER: Financial Services
Acquisition
Kedrios, our Italian subsidiary, acquired 100% of 
the share capital of AR Enterprise S.r.L. (“AR“)
which operates in the same business segment.  
This created a stronger, more competitive and 
profitable combined business with scale and 
resolved Kedrios’ weak strategic position.
NOVEMBER: Technology
Award win
The 2012 Insurance Day London Market 
Awards Technological Initiative of the  
Year was presented to Xchanging. This was in 
recognition of work with the Lloyd’s and London 
insurance market in the implementation of 
Electronic Claims File 2. 
 SEPTEMBER: Insurance Services
 P r o du c t la u n c h
Global (re)insurance and accounting net 
settlement service, Netsett, launched 
alongside partner Deutsche Bank. The new 
global initiative uses structured data to enable 
organisations to exchange and settle  
accounting information.
OCTOBER: Insurance Services
 Five year contract
Five year follow-on contract – IMR. Signed  
a £65.5 million five year contract to 
continue providing the IMR to the London 
insurance market.
DECEMBER: Insurance Services
 N e w j oi ner
Appointment of Adrian Guttridge as Executive 
Director, Insurance Services and as a member  
of the Executive Board. Adrian will be focused 
on global growth of our Insurance Services 
business as well as building on the strong 
position in the Lloyd’s and London markets.  
(see pages 48 to 49 for a full biography).
OCTOBER: Group
 B o a r d ch a ng e
The third Non-executive addition to the Board in 
the year was Ian Cormack who took over the role 
of Senior Independent Director. Ian has extensive 
experience of the City and financial markets (see 
pages 46 to 47 for a full biography).
 DECEMBER: Insurance Services
 N ew 
contract win
A twelve-year contract signed with leading 
insurance broker Marsh for the provision of 
Xuber’s Brokasure software. 14
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 15
Market review 
The market is evolving past the “traditional” 
outsourcing model, which involved long term  
contracts, customised software and a strong  
focus on cost reduction through offshoring.
Outsourcing market trends
Many analyst firms believe that the outsourcing 
industry reached a significant point in its history 
in 2012.
1
 Against the background of continuing 
economic depression in mature outsourcing 
markets (especially the USA and UK), outsourcing 
deals appear to have reduced in size, while client 
expectations have risen.
2
 The market is evolving 
past the “traditional” outsourcing model, which 
involved long term contracts, customised 
software and a strong focus on cost reduction 
through offshoring. Outsourcing providers are 
now delivering greater value and insight for their 
clients by leveraging new technologies and 
flexible commercial structures.
3
Moving up the value chain
In early outsourcing deals, labour arbitrage  
was the core of outsourcing providers’ value 
propositions. Now, however, although labour 
arbitrage still requires continual investment, it is 
considered “table stakes”: the minimum entry 
requirement for bidding on an outsourcing 
project.
4
 Providers who have recognised this are 
looking to provide higher value and more 
strategic services to clients through investment 
– particularly in technology and innovation.
New technologies
The technology landscape for business has 
changed very rapidly, to the point where Cloud 
technology, mobile applications and social media 
are ubiquitous. KPMG describes these tools as 
representing a key change in how the customer 
and business agree to interact, share information 
and conduct trade.
5
 Understanding of how new 
technology affects outsourcing customers (and 
their customers in turn) is the key to success in 
moving up the outsourcing value chain. 
Strategic partnerships
As outsourcing providers create more business 
value for their clients, they move closer to 
becoming true strategic partners. A crucial 
element in this evolution is more flexible 
commercial terms, driven by the development 
of on-demand services. 
Sector developments
Please see below for some of the key global 
trends in our business sectors.
Business Processing Services
Insurance Services 
There is consensus among industry analysts that 
2013 will likely be another challenging year for 
the insurance industry, with continuing pressure 
from low rates of economic growth in the 
developed world, volatile financial markets, 
regulatory schemes and customer demands.  
In an environment that makes profitable growth 
difficult, insurers are more likely to turn to 
outsourcing providers who can optimise their 
core systems (including policy, billing and claims), 
drive value from their data, support channel 
management with mobile solutions and assist 
with regulatory compliance.
6
 As a result, Nelson 
Hall forecasts that the insurance BPO market will 
grow at 8% (year-on-year) in 2012 – 2016.
7
 
Insurance BPO providers are increasingly 
technology-bundled providers, reflecting  
the continuing if not growing importance of 
technology in the industry. The optimisation  
of core systems remains a priority for insurance 
clients and there are an increasing number  
of options for these systems, both in terms  
of software functionality and delivery model 
(which runs from licence-only software right 
through to Cloud-enabled Business Processing 
as a Service, or “BPaaS”). Vendors are 
partnering with clients to deliver value from 
new technologies as well: mobile solutions  
that support real-time information flows, data 
analytics that deliver new insight, and social 
media monitoring and intelligence.
8
 
Xchanging is among the top five vendors for 
P&C (Property & Casualty) insurance business 
processing globally
9
 and has a market-leading 
position in business processing for complex 
commercial P&C insurance. This position has 
been strengthened in 2012 with the re-launch 
of our insurance software suite, a single 
platform solution with global capability that  
can be delivered as a service or in combination 
with business processing services (BPaaS). 
Financial Services
Financial Services remains the dominant industry 
sector in the outsourcing market, accounting for 
around 20% of the market by value, but like the 
insurance industry continues to be affected by 
market headwinds. It also faces the challenge  
of having to comply with progressively more 
stringent regulation. As a consequence, financial 
services firms are looking for innovative sourcing 
solutions that change the support cost paradigm 
while enabling focus on regulatory compliance.
10
 
Estimated revenues from P&C insurance BPO, 2011 
($m)
Source: Nelson Hall, Healthcare Payor & Insurance BPO Market Forecast: 2012 – 2016 (September 2012)
Estimated revenues from P&C insurance BPO, 2011
 
(£million)
810
650
548
500
375
Crawford & Company
Cunningham Lindsay
Gallagher Bassett Services, Inc
Sedgwick
Xchanging 15
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Company overview 01-15
In addition, financial services firms are looking  
to leverage service provider skills in process 
optimisation and to access skills in technology 
innovation. As in insurance, financial services 
institutions are looking at bundled ITO/BPO 
options, reflecting increasingly integrated 
sourcing strategies.
11
 
Xchanging’s footprint in financial services 
business processing includes both vertical-specific 
services (including securities processing, funds 
administration and investment account 
administration) and horizontal services such as 
finance and accounting. In 2012 we acquired  
AR, a leading provider of software packages and 
comprehensive IT solutions for the securities 
brokerage and asset management industry in 
Italy, to strengthen our market position in Europe. 
Technology 
Cloud services are now a mainstream trend and 
while cost remains a driving factor for many 
Cloud investments, customers are beginning  
to consider Cloud more strategically.
12
 The 
continued transition to Cloud platforms and 
data centre consolidation will continue to drive 
outsourcing deals, and vendors who can 
demonstrate value as strategic partners through 
a broad Cloud portfolio and innovative services 
will benefit most.
Cloud services are inextricably linked to the 
other key technology outsourcing trends: data 
and mobility. “Big Data” (the phenomenon of 
the rapid increase in data volumes) was the 
technology story of 2012, and outsourcing 
providers are starting to offer increasingly 
sophisticated data analytics solutions to  
enable enterprises to realise the marketing, 
benchmarking and product development 
advantages of using their data.
13
 
More effective data insights, coupled with the  
rise in use of mobile devices, is also encouraging 
adoption of outsourced mobile solutions. Bring 
Your Own Device (or “BYOD”) behaviour is now a 
“truly widespread phenomenon” and a trend that 
is forecast to continue if not accelerate in 2013.
14
 
This is driving growth in the enterprise mobility 
management market, particularly in services that 
will help customers get the maximum business 
value from their BYOD policies.
Xchanging is a technology-enabled provider 
and integrator of business process services. Our 
evolution as a technology provider has been 
focused on our customers’ business needs and 
as a result we pay attention to the evolving 
technology landscape. In 2012 we launched a 
joint venture with YTL Communications to offer 
mobile internet and cloud-based hosting 
offerings to customers in Malaysia, and we also 
announced that our insurance software suite 
will incorporate advanced data analytics tools.
Procurement 
The procurement market continues to grow 
rapidly. The market grew by 14% in 2011 and  
is forecast to have grown by 15% in 2012, 
reaching an annual contract value total of over 
£1.1 billion.
15
 Procurement outsourcing also 
shows increasing signs of maturity, with deals 
expanding outside of indirect spend to include 
non-core direct spend, and with more deals 
being signed with small and medium-sized 
enterprises every year.
16
 Industry analyst firm 
Everest also reports a growing number of 
contracts with a global scope, including 
operations in Asia Pacific and South America in 
addition to Europe and North America.
17
 The 
market’s attractiveness is demonstrated by the 
fact that new entrants continue to enter the 
market, including BPO providers and former 
shared service centres, or captives.
Buyers continue to take an end-to-end 
approach to procurement, driving partnerships 
between service providers and BPO generalists. 
The trend has also driven acquisition activity, 
with specialist procurement providers or 
consultancies a particular target, along with 
technology vendors. This highlights the 
importance of technology innovation in this 
market. Cloud-based delivery capabilities are 
an increasingly frequent and sophisticated 
feature of e-procurement and Procure-to-Pay 
solutions, while Software as a Service (“SaaS”)  
Notes:
1.   Source: Ovum, ‘2013 Trends to Watch: Outsourcing’, 
October 2012
2.   For a typical analyst view on this, see KPMG, ‘The 
Death of Outsourcing’, July 2012
3.   Source: Accenture, ‘Next-Generation BPO: Are You 
Ready?’, December 2011
4.   Source: Ovum, ‘2013 Trends to Watch: Outsourcing’, 
October 2012
5.   Source: KPMG, ‘The Death of Outsourcing’, July 2012
6.   Source: Ovum, ‘2013 Trends to Watch: Insurance’, 
October 2012
7.   Source: Nelson Hall, ‘Healthcare Payor & Insurance 
BPO Market Forecast: 2012 – 2016’, September 2012
8.   These trends are referenced in Ovum, ‘2013 Trends to 
Watch: Insurance’, October 2012
9.   Source: Nelson Hall, ‘Healthcare Payor & Insurance 
BPO Market Forecast: 2012 – 2016’, September 2012
10.   Source: Elix-IRR, ‘Trends in Outsourcing & Offshoring 
in the Financial Services Industry, 2008 – 2012’, 
October 2012
11.   Source: Elix-IRR, ‘Trends in Outsourcing & Offshoring 
in the Financial Services Industry, 2008 – 2012’, 
October 2012
12.   Source: Ovum, ‘2013 Trends to Watch: Cloud Services’, 
October 2012
13.   Source: Ovum, ‘2013 Trends to Watch: Big Data’, 
October 2012
14.   Source: Ovum, ‘2013 Trends to Watch: Mobile 
Consumerization’, October 2012
15.   Source: Everest, ‘Procurement Outsourcing (PO) 
Annual Report 2012’, May 2012
16.   Source: Everest, ‘PO Service Provider Landscape – 
Investing in Building Expertise’, August 2012
17.   Source: Everest, ‘Procurement Outsourcing (PO) 
Annual Report 2012’, May 2012
18.   Source: Everest, ‘PO Service Provider Landscape – 
Investing in Building Expertise’, August 2012
19.   Source: Everest, ‘PO Service Provider Landscape – 
Investing in Building Expertise’, August 2012
solutions are becoming more widely adopted 
and BPaaS solutions are starting to emerge.
18
 
Xchanging was named a “star performer” by 
industry analyst firm Everest in 2012 and has an 
estimated 24% share of the UK procurement 
market as well as important market shares in the 
US, Europe and Asia Pacific markets. Our flexibility 
in commercial models including our Gainshare 
proposition and end-to-end sourcing capability 
and proprietary technology to manage sourcing 
workflow and track savings remain important 
differentiators in the market and have driven our 
growth to become the estimated fourth largest 
procurement outsourcing provider globally by 
active annual contract value.
19 16
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 17
Chief Executive Officer’s report 
We have made good progress and have started to  
see the benefits, with much higher levels of interest  
in our offerings, the award of new contracts and  
the successful renewal of existing ones.
Objectives for 2012
1. 
 Compete to win
 
  See page 17
2.   Increase revenue from  
existing customers
 
  See page 18
3.  Achieve ‘One Xchanging’
 
  See page 19
4. 
 Year-on-year improvement  
in financial performance
 
  See page 20 17
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Business review 16-45
wenty twelve was a year  
in which we restored the 
confidence in Xchanging  
of our shareholders, our 
employees, our customers  
and our partners. It was a year in which we  
got fit again and demonstrated our ability  
to compete to win. Moreover, it was a year  
in which we built a foundation for the future  
of the business and delivered year-on-year 
improvement in financial performance. 
In a year of intense activity we made good 
progress. At the beginning of the year we set 
out our four objectives for the year, and said  
our performance for the period should be 
judged against these. I can now report on  
what we have achieved.
Compete to win
From a low base historically it has been 
paramount to build our sales and marketing 
capability. Under the new global sales and 
marketing leadership of Stephen Scott (see 
pages 48 to 49), we are much more customer 
and market focused. 
We reviewed and consolidated our product and 
service offerings to provide focus for our 
customers, our account directors and our 
growing sales force. Amongst other marketing 
collateral developed, our newly defined service 
offerings have been incorporated into a sales 
and marketing mobile application, harnessing 
technology to improve delivery. 
Early in the year we established a ‘Bid Factory’ 
based in India which has reduced the time taken 
to respond to Requests for Proposals (‘RFPs’) 
considerably whilst improving the quality and 
consistency of our documentation. The Bid 
Factory also provides research information, 
competitor analysis and supports the 
development of service solutions.
We developed an account management group 
and a system to nurture, and where necessary 
rebuild, existing relationships and to develop new 
relationships in a methodical way. We introduced 
Salesforce.com to track and cross reference sales 
activity. Sales pipeline information is now 
available in real time to senior management. 
Our Third Party Adviser (“TPA”)  programme  
is now well established, and has driven the 
increased flow of RFPs into Xchanging. We are 
continuing to develop this channel to market.
These measures have started to have an  
effect, and during the year we won a number 
of new contracts, which I refer to in the 
Business Sector Review. Although many are 
small or medium sized, these demonstrate our 
ability to compete successfully. Experience 
shows that strong customer relationships can 
grow from the initial small contracts. Most 
importantly, we are seeing a much higher level 
of interest and RFPs across all our businesses 
than was previously the case. This suggests  
our renewed focus on sales and marketing is 
bearing fruit. 
Grow revenue from existing customers
Last year we recognised that we have been 
missing growth opportunities by not 
assiduously developing valuable existing 
customer relationships. The sales and marketing 
activity I describe above has supported our 
efforts here. 
However, to generate new business with 
existing customers we must innovate, bringing 
fresh ideas and ways to add value to our 
customers’ businesses. During 2012 we  
put greater focus on ‘Inspiring Innovation’, 
developing channels to stimulate and  
capture innovative thinking (see page 3). We 
established a cross-company Innovation Group, 
holding an ‘Innovation Olympics’ mid-year  
and rolling out the first ‘Ken’s Den’ innovation 
competition. The response has been very 
encouraging and we have taken a first set  
of ideas into development. 
T
1.  
Compete to win
Under the new global sales and 
marketing leadership of Stephen 
Scott (see pages 48 to 49), we are 
much more customer and market 
focused. These measures have 
started to have an effect and during 
the year we won a number of new 
contracts. Experience shows that 
strong customer relationships can 
grow from the initial small contracts. 
Most importantly, we are seeing a 
much higher level of interest and 
RFPs across all our businesses than 
was previously the case. This suggests  
our renewed focus on sales and 
marketing is bearing fruit.
   See pages 36 to 43 for more information
Adjusted operating profit margin 
(%)
 Insurance Services  19.0
 Technology 9.7
 Financial Services 6.5
 Procurement and Other BPO 3.8
  18
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 19
Other opportunities to grow business with existing 
customers lie in cross-selling, since the collective 
spectrum of our offerings are relevant to the vast 
majority of medium to large scale businesses. 
To cross-sell successfully we must behave as 
‘One Xchanging’. I talk more about this below. 
Of the supporting practical measures  
we introduced this year, our new Account 
Management programme provides a structure 
for routinely exploring new sales opportunities 
within existing relationships; and our marketing 
mobile application provides our sales force with 
both a mobile database on our offerings and 
subject matter experts, and a prompter to 
ensure opportunities are not missed. 
One Xchanging
Many multi-faceted businesses suffer from ‘silo 
mentality’. We recognised the need to break 
down silo barriers, to drive business growth 
through collaborative working and business 
efficiencies, to optimise innovative thinking  
and promote a good working environment  
for employees. 
We started by introducing our six corporate 
values last year (see page 44), and during 2012 
we have continued to promote these in all we 
do. Group wide initiatives such as ‘Values 
Months’ have helped individual employees 
work through what each value means to them 
in their role. At our two internal conferences, 
Business Week India 1 in February and Business 
Week India 2 in October, awards were 
presented to employees who have shown 
excellence in ‘Living the Values’.
Our efforts have been underpinned in a very 
pragmatic way by the introduction at the year 
end of a pilot Enterprise Social Network. Named 
‘Leapfrog’ for its potential contribution to our 
business efficiencies, this platform facilitates 
communication, collaborative working and 
knowledge sharing, right across the company. 
Cultural change takes time; but we have made  
a good start and we are seeing the mantra 
 ‘One Xchanging’ being translated into 
behaviours. Our 2011 ‘Changing Xchanging’ 
programme led to ‘Xchanging is Changing’  
in 2012. 
Entering 2013 we have launched ‘Going for 
Gold’. This is a programme of six work streams 
designed to support achievement of our 
business objectives: year-on-year improvement 
in financial performance; increased sales to 
existing customers; compete to win increased 
sales to new customers. 
Based on ‘One Xchanging’ teamwork, the work 
streams focus on: differentiating our service 
offering through innovation; world class selling 
and customer engagement; creating an 
organisation with customer focus built around 
our industry sectors and our service lines, which 
will ensure all our capabilities can be taken to 
market; developing talent for the future; 
enhancing our competitive edge by establishing 
shared services, optimising cost of delivery 
through standardisation and simplification,  
and enhancing provision of management 
information for decision-making; and the 
simplification and standardisation of internal  
IT processes and systems.
The Going for Gold programme will continue  
to hone our business, aiming to make the way 
we operate leaner, more efficient and more 
productive whilst we focus on delivering 
innovative offerings to customers.
Chief Executive Officer’s report 
continued
“ Our markets are evolving. We  
are increasingly providing higher  
margin, technology-enabled  
business processing services.”
2. 
 Increase revenue from 
existing customers
To generate new business with 
existing customers we must 
innovate, bringing fresh ideas and 
ways to add value to our customers’ 
businesses. During 2012 we put 
greater focus on ‘Inspiring 
Innovation’, developing channels  
to stimulate and capture innovative 
thinking (see page 3). Other 
opportunities to grow business with 
existing customers lie in cross-selling, 
since the collective spectrum of our 
offerings are relevant to the vast 
majority of medium to large scale 
businesses. To cross-sell successfully 
we must behave as ‘One Xchanging’.
Adjusted revenue 
(£million)
 
  668.3
650.0
2012
2011
   See pages 36 to 43 for more information 19
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Year-on-year improvement  
in financial performance
Year-on-year improvements in revenue, profit, 
cash flow and return on invested capital have 
been achieved in challenging markets. With 
our focus on building our sales and marketing 
infrastructure, developing our position with 
the TPA channels and on our new integrated 
sales platform, our pipeline has been steadily 
strengthening and we have started to see the 
benefits through the second half of the year. 
As set out at the beginning of the year, profit 
growth has been supported by sustaining the 
cost reductions achieved in 2011. 
Business sector review
Business Processing Services
a) Insurance Services
Our insurance business had a good year,  
with higher volumes in the UK market, good 
progress winning new customers, and an 
increased market share granted to our 
Australian State of Victoria contract. Developing 
our US strategy around the existing Xuber 
customer base has meant costs have been  
kept under control as we enter that market.
As the London Market Modernisation 
programme moved forward, we continued  
to work closely with the Lloyd’s and London 
market. We believe we have demonstrated  
the strength of our business processing and 
technology capabilities and the integrity of our 
trusted partner status, as evidenced by winning 
a five year £65.5 million contract to continue 
providing the IMR  service, previously an  
annual contract. 
We also won accreditation as one of the two 
Lloyd’s market Volume Claims Providers and, 
towards the year end, the contract to develop 
Lloyd’s market Claims Reporting Suite. The 
publication of high level Governance Principles 
mid-year placed us firmly at the centre of the 
service provisioning process for the Lloyd’s 
market going forward. 
More recently, the announcement that the 
Darwin project – the part of the Market 
Modernisation programme relating to the 
provision of central services – is being replaced 
with the more evolutionary Central Services 
Review has provided further, significant 
reassurance of Xchanging’s position. 
Two new products were launched. In October, 
our insurance software suite was re-launched 
under the brand name ‘Xuber’ – this is reported 
below under Technology. 
We also launched a pilot for our new global  
net settlement service, ‘Netsett’ (see page 21). 
Primarily aimed at the global insurance market, 
Netsett is also suitable for other settings such  
as large global enterprises where high volumes  
of two-way intra-party settlements are being 
made daily. In December, we launched a live 
Netsett pilot with RSA, the multi-national 
insurance company.
To support the protection and growth of our 
existing London insurance business we 
established a dedicated product and service 
development function. In February 2013,  
this team introduced a mobile application, 
‘X-presso’, linked to our Electronic Claims File 
database for agents and brokers, enabling 
mobile data loading and viewing.
We won a number of industry awards, 
including the Insurance Day’s London Market 
Technological Initiative of the Year Award (for 
our work on the Electronic Claims File), Treasury 
Today’s Adam Smith Award for ‘One to Watch’ 
(for Netsett) and Post Magazine’s Major Loss 
Award (for our handling of claims in the 
Japanese earthquake aftermath).
In Australia we won the Top Performing Agent 
Award in the State of Victoria. This contract 
continues to perform well, winning the grant  
of additional market share.  The New South 
Wales contract has been profitable but  
remains challenging. 
3.  
Achieve  
‘One Xchanging’
Entering 2013 we have launched 
‘Going for Gold’. Based on ‘One 
Xchanging’ teamwork, the work 
streams focus on: differentiating our 
service offering through innovation; 
world class selling and customer 
engagement; creating an 
organisation with customer focus 
built around our industry sectors and 
our service lines which will ensure  
all our capabilities can be taken to 
market; developing talent for the 
future; enhancing our competitive 
edge by establishing shared services; 
optimising cost of delivery through 
standardisation and simplification, 
and enhancing provision of 
management information for 
decision-making; and the 
simplification and standardisation  
of internal IT processes and systems.
External adjusted revenue 
(£m)
 Procurement and Other BPO 209.0
 Insurance Services 197.5
 Financial Services 163
 Technology 98.8
 
   See pages 36 to 43 for more information
Business review 16-45 20
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 21
During the year we also won an extension  
to our contract with Crawford. Our aim is to 
pursue more business in the self-insured market.
In December, we appointed a new  
Executive Director for Insurance Services,  
Adrian Guttridge (see pages 48 to 49). 
b) Financial Services 
The Financial Services business performance 
was flat as cost control measures, particularly  
in Xchanging Transaction Bank, GmbH (“XTB”), 
offset the impact of the weak securities  
market volumes. In our FdB operations, we  
continued to balance core activity for Allianz 
Global Investors with new customers, which 
now account for approximately half the 
business’s revenue. 
We continued to build a broader base to our 
Financial Services business, serviced from our 
Indian operations, with the second half of the year 
continuing to add new customers. We have also 
started to establish a financial services presence in 
Spain, building on the initial Xchanging footprint 
established there in 2011 to service the L’Oréal 
procurement contract won that year.
In November, we announced the acquisition  
by our Italian subsidiary Kedrios of securities 
market software company AR (see page 23). 
AR provides Kedrios with important 
technology, and the combined business will 
have a leading position in the Italian market. 
The transaction accelerates our plan to bring 
Kedrios to profitability and resolves the 
strategic challenge to this operation. It also 
means we no longer have any loss making 
businesses. The two businesses formally 
merged under the new name, Xchanging  
Italy S.p.A., in January 2013.  
Chief Executive Officer’s report 
continued
c) Enterprise Services (business sectors 
other than Insurance Services and  
Financial Services)
We continued to build our customer base in  
the other industry sectors we serve, both 
internationally and in the growing domestic 
Indian market. Contract wins included a UK 
transport company and a national ministry  
of education.
July saw the formal opening of our new global 
delivery centre in Shimoga, Karnataka. Located 
in a Special Enterprise Zone, this centre forms 
part of our strategy to sustain our ability to offer 
lower cost offshore processing capabilities. 
Seating nearly 600 employees by the end of  
the year, the facility has a capacity of 1,000. 
Technology
Our Technology business made steady progress 
in 2012. The Application Management Services 
business (formerly ‘Information Technology 
Outsourcing’) returned to profit and our 
Software business benefited from encouraging 
early interest in the newly launched Xuber 
insurance software products.
At the beginning of the year we appointed 
Andrew Binns as Executive Director,  
Technology (see pages 48 to 49). During 2012  
we reshaped the business, with the primary  
focus being to accelerate completion of the 
development and launch of our insurance 
software suite of four products. This was done 
in October under the brand name ‘Xuber’  
(see page 23). 
The Xuber products will sit at the core of the 
insurance offering we provide in the UK as well 
as in markets we are developing outside the  
UK, namely the US and Bermuda.
We have won a number of technology  
contracts with new customers, including  
Visa, and some substantial new business with 
existing customers, including Gatwick Airport.
Adjusted operating margin 
(%)
 
  7.5
6.6
2012
2011
4.  
Year-on-year 
improvement in 
financial performance
Year-on-year improvement in 
revenue, profit, cash flow and  
return on invested capital have been 
achieved in challenging markets.  
With our focus on building our  
sales and marketing infrastructure, 
developing our position with the 
Third Party Adviser channels and on 
our new integrated sales platform, 
our pipeline has been steadily 
strengthening and we have started  
to see the benefits through the 
second half of the year. As set out  
at the beginning of the year, profit 
growth has been supported by 
sustaining the cost reductions 
achieved in 201 1.
   See pages 36 to 43 for more information 21
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Business review 16-45
Our Application Management Services  
business based in India, the UK, Singapore  
and Malaysia performed much better following 
some reorganisation and sales reinvigoration. 
During the year we launched a new product, 
Torque; a product that helps reduce testing 
time for new software in development by as 
much as 40% (see page 12). Our Infrastructure 
Management Services business had a 
particularly successful year of contract wins, 
and we made good progress within our new 
Joint Venture with YTL in Malaysia. 
Procurement
The procurement business has had a busy year. 
The two large contracts won in 2011 made 
slower progress than expected working through 
to completion of their implementation phases. 
This business sector also gained new leadership 
during the year with the appointment of Ed 
Cross as Executive Director (see pages 48 to 
49). We reorganised the senior management 
team and re-oriented marketing strategy on a 
global basis, building a sales team to support 
this and establishing an office in Chicago.  
In 2013, we will focus on winning additional 
contracts for our new US platform to  
establish the critical mass needed for  
a sustainable business.
In the UK, we rationalised our operating model 
to achieve greater efficiencies to match the 
lower margin on the BAE Systems procurement 
contract that was renewed in February.
The sector successfully renewed maturing 
contracts with all its existing customers and won 
a number of new customers including a leading 
Financial Services company in the UK and G4S in 
Continental Europe, and with Cerebos, Sydney 
Water, University of South Australia and ACH 
Group in Australia. A new contract with Grupo 
Panrico is helping to develop our procurement 
presence in Spain, building on the existing L’Oréal 
contract. Earlier, I referred to our aim to promote 
cross-selling and we saw a good example of this, 
winning a procurement project in Australia with 
existing insurance customer Aon.
Business Processing Services:
Netsett – Liberating cash
What is Netsett?
Netsett is software that operates as a central accounting and net 
settlement service to the global insurance market. The Netsett platform 
has been created in partnership with Deutsche Bank, which provides 
transaction banking, clearing and foreign exchange capabilities to  
the service.
Netsett has 3 key benefits:
1.  Operational efficiency – Netsett removes the need to manage the 
payments cycle as well as allowing for the reconciliation of incoming 
and outgoing payments to the ledger
2.  Transparency and control – there is continual ledger correspondence  
in relation to the incoming and outgoing payments as well as an audit 
trail in the ledger
3 .   Capital efficiency – Netsett enables a reduction of working capital 
and improved cash flow. Clients benefit from reduced bank charges  
due to the reconciliation of outgoing and incoming charges and the 
weekly netting process
Procurement:
Vault – a multi-benefit trading  
platform for procurement globally
What is Vault?
Vault drives procurement performance across the globe by enabling  
spend and savings forecasting, performance monitoring, savings  
reporting and financial settlement.
There are 4 key features that differentiate Vault:
1.  Vault captures business needs that are determined as a result of  
an annual planning process and tracks them from baseline through  
the sourcing project milestones to negotiated contract and finally  
to tracked savings – truly end-to-end visibility
2.  The system offers transparency, giving both Co-Sourcing partners  
access to sourcing initiatives and detailed savings numbers
3.  Vault has been built using the combined experience of Xchanging’s 
sourcing professionals and financial management professionals and 
drawing upon 10 years’ experience operating a gainshare commercial 
model with its customer base
4.  Vault is unique. There is no other solution in the market that has the  
same end-to-end features that Vault has, nor is there a system that  
has been designed and built specifically for the unique requirements  
of the gainshare business model 22
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 23
Chief Executive Officer’s report 
continued
High process complexity /  
Low technology-enablement
–  Traditional business process 
outsourcing and IT capabilities
BPO / IT BPaaS
IaaS / PaaS / SaaS
Technology- 
enabled business 
processing  
services
High process complexity / 
High technology-enablement 
–  Higher value model of Business 
Processing as a Service
–  Combination of Cloud technology  
and complex processes
Process complexity
High
High
Xchanging is moving from...
Technology-enablement
We developed and launched a new analytics 
technology, ‘Vault’, designed to track and 
reconcile activity to ensure planned cost  
savings are being achieved. The new product 
has been well received. 
Strategic direction  
(see also business model on pages 6 to 7)
As our markets grow and become more 
developed, they are reflecting a spectrum of 
activities with varying degrees of added value. 
With our depth of expertise in managing 
complex processes and critical technology, 
Xchanging sits towards the upper end of this 
spectrum. Our aim is to move further up this 
Value Curve (see diagram this page above). 
To achieve this we need to increase the use of 
technology in our offerings, for example 
through mobile delivery, analytics and Cloud 
services. Our commitment to this area is 
reflected in the formalisation of our Joint 
Venture with YTL in Malaysia, the dedicated 
product and service development function  
we have set up to serve our insurance services  
in the UK, and our participation in the  
Frankfurt Cloud project. 
We are making better use of our existing 
technology assets – for example accelerating 
completion of Xuber – and prioritising the 
development of new ones. We also recognise 
that ownership of Intellectual Property will 
become increasingly important, both to provide 
an offering and a barrier to entry. Our new five 
year contract to continue managing the IMR is 
an example. 
To retain existing customers as well as to  
attract new ones, we must constantly innovate 
to generate new offerings, and to differentiate 
ourselves from our competitors. In 2012 we 
embedded channels for stimulating, capturing 
and developing innovative ideas (see page 3) 
and saw the first results of putting our new 
system in place. Examples of innovation in  
the year are our procurement analytics  
product Vault (see page 21) and our software 
testing system Torque (see page 12).  23
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Business review 16-45
Technology-enablement and innovation  
will remain central to our business plans  
going forward.
Outlook
We set out at the beginning of the year to 
build the foundations for growth. We have 
made good progress and have started to  
see the benefits, with much higher levels of 
interest in our offerings, the award of new 
contracts and the successful renewal of 
existing ones. We have started our transition 
from the founding business model, based  
on a small number of large contracts, to a 
more broadly-based model.
The challenges we face as we go into  
2013 are the more familiar ones of any  
business: innovation and new product and 
service development, differentiation in the 
market, sales and marketing capabilities, 
attracting and retaining talent and effective 
management of costs.
Our agenda for 2013 will be to maintain the 
pace and press ahead with efforts started in 
2012 to compete to win, contributing further  
to the momentum we saw in the second half  
of 2012. 
Ken Lever
Chief Executive Officer
Technology:
Xuber – software for insurance  
specialists, by insurance specialists
What is Xuber?
  In October, we re-launched our insurance software business  
under the name Xuber
  Xuber provides global insurance software for insurers, reinsurers, 
brokers and managing general agents 
  We have invested over £20.0 million and have an ongoing  
investment programme
  There have been 160 successful implementations of Xuber software  
across 40 countries
  Xuber deals with 130 customers, carriers and brokers
  Xuber has 30 years of insurance software pedigree and presents a  
solution designed by insurance professionals, for insurance professionals
  30% of London Market brokers use Xuber software 
The new Xuber platform has 6 key features:
1.  Powerful configuration tool for users
2.  Seamless integrated workflow management
3.  Central data store for name directory management
4.  Tailored real-time dashboard for data reporting
5.  Business support services with document protection and management
6.  Powerful messaging capability
Business Processing Services:
Xchanging Italy 
What is Kedrios?
In 2012, Kedrios, an Xchanging subsidiary, acquired 100% of the share 
capital of AR Enterprise S.r.L. (“AR”). AR was founded in 1980 and both AR 
and Kedrios are based in Milan. AR is a leading provider of software 
packages and comprehensive IT solutions for the securities brokerage and 
asset management industry in Italy. Previously, AR was deemed the main 
competitor to Kedrios. In June 2008, AR merged with AR Servizi, which 
provides outsourcing and facility management services using software 
packages produced by AR. 
AR brings an existing customer base comprising more than 100 financial 
institutions including market leading brokerage and asset management 
companies in Italy. AR also has a strong technology base and is a 
complementary business to Kedrios. 24
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 25
Principal risks and uncertainties 
Xchanging maintains risk registers covering each 
significant operation, business sector and the Group. 
We review our risk assessment four times per year, 
which helps to ensure we have a consistent approach 
and focus on the right risks. The Board reviews the 
Group risk register annually. 
uring 2012 the focus for the 
business has moved from the 
Four Part Action Plan  of 2011  
to the key objectives outlined  
at the beginning of the year:
  Compete to win
   Increase sales from existing customers
  Achieve “One Xchanging”
  Year-on-year improvement in  
financial performance
Focusing upon these activities and addressing 
the key risks from the beginning of the year, has 
enabled the business to move to a more stable 
position going into 2013.
However, the outsourcing market is becoming 
more sophisticated and is evolving into a 
spectrum of services from simple to complex.
It is important that we ensure that we continue 
to evolve our high quality products and services 
to increase competitive advantage and grow 
market share.
How we manage risk 
We analyse the nature and extent of risks and 
consider their likelihood and impact, both on  
an inherent and a residual basis, after taking 
into account mitigating controls. This allows us 
to determine how we should manage each risk 
in order to achieve our strategic objectives.
 
We divide our risks into strategic, commercial, 
operational and financial categories:
  Strategic risks reflect the potential for a 
significant strategic action or a failure to react 
to developing trends in the market, to have  
a financial impact on the economic value of 
our business.
D
  Commercial risks reflect the potential to 
enter into a critical contract or commercial 
arrangement that may have an adverse impact 
on the economic value of our business.
  Operational risks reflect the potential for  
the failure of a critical process or procedure  
to have an adverse impact on the economic 
value of our business.
  Financial risks include interest, foreign 
exchange, tax rate changes, pension 
valuations and liquidity. Failure to manage 
these risks could negatively impact the 
economic value of our business.
Overview of risk management process
1. Organisation  
strategic objectives
2. Risk assessment 3. Risk reporting
4. Decision
Treat / tolerate /  
terminate / transfer
5. Residual risk reporting 6. Monitoring 25
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Business review 16-45
Key risk Commentary and mitigating plan Risk change in year 
Failure to utilise and exploit 
technology-enablement  
for growth
The rapidly changing nature and impact of technology in the current business 
environment means that we need to respond to technology trends which  
are impacting our markets and business model and the business models of  
our customers. 
In order to achieve this we are:
  Investing in the development of new offerings 
  Developing innovative value adding customer solutions
 Utilising our skilled knowledgeable resources
  Reviewing our existing offering to ensure that it meets our customers’ requirements
Examples of new technology-enabled product offerings are Netsett and Xuber.
In addition, we need to maximise the use of technology within the Group to ensure 
that we are driving and enabling internal efficiencies and cost savings.
Failure to grow  
existing businesses
Our existing business continues to be subject to pressure from the current economic 
climate across the organisation. It is important for us to ensure that we retain our 
existing customers when contracts are renewed.
This is being managed by:
  Investment by senior management in protecting our existing core businesses 
  Investment in developing innovative solutions (such as the BPaaS offering)
  Looking beyond our existing markets, building upon our proven capabilities and 
domain expertise
  Ensuring the competitive cost advantage from our India operations is delivered to 
the end customer
  Investment in technology-enabled solutions
  Active engagement with key customers to ensure mutual agreement positions  
are achieved
  Proactive engagement with TPAs
Failure to secure new  
business from both new  
and existing customers
There are a number of significant changes in the sectors we operate in. 
Successfully winning new business is being managed by:
  The development of a unified sales strategy which enables selling across  
business sectors
  Clearly defined service offerings and sales strategies that help us to  
attract customers
  Ensuring utilisation of our competitive cost offshore services and  
technological capabilities
  Proactive engagement with TPAs
Strategic risks 26
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 27
Principal risks and uncertainties 
continued
Key risk Commentary and mitigating plan Risk change in year 
Key risk Commentary and mitigating plan Risk change in year 
Identification and 
management of non-
profitable businesses
All businesses are subject to review including a robust process of intrinsic economic 
valuation analysis. This is in order to ensure non-profitable businesses are identified 
and actions taken to address the issues. Actions taken during the year have resulted 
in Xchanging currently having no non-profitable businesses.
The recent acquisition of AR by the Kedrios business is an example of how this has 
been addressed. The opportunity now is to ensure that the synergies of these two 
businesses are maximised to increase profitability further.
Failure to manage the impact 
of the changing economic 
environment on our business
With the ongoing economic recession there are risks in the economy which are likely 
to remain in place for the foreseeable future, affecting our ability to secure new 
revenue opportunities and manage margins.
  Offshoring and cost optimisation projects enable us to conduct our processing 
activities where they are most cost effective
  Proactively researching offshoring sustainability in other locations, and expanding our 
activities in India Tier-3 cities, such as Shimoga, help to mitigate the inflating Indian 
cost base
  We operate in markets outside the EU and US that are less susceptible to the 
current economic recession
  Quarterly 24-month rolling forecasts help us recognise the impact of the changing 
financial conditions upon our business and respond accordingly
We have a concentration of 
material new and existing 
contracts with customers in 
key markets, which may have 
a significant impact on the 
Group’s performance
Partial or full termination of certain customer contracts could result in impairment of 
goodwill as described in note 14 to the Consolidated financial statements, as well as 
impacting operational performance. To mitigate this we have a structured service 
management programme, with dedicated account managers who work closely with  
our customers utilising performance metrics in order to identify issues early and trigger 
corrective actions.
Our commercial risks continue to be well managed through legal review, delegated 
authorities and contract monitoring processes. 
In certain cases, partners 
have rights to ‘put’ their 
shares to us, creating a cash 
requirement, or to ‘call’ our 
shares for low consideration
Detailed registers enable close monitoring and planning of the implications of all key 
contractual obligations with partners.
The development of, and 
increased competition within, 
the Lloyd’s and London 
insurance market 
To mitigate this there is significant engagement with the Lloyd’s and London 
insurance market. We continue to utilise our significant domain expertise in this  
area in order to establish ourselves as the leading provider to the market using  
our technology platform to drive change.
Increased pricing pressures in 
the Financial Services sector 
 
 
Extensive discussions with customers are ongoing to ensure that returns from the key 
contracts meet with the Group’s strategic objectives.
Failure to deliver new 
customers in the US 
procurement business 
New customer opportunities are being explored in the US through a range of sales 
initiatives and engagement with TPA, in order to ensure that we deliver and build the 
US procurement business.
Strategic risks
Commercial risks 27
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Business review 16-45
Key risk Commentary and mitigating plan Risk change in year 
Key risk Commentary and mitigating plan Risk change in year 
Our reputation and ultimately 
our profitability are reliant on 
successful implementation and 
delivery of new contracts
Following contract wins, such as Marsh in 2012, we now have a delivery risk in relation 
to these contracts. We must also ensure that we continue to strengthen and build 
upon these relationships as failure to do so will have a significant reputational and 
financial risk.
This is being managed by:
  Detailed implementation and delivery plans with strong management control and oversight
  Standardised procedures in use for the implementation and delivery of new contracts
  Use of experienced employees with strong project, change and people 
management skills in order to ensure successful implementation
 
Our customers demand 
efficient processing and  
high levels of service to help 
them achieve their objectives 
and protect their reputation. 
Failure to meet their 
expectations would in  
turn have a significant  
impact upon our reputation 
and profitability
We consistently work towards ensuring that our service levels are on target ensuring 
that we meet our customers’ requirements. 
  Active programme of strategic relationship building
  We measure and monitor performance across all functions and focus on  
being responsive to customer needs, which is one of our core values
  We have a clearly defined operating strategy and target operating model
  Our operations focus upon improving efficiency through standardisation, near  
and offshoring
  Ongoing focus upon improving processes, controls and performance
Business disruption, IT system 
issues or security issues could 
result in loss of service, loss or 
compromise of customer and 
internal data, breach of legal 
and regulatory obligations 
and damage to our reputation
We focus on continued development of business continuity and disaster recovery 
planning and testing, in conjunction with our customers and suppliers. We seek 
customer acceptance and agreement of any exposure to ensure that this is aligned  
to their risk appetite.
The Group’s financial results 
may be subject to volatility 
arising from movements 
in interest rates, foreign 
exchange rates, pension 
asset and liability valuations, 
liquidity and changes in 
taxation legislation, policy  
or tax rates
Our budgeting, forecasting and working capital controls have been strengthened through 
implementing a quarterly 24-month rolling forecast process and a weekly rolling cash flow 
forecast covering a 12-week period. With these enhancements our financial risks are well 
managed, reducing the volatility of our financial results, giving the Board greater 
medium-term visibility and ensuring we have required credit facilities in place.
In addition:
  Our Group treasury and UK pension operations are controlled centrally
  The Treasury Risk Committee (“TRC”) meets on a regular basis and monitors our key 
financial risk measurements including bank covenant compliance
  The TRC operates in accordance with clearly defined limits, policies and procedures 
authorised by the Board
  Regular discussion with the pension trustees, additional contributions to the schemes 
and prudent assumptions for actuarial valuations control our pension-related risks
  Monitoring the impact of possible changes in tax legislation, including VAT, and tax rates 
on our business operations and taking action to minimise the future financial impact (for 
example by engaging with tax authorities and external advisers)
Operational risks
Financial risks 28
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 29
Business review 
We have particular expertise in complex  
and critical business processing services.
Insurance Services
Financial Highlights 
Insurance Services external adjusted revenue 
increased 4.5% to £197.5 million (2011: £189.0 
million), including a positive foreign exchange 
impact of £0.3 million related to movements in 
the Australian Dollar. Adjusted operating profit 
increased 2.5% to £37.5 million (2011: £36.6 
million), representing an adjusted operating profit 
margin of 19.0% (2011: 19.3%), including an 
adverse foreign exchange impact of £0.5 million. 
Revenues for the sector increased due to a 
number of factors. The sector benefitted from  
an increase in the volume of insurance premiums 
processed by our UK insurance businesses in  
the Lloyd’s and London insurance market,  
the expansion of the IMR services, higher 
development income, and a significant new 
customer win in Homecare Insurance Limited. 
The Australian Workers’ Compensation business 
benefitted from both improved performance fees 
and discretionary payments received under the 
terms of the contract with the New South Wales 
state government, and from an increase in 
market share following the renewal of the 
contract with the Victoria state government, that 
came into effect from 30 June 201 1. Revenue for 
the Broker Services business declined compared 
to prior year primarily as a result of an increase in 
contractual discounts.
Adjusted operating profit performance increased 
marginally year-on-year due to a number of 
factors. The UK insurance business continued to 
deliver a stable and profitable result from the 
increase in processing volumes and higher margin 
revenue from development income, mitigating 
salary inflation and investment in the development 
of Netsett, a global (re)insurance and settlements 
service, which is now in a pilot phase. In the 
Australian business, the benefit of incremental 
revenue has had a positive impact at the adjusted 
operating profit level, as performance fees have 
had a direct impact on profitability. 
Insurance Services Financial Services Enterprise Services
 
Gainshare
 
Cost plus
 
Annuity
 
Transaction-based
 
Annuity
  
Project-based  
(cost plus)
 
Transaction-based
 
Time and materials
 
Transaction-based
 
Time and materials
 
Project-based
5-10%
Medium
  
Domain expertise
  
Intellectual property
  
 O n / n e ar / o f f sh o r e 
service delivery
  
Domain expertise
  
 O n / n e ar / o f f sh o r e 
service delivery
  
 O n / n e ar / o f f sh o r e 
service delivery
  
Corporate change
  
Cost pressure due to market and regulatory environment
  
New emerging business models
  
Offshore platform
Market growth  
2012-2017
Capital intensity
Revenue model
Competitive 
position
Growth drivers
Business drivers
Revenue 
(£million)
Adjusted operating profit 
(£million)
  See page 142 for our glossary of terms
 
  360.5
368.8
2012
2011
 
48.1
48.9
2012
2011 29
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Business review 16-45
Policies and premiums handling for London insurance market
+15-10
=5
Central  
settlement 
bank
Every transaction requires a 
process and documentation
  We map  
complicated processes
  Cr e a t e order in  
routine transactions
  U s e technology to smooth 
complicated processes
  Apply our knowledge  
across industries
Insurers’ Market Repository 
Market participants feed in 
unstructured data
 Structured data Check, sort and 
structure data
 Unstructured data
  Market participants feed  
in unstructured data
  Notice of  
multi-currency  
net settlements
  Split risk
Multi-currencies
Broker
IMR
Xchanging
Client
Bank
Bank
Bank
Bank
Underwriter
Underwriter
Underwriter
Net 
settlement
What do we do? Transactions in the industry 30
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 31
Business review
continued
Xchanging Italy – Financial Services
Transactions in the industry
Every transaction requires a 
process and documentation
  We map  
complicated processes
  Cr e a t e order in  
routine transactions
  U s e technology to smooth 
complicated processes
  Apply our knowledge  
across industries
Settlement
  Reconcile securities and cash
Portfolio administration
  V al ua t io n s
  Performance reporting
  Corporate actions
  Tax and regulatory compliance
What do we do?
Front office Back office
Listed 
companies
Stock 
exchange
To front office
To front office
Software, infrastructure and 
application management services 
for core securities and asset  
management functions
  Order and trade management
  Porfolio modelling
  Risk profiling
Client
Asset 
managers
Brokers
Bank
Regulatory 
bodies
Xchanging
Capture 
trade
Xchanging
Xchanging
Match trades  
& securities
Trade 
administration
Tax 
authorities 31
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Business review 16-45
contracts has had a positive impact on revenue 
for the year. The impact of this was partially 
offset by lower processing volumes. However,  
in our investment account administration 
business, FdB, a decline in overall investment 
account numbers, discounts on contractual prices 
with key customers and lower project revenues 
have adversely impacted revenue performance. 
Revenue performance in our Italian securities 
processing and funds management business, 
Kedrios, has remained flat compared to 2011.
On a like-for-like basis, profitability within the 
Financial Services sector declined 9.2%. This was 
driven by the decline in revenues on adjusted 
operating profit and the recognition of  
£1.2 million of provisions in respect of the 
integration of AR with our existing operations in 
Italy. The revenue impact has been marginally 
offset by the restructuring and other 
management costs saving initiatives implemented 
in 2011 under the Four Part Action Plan, and 
lower levels of depreciation and amortisation.
Overall, profitability for the sector was impacted 
by the £3.0 million (2011: £3.4 million) loss for 
the year generated by Kedrios (which included 
the £1.2 million of provisions noted above). 
Following the acquisition of, and the merger 
with AR, this business is expected to return a 
profit during 2013.
Overall, the sector has also benefitted from the 
impact of restructuring activities implemented in 
201 1 reducing senior management layers.  
A portion of the cost savings achieved has been 
re-invested in sales and marketing, the continued 
investment in developing a global insurance 
strategy, and establishing a presence in the US 
insurance sector. The profitability of the sector was 
also reduced by the performance of the Broker 
Services business, which has been impacted by a 
£1.0 million increase in contractual discounts, and 
£2.0 million of additional costs incurred in relation 
to the transformation of the operating model to 
meet changing customer demands.
Financial Services
Financial Highlights
Financial Services external adjusted revenue 
decreased 9.3% to £163.0 million (2011:  
£179.8 million), including an adverse foreign 
exchange impact of £11.3 million related to the 
Euro and £1.9 million of revenue from AR. 
Adjusted operating profit decreased 13.8% to 
£10.6 million (2011: £12.3 million), representing 
an adjusted operating profit margin of 6.5% 
(2011: 6.8%), including adverse foreign exchange 
impact of £1.0 million and a £0.3 million profit 
contribution from AR. 
On a like-for-like basis, revenue for the sector 
declined 4.4%. In our securities processing 
business, XTB, the impact of indexation on key 
Funds administration
  Subscriptions and redemptions
Xchanging
Xchanging
Xchanging
Portfolio 
administration
Fund 
administration
Settlement– 
reconcile  
securities &  
cash 32
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 33
Technology
The technology support we provide is often  
critical to the functioning of a customer’s business.
Revenue 
(£million)
Adjusted operating profit 
(£million)
Technology
Financial Highlights
External adjusted revenue for the Technology 
sector increased 0.9% to £98.8 million (2011: 
£97.9 million), including the £1.6 million impact 
of the sale of the Cambridge Solutions SARL 
business in October 2011, and adverse foreign 
exchange impact of £0.4 million. On a like-for-
like basis external revenue increased 2.9%. 
Adjusted operating profit increased 37.1% to 
£9.6 million (2011: £7.0 million), representing an 
adjusted operating profit margin of 9.7% (2011: 
7.2%), including favourable foreign exchange 
impact of £0.3 million. The sector has 
performed well following management actions 
taken in 2011 to support a more flexible sales 
strategy, targeting intermediaries and partnering 
arrangements, to clarify the sales offering and 
refocus the sales effort, and to rationalise the 
cost base and improve resource utilisation. 
Like-for-like revenue growth in 2012 has been 
driven by growth in the existing customer base, 
including Gatwick Airport and the London Metal 
Exchange, a significant improvement in sales by our 
Data Integration business, primarily as a result of 
the focused sales effort and new Xuber sales, 
including revenue from Marsh, which was signed 
at the beginning of December 2012. The year-on-
year impact of these benefits have been partially 
offset by a £3.5 million revenue reduction due to 
the decision to exit the IT reseller programme in our 
Infrastructure Managed Service business. This 
programme ceased in the first half of 201 1. 
On a like-for-like basis, adjusted operating profit 
grew 29.5%. The improvement in profitability and 
margin was driven by the contribution from the 
increased revenue and the effects of the extensive 
restructuring of the business in the second half  
of 201 1 and further cost saving initiatives 
implemented in 2012. The cost savings achieved 
also enabled us to invest in sales and marketing, 
particularly in our software business to support the 
launch of the Xuber product in October 2012. 
These savings have also more than offset a  
£1.8 million onerous lease provision recognised  
in the year for an under-utilised data centre.  
The decision to exit the IT reseller programme  
had a negligible impact on profitability.
Infrastructure 
Management 
Services
Insurance 
Software 
(Xuber)
Application 
Management 
Services
  
Project-based
  
Annuity
  
Time and materials
  
Fixed fee
  
Licence fee
  
Project-based
  
Maintenence fees
  
Increasing likelihood 
of SaaS business
  
Project-based
  
Time and materials
  
Fixed fee
  
Transaction-based
5-10%
Medium High Medium
  
Critical technology/
national or core 
infrastructure
  
Flexibility
  
Excess capacity
  
Niche
  
Niche
  
Intellectual 
property
  
  F l e x i b ili t y
  
Horizontal offering
  
Innovation
  
Technical cycle
  
Corporate change
  
Everything-as-a-service
  
Geographic expansion
Market growth  
2012-2017
Capital intensity
Revenue model
Competitive 
position
Growth drivers
Business drivers
  See page 142 for our glossary of terms
 
  98.8
97.9
2012
2011
 
  9.6
7.0
2012
2011 33
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Business review 16-45
Every transaction requires a 
process and documentation
  We map  
complicated processes
  Cr e a t e order in  
routine transactions
  U s e technology to smooth 
complicated processes
  Apply our knowledge  
across industries
Xuber: specialist insurance software
Xuber
Xuber
Xuber
Xuber
Xuber offered as:
  So f t w a re
  Software as a Service (SaaS) = Xuber software  
managed by Xchanging
  Business Processing as a Service (BPaaS) = business 
processing on Xuber software managed by Xchanging
 
See page 23 for more information
Broker
Client
Underwriter Underwriter Underwriter
Managing 
General  
Agent
Managing 
General  
Agent
Managing 
General  
Agent
Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance
Transactions in the industry What do we do? 34
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 35
Procurement and Other BPO
By leveraging our supplier relationships and applying 
our trading experiences and buying power, we are  
able to drive savings to our customers’ bottom lines.
Revenue 
(£million)
Adjusted operating profit 
(£million)
 
  209.0
183.3
2012
2011
 
  8.0
7.2
2012
2011
Procurement and Other BPO
Financial Highlights
External adjusted revenue for Procurement and 
Other BPO increased 14.0% to £209.0 million 
(2011: £183.3 million), including the £4.6 million 
impact of the sale of Xchanging Resourcing 
Services Limited business, and adverse foreign 
exchange movements of £1.4 million, principally 
related to the Indian Rupee. On a like-for-like 
basis external revenue increased 17.8%. 
Adjusted operating profit increased 11.1% to 
£8.0 million (2011: £7.2 million). This represents 
an adjusted operating profit margin of  
3.8% (2011: 3.9%), including adverse foreign 
exchange movements of £0.4 million, and a 
£0.2 million operating loss (2011: £0.1 million 
operating profit) from the Xchanging Resourcing 
Services Limited business disposed of in January 
2012. On a like-for-like basis adjusted operating 
profit increased 22.9%.
Revenue for the sector increased primarily due  
to higher contract labour volumes from BAE 
Systems, a key UK procurement customer. The 
2011 results were negatively impacted by lower 
labour volumes from government defence 
spending cuts in the UK impacting the same 
customer. Revenues from new procurement 
contracts, principally L’Oréal in the European 
business and another significant contract win in 
North America, signed in the second half of 2011, 
have more than offset the impact of contracts 
terminated during 2011. In addition, the sector 
has benefited from growth in the provision  
of other BPO services, including finance and 
accounting services, from our processing base  
in India.
Adjusted operating profit increased primarily due 
to the profit contribution from the growth in the 
provision of other BPO services, the full year 
benefit of restructuring undertaken in 2011 under 
the Four Part Action Plan, and other cost saving 
initiatives implemented in 2012, primarily in the 
human resources business. However, adjusted 
operating profit margin was eroded by a number 
of factors. The incremental contract labour 
volume revenue in the year had a limited impact 
on profit, and was more than offset by two 
factors: investment in the US procurement 
business in the first half of 2012; and increased 
investment in sales and marketing in the UK, 
European and Australian procurement businesses.
The restructuring of the UK procurement 
business, for which a provision of £2.2 million 
was recognised at 31 December 2011, is 
progressing as planned to deliver an optimal 
lower cost operating model for the future. This 
restructuring has a completion date of the end 
of Q2 2013.
Sourcing
  
Gainshare
  
Annuity 
  
Advisory
  Fixed fee
 Transaction-based
>10%
Low
  
Expertise
  
Flexibility (type of 
service)
  
End-to-end capability
  
Proprietary 
technology
  
Increasing adoption 
rate – size and term 
reductions
  
Cost reduction
Market growth  
2012-2017
Capital intensity
Revenue model
Competitive 
position
Growth drivers
Business drivers
  See page 142 for our glossary of terms 35
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Business review 16-45
Transactions in the industry
Every transaction requires a 
process and documentation
  We map  
complicated processes
  Cr e a t e order in  
routine transactions
  U s e technology to smooth 
complicated processes
  Apply our knowledge  
across industries
Vault
What do we do?
Procurement
4.  Measure & 
feedback
 – Deliver savings
2 .  F i n d  
opportunies
  Better buying;   
change item; 
change supplier; 
optimise 
consumption
– Negotiate 
– Aggregate
– Reduce risk
–  B u y i n g 
compliance
3 .  I m p l eme n t 
change
 – Management
 – Technology
1 .    A na ly s e 
processes  
& spend 
 – With whom?  
 – On what? 
 –  W h e n?
 – How much?
Gainshare model
  Sharing rewards 
with client
  Vault
–  Track & 
analyse in  
real time
Alternative 
supplier
Original 
supplier
Client 36
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 37
Financial review
In 2012, we met our objective of delivering  
year-on-year improvement in financial performance. 
The financial disciplines we have established and the 
strong cash flow we have generated mean we are  
able to invest to grow our business and reinstate  
the dividend.
Group financial performance summary
In the year ended 31 December 2012, the 
Group achieved improvement across all KPIs 
from continuing operations compared to the 
prior year.
The Group’s adjusted KPIs are calculated after 
adding back a number of non-cash, acquisition-
related items, exceptional items and movements 
in customer cash accounts held by FdB, as noted 
below, in order to present the underlying 
performance of the business.
All numbers presented, unless stated otherwise, 
are from continuing operations only.
Group performance
Adjusted revenue  
Adjusted revenue from continuing operations 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 was  
£668.3 million (2011: £650.0 million). In 2011, 
there was also £1.2 million of exceptional 
revenue recognised in respect of contract 
settlements within the Financial Services sector. 
Organic revenue was £666.2 million, an increase 
of 5.6% on a like-for-like basis. Organic revenue 
growth excludes adverse currency movements 
of £12.7 million, primarily related to the Euro, 
£1.9 million of revenue from AR, acquired  
in November 2012, and £0.1 million (2011:  
£6.2 million) relating to the impact of disposals 
in 2011 and 2012, which did not represent 
discontinued operations.
The increase in organic revenue was driven  
by higher UK, European and US, procurement 
revenues, higher Insurance Services revenues 
and higher revenues in our Technology 
business. These were partially offset by lower 
revenues in the Financial Services sector.
Adjusted operating profit 
Adjusted operating profit from continuing 
operations was £50.4 million (2011:  
£43.2 million). On a like-for-like basis, adjusted 
operating profit increased 19.8%. Organic 
growth excludes adverse currency movements 
of £1.6 million, primarily relating to the Euro and 
Indian Rupee, £0.3 million of profit contribution 
from AR, and £0.2 million (2011: £nil) relating to 
the impact of disposals in 2011 and 2012, which 
did not represent discontinued operations.
The organic increase in adjusted operating 
profit was primarily driven by the full year 
impact of cost saving initiatives across the 
Group, a reduction in depreciation and 
amortisation, and, to a smaller extent, an 
increase in higher margin revenues within the 
Insurance Services sector. These benefits  
have partially offset the investment in the  
US procurement business, and an investment  
in our sales and marketing capabilities.
Statutory operating profit from continuing 
operations increased to £46.0 million  
(2011: £6.6 million). Statutory operating  
profit includes the following:
  amortisation of acquired intangibles of  
£4.0 million (2011: £4.8 million); and 
  acquisition-related expenses of £0.4 million 
(2011: £nil).
In 2011, statutory operating profit also included 
net exceptional costs of £31.8 million related to 
restructuring costs of £18.4 million incurred in 
respect of the Four Part Action Plan, impairment 
of goodwill, intangibles and other assets of 
£14.6 million and contract settlement income  
of £1.2 million.
The table opposite sets out the reconciliation 
from statutory to adjusted operating profit for 
continuing operations.
Xchanging’s share of adjusted operating profit 
for the year from continuing operations was 
£38.4 million (2011: £33.0 million).
Acquisition and acquisition-related 
expenses
On 7 November 2012, the Group acquired 
98.7% of the share capital of AR, a provider of 
software packages and comprehensive IT 
solutions for the securities brokerage and asset 
management industry in Italy, with a customer 
base comprising more than 100 leading 
financial institutions. On 1 February 2013,  
AR has been merged with our pre-existing 
Italian business, Kedrios, and the joint company 
will operate under the name of Xchanging  
Italy S.p.A. 
The Group recorded acquisition-related expenses 
of £0.7 million (2011: £nil), of which £0.4 million 
are recognised within administrative expenses 
and £0.3 million are recognised within finance 
costs, relating to this acquisition.
Margins
Adjusted operating profit margin for continuing 
operations improved 90 bps from 6.6% for the 
year ended 31 December 2011 to 7.5% for the 
year ended 31 December 2012. This was driven 
by an increase in margin in the Technology 
sector, and a reduction in Corporate costs as a 
result of the cost saving initiatives implemented 
in 2011. Margins in the Insurance Services, 
Financial Services and Procurement and Other 
BPO sectors declined in the year. Please refer  
to the Business Review on pages 28 to 35 for 
sector analyses.
Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interest calculations for the 
Group’s non-100% owned subsidiaries are 
dependent upon individual contractual terms. 
Some define adjustments in relation to certain 
items prior to calculating profit share based on 
the percentage share ownerships. These may 
include, for example, adjustments for 
differences between local and international 
accounting standards, and adjustments for any 
discounts or fees payable between parties.
In 2012, the adjusted profit after tax for total 
operations attributable to non-controlling 
interests was £6.3 million (2011: £4.8 million). 
The increase in the adjusted profit after tax for 
total operations attributable to non-controlling 
interests is due to the improved profit 
performance in the Enterprise Partnerships  
with the Lloyd’s and London insurance market, 
and the reduction in the loss generated by 
Kedrios, partially offset by an increase in the 
reversal of profit under IFRS in the securities  37
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Business review 16-45
processing business and a reduction in the profit 
in the remaining Xchanging Solutions Limited 
(formerly Cambridge Solutions Limited) group. 
The reversal of profit under IFRS in the securities 
processing business impacts non-controlling 
interest as contractually Xchanging is entitled to 
100% of the profits, and cash flows, generated 
in this business under German GAAP , but the 
impact of IFRS adjustments is shared with the 
non-controlling interest. The significant 
differences between German GAAP and IFRS 
relate to the accounting treatment for defined 
benefit pension schemes and the capitalisation, 
and related amortisation, of internal costs. 
Earnings per share (EPS)
When considering EPS, the Group uses 
Xchanging’s share of adjusted profit from 
continuing operations to represent the 
performance of the business. Xchanging’s share 
of adjusted profit for the year from continuing 
operations was £25.4 million (2011: £19.2 million).
On this basis, adjusted basic EPS for the period 
was 10.58 pence (2011: 8.01 pence). The 
improvement in adjusted basic EPS is driven by  
the improved profit performance in 100% owned 
subsidiaries. Xchanging’s share of adjusted profit 
from continuing operations has also benefited 
from the non-controlling interest impact of the 
lower profit from our securities processing 
business under IFRS compared to German GAAP , 
as described above.
For a reconciliation of Xchanging’s share of 
statutory profit after tax to Xchanging’s share  
of adjusted profit after tax, as used to 
determine adjusted EPS, please refer to  
note 11 of this Annual Report.
Disposals
On 28 October 2011, the Group disposed of  
its investment in Cambridge Solutions SARL, 
which was part of the Technology sector, for 
no gain or loss.
On 16 January 2012, Xchanging Resourcing 
Services Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of 
2012 2011 Increase
Adjusted revenue
1
£668.3m £650.0m 2.8%
Adjusted operating profit
2
 £50.4m £43.2m 16.7%
Adjusted operating profit margin 7.5% 6.6% 90bps
Statutory operating profit £46.0m £6.6m 597.0%
Adjusted EPS – basic 10.58p 8.01p 32.1%
Statutory EPS – basic 9.05p (5.79)p 256.3%
Operating cash flow
3
£62.6m £35.9m 74.4%
Adjusted cash conversion
4
122.0% 112.0% 1,000bps
Net cash
5
£76.8m £45.2m 69.9%
Equity free cash flow
6
£50.3m £21.3m 136.2%
Return on invested capital
7
28.0% 18.3% 972bps
Economic profit
8
£22.3m £12.3m 81.1%
Notes:
1  
The 2011 comparator excludes £1.2 million of exceptional revenue items relating to contract settlements. There were 
no exceptional revenue items in 2012.
2  
Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items (2012: £nil, 2011: £31.8 million), amortisation of intangible 
assets previously unrecognised by acquired entities (2012: £4.0 million, 2011: £4.8 million) and acquisition-related 
expenses (2012: £0.4 million, 2011: £nil).
3  
Operating cash flow is calculated as cash generated from operations less net capital expenditure (including 
pre-contract costs) and dividends to non-controlling interests.
4  
Adjusted cash conversion is calculated as cash generated from operations, after adding back the cash impact of 
exceptional items (2012: £7.8 million, 2011: £14.9 million), acquisition-related expenses (2012: £0.2 million, 2011: £nil) 
and the movement in customer cash accounts held by FdB (2012: £9.1 million, 2011: £1.2 million), less net capital 
expenditure and dividends to non-controlling interests divided by adjusted operating profit (as defined above).
5  
Net cash is calculated as cash and cash equivalents less bank loans and revolving credit facilities, finance lease liabilities 
and loans from related parties.
6  
Equity free cash flow is calculated as operating cash flow (as defined above) less cash tax and net interest paid.
7  
Return on invested capital is adjusted operating profit less a tax charge at the Group’s effective rate, divided by 
invested capital. Invested capital is calculated as the Group’s net assets, less net cash.
8  
Economic profit is adjusted operating profit less a tax charge at the Group’s effective tax rate, less a charge for 
invested capital. The charge for invested capital is calculated as the Group’s invested capital (as defined above) 
multiplied by the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, being 10%.
2012 2011
Statutory operating profit from continuing operations 46.0 6.6
Amortisation of intangible assets previously
unrecognised by an acquired entity 4.0 4.8
Acquisition-related expenses 0.4 –
Exceptional items – 31.8
– Contract settlements – (1.2)
– Impairment losses – 14.6
– Restructuring costs – 18.4
Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations 50.4 43.2 38
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 39
Financial review
continued
the Group, sold its business of sourcing and placing contingent labour for £0.4 million. The assets sold included the contracts of the business, the 
employees and the databases required to carry out the business. A £0.4 million gain on sale was recognised in the year ended 31 December 2012.
Return on invested capital and economic profit
The Group’s return on invested capital has improved from 18.3% in 2011 to 28.0% in 2012, and economic profit has increased from £12.3 million  
to £22.3 million indicating an increased return in value delivered to shareholders. The improvements result from the rigorous cost management of  
the business, the exiting of loss making or low margin businesses, and the related growth in cash generation.
Adjusted revenue and adjusted operating profit movement: like-for-like analysis
The table below shows the adjusted revenue and adjusted operating profit movements by sector, excluding the impact of foreign exchange 
movements, acquisitions and disposals.
Adjusted basic/diluted earnings per share 
Continuing operations 2012 2011 Movement %
Xchanging’s share of adjusted profit after tax (£m) 25.4 19.2 6.2 32.3%
Weighted average number of shares in issue (m) 239.7 239.5 0.2 0.1%
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence) 10.58 8.01 2.57 32.1%
Xchanging’s share of adjusted profit after tax (£m) 25.4 19.2 6.2 32.3%
Weighted average diluted number of shares (m) 244.3 240.2 4.1 1.7%
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence) 10.38 7.99 2.39 29.9%
Segmental analysis
Insurance 
Services
£m
Financial 
Services  
£m
Technology 
£m
Procurement 
and Other 
BPO 
£m
Corporate 
£m
Group
£m
External revenue
2012 Adjusted Revenue 197.5 163.0 98.8 209.0 – 668.3 
2011 Adjusted Revenue 189.0 179.8 97.9 183.3 – 650.0 
Variance 8.5 (16.8) 0.9 25.7 – 18.3
% 4.5% (9.3)% 0.9% 14.0% – 2.8%
Adjusted operating profit 
2012 Adjusted operating profit 37.5 10.6 9.6 8.0 (15.3) 50.4 
2011 Adjusted operating profit 36.6 12.3 7.0 7.2 (19.9) 43.2 
Variance 0.9 (1.7) 2.6 0.8 4.6 7.2
% 2.5% (13.8)% 37.1% 11.1% 23.1% 16.7%
Adjusted operating profit margin
2012 Adjusted operating profit margin 19.0% 6.5% 9.7% 3.8% – 7.5%
2011 Adjusted operating profit margin 19.3% 6.8% 7.2% 3.9% – 6.6% 39
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Business review 16-45
Sector segments
2011 
£m
2011 impact 
of 2011 
disposal 
£m
2011 impact 
of 2012 
disposal 
£m
Exchange 
rate effect 
£m
Prior year 
like-for-like 
£m
2012 
acquisition 
£m
2012 impact 
of 2012 
disposal
£m
Underlying 
change 
£m %
2012 
£m
Group 
External adjusted 
revenue 650.0 (1.6) (4.7) (12.7) 631.0 1.9 0.1 35.2 5.6% 668.3
Adjusted operating 
profit 43.2 0.1 (0.1) (1.6) 41.7 0.3 0.2 8.3 19.8% 50.4
Insurance Services
External adjusted 
revenue 189.0 –  – 0.3 189.3 –  – 8.2 4.4% 197.5
Adjusted operating 
profit 36.6 –  – (0.5) 36.1 –  – 1.4 4.0% 37.5
Financial Services
External adjusted 
revenue 179.8 –  – (11.3) 168.5 1.9 – (7.5) (4.4%) 163.0
Adjusted operating 
profit 12.3 –  – (1.0) 11.3 0.3 – (1.0) (9.2%) 10.6
Technology
External adjusted 
revenue 97.9 (1.6) – (0.4) 96.0 –  – 2.8 2.9% 98.8
Adjusted operating 
profit 7.0 0.1 – 0.3 7.4 – – 2.2 29.5% 9.6
Procurement and 
Other BPO
External adjusted 
revenue 183.3 – (4.7) (1.4) 177.3 – 0.1 31.6 17.8% 209.0
Adjusted operating 
profit 7.2 – (0.1) (0.4) 6.7 – (0.2) 1.5 22.9% 8.0
Corporate
Adjusted operating 
loss (19.9) –  – 0.1 (19.8) – 0.4 4.2 21.0% (15.3) 40
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 41
Financial review
continued
Corporate
Corporate costs for the year totalled £15.3 million 
(201 1: £19.9 million). Included within the 201 1 
costs was £1.8 million of expenditure on specific 
new business opportunities in the US. Following 
the finalisation of a significant procurement 
contract win in North America in August 201 1, 
these costs were included as part of the ongoing 
cost base of the new US procurement business.  
A further £0.8 million of costs in 201 1 related to 
employees previously considered part of the US 
BPO operations, but retained by Xchanging 
following the sale of the business to Sedgwick at 
the end of May 201 1, and who transferred to form 
part of the Group’s business development team. 
During the second half of 201 1, these employees 
either exited the business, or were allocated to 
sectors (notably Insurance Services) and have 
formed part of the sector results for 2012.
Additionally, corporate costs in 2012 benefited 
from the restructuring undertaken in 2011, which 
led to the reduction in headcount and simpler, 
more streamlined processes, and the exit of the 
West London head office premises in July 2011, 
resulting in lower rental costs and lower 
depreciation charges for associated assets. 
Included in the 2012 result is a £0.4 million gain 
on the sale of the Xchanging Resourcing Services 
Limited business and a £0.1 million favourable 
foreign exchange movement.
Net finance cost
Adjusted net finance costs (pre-imputed interest 
on put options of £0.1 million (201 1: £0.7 million), 
pre-acquisition-related finance costs of £0.3 
million (201 1: £nil), and pre-exceptional finance 
costs of £nil (201 1: £4.3 million)) increased 
marginally from £4.1 million in 201 1 to £4.2 million 
in 2012. Bank and other interest increased from 
£4.1 million in 201 1 to £4.4 million in 2012 
primarily due to £0.5 million of interest payable on 
the £6.0 million deferred consideration payment 
for the 201 1 acquisition of the remaining 50% of 
Xchanging Broking Services Limited from Aon 
Limited, partially offset by a reduction in the 
interest payable on the revolving credit facility due 
to the reduction in the utilisation of this facility 
during the year. Amortisation of loan arrangement 
fees was £nil for the year compared to £0.3 million 
in 201 1. All unamortised loan arrangement fees 
were written off at the time of the Group’s debt 
refinancing in August 201 1. The Group has also 
benefited in the year from the receipt of a  
£0.2 million dividend from its investment in a  
listed Italian software company. 
Adjusted cash conversion
The Group delivered a strong performance in 
the year for adjusted cash conversion, improving 
significantly to 122.0% (2011: 112.0%). 
Adjusted cash conversion is calculated by 
adding back £7.8 million (2011: £14.9 million)  
of cash outflows in respect of exceptional 
restructuring provisions recognised in prior 
years, £0.2 million of acquisition-related 
expenses paid in the year and £9.1 million (2011: 
£1.2 million) increase in customer cash accounts 
held by FdB. 
Cash flow 
Operating cash flow from continuing operations 
was £62.6 million (201 1: £35.9 million) driven by  
an improvement in cash generated from 
continuing operations and lower levels of capital 
expenditure. Cash generated from continuing 
operations increased by 40.3% to £85.7 million 
(201 1: £61. 1 million), due to the £19.2 million 
improvement in EBITDA, and a £13.9 million 
improvement in working capital management 
offsetting £6.2 million of adverse movements in 
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Adjusted operating profit 50.4 43.2 
Add backs and exceptional items (4.4) (36.6)
Statutory operating profit 46.0 6.6 
Depreciation and amortisation 30.5 33.4 
Impairment losses – 14.6 
Other non-cash movements (0.5) 0.9 
Share-based payments 2.0 3.3 
EBITDA 78.0 58.8 
Working capital movement 13.9 2.5 
Pensions (2.4) (0.6)
Provisions (3.8) 0.4 
Cash generated from continuing operations 85.7 61.1 
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Cash generated from continuing operations 85.7  61.1 
Dividends to non-controlling interests (7.6) (7.7)
Net capital expenditure (15.5) (17.5)
Operating cash flow from continuing operations 62.6  35.9 
Interest and dividends received (2.5) (4.9)
Tax (9.8) (9.7)
Equity free cash flow from continuing operations 50.3  21.3 
Free cash flow from discontinued operation – (8.3)
Cash flow after interest, tax and dividends 50.3  13.1 
Acquisitions and disposals (17.5) (4.5)
Proceeds from issue or sale of shares 0.7 –
Foreign exchange movements (1.9) 3.1
Movements in net cash 31.6  11.7  41
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Business review 16-45
pensions and provisions. £9.1 million of the 
working capital improvement relates to an increase 
in the customer cash accounts offered by FdB.
During 2012, £7 .8 million (201 1: £14.9 million) of 
cash was spent on restructuring costs as part of 
the rationalisation of the Group’s overall cost base, 
all of which (201 1: £4.9 million) was in respect of 
the utilisation of previous restructuring provisions. 
In the year, net provisions totalling £5.8 million 
(201 1: £26.8 million) have been recognised 
primarily in respect of onerous lease contracts, 
dilapidations and additional restructuring. Two 
onerous lease contract provisions totalling £2.5 
million have been recognised for an under-utilised 
data centre in our Technology business, and 
surplus office space in our Financial Services sector 
as result of the integration of AR with our existing 
operations in Italy. A £0.5 million dilapidations 
provision and £1.1 million of the restructuring 
provision relates to the transformation of the 
operating model in our Broker Services business to 
meet changing customer demands. The additional 
£0.5 million of restructuring provisions recognised 
in the year relates to redundancies in our Italian 
operations following the acquisition of AR.
Dividend payments to non-controlling interests 
were £7.6 million (2011: £7.7 million). 
Equity free cash flow for the year was  
£50.3 million (2011: £21.3 million).  No dividend 
was declared or paid in relation to 2011 (2011:  
no dividend was paid in respect of 2010).
Net expenditure on acquisitions in the year was 
£17 .5 million (201 1: £9.7 million). This comprises: the 
£10.4 million cash consideration paid in November 
2012 on completion of the acquisition of AR less the 
£0.9 million of cash acquired with AR; the £6.0 
million deferred consideration payment for the 201 1 
acquisition of the remaining 50% of Xchanging 
Broking Services Limited from Aon Limited; the  
£1.5 million final tranche of the deferred 
consideration for the 2010 acquisition of Data 
Integration Limited; a £0.7 million interim payment 
of the put option with Allianz Global Investors 
Kapitalanlagesellschaft mbH; the £0.2 million 
deferred consideration for the acquisition of Elumina 
Group Pty Limited in 201 1; and the £0.4 million 
proceeds from the sale of the assets of Xchanging 
Resourcing Services Limited in January 2012. 
Overall, the net cash position improved by  
£31.6 million compared with 2011. Net cash at 
the end of the period was £76.8 million (2011: 
£45.2 million).
Capital expenditure
Our net capital expenditure for continuing 
operations for the year was £15.5 million  
(2011: £17.5 million), representing 2.3% of 
revenue (2011: 2.7%) and 58.5% of depreciation 
and amortisation, excluding amortisation on 
assets previously unrecognised by an acquired 
entity (2011: 61.2%). In 2012, Xchanging 
invested in further developing our Technology 
sector insurance software product Xuber, 
Netsett, and completion of our new processing 
centre in Shimoga, India. Capital expenditure is 
closely managed to ensure that investment is 
directed in the right areas to deliver the best 
returns for shareholders.
Funding, distribution policy and dividends
Funding for sustaining investment and organic 
growth is met initially from operating cash flow. 
Our equity free cash flow and available debt 
finance determine the funding available for 
acquisitions and distributions.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of  
1 pence per share in respect of the year ended 
31 December 2012. The recommencement of 
the dividend is an indication of the Board’s 
confidence in the underlying cash generation 
and growth outlook of the Group.
Treasury management
All of our treasury activity takes place within  
a formal control framework, under policies 
approved by the Board. We monitor compliance 
with these policies and guidelines through 
regular reporting of treasury activities. 
The treasury function’s primary responsibilities 
are to procure our capital resources and 
manage our liquidity, foreign exchange and 
interest rate risks on a Group-wide basis.
Borrowing facilities
Our principal sources of debt finance are a  
£75.0 million multi-currency revolving credit 
facility and a £20.0 million term loan provided  
by a syndicate of banks. Both facilities are 
committed and mature in August 2015.  
At 31 December 2012, £20.0 million  
Headroom under committed and uncommitted credit facilities as at 31 December 2012
Committed 
Facilities 
£m
Uncommitted 
Facilities 
£m
Total 
£m
Total Facility
Xchanging 99.3 13.7 113.0 
Xchanging Solutions 0.3 – 0.3 
Enterprise Partnerships – – –
Cash Drawings
Xchanging (39.4) – (39.4)
Xchanging Solutions (0.2) – (0.2)
Enterprise Partnerships – – –
Letters of credit & bank guarantees
Xchanging (20.6) – (20.6)
Xchanging Solutions (0.1) – (0.1)
Enterprise Partnerships – – –
Headroom
Xchanging 39.3 13.7 53.0 
Xchanging Solutions – – –
Enterprise Partnerships – – –
Total Headroom 39.3 13.7 53.0  42
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 43
(2011: £20.0 million) was drawn under the term 
loan and cash drawn under the revolving credit  
facility was £17.6 million (2011: £28.0 million).  
Bank guarantees of €20.0 million (£16.4 million) 
and USD2.7 million (£1.7 million) were also drawn 
against the revolving credit facility (2011:  
€20.0 million (£16.8 million) and USD2.7 million  
(£1.7 million)). Fixed term loan repayments of 
£3.3 million, payable every six months, will 
commence from January 2013.
The Group has a £10.0 million uncommitted 
overdraft facility linked to its UK notional cash  
pooling arrangement. 
In addition to the above facilities, there is a 
working capital facility of INR 330.0 million 
(£3.7 million) provided to Xchanging 
Technology Services India Private Limited in 
India. No funds were drawn under this facility  
at the year end (2011: £2.9 million).
The Group also has non-fund based facilities for 
the provision of bank guarantees. At the year 
end date, £2.6 million of guarantees had been 
issued (2011: £2.6 million).At 31 December 
2012, the Group had £39.3 million  
(2011: £28.5 million) of headroom under  
its committed debt facilities. 
We expect to be able to finance our current 
business plans through ongoing operations  
and our committed funding facilities.
Borrowing covenants
The Group is subject to covenants, 
representations and warranties commonly 
associated with corporate bank debt for its  
term loan and revolving credit facilities. As at  
31 December 2012, the Group was compliant 
with all of its financial covenants:
  the ratio of consolidated borrowings to 
Xchanging’s share of consolidated profit before 
depreciation and amortisation (pre-exceptional 
items) must not exceed 2.0 times. As at  
31 December 2012, the ratio was 1.0 times;
  the ratio of Xchanging’s share of consolidated 
profit before depreciation and amortisation 
(pre-exceptional items) to net consolidated 
finance charges must not be less than  
6.0 times. As at 31 December 2012, the ratio 
was 16.7 times; and
  the ratio of net cash flow to UK cash pool debt 
service must not be less than 0.5 times. As at 
31 December 2012, the ratio was 5.8 times.
Levels of borrowing and seasonality
Xchanging operates in a wide range of  
markets and locations and, as a result, the 
seasonality of our borrowing requirements  
is relatively low. Underlying cyclicality before 
capital expenditure is driven principally by 
collections of dividends and royalties from 
Enterprise Partnerships and scheduled 
repayments under the term loan facilities. 
During 2012 the Group’s average net cash 
balance, including the average cash balance in 
customer cash accounts held in FdB, was £62.6 
million. The Group’s average net cash balance, 
excluding the average cash balance in customer 
cash accounts held in FdB, was £47.1 million. 
Cash balances
We invest surplus cash to maximise return, within 
liquidity and counterparty credit constraints that 
have been approved by the Board. 
The majority of our wholly owned UK entities 
are included in a notional pooling arrangement 
to optimise liquidity management. We review 
the efficiency of our other cash balances on a 
monthly basis.
The aggregate cash balances in Enterprise 
Partnerships represents working capital, 
accumulated but unpaid distributions to the 
shareholders and, in the case of FdB, customer 
cash accounts. Although subject to timing 
variances, as a general statement we would 
expect the aggregate cash balance to remain 
relatively stable as a high proportion of 
Enterprise Partnerships’ equity free cash  
flow is distributed to the shareholders. 
Approximately £1 1.8 million of the cash balance in 
Enterprise Partnerships at the year end represented 
accrued but unpaid licence fees that are expected 
to be paid to the Group in 2013, and a further 
£10.8 million is expected to be paid to the Group in 
2013 as dividends in respect of 2012 performance. 
A further £20.7 million represented cash placed in 
customer cash accounts offered by FdB for which 
an equal liability is recognised (201 1: £1 1.6 million). 
The remaining cash balance in the Enterprise 
Partnerships represents dividends due to non-
controlling interests and working capital.
Foreign currency translation exposures
We do not hedge foreign currency profit and loss 
translation exposures and our reported results may 
therefore be affected by currency fluctuations.
Foreign currency transaction exposures
We are subject to foreign exchange transaction 
exposure in our Indian operations, where 
revenues are generated in Sterling, US Dollars and 
Euros and the cost base is primarily in Indian 
Rupees. The principal transaction exposures 
arising during 2012 included net Sterling cash 
flows of approximately £18.0 million and net  
US Dollar cash flows of USD15.3 million. Under 
our foreign exchange risk management policy, 
exposures may be hedged with forward foreign 
exchange contracts when the underlying cash 
flows are deemed to be highly probable. 
As at 31 December
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Cash
Xchanging 37.2 30.3
Xchanging Solutions 4.8 4.9
Enterprise Partnerships 74.4 62.9
116.4 98.1
Debt including finance lease liabilities
Xchanging (39.4) (52.7)
Xchanging Solutions (0.2) (0.2)
Enterprise Partnerships – –
(39.6) (52.9)
Net cash 76.8 45.2
Financial review
continued 43
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Business review 16-45
Typically, we will look to hedge revenue to 
protect operating cash flow and to support the 
planning cycle. Foreign exchange contracts 
hedging revenue against the Indian Rupee 
amounting to £11.4 million, USD8.2 million and 
€3.3 million were outstanding at the year end 
(2011: £4.8 million and USD4.8 million).
Interest rate risk management
The Group reviews its interest rate exposure 
against acceptable risk profiles on a periodic 
basis and may enter into interest rate swap 
agreements in order to achieve an acceptable 
balance of fixed and floating rate interest 
exposure. At 31 December 2012 all drawn  
debt was subject to floating rate interest. 
Retirement benefit obligations
The Group has three funded defined benefit 
schemes in the UK, all of which are closed to 
new members. 
The cash contribution to the UK plans 
(Insurance Services and Technology sectors) 
includes £3.0 million per year in respect of 
recovery plans agreed with the trustees on two 
UK Plans, one in 2011 and the other in 2012. 
Recovery plans are agreed on completion of 
the triennial actuarial valuations and with 
valuations commencing for the two largest  
UK schemes in 2013, the current plans will 
therefore need to be reviewed with the 
trustees during 2014. It is expected that 
contributions in respect of the UK defined 
benefit schemes during 2013 will be  
£5.4 million (of which £2.0 million is expected 
to be funded from UK Enterprise Partnerships, 
and the remainder from a wholly owned 
subsidiary) and these figures include the 
anticipated level of deficit recovery payments.
Around 60 UK employees are members of 
various BAE Systems defined benefit pension 
schemes; however, the contributions made by 
the Group to the BAE Systems schemes can only 
vary in respect of future service contributions 
and are therefore accounted for on a defined 
contribution basis. The Group has various 
indemnities in place with BAE Systems and 
therefore could only be exposed to deficits in 
the BAE Systems schemes in the event that BAE 
Systems were to become insolvent. 
In Financial Services, the Group operates 
various unfunded defined benefit plans, the 
largest of which is supported by a Contractual 
Trust Arrangement (CTA). The CTA investment 
strategy adopted by the Group seeks to match 
asset movements to changes in the value of the 
liabilities. It is expected that contributions in 
respect of the Financial Services defined benefit 
schemes during 2013 will be £2.8 million (all of 
which is expected to be funded from Financial 
Services Enterprise Partnerships). 
The Group works closely with the trustees of 
each of the pension plans to manage the risks 
associated with the provision of defined benefit 
pensions and reviews the investment strategy on 
all three UK schemes. The factors that most 
affect the value of the liabilities are interest rate 
and longevity, and the Group’s sensitivity to these 
particular risks is shown in notes to the accounts.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group has net 
retirement benefit obligations of £62.1 million  
(201 1: £42.4 million). The significant increase in the 
obligations is driven by an actuarial loss in the largest 
scheme in the Financial Services sector principally 
due to a reduction in the discount rate applied from 
5.37% to 3.42%. The discount rate reduction is 
driven by the decrease in German bond yields.
Capital structure
The Group seeks to maintain a strong credit 
profile to aid its ability to partner in business 
and will plan so as not to exceed consolidated 
borrowings of 2.0 times Xchanging’s share of 
consolidated profit before depreciation and 
amortisation. In order to achieve its desired 
capital structure, the Group may adjust the 
amount of dividends paid to shareholders, 
return capital to shareholders and adjust asset 
holdings to reduce or increase debt.
Regulatory capital
Xchanging operates in a number of regulatory 
regimes. The key businesses affected by 
regulatory requirements are XTB and FdB, 
which conduct securities processing and retail 
investment account administration in 
Germany. They both maintain full banking 
licences and are regulated under the German 
Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin). 
Sufficient regulatory capital must be held in 
these entities to cover the operating and credit 
risks of the business. The regulatory capital 
requirement is based on market, operating and 
credit risk factors applied to asset classes. The 
regulatory capital in the business is calculated 
as total equity less total intangible assets. 
There is no obligation to set cash aside to meet 
regulatory capital requirements but funding 
may be required from the holding company if 
the required regulatory capital is less than the 
calculated regulatory capital.
No additional regulatory capital was contributed 
to the German banking group during 2012.
Components of the Insurance Services business 
are regulated in the United Kingdom by the 
Financial Services Authority (FSA). 
Weighted average cost of capital
The Group has calculated its weighted average 
cost of capital as 10% (2011: 10%). 
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax rate on adjusted 
operating profit from continuing operations was 
31.5% (2011: 36.3%). The rate was higher in 
2011 due to additional tax charges arising in that 
year from share schemes and other non-
deductible items. The cash tax rate on adjusted 
profit from continuing operations was 33.9% 
(2011: 34.5%). 
The 2012 rates are higher than the UK statutory 
tax rate of 24.5% (2011: 26.5%). This is due to 
losses in Italy where no tax benefit has been 
recognised and various other non-deductible 
items. Additionally the effective tax rate has 
been adversely affected by the write-down of 
the closing UK deferred tax assets in accordance 
with the reduction in the UK corporate tax rate. 
The 2012 rates have also been affected by 
profits arising in overseas jurisdictions with 
higher tax rates. 
The 2012 effective rate is lower than the 2012 
cash tax rate, largely due to the recognition of 
deferred tax assets in the US. 
Major accounting judgements
For details of major accounting judgements, 
please refer to note 3 of this Annual Report, on 
pages 88 to 89.
David Bauernfeind 
Chief Financial Officer 
28 February 2013  X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 45 44
Corporate social responsibility
Delivering our business responsibly
Corporate social responsibility (“CSR”) encompasses  
a broad spectrum of activities. Xchanging analyses issues 
in order to identify those that are material to the business 
and seeks to respond to them accordingly. CSR is closely 
aligned with our Values and is divided into four categories: 
people, environment, communities and marketplace.
Managing our responsibilities
Our CSR Committee is responsible for setting  
the strategy for our CSR programme and 
overseeing its performance. The Committee 
meets quarterly and manages CSR activities  
to address the five key areas of interest to  
our stakeholders.
Corporate Social Responsibility  
Committee members:
  Chairman/Marketplace, Gary Whitaker 
(Company Secretary)
  People, Campbell Hair (Group Human 
Resources Director)
   Environment, Matthew Denham (Trading 
Director, Procurement)
   Communities, James Willcocks (Interim 
Internal Communication Manager, Insurance)
  Communication, Melanie Wheeler (Group 
Head of Internal Communication & CSR)
People 
People are critical to our business. We are 
committed to developing and supporting our 
people in order to drive our innovative approach 
to business and ensure that Xchanging remains 
a great place to work.
2012 saw the introduction of our pioneering 
Business Week India (“BWI”) concept, which 
aims to increase collaboration and 
understanding of capabilities across the 
Xchanging businesses. BWI involves more than 
70 senior managers assembling in India to work 
together in delivering a range of business critical 
projects, share internal best practice and gain 
exposure to global thought leadership. Two  
BWI events took place in the year and led to 
outcomes such as the establishment of our India 
based “Bid Factory”; the design of our Account 
Management programme; a New Product and 
Market Development toolkit for our Sales and 
Account Management population, in addition to 
a process for accelerating the creation of a true 
“innovation culture” across Xchanging.  
Xchanging conducts a regular Group-wide 
employee survey. The 2012 survey showed a 
like-for-like improvement in engagement of  
8 percentage points from the previous survey  
in 2010. Priority areas for action were identified 
at both global and local levels and a full 
governance process has been established to 
ensure identified actions are implemented. 
The year has seen a focus on first line manager 
skills with new, consistent programmes being 
delivered in the UK, India and Australia. The aim 
of these programmes is to improve the employee 
experience and increase retention by establishing 
a minimum standard of leadership effectiveness 
in areas including hiring, team leadership, 
performance management and communication. 
The programme will be delivered in remaining 
businesses and geographies through 2013.
Our people resourcing agenda has focused on 
building capability to drive growth in order to 
ensure we have the knowledge and resource to 
deliver it. This has resulted in campaigns in three 
key areas: Sales, Account Management and 
hiring talent to support our rebranding and the 
launch of our ground-breaking Xuber product.
This year we recognised individuals and teams 
within the business who have made a 
particularly distinguished contribution to our 
development over the course of 2012, as judged 
against each of our six corporate Values. 
Environment
The environmental impact of Xchanging’s 
worldwide operations has been assessed and is 
not deemed to be considerable. Nonetheless,  
all of our business operations apply Xchanging’s 
environment policy in order to reduce the 
impact on the environment. 
Xchanging tracks and monitors our impact and 
publishes our carbon footprint along with our 
involvement in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
The corporate Values are:
Customer focus 
We focus relentlessly on the customer. 
We provide flexible, practical and value 
added solutions. We deliver results by 
constantly taking the initiative. 
Innovation 
We challenge the status quo and 
approach our business with creativity, 
fresh ideas, lateral thinking and a 
commitment to do things in a new  
way. We inspire innovation. 
Speed & efficiency 
We act quickly and decisively. Speed  
is of the essence.
People 
We create value, are empowered to  
make a difference and are responsible  
and accountable for our actions. We 
succeed through teamwork based on 
mutual respect and the desire to invest  
in each other’s success.
Excellence 
We are dedicated to continuous 
improvement which is reflected in our 
leadership in technology, implementation, 
operations and quality standards. 
Integrity 
We are dependable and responsible 
people committed to being open, 
transparent, honest and direct in all  
of our activities. 45
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Business review 16-45
money for Vinoba Vidyalaya. We presented 
them with a cheque for £5,089.14 with which 
they have bought school uniforms, sporting 
equipment and new computers.
Each of our sites supports local charities, as well 
as national partners including Children in Need. 
In 2012, we donated our call centre facilities to 
the BBC for the third year running and 140 of our 
employees volunteered their time to take calls.
In 2012 we supported 26 charities worldwide.  
In the UK we continued to support our local 
educational charity partners, working with 
schools and colleges to introduce students 
studying business, IT or finance-related A-levels 
or equivalents to the world of work.
Donations to various international, national  
and local charities amounted to £55,000.  
No donations were made to political parties.
Marketplace
We aim to achieve long term sustainable 
relationships with all of our customers and 
suppliers. Our values, the Ethical Code of 
Business Conduct and other relevant policies 
Xchanging’s most significant environmental 
impacts are:
  Greenhouse gas emissions as a result of our 
energy use
  Greenhouse gas emissions from business travel
  The production of waste going to landfill
  The environmental impact of our suppliers
Our carbon footprint 
We have published our carbon footprint each 
year since 2008. In 2012, our footprint 
decreased by 3% to 21,150 tonnes of CO
2
e.  
This has been mainly driven by reductions in 
business travel within a number of our regions 
and operational changes at several key sites. 
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)
Xchanging participates in the CDP and 
continues to review the most appropriate 
approach to corporate governance, in respect  
of climate change disclosure practices.
In 2012, our carbon disclosure score increased 
from 56 to 65 reflecting the increased focus 
throughout the organisation.
Communities
We support the communities in which we 
operate. Our approach is aligned to our 
“People” Value: we create value and empower 
our employees to make a difference. Activities 
are aligned to our “Integrity” Value of being 
dependable, responsible and committed to 
being open, transparent, honest and direct in 
all of our activities.
We look to create long term sustainable 
relationships within our communities and focus 
on projects linked to youth and education.  
For example, our partnership with Vinoba 
Vidyalaya, a school in Shimoga, India, has a 
direct and positive impact on the Shimoga 
community. In 2012, Xchanging employees 
raised £15,205.29 for Vinoba Vidyalaya.
During the Olympics we ran a Wii Olympics 
competition which involved employees around 
the world competing in six events to raise 
(which together form part of our compliance 
with the requirements of the UK Bribery Act 
2010) support what we expect of our people 
and their interactions with our customers and 
suppliers. We aim to be honest, transparent and 
ethical in all our interactions. 
We deliver our services to customers in 43 
countries. Understanding our customers is 
critical to providing excellent service. Our aim is 
to transform our customers’ services, adding 
value to their operations and meeting the needs 
of their customers. Our Account Directors 
manage our relationships with our customers 
and we have invested a considerable amount of 
time in ensuring that they have all been through 
training to ensure that they are compliant with 
the UK Bribery Act 2010. 
Many of our customers have sustainability 
agendas. They are keen to reduce their 
environmental impact and to ensure that their 
business operates in a sustainable and ethical 
manner. Xchanging has a part to play here. 
Global Carbon Footprint (tonnes of CO
2
e) 2010
1
2011
1
2012
Scope 1 2,773 3,023 3,231 
Scope 2 15,677 15,729 15,552 
Scope 3 4,429 3,122 2,367
Total 22,879 21,874 21,150
Employees 8,503 7,930 8,122
Notes:
1
  2010 and 2011 data have been restated, due to updated emission factors and adjustments to underlying activity data, 
in order to allow comparability with 2012 figures. 
Xchanging’s global carbon footprint has been calculated using the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol and Defra 2012 
GHG Conversion Factors. In accordance with the GHG Protocol, it includes Scope 1, 2 and 3 data as defined below. 
Scope 1 – Direct emissions resulting from activities within Xchanging’s operational control (specifically gas 
consumption, fuel oil use and fleet vehicle use). 
Scope 2 – Indirect emissions from electricity used at sites within Xchanging’s operational control. 
Scope 3 – Indirect emissions from Xchanging’s employee business travel. 
Headcount*
 
2012  8,122
2011 7,930
2010 8,503
2009 8,601
2008 3,909
Headcount by sector
 Insurance Services 2,724
 Procurement and Other BPO 1,903
 Financial Services 1,760
 Technology 1,673
 
*Based on average monthly FTE numbers 47
01. Geoff Unwin, 
Chairman
Skills and Experience: Geoff has extensive experience in 
the Technology and Services sector. He spent over 20 years 
at Hoskyns, the computer services company, latterly as 
Managing Director and then Executive Chairman. From 1990 
– 2002 he held roles at Capgemini, rising to Chief Executive 
Officer in 2000. 
Appointment Date: 1 December 201 1
Term of Appointment: 4 Years 
Independent: Yes
Other directorships and offices
Current 
  Chairman of Halma plc
  Chairman of OpenCloud Limited 
  Member of Advisory Board of Palamon  
Capital Partners
  Chairman of RD Card Holdings Limited
Past
  Chairman of United Business Media plc (2002 to 2007)
  Chairman of Liberata plc (2003 to 201 1)
  Chairman of Omnibus Systems Ltd 
  Chairman of Alliance Medical Group  
(to December 2010)
  Non-voting director of Capgemini S.A. (to May 2012)
  Chairman of Taptu Limited (to September 2012)
Board Committee Membership
  Chairman of the Nomination Committee
  Member of Remuneration Committee 
02. Ken Lever, 
Chief Executive Officer
Skills and Experience: Ken initially joined Xchanging as Chief 
Finance Officer in October 2010 and became acting Chief 
Executive Officer in February 201 1. He became Chief Executive 
Officer in June 201 1. Ken was a partner at Arthur Andersen. 
He has served as a public listed company director initially as 
Group Managing Director with Corton Beach plc, a small 
conglomerate, and then as Finance Director of Alfred 
McAlpine plc, the international construction services group, 
Albright & Wilson, the global chemicals group and then he 
spent eight years with Tomkins plc, the global engineering 
and manufacturing group formerly listed on the London and 
New York Stock Exchanges. Ken then moved into the role of 
Chief Financial Officer of Numonyx BV, based in Switzerland. 
Appointment Date: 7 June 201 1 
Term of Appointment: N/A
Independent: N/A
Other directorships and offices
Current 
  Non-executive Director of FM Insurance Company 
Limited, the subsidiary of FM Global. 
  Member of Accounting Council of the Financial 
Reporting Council.
Board Committee Membership
   N on e
03. David Bauernfeind, 
Chief Financial Officer
Skills and Experience: David is a qualified chartered 
accountant having worked in the audit discipline with 
Deloitte and Touche, before gaining experience with 
Johnson Matthey plc and progressing to Head of Audit  
with Airbus. 
In 1998, David joined BAE Systems where he became 
financial controller (Defence). Responsibilities included  
acting as the commercial lead in the creation of an HR  
shared services joint venture with Xchanging. David  
joined Xchanging HR Services Limited in 2001 to oversee  
this JV. For over a decade, he has worked in almost all of  
the business areas in senior financial positions. 
Appointment Date: 7 June 201 1 
Term of Appointment: N/A
Independent: N/A
Other directorships and offices
  None
Board Committee Membership
  None
04. Michel Paulin, 
Non-executive Director
Skills and Experience: Michel brings to the Board more 
than 20 years’ experience in the telecommunications 
industry and experience of working in Continental Europe. 
After his early career as a consultant for McKinsey & 
Company, he was COO of Louis Dreyfus Group’s major 
commodity trading business and also recently held the 
position of Chief Executive Officer of Neuf Cegetel. 
Appointment Date: 1 January 2010 
Term of Appointment: 3 Years
Independent: Yes
Other directorships and offices 
Current 
   Independent Director of Bull S.A. 
Past
   Chief Executive Officer of Neuf Cegetel.
   COO at the Louis Dreyfus Group’s major commodity 
trading business
  Non-executive Director Myriad Group AG (October 201 1)
  Non-executive Director LDC SEV
Board Committee Membership
  Member of Remuneration Committee
  Member of Nomination Committee
Board of Directors
01. 02. 03. 04. 47
05. Bill Thomas, 
Non-executive Director
Skills and Experience: Bill has extensive experience of the 
IT sector and adds valuable technical expertise to the Board. 
He has more than 30 years’ experience in the IT services 
sector. His early career was spent at Marconi and SD-Scicon 
and for over 20 years worked with EDS and Hewlett-Packard 
in the USA and Europe running the EMEA services business. 
Appointment Date: 1 December 201 1 
Term of Appointment: 3 Years
Independent: Yes
Other directorships and offices
Current 
   Chairman of the Advisory Board of Cranfield School  
of Management.
   Independent Director GFI Software SARL
  Director of Advisory Board of University of Leeds  
Business School
Board Committee Membership
  Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
   Member of Audit Committee
  Member of Nomination Committee 
06. Stephen Wilson, 
Non-executive Director
Skills and Experience: Stephen has significant financial and 
business experience in both technology and outsourcing. 
Stephen has spent most of his career in the IT industry, 
including 25 years with IBM. He was Chief Financial Officer 
for IBM UK and Ireland from 2002 to 2009.
In 2009 he joined Misys plc, as Vice President Group Finance 
and became Chief Financial Officer in June 2010, taking 
Misys through its acquisition by Vista Equity Partners and its 
subsequent merger with Turaz in 2012. On 14 January 2013 
he joined the Board of Genus plc and will become Group 
Finance Director on 1 March 2013. He is also a Fellow of the 
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants. 
Appointment Date: 1 July 2012 
Term of Appointment: 3 Years
Independent: Yes
Other directorships and offices
Current
   Director of Genus plc
Past
   Executive director of Misys plc
Board Committee Membership
  Chairman of the Audit Committee
07. Saurabh Srivastava,  
Non-executive Director
Skills and Experience: Saurabh is one of India’s leading IT 
entrepreneurs, angel investors and venture capitalists and 
has a deep knowledge of the Indian IT market. He founded 
and chaired IIS Infotech, NASSCOM, and co-founded the 
Indian Angel Network. He also chairs the Indian operations 
of CA Technologies Inc., the US listed software business.  
He chaired the Indian Venture Capital Association and is 
Chairman Emeritus of TIE Delhi. Saurabh has previously 
served on the Advisory Boards of Imperial College Business 
School, London, and on the advisory boards of Uttarakhand 
and Himachal Universities in India. He serves on the Prime 
Minister’s National Innovation Council and on various 
government boards/committees. He has been awarded a 
Lifetime Achievement award from the IT Industry in India  
and a Distinguished Alumnus from IIT Kanpur. 
Appointment Date: 4 September 2012 
Term of Appointment: 3 Years
Independent: Yes
Other directorships and offices
Current 
  National Executive Committees of CII (Confederation  
of Indian Industries) 
  FICCI (Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce  
and Industry)
  Chair of Indian operations of CA Technologies Inc
Board Committee Membership
  Member of Audit Committee
08. Ian Cormack,  
Senior Independent Non-executive Director
Skills and Experience: Ian has wide experience of the City 
and financial markets together with first-hand experience of 
the Insurance sector. Ian spent over 30 years at Citibank, 
latterly as UK Country Head of the Financial Institutions 
Group.  From 2000 to 2002, he was Chief Executive Officer 
of AIG Europe. A former member of the Chancellor’s City 
Advisory Panel, he has served on committees for the London 
Stock Exchange, CHAPS, APACS, the European Securities 
Forum. He founded and, until 2008, ran Cormack Tansey 
Partners which provides strategic consulting to financial 
institutions. He is an active member of the Development 
Council for the National Theatre and Campaign Committee 
of Pembroke College, Oxford. 
Appointment Date: 26 October 2012 
Term of Appointment: 3 Years
Independent: Yes
Other directorships and offices
Current 
  Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee at Bloomsbury Publishing plc
  Non-executive Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee of Phoenix Group  
Holdings plc
  Chairman of Maven Income and Growth VCT 4 plc
  Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee of Arria NLG Ltd
  Non-executive Director Aspen Insurance Holdings Ltd, 
Bermuda. 
Board Committee Membership
  Member of Nomination Committee 
  Member of Remuneration Committee 
Corporate governance 46-69
05. 06. 07. 08. 49
Ken Lever, 
Chief Executive Officer
See biography on pages 46 to 47
David Bauernfeind, 
Chief Financial Officer
See biography on pages 46 to 47
Executive Board Support Group:
Subramanian Gopalaratnam,  
Head of Innovation
Alexandra Hockenhull,  
Head of Corporate Communications and  
Investor Relations 
Campbell Hair,  
Global HR Director
Milind Joshi,  
Head of Quality and Operations Excellence
Robert Myers,  
Director, Business Processing Services
Jim Sadler,  
Chief Information Officer
Gary Whitaker,  
Head of Legal and Company Secretary
01. Adrian Guttridge, 
Executive Director, Insurance Services
Business: Business Processing Services
Skills and Experience: Before joining Xchanging, Adrian 
was Vice President of Business Processing Outsourcing, 
EMEA at Hewlett-Packard. In this role he was directly 
responsible for a business with 7 ,000 employees based  
on, near and offshore. In recent years Adrian has been 
running businesses wholly or substantially in financial 
services. He has a technology background and his 30 year 
career includes extensive experience specifically in the 
insurance sector, for example running the insurance practice 
for EDS (prior to its acquisition by HP), and in senior roles at 
Accenture and Marlborough Stirling. 
Appointment Date: December 2012
02. Joerg Brand, 
Executive Director, Financial Services
Business: Business Processing Services
Skills and Experience: Before joining Xchanging, Joerg 
was a member of Deutsche Bank’s corporate finance M&A 
team in London. Prior to this, Joerg held a number of 
banking and corporate finance positions with Dresdner 
Kleinwort and Dresdner Bank in London, Luxembourg, 
New York and Buenos Aires. 
Joerg joined Xchanging in 2002 as Business Development 
Manager driving expansion in Germany. He then moved to 
London to become Corporate Development Director in 
2009 before taking up his current position in which he is 
authorised by the German financial supervisory agency 
(BaFin) and is responsible for two businesses that hold a 
banking licence.  
Appointment Date: March 2011
03. Nimish Soni, 
Executive Director, Enterprise Services
Business: Business Processing Services
Skills and Experience: In addition to his Enterprise BPS 
responsibilities, Nimish also supports our other business 
sectors across the India and South East Asia region.
Nimish joined Xchanging following the Group’s acquisition 
of Cambridge Solutions Ltd in 2009. Prior to his current role, 
Nimish held the position of Managing Director for the BPO 
and ITO Divisions of Xchanging India. He founded 
Cambridge BPO (formerly known as ProcessMind) in 2001.
Prior to founding ProcessMind, Nimish set up a captive centre 
in India for American Financial Group. He started his career 
with a five year period with Capgemini in the US.  
Appointment Date: May 2011
04. Andrew Binns, 
Executive Director, Technology
Business: Technology
Skills and Experience: Andrew’s career spans 27 years  
in the IT industry in outsourcing and consulting services.  
He has held positions with global responsibility within 
multinational companies spanning software, technology 
services, management consultancy and start-up ventures.
Prior to Xchanging, Andrew was CEO of global services at 
Temenos Group; a market leading provider of packaged 
banking software. Other senior roles include Managing 
Director of Aon BPO and Consulting, CEO of software 
company Netengines and Managing Director of the EMEA 
outsourcing business of Digital Equipment Corporation 
(now Hewlett-Packard).  
Appointment Date: January 2012
01. 02. 03. 04.
Executive Board  49
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Corporate governance 46-69
05. Ed Cross, 
Executive Director, Procurement
Business: Procurement
Skills and Experience: Ed has been with Xchanging since 
2003, when he joined as the UK Trading Services Director, 
responsible for the leadership of the UK trading spend 
portfolio. Ed has held a range of senior roles at Xchanging, 
most recently leading the Procurement business across 
Europe. Overall, he has 25 years’ experience in a variety of 
roles in procurement, supply chain and change management 
with over 15 years’ executive level outsourcing and 
consultancy experience. Prior to joining Xchanging, Ed held a 
number of senior level consulting and outsourcing positions 
with QP Group, ShareMax Inc. and PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
Appointment Date: April 2012
06. Stephen Scott, 
Group Director of Sales and Marketing
Business: Cross-sector
Skills and Experience: Stephen first joined Xchanging  
in 2006 as the Australian Relations Director. He rejoined 
Xchanging in 2009 following a period working in senior 
management positions at Aon and Westpac Banking 
Corporation, and in 2011 became the Australian Sales  
and Services Director. 
Prior to Xchanging, Stephen worked in senior management 
positions at the Australian Federal Treasury and the 
Financial Services Institute of Australasia. Stephen has  
16 years of experience working in a variety of industries 
including banking, insurance, government and internet 
new media. His roles have included sales, service, strategy 
and general management.  
Appointment Date: March 2012
07. Jon Stratford, 
Group Director of Corporate Development and 
Corporate Strategy
Business: Corporate
Skills and Experience: Jon began his career at KPMG and 
is a qualified chartered accountant. He spent 10 years in 
investment banking advising on strategic acquisitions, 
disposals, financing and private equity. Jon joined 
Xchanging in 2006 as Corporate Development Director.  
He was responsible for leading the Xchanging IPO which 
took place in April 2007. Subsequently Jon worked as  
Chief Financial and Commercial Officer for Xchanging’s 
Americas region based in Chicago. Jon returned to the UK 
in his current role in August 2011. During 2012 Jon was also 
Insurance Services Executive Director on an interim basis.  
Appointment Date: May 2012
05. 06. 07. 50
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 51
Directors’ report
The Directors present their report and the audited 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group for  
the year ended 31 December 2012.
Principal activities and business review
The Group’s principal activities are the provision 
of a range of industry-speciﬁc processing services 
to the banking and insurance industries as well as 
technology, human resources and procurement 
services across industries. The Company acts  
as the holding company for the Group.
The Companies Act 2006 requires Xchanging  
to present a fair review of the Group’s business 
and a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group. The information 
which fulﬁls these requirements is provided in 
the sections of the Annual Report entitled 
Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s 
statement, principal risks and uncertainties in 
2012, Business review and Financial review, on 
pages 28 to 43, providing detailed information 
on the Group and its strategy, the operation of 
the businesses, and the results and ﬁnancial 
position for the year ended 31 December 2012. 
These report on the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group, trends and 
economic factors impacting the business and 
likely future developments.
Dividends
The Directors recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 
1 pence (2011: Nil) per ordinary share which, if 
approved by shareholders at the annual general 
meeting, will be paid on 22 May 2013 to those 
shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 26 April 2013. 
Research and development
The Group incurs development costs in the  
design of processes and systems that substantially 
improve those already installed in the business, 
which include business process mapping, process 
reorganisation and software development.
The amount capitalised in the year in respect  
of development expenditure was £3.7million 
(2011: £4.7 million).
Charitable donations
Donations to various international, national and 
local charities amounted to £55,000 during the 
year (2011: £53,000). 
Directors and their interests
Details of changes to the Board during the year, 
and up to the date of this report, are set out on 
pages 2 to 3.
The Directors’ interests in the shares and share 
options of the Company are shown on page 69.
Signiﬁcant agreements 
The key customer and supplier contracts and 
other arrangements essential to the Group are 
described throughout the Business Review and 
in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section 
on pages 24 to 27. Xchanging does not consider 
itself to be dependent on a single key supplier.
Signiﬁcant agreements – change of control 
Upon a change of control (as variously deﬁned in 
the respective agreements outlined below) of 
Xchanging plc, a number of signiﬁcant agreements 
take effect, alter or terminate as follows:
Customer service agreements 
Under the terms of the agreement for the 
provision of information technology services by 
Xchanging Global Insurance Solutions Limited to 
the London Metal Exchange Limited (‘LME’), 
entered into on 8 December 2011, the LME may, 
if it has reasonable grounds for believing that 
Xchanging Global Insurance Solutions Limited 
will be incapable of providing the services or that 
Xchanging plc will be incapable of meeting its 
obligations under the guarantee (entered into 
between Xchanging plc and the LME on the 
same date) in each case as a result of that 
change of control, elect to terminate the 
contract. In addition, the LME may elect to 
terminate the contract in the event that 
Xchanging plc is acquired by a third party  
whose business competes with the LME.
Under the terms of the agreement for the provision 
of claims handling and related services by Xchanging 
Broking Services Limited to Aon Limited, entered 
into on 1 September 2006 (as amended on  
10 March 2009 and 29 October 2010), Aon Limited 
may elect to continue to receive such services, or 
alternatively terminate the contract, in the event that 
Xchanging plc is acquired, if the acquirer of 
Xchanging plc competes directly with Aon Limited 
for the provision of insurance services in the United 
Kingdom of the type being supported by Xchanging 
Broking Services Limited.
Enterprise Partnerships 
Under the terms of certain Enterprise Partnership 
shareholders’ agreements, the Enterprise Partner 
may elect to exercise options over the shares in 
the Enterprise Partnership, for a share value as 
variously deﬁned in the respective agreements. 
The agreements are as follows:
  Deutsche Bank AG (‘DB’) may elect to call  
the Group’s shares in XTB under the terms of 
the shareholders’ agreement, entered into 
between DB and Xchanging Holdco No. 3 
Limited on 26 May 2004. DB must exercise 
such call option within one month of the 
change of control of Xchanging plc.
  Allianz Global Investors 
Kapitalanlagegesellschaft mbH (‘AGI’) may elect 
to call the Group’s shares in Fondsdepot Bank 
GmbH under the terms of the shareholders’ 
agreement, entered into between AGI and XTB 
on 21 August 2007. AGI must exercise such call 
option within 6 weeks of the change of control 
of Xchanging plc.
Revolving credit facility and term loan 
Under the terms of the £95 million term loan 
and revolving credit facility, entered into on  
29 July 2011, and provided by a syndicate  
of banks to Xchanging plc, the lenders may  
elect to continue to provide such facility, or 
alternatively cancel it and require all monies 
borrowed under such facility to be repaid.
Directors and employees 
There are no agreements between the 
Company and its Directors or employees 
providing for compensation for loss of ofﬁce or 
employment that occurs because of a takeover 
bid or change of control, other than in respect 
of Geoff Unwin, the Chairman. For more 
information please see page 66. 51
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Corporate governance 46-69
Directors’ indemnities 
The Company’s Articles of Association contain  
a qualifying third party indemnity provision (as 
per the Companies Act 2006) that provides, for 
the ﬁnancial year ended on 31 December 2012 
and as at the date of this document, that the 
Company may pay for Directors’ indemnities 
out of its own assets. The Company has 
procured directors’ and ofﬁcers’ insurance for 
this purpose.
Share capital 
At the date of this report, 240,310,919 ordinary 
shares (2011: 239,509,739) of 5 pence each 
have been issued, are fully paid up and are 
admitted to trading on the London Stock 
Exchange. The rights and obligations attaching 
to the Company’s ordinary shares, as well as the 
powers of the Company’s Directors, are set out 
in the Company’s Articles of Association, copies 
of which can be obtained from Companies 
House or from the Company’s website.
Substantial shareholders 
On 4 February 2013 the Company had been 
notiﬁed of the following material or notiﬁable 
interests in its issued share capital by persons 
other than the current Directors of the Company. 
Please see table.
Non-controlling interests 
The proﬁts of the Xchanging Group Enterprise 
Partnerships in which non-controlling interests 
have an interest are not necessarily shared in 
proportion to the shareholding interest in that 
company, as each Enterprise Partnership has  
a distinct contractual method of proﬁt share.
Please see table.
Equal opportunities
The Group is committed to employment policies 
which follow best practice based on equal 
opportunities for all employees, irrespective  
of gender, race, nationality, colour, disability, 
marital status, sexual orientation, age or 
religion. All decisions relating to employment 
practices are objective, free from bias and based 
upon work criteria and individual merit. The 
Group’s policy is to offer appropriate training 
Number of shares Percentage
Artemis Investment Management 26,977,690 11.23
Deccan Value Advisors LP 19,665,280 8.18
Fidelity International Limited 16,880,498 7.02
Legal & General Investment Mgmt Ltd 15,754,036 6.56
Odey Asset Management 15,656,561 6.52
Henderson Global Investors 13,185,997 5.49
T. Rowe Price International Inc 11,250,310 4.68
D. Andrews 9,450,909 3.93
BlackRock Investment Management Ltd 8,031,822 3.34
J.P . Morgan Asset Management 7,846,938 3.27
Non-controlling interests 
The non-controlling interests in the Group’s subsidiaries at 31 December 2012 are set out as follows:
Non-controlling interest
Interest in Xchanging Group  
Enterprise Partnership
The Corporation of Lloyd’s 25% interest in Ins-sure Holdings Limited 
50% interest in Xchanging Claims 
Services Limited
International Underwriting Association 25% interest in Ins-sure Holdings Limited
Deutsche Bank AG 44% interest in Xchanging etb GmbH
Sal. Oppenheim jr. & Cie. AG & Co. KGaA 5% interest in Xchanging etb GmbH
Allianz Global Investors Europe GmbH (formerly Allianz 
 Global Investors Kapitalanlagegesellschaft mbH)
49% interest in Fondsdepot  
Bank GmbH
Non-controlling interest Interest in other Xchanging Group Companies
Scandent Holdings Mauritius Ltd (11.82%)
25% interest in Xchanging  
Solutions Limited (formerly  
Cambridge Solutions Limited)
Katra Finance Limited (3.77%)
Aon Minet Pension Scheme (2.7%)
Other (public) (6.71%)
SIA S.p.A. (formerly SIA-SSB S.p.A.) 1.3% interest in Xchanging Italy S.p.A. 
(formerly Kedrios S.p.A.)
Substantial shareholders 52
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 53
Directors’ report
continued
and career development to disabled persons 
that are, as far as possible, identical to other 
employees and in line with best practice. In the 
event of a member of staff becoming disabled, 
the Group makes every effort to continue 
employment, arrange appropriate retraining 
and offer opportunities for promotion.
Policy on payment of creditors
The Company aims to pay suppliers in 
accordance with the suppliers’ contract terms. 
The Company had an average of 55 days 
purchases outstanding (2011: 31 days) in trade 
payables in 2012.
Policy on ﬁnancial instruments
The policy with respect to ﬁnancial instruments is 
covered in the accounting policy (iii)(b) at note 2 on 
page 78 and note 36 to the ﬁnancial statements.
Independent auditors
A resolution will be proposed at the 2013  
AGM to reappoint our current auditors, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’), for 2013 and 
also to allow the Board to set their remuneration. 
The Board is satisﬁed that the external auditors 
remain independent and PwC have indicated their 
willingness to continue in ofﬁce.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and 
the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under 
that law, the Directors have prepared the Group 
and parent company ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted by the European 
Union (‘EU’), and the parent company ﬁnancial 
statements in accordance with the United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 
(United Kingdom Accounting Standards and 
applicable law). Under company law, the Directors 
must not approve the ﬁnancial statements unless 
they are satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and the Parent 
Company and of the proﬁt or loss of the Group for 
that period. In preparing these ﬁnancial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
  Select suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently.
  Make judgements and accounting estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent.
  State whether applicable IFRS, as adopted by 
the EU, have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in 
the ﬁnancial statements.
  Prepare the ﬁnancial statements on the going 
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume 
that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are sufﬁcient 
to show and explain the Company’s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the ﬁnancial position of the Company and the 
Group and to enable them to ensure that the 
ﬁnancial statements and the Remuneration 
Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection 
of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors’ statement pursuant to the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules
Each of the Directors, whose names and 
functions are listed in the Board of Directors,  
on pages 46 to 47, conﬁrm that, to the best  
of each person’s knowledge and belief: 
  The ﬁnancial statements, prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt/(loss)  
of the Group and the Company.
  The Directors’ Report contained in the  
Annual Report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business 
and the position of the Company and Group, 
together with a description of the principal  
risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the Group’s 
website, www.xchanging.com. Legislation  
in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may  
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of disclosure of information  
to auditors
In the case of each of the persons who are 
Directors of the Company at the date when  
the report was approved:
  So far as each of the Directors is aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware.
  Each of the Directors has taken all the steps  
he/she ought to have taken individually as a 
Director in order to make himself/herself aware 
of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information.
Corporate governance 
Details relating to the Company’s compliance 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code for 
the ﬁnancial year are given in the Corporate 
Governance Report.
Going concern
The Directors have reviewed the liquidity position 
of the Group for the period ending 31 December 
2014. The cash ﬂows of the Group have been 
assessed against the Group’s available sources  
of ﬁnance on a monthly basis to determine the 
minimum and maximum expected levels of 
headroom. Based on this analysis and an 
assessment of the potential cash risks, the 
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group therefore continues to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing its consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements.
Annual General Meeting 
The Annual General Meeting of the Company  
will be held at 34 Leadenhall Street, London, 
EC3A 1AX at 9.30am on Wednesday 15 May 
2013. The notice convening the meeting, 
together with details of the business to be 
considered and explanatory notes for each 
resolution, is distributed separately to 
shareholders. It is also available on the  
Group’s website.
By order of the Board
Gary Whitaker
Company Secretary 
28 February 2013 53
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Corporate governance 46-69
Corporate governance report
The Board considers that this statement  
provides the information necessary to enable 
shareholders to evaluate how Xchanging has  
applied the principles of the Code during the  
year ending on 31 December 2012.
Introduction
Xchanging plc and its subsidiaries (‘the Group’) 
remain committed to applying high standards 
of corporate governance. The following report 
aims to provide a clear explanation of our 
compliance during 2012 with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (June 2010) (the ‘Code’), a 
copy of which is available from the Financial 
Reporting Council’s website www.frc.org.uk. 
During 2013, the new UK Corporate 
Governance Code (September 2012) will apply. 
Compliance with the Code
Throughout the year, the Board has complied 
with the provisions of the Code in all respects, 
except for the period between the departure of 
Dennis Millard (on 4 September 2012) and the 
appointment of Ian Cormack (on 26 October 
2012), during which time Xchanging did not have 
a Senior Independent Non-executive Director 
(A.4.1 of the Code). During the year Dennis 
Millard had to step down from the Board at short 
notice in order to meet significant extra time 
commitments at Halfords Group plc, where he 
temporarily moved from Chairman to Executive 
Chairman. Given that the external search process 
for a Non-executive Director with the necessary 
experience to replace Dennis Millard as Senior 
Independent Non-executive Director was already 
well advanced, and the relative experience of the 
existing Non-executive Directors, the decision 
was taken not to make an interim internal 
appointment. Since Ian Cormack’s appointment 
as the Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director, Xchanging has complied with A.4.1 of 
the Code. The Terms of Appointment of Geoff 
Unwin on 1 December 2011 did not comply with 
D.1.3 of the Code (as described on pages 54 to 
55 in the Remuneration Report). Further details 
of these instances of non-compliance are set out 
in the relevant sections of the Corporate 
Governance Report and Remuneration Report. 
As at the date of this report Xchanging is 
compliant with the Code save in relation to 
D.1.3 of the Code.
The Board considers that this statement 
provides the information necessary to enable 
The Board
The Board currently comprises a Non-executive Chairman, two Executive 
Directors, one Senior Independent Non-executive Director and four 
further Non-executive Directors who together have the appropriate 
balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group.
Board performance evaluation
The principal issues raised in the 2012 performance evaluation were 
discussed at the 11 December 2012 Board meeting. The Board concluded 
that the Board and its Committees continue to operate effectively, and a list 
of specific actions was agreed to address the comments made by Directors 
including: a schedule of Board briefings on principal Xchanging businesses, 
a review of succession plans and Board visits to all principal locations. 
Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for ensuring that appropriate systems are in 
place to enable it to identify, assess and manage key risks. The financial 
reporting process and control system (which includes the preparation of 
consolidated accounts) is monitored and maintained through the use of 
internal control frameworks which address key financial reporting risks, 
including risks arising from changes in the business or accounting 
standards. Effectiveness is assessed through self-certification and 
independent testing of the controls. 
In summary
Geoff Unwin 
Chairman 54
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 55
Corporate governance report
continued
shareholders to evaluate how Xchanging has 
applied the principles of the Code during the 
year ending on 31 December 2012.
The Board
Details of the changes to the Board in 2012 are set 
out in the Chairman’s statement on pages 2 to 3. 
The Board currently comprises a Non-executive 
Chairman, two Executive Directors, one Senior 
Independent Non-executive Director and four 
further Non-executive Directors who together 
have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the Group.
Role and responsibilities of the Board
The Board is collectively responsible to 
shareholders for creating and sustaining 
shareholder value through the management  
of the Group’s businesses, and the long-term 
success of the Group. It sets the Group’s 
strategic plan and budgets, monitors their 
implementation and, with the assistance of the 
Audit Committee, ensures that executive 
management maintain a system of internal 
operational, ﬁnancial and regulatory controls 
that identify and manage appropriately the risks 
set out on pages 24 to 27. 
Summary of matters reserved for  
the Board
The Board has a formal schedule of matters 
reserved for its decision, including: 
  the approval of half-year and full-year  
ﬁnancial statements;
   signiﬁcant changes in accounting policy  
and practice; 
  the appointment or removal of Directors or 
the Company Secretary;
  setting the Company’s values and standards;
  changes to the Group’s capital structure; and
  any signiﬁcant investments, contracts, 
acquisitions, mergers and disposals. 
These Reserved Matters were last reviewed by 
the Board on 11 December 2012. Other speciﬁc 
responsibilities are delegated to the Board 
Committees, which operate within clearly 
deﬁned terms of reference. 
Full details of the schedule of Matters Reserved 
for decision by the Board and the responsibilities 
delegated to the Board Committees can be found 
on the Group’s website www.xchanging.com. 
The role of the Chairman
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of 
the Board, and ensuring its effectiveness. The 
agenda is set by collaboration between the 
Chairman, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and the 
Company Secretary. The Chairman and the 
Senior Independent Non-executive Director are 
available to shareholders, should they have 
concerns which contact through the usual 
channels has failed to resolve or is otherwise 
inappropriate. For further information about 
communication between the Board and 
shareholders, please refer to communication 
with shareholders on page 60.
The role of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer is responsible for 
running Xchanging’s business, and providing 
strategic leadership to the Group, in consultation 
with the Board. 
The roles of the Chairman and the  
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer are clearly segregated 
and the division of responsibilities between 
them is set out in writing and was last agreed  
by the Board on 11 December 2012.
Independence of Directors
The Board reviewed the independence of  
all Non-executive Directors at its meeting on  
11 December 2012, and determined that they 
are all independent for the ﬁnancial year 
commencing on 1 January 2013. The terms  
of Geoff Unwin’s remuneration (as further 
described in the Remuneration Report) are not 
compliant with D.1.3 of the Code. However, 
Board meetings and attendance
Name of Director                 Board Meetings
Meetings  
held
Meetings  
attended
Chairman 
Geoff Unwin 11 11
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
Kenneth Lever 11 11
Executive Director 
David Bauernfeind
1
11 10 
Senior Independent Non-executive Director 
Ian Cormack (appointed on 26 October 2012) 2 2
Dennis Millard (resigned on 4 September 2012)
2
6 5
Non-executive Directors 
Pat O’Driscoll (resigned on 16 May 2012)
3
4 0
Michel Paulin
4
11 10
Saurabh Srivastava (appointed on 4 September 2012)
5
5 4
Bill Thomas 11 11
Stephen Wilson (appointed on 1 July 2012) 6 6
Notes:
1
  David Bauernfeind was unable to attend the Board meeting on 3 April 2012 because it was scheduled at short notice. 
He was on annual leave, in a remote location and unable to call-in by telephone.
2
  Dennis Millard was unable to attend the Board meeting on 31 July 2012 due to another board meeting.
3
  Pat O’Driscoll was unable to attend the Board meetings on 13 February 2012, 28 February 2012, 3 April 2012  
and 15 May 2012 due to ill-health.
4
  Michel Paulin was unable to attend the Board meeting on 21 June 2012 because it was scheduled at short notice  
and he had a prior conﬂicting commitment.
5
  Saurabh Srivastava was unable to attend the Board meeting on 28 September 2012 because it was scheduled at  
short notice and he had a prior conﬂicting commitment. 55
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Corporate governance 46-69
All Directors receive ongoing legal and 
regulatory updates on Companies Act 2006, 
the UK Corporate Governance Code and the 
Bribery Act 2010 to improve their knowledge 
and to discharge their duties effectively.  
A programme of brieﬁngs on key parts of 
Xchanging’s business and activities is 
scheduled for the 2013 Board meetings. 
Formal papers are circulated to the Directors 
before each Board meeting, which enable 
them to make an informed decision on the 
issues under consideration. In addition to 
formal Board meetings, during 2012 the 
Chairman maintained regular contact with  
the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer to discuss speciﬁc issues. The Company 
Secretary acts as an adviser to the Board on 
matters concerning governance and ensures 
compliance with Board procedures. All 
Directors had access to his advice and during 
2012 this was sought from time-to-time. 
Directors may also take independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense. 
In the event that any Director has concerns 
which cannot be resolved within the Board 
forum, about the running of the Company,  
or a proposed action, such concerns may be 
reﬂected in the Board minutes. Minutes of each 
Board meeting are circulated by the Company 
Secretary following the meeting to allow such 
comments to be raised.
after careful consideration by the other Board 
members, they determined that Geoff Unwin 
remained independent in character and 
judgement as per B.1.1 of the Code. Given  
the limited circumstances in which the share 
match arrangements apply, and their relatively 
modest quantum, the other Board members 
agreed that the Chairman’s judgement was 
unlikely to be affected by such arrangements. 
Directors’ induction, training  
and development
All newly appointed Non-executive Directors 
follow an induction programme which includes 
visits to companies in each of Xchanging’s 
business sectors. Stephen Wilson, Saurabh 
Srivastava and Ian Cormack have all met the 
members of the Executive Board, the heads  
of sales, legal and tax, and the principal 
business heads and management teams in 
each business sector. Stephen Wilson and 
Saurabh Srivastava also visited the principal 
ofﬁces in India and met key members of the 
Indian management team. Ian Cormack  
will visit our principal Indian ofﬁces during 
2013. Stephen Wilson met with the Head  
of Internal Audit and the audit partner at 
PricewaterhouseCoopers during the year.  
Each newly appointed Director has access  
to the Company Secretary’s assistance both  
in orientation and guidance around the 
Xchanging Group, in addition to the exposure 
gained at regular Board meetings.
Directors’ interests
Under Xchanging’s Articles of Association, the 
Board may authorise any actual or potential 
conﬂicts of interest for Directors. Each Director 
provides the Company Secretary with 
information regarding any actual or potential 
interests that may conﬂict with those of 
Xchanging, such as other directorships, and any 
other potential interests that each thinks may 
cause a conﬂict requiring prior Board 
authorisation on an annual basis. If the 
circumstances of any of these disclosed interests 
change, the relevant Director is required to 
update the Company Secretary promptly. 
The register setting out each Director’s current 
disclosures (where relevant) was last reviewed 
and approved by the Board at its meeting on  
1 1 December 2012. In each such situation, the 
Director under consideration did not vote on the 
matter. The Board will continue to review the 
register of interests regularly to ensure the 
authorisations, and any conditions attached to 
them, are appropriate for the relevant matter to 
remain authorised. The Company Secretary 
maintains a list of all authorisations granted to 
Directors, setting out the date of authorisation 
and its expiry, scope and any limitations imposed.
Board performance evaluation
Each year the Board undertakes an evaluation 
process in respect of itself and its Committees. 
Given the signiﬁcant Board changes during 
Board Committees
Audit  
Committee 
(see pages 58 to 59) 
Board of Directors
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee 
(see pages 44 to 45) 
Remuneration  
Committee 
(see page 60) 
Nomination  
Committee 
(see pages 59 to 60)  56
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 57
2012 and that the Company was not a  
FTSE 350 Company, the Board determined,  
as in previous years, to conduct an internal 
evaluation. Ian Cormack was excluded from 
this year’s Board evaluation given he did not 
join until 26 October 2012.
The Board evaluation consisted of the 
following steps:
  A questionnaire based on the provisions  
of the Code was circulated to all Board 
members relating to the leadership, 
operation and performance of the Board;
  A questionnaire based on the provisions  
of the Code was circulated to the members 
of each of the Nomination, Audit and 
Remuneration Committees, relating to the 
leadership, operation and performance of 
the particular Committee;
  Each Director discussed their responses  
to the questionnaires with the Company 
Secretary, together with any other general 
issues that each Director wished to raise 
regarding the operation of the Board and  
the Committees;
  The Company Secretary met with the 
Chairman to discuss the results of the 
questionnaire and other feedback from  
the Directors; and
  The Company Secretary prepared a brieﬁng 
note for the Board setting out the principal 
issues raised and suggesting appropriate 
action points. 
In November, the Non-executive Directors, led 
by Michel Paulin acting as Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director, met to review the 
performance during 2012 of Geoff Unwin. 
Michel Paulin later de-briefed the Chairman. 
All Non-executive Directors and the Chairman 
then met to evaluate the performance of 
Kenneth Lever and David Bauernfeind in their 
absence. The Chairman later de-briefed the 
CEO and CFO. The performance of the 
Non-executive Directors during 2012 was 
reviewed by Geoff Unwin, taking into account 
the views of the other Directors. 
The principal issues raised in the 2012 
performance evaluation were discussed at the 
11 December 2012 Board meeting. The Board 
concluded that the Board and its Committees 
continue to operate effectively, and a list of 
speciﬁc actions was agreed to address the 
comments made by Directors including:  
a schedule of Board brieﬁngs on principal 
Xchanging businesses, a review of succession 
plans and Board visits to all principal locations.
Election and re-appointment  
of Directors
Under the Articles of Association, all Directors 
are subject to re-election at the Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) at intervals of no more than 
three years. At its meeting on 11 December 
2012, the Board agreed that each of Geoff 
Unwin, Kenneth Lever, David Bauernfeind, 
Michel Paulin and Bill Thomas will retire and 
seek re-election at the 2013 AGM. All other 
Directors, Ian Cormack, Stephen Wilson and 
Saurabh Srivastava, having recently been 
appointed by the Board, will be put forward 
separately for their initial election to the Board 
by the shareholders at the 2013 AGM. The 
Board believes that each of the Directors makes 
a valuable contribution to Xchanging, and 
supports their re-election or initial election in 
each case. 
All Non-executive Directors have three year 
appointments, save for Geoff Unwin who has a 
four year appointment from 1 December 2011. 
All Non-executive Director appointments may 
be terminated by either party upon three 
months’ (or in the case of Geoff Unwin,  
6 months’) written notice, or by shareholder 
vote at the AGM. 
The Non-executive Directors do not have any 
entitlement to compensation if their ofﬁce is 
terminated. Full details of the Remuneration of 
the Non-executive Directors can be found on 
page 67 of the Remuneration Report.
Board Committees
Please see table on page 55. The Board has 
established Audit, Nomination, Remuneration 
and Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committees, each of which works from terms 
of reference which are reviewed annually and 
are available on the website: www.xchanging.
com. The terms of reference for each 
Committee were last approved by the Board at 
the 11 December 2012 meeting. The minutes  
of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee meetings are sent to all Directors 
and oral updates are given at Board meetings. 
Details of the Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee are set out on pages 44 to 45.
Committees
Remuneration Committee
Chairman: Bill Thomas
In 2012 the Remuneration Committee reviewed 
the remuneration policy in place, while a few 
revisions were approved, overall we think the 
policy is ﬂexible and comprehensive enough to 
be appropriate in a spectrum of circumstances.
  See page 60
Nomination Committee
Chairman: Geoff Unwin
During 2012, the composition of the 
Nomination Committee complied with the 
Code, comprising of a majority of Independent 
Non-executive Directors.
  See pages 59 to 60
Audit Committee
Chairman: Steven Wilson
Key items considered during 2012 include the 
review of key accounting policies; material 
judgements; quality of earnings and estimates 
and scope of work and ﬁndings of the 2012 
internal and external audits services.
  See pages 58 to 59
Corporate governance report
continued 57
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Corporate governance 46-69
Tenure of the Board  
of Non-executive 
Directors
  0-1 years
  1-2 years 
  2-3 years 
50%
17%
33%
The Audit Committee 
Up until 1 August 2012 Dennis Millard was 
Chairman of the Audit Committee when 
Stephen Wilson was appointed Chairman of  
the Audit Committee. Stephen is a Chartered 
Management Accountant and the Board is 
satisﬁed that he has the required and relevant 
ﬁnancial experience.
In addition to the Audit Committee members, 
the Chairman, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer, Company Secretary, Group 
Financial Controller and Head of Internal Audit 
were also invited to be present at the meetings. 
During 2012, the Audit Committee was 
compliant with the Code throughout the year.
Key areas of responsibility
  Monitoring the integrity of the Company’s 
ﬁnancial statements, together with any 
announcement relating to ﬁnancial 
performance, and reviewing signiﬁcant 
ﬁnancial reporting judgements within them. 
  Monitoring the risks and associated controls 
over ﬁnancial reporting processes, including 
the consolidation process.
  Reviewing the Company’s internal ﬁnancial 
controls, and reviewing the Company’s 
internal control and risk management systems 
as discussed in internal control and risk 
management on pages 24 to 27.
  Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness  
of the internal audit team, including 
management’s responsiveness to the ﬁndings 
and recommendations of internal audit.
  Making recommendations to the Board or the 
shareholders (as appropriate) in respect of the 
appointment of the external auditors, and 
approving the external auditors’ remuneration 
and terms of engagement.
  Reviewing and monitoring the external 
auditors’ independence and objectivity,  
and the effectiveness of the audit process in 
light of relevant regulatory requirements.
  Developing and implementing policy on  
the engagement of the external auditors to 
provide any non-audit services, and reporting 
to the Board on such engagement, 
recommending relevant actions where 
improvement is required.
During 2012, the composition of the Audit 
Committee complied with the Code and 
currently comprises of three Independent 
Non-executive Directors: Stephen Wilson 
(Chairman from 1 August 2012), Saurabh 
Srivastava and Bill Thomas. The Chairman, 
Stephen Wilson, was deemed by the Board on 
his appointment to have recent and relevant 
ﬁnancial experience. The Audit Committee 
maintains a formal agenda for each year to 
ensure compliance with the requirements of the 
Code. Key items considered during 2012 include 
the review of key accounting policies; material 
judgements; quality of earnings and estimates; 
scope of work and ﬁndings of the 2012 internal 
and external audits; half-year and full-year 
ﬁnancial statements; risk register process; 
non-audit services; and the effectiveness of 
internal control and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee reviews the Group’s 
annual report and accounts, as well as reports 
from the external auditors identifying any 
accounting or judgemental issues requiring its 
attention. In its July 2012 and February 2013 
meetings, the Audit Committee approved the 
half-year and full-year ﬁnancial statements 
respectively, and conﬁrmed agreement with key 
accounting policies and material judgements.
In December 2012, the Audit Committee 
conducted its annual assessment of the suitability 
and performance of the external auditors in 
making its recommendation to the Board for their 
reappointment. In making this recommendation 
the audit committee considered the ﬁndings of the 
annual effectiveness survey, which is completed by 
all key stakeholders from across the Group.
To ensure that the objectivity and independence 
of the audit is not compromised, a review was 
undertaken of the level of non-audit services 
provided by the external auditors and of the 
appropriateness of the relevant safeguards to 
maintain independence. The level of non-audit 
services provided was agreed to be acceptable 
and it was acknowledged that the fees for 
non-audit services have reduced year-on-year 
from 2011. The policy for the engagement of 
external auditors to supply non-audit services is 
reviewed annually by the Audit Committee. 58
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 59
Corporate governance report
continued
In addition to the Audit Committee, each UK 
Enterprise Partnership (“EP”) has its own audit 
committee, as does the Indian listed entity 
Xchanging Solutions Limited, whose members 
and chairman are independent of the EP . Such 
committees are attended by Xchanging’s 
partners, nominated Xchanging Executive 
Directors, senior EP management and the  
Head of Group Internal Audit on a regular basis. 
EP audit committees have similar terms of 
reference to the Audit Committee. 
The Nomination Committee 
During 2012, the Nomination Committee was 
compliant with the Code throughout the year.
Key areas of responsibility
  Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge 
and diversity of experience of the Board and, 
in light of such evaluation, preparing 
descriptions of the role and the capabilities 
required for any appointment.
  Ensuring that plans are in place for orderly 
succession for appointments to the Board and 
senior management, to retain an appropriate 
balance of skills and experience within 
Xchanging and on the Board.
During 2012, the composition of the Nomination 
Committee complied with the Code, comprising 
of a majority of Independent Non-executive 
Directors. The Nomination Committee leads the 
process for all Board appointments, preparing 
role descriptions, reviewing candidates and 
making a ﬁnal recommendation to the Board,  
in compliance with the Code. 
The Board has recruited Non-executive 
Directors of a high calibre with broad 
commercial, international or other relevant 
experience. Non-executive Directors are 
expected to bring an objectivity and 
independence of view to the Board’s 
discussions, and to help provide the Board  
with effective leadership in relation to the 
Company’s strategy, performance, risk and 
people management as well as ensuring  
high standards of ﬁnancial probity and 
corporate governance. 
During 2012, at the direction of the Board, the 
Nomination Committee led the successful search 
for three new Board members: Stephen Wilson, 
Saurabh Srivastava and Ian Cormack. For each of 
the new Board appointments, the Nomination 
Committee agreed the requirements of the 
respective roles and authorised the Chairman of 
the Nomination Committee to engage an 
external search consultancy to assist in 
identifying candidates with the appropriate skills 
and experience for each position. Members of 
the Nomination Committee met with a number 
of candidates from varied backgrounds and 
identiﬁed the preferred candidates for each role. 
Such candidates then met with the Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer and Chief Finance Ofﬁcer and 
were then formally recommended to the Board 
for their appointment.
The Nomination Committee meets as and when 
required. During 2012 it met three times, in 
February, July and October.
The Remuneration Committee
Only Remuneration Committee members and 
the Company Secretary (except when his own 
remuneration is being considered) are entitled 
to attend meetings of the Remuneration 
Committee. However, in 2012 the Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and  
the Global HR Director were also invited to be 
present by invitation (except when their own 
remuneration was being considered).  
During 2012, the Remuneration Committee was 
compliant with the Code throughout the year.
Key areas of responsibility
  Deciding the policy for the remuneration of 
the Chairman, the Executive Directors and 
members of senior management. The 
objective of such policy is to ensure that 
members of the executive management of  
the Company are provided with appropriate 
incentives to encourage enhanced 
performance and are, in a fair and responsible 
manner, rewarded for their individual 
contributions to the success of the Company.
  Reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and 
relevance of the remuneration policy for 
Executive Directors, including short-term and 
long-term incentive arrangements that are 
stretching and designed to promote the 
long-term success of the Company.
  Making recommendations to the Board on  
the Group framework of remuneration for all 
Group employees, retaining sensitivity to pay 
and employment conditions across the Group.
  Judging where to position the Group’s 
remuneration policy relative to other 
companies in a similar sector. 
   Reviewing the design of all share incentive 
plans for approval by the Board and 
shareholders. For any such plans, determining 
each year whether awards will be made and, if 
so, the overall amount of such awards, the 
individual awards to Executive Directors and 
The Audit Committee 
Name of Director                    Audit Committee Meetings
Meetings  
held
Meetings  
attended
Chairman
Stephen Wilson (Appointed member on 1 July 2012 and 
Chairman on 1 August 2012) 3 3
Members
Dennis Millard (resigned as Chairman and member of Audit 
Committee on 1 August 2012) 2 2
Pat O’Driscoll (resigned on 16 May 2012)
1
1 0
Michel Paulin (resigned as a member on 4 September 2012) 2 2
Saurabh Srivastava (appointed on 4 September 2012) 2 2
Bill Thomas (appointed on 13 February 2012) 4 4
Note:
1
 Pat O’Driscoll was unable to attend the meeting on 28 February 2012 due to illness. 59
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Corporate governance 46-69
designated senior management and the 
performance targets to be used.
  Monitoring the compensation commitments 
incorporated in the Directors’ terms of 
appointment which would become effective 
in the event of early termination to ensure that 
poor performance is not rewarded.
  To be exclusively responsible for establishing 
the selection criteria, selecting, appointing  
and setting the terms of reference for any 
remuneration consultants who advise  
the Committee.
Further details of the activities of the 
Remuneration Committee in 2012 are given in 
the Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 69.
Internal control and risk management 
The Board is responsible for regularly reviewing 
the operation and effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal controls. The internal control system is 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and 
can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, 
assurance against material errors, losses or 
fraud. The Board is also responsible for ensuring 
that appropriate systems are in place to enable 
it to identify, assess and manage key risks. 
The ﬁnancial reporting process and control 
system (which includes the preparation of 
consolidated accounts) is monitored and 
maintained through the use of internal control 
frameworks which address key ﬁnancial 
reporting risks, including risks arising from 
changes in the business or accounting 
standards. Effectiveness is assessed through 
self-certiﬁcation and independent testing of  
the controls.
The Group’s key internal control and risk 
management procedures include the following:
  Review of the Group’s strategy and the 
performance of principal subsidiaries and 
EPs, through a comprehensive system of 
reporting based on variances to annual 
budgets, key performance indicators and 
regular forecasting.
  Well-deﬁned Group policies and processes, 
communicated through the Group Financial 
Reporting Procedures Manual and intranet 
site, and a deﬁned process governing  
the approval of sales opportunities and  
capital expenditure.
  A deﬁned organisational structure with 
appropriate delegation of authority across  
all levels of the organisation.
  Formal authorisation procedures for all 
investments with clear guidelines on appraisal 
techniques and success criteria (Xchanging’s 
‘Authority to Invest’ process).
  Formal authorisation procedures for all 
signiﬁcant sales opportunities and bid 
management, with clear guidelines on  
success criteria (Xchanging’s sales  
opportunities approval process, including  
‘Bid review approval’, ‘Solution approval’  
and ‘Contract approval’).
  A quarterly business review for each business 
sector. This covers ﬁnancial performance, a 
detailed range of strategic risks, opportunities 
and KPI metrics which measure the overall 
performance of the business sector. This process 
also identiﬁes the key operational issues and 
actions required to address any deﬁciencies.
  The work performed by the Group’s Internal 
Audit department is focused on areas of 
greatest risk to the Group, as well as issues 
identiﬁed by the quarterly performance 
reporting, including any signiﬁcant change 
projects occurring within the business. 
The objective of Internal Audit is to provide 
independent assurance to the Board and 
Audit Committee over the ﬁnancial, 
operational and compliance controls and 
to assist the Board in its assessment of the 
effectiveness of internal controls. The Head 
of Internal Audit reports directly to the Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer, but has the right to report to 
the Audit Committee Chairman independently 
of the Executive Directors. All signiﬁcant 
internal audit reports are reviewed by the 
Audit Committee and made available to the 
external auditors.
  Each business sector has a delegated person 
responsible for the quality of controls and 
processes within that business sector as well 
as for ensuring compliance with policies and 
procedures, legislation and the operation of 
risk management procedures. Each 
responsible person reports to the business 
sector management team on an operational 
basis, but has an independent reporting line 
into the Head of Internal Audit. They also 
attend, by invitation, the EP audit committees 
within their business sector. 
The Group’s key risk management procedures 
have been in place throughout 2012 and up to 
the date of approval of this Annual Report, 
including the maintenance of a hierarchy of risk 
registers for each business sector, which are 
monitored on an ongoing basis within the 
relevant management teams. The Group risk 
register incorporates risks pervasive or material 
to the whole Group and is reviewed at least 
annually by the Board and the Audit 
Committee, with the last review occurring on  
11 December 2012.
The Nomination Committee 
Name of Director                Nomination Committee Meetings
Meetings  
held
Meetings  
attended
Chairman
Geoff Unwin (appointed Chairman on 1 January 2012) 3 3
Members
Ian Cormack (appointed on 26 October 2012) 0 0
Dennis Millard (resigned on 4 September 2012) 2 2
Pat O’Driscoll (resigned on 16 May 2012)
1
1 0
Michel Paulin 3 3
Bill Thomas (appointed on 13 February 2012) 3 3
Note:
1
 Pat O’Driscoll was unable to attend the meeting on 13 February 2012 due to illness. 60
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 61
Corporate governance report
continued
The Audit Committee has, on behalf of the 
Board, reviewed the effectiveness of the 
Group’s internal control systems for 2012 and 
the period prior to approval of this Annual 
Report. The Audit Committee reported its 
ﬁndings to the Board at the 11 December 2012 
and 27 February 2013 Board meetings. It 
considered all material controls in accordance 
with the Turnbull guidance. 
The internal control environment will continue 
to be monitored and reviewed by the Board and 
the Audit Committee.
Ethics
Xchanging is committed to the highest 
standards of business integrity in each country 
where it operates, maintaining an Ethical 
Business Code of Conduct which applies to all 
employees and provides guidance regarding 
their conduct, and how Xchanging  
conducts business. 
Xchanging will not tolerate any form of  
bribery or corruption by its employees. 
Measures have been taken to ensure Group-
wide compliance with the Bribery Act 2010.  
In the event of any bribery or corruption 
incident brought to the Group’s attention, 
Xchanging would take immediate steps to 
effect corrective action and report it to the 
relevant authorities as required. Xchanging 
considers that each employee has the duty to 
the Group to act with integrity and good faith 
in their role, and avoid any circumstance which 
either conﬂicts, or could potentially conﬂict, 
with Xchanging’s interests. 
Xchanging has implemented an Employee 
Disclosure (Whistle-Blowing) Policy to allow 
employees to voice any concerns in a 
responsible and effective manner, without  
fear of reprisal. Employees can communicate 
concerns in conﬁdence to a dedicated email 
address, to which only the Group Head of 
Internal Audit and the Company Secretary 
have access. 
Reported concerns are investigated at the earliest 
opportunity by the Group Head of Internal Audit, 
the Company Secretary and, if appropriate, by 
management of the respective businesses. The 
concerns raised and actions taken are reported  
to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
Communication with shareholders
The Board places importance on 
communication with shareholders and  
gives them the opportunity to meet the 
Chairman and Directors as appropriate. 
Shareholders will continue to be given the 
opportunity to meet the Chairman and 
Directors in the coming 12 months. 
Arrangements can be made for major 
shareholders to meet with any newly-
appointed Directors. The Company’s  
Investor Relations team organises an  
ongoing programme of dialogue and  
meetings between the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and institutional 
investors, fund managers and analysts. 
Brokers’ reports and investors’ feedback are 
circulated regularly to the Board, who discuss 
these and any other key matters relating to 
investors. In each case the Board, in conjunction 
with advisers where appropriate, determines 
the strategy to address signiﬁcant issues raised.
The Company’s Annual General Meeting on 
Wednesday 15 May 2013 will provide a valuable 
opportunity for the Board to communicate with 
private investors. We encourage shareholders to 
attend the meeting and to ask questions of any 
of the Directors following the conclusion of  
the formal part of the meeting. Details of proxy 
voting by shareholders, including votes 
withheld, will be made available on request  
and will be placed on the Company’s website 
following the meeting.
Additional Information
Information on the impact on the Company  
as required by the Takeover Directive, and 
information required under the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules, is given in the Directors’ 
report (see pages 50 to 52) and forms part of 
this corporate governance statement. 
The attention of shareholders is drawn  
to the independent auditors’ report on  
page 70, which incorporates their report  
on corporate governance. 
By order of the Board
Gary Whitaker 
Company Secretary  
28 February 2013
The Remuneration Committee
 
Name of Director               Remuneration Committee Meetings
Meetings  
held
Meetings  
attended
Chairman
Bill Thomas (Interim Chairman from 8 February 2012  
until 16 May 2012. Conﬁrmed Chairman on 16 May 2012) 10 10
Members
Ian Cormack (appointed on 26 October 2012) 3 3
Pat O’Driscoll (Chairman until 8 February 2012, member until 
16 May 2012)
1
3 0
Dennis Millard (resigned on 4 September 2012)
2
5 4
Michel Paulin (appointed on 4 September 2012) 5 5
Geoff Unwin (appointed on 8 February 2012) 10 10
Notes:
1
 Pat O’Driscoll was unable to attend meetings on 8 February 2012, 13 February 2012 and 28 February 2012 due to illness.
2
 Dennis Millard was unable to attend the meeting on 31 July 2012 due to an existing meeting commitment. 61
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Corporate governance 46-69
The remuneration report covers the  
12 month period to 31 December 2012.  
It shows remuneration paid to Directors 
over that period by Xchanging plc.
This part of the remuneration report  
is unaudited.
Chairman’s foreword
Xchanging continues to be in a process of 
change and transformation. In 2012 the 
Company built the foundations to become a 
truly competitive organisation that can generate 
sustainable growth in value for shareholders. 
It was the ﬁrst full year in place as Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer for 
Ken Lever and David Bauernfeind, and together 
they drove considerable strategic and ﬁnancial 
progress. Xchanging is still in transition and has 
robust growth goals. By successfully getting  
ﬁt in 2012 it is well placed to continue to  
build conﬁdence.
Over the year the Remuneration Committee 
reviewed the remuneration policy in place and 
the way these policies promote and reward 
performance. While a few revisions to existing 
policy were approved, overall we think the 
policy is ﬂexible and comprehensive enough to 
be appropriate in a spectrum of circumstances, 
including our current transitional phase. 
Our key performance indicators continue to be 
appropriate to measure growth and value and 
our incentive awards are aligned to these. 
We operate in a very competitive environment.  
It is the responsibility of the Committee to ensure 
our Executive Director remuneration packages 
are appropriate to attract, motivate and retain 
talent in an affordable way. We do this by (1) 
emphasising equity-based pay and further 
shareholding requirements (2) positioning a  
high proportion of pay as variable; and (3) using 
metrics which measure intrinsic Company  
value, like economic proﬁt and adjusted 
operating proﬁt.
With the proposed Department for Business, 
Innovation and Skills regulations governing 
remuneration disclosure on the horizon for the 
next year, the Committee has been proactively 
reviewing its remuneration practices and 
policies. We want to be able to make 
comprehensive disclosures under the wider 
scope of these regulations. We expect our 2013 
agenda to reﬂect this in addition to our normal 
governance duties.
The proposed revisions to our Executive Director 
incentive arrangements for 2013 outlined in this 
report reﬂect our strategy to drive and reward 
successful business growth.
After a review of our executive remuneration 
arrangements over 2012, the Committee has 
determined that for 2013:
  We will maintain our policy of calibrating base 
salaries for Executive Directors around 
appropriate mid-market norms over time, 
taking account of corporate performance, 
individual performance, conditions in the 
Group globally, and market conditions. 
Changes to salaries will be in line with  
these criteria.
  We will continue to incentivise short-term 
Company performance using an annual bonus 
plan with payouts linked to three measures: 
adjusted operating proﬁt, revenue and cash 
ﬂow, with a heavier weight on the growth  
in proﬁt. In 2013 we plan to maintain the 
maximum and target bonus opportunity at 
150% and 90% of salary, respectively. 
  We will continue to require that one third of 
any bonus award be deferred into shares for 
three years for Executive Directors and Senior 
Managers on the Executive Board. This links 
our short-term plan with a longer term view. 
There is no match for these shares.
  We will continue to make annual awards under 
the Performance Share Plan (PSP) with vesting 
after three years. As mentioned last year, we 
have approved a change to the performance 
conditions for awards made in 2013 and 
thereafter. We describe the changes further in 
the forward looking statement on page 63. 
  The 100% of salary shareholding requirement 
continues: it is a subtle but important part of 
the policy because it ensures there is an 
alignment of the interests between our 
Executive Directors and our shareholders. 
In conclusion, the Remuneration Committee will 
keep the suitability of the revised arrangements 
under review during 2013 as the Executive 
Directors lead the Group to meet the challenges 
ahead and focus on competing to win. 
Accordingly, we believe our policies are well 
structured to reward our directors and generate 
value for shareholders. 
Bill Thomas 
Chairman 
Xchanging plc Remuneration Committee
Remuneration Committee
Due to the illness of Pat O’Driscoll, on  
8 February 2012 it was agreed that Bill Thomas 
would be appointed Interim Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee, subject to approval 
by Nomination Committee which was granted 
on 13 February 2012. At that point Bill Thomas 
became the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. He had been a member of the 
Board from 13 December 2011.
Pat O’Driscoll stepped down as Chairman of  
the Remuneration Committee but remained a 
member until her resignation from the Board on 
16 May 2012. We are saddened by her death, 
and her presence and wisdom will be missed.
Geoff Unwin was appointed as a member of 
the Remuneration Committee with effect from 
8 February 2012, subject to Nomination 
Committee Approval which was given on  
13 February 2012.
Dennis Millard resigned from the Committee on 
4 September 2012 at the same time he stepped 
down from the Board. Michel Paulin was 
appointed as a member of the Remuneration 
Committee on 4 September 2012 to replace 
Dennis Millard. Ian Cormack was appointed to 
the Board on 26 October 2012 and on the same 
Remuneration report
The Remuneration Committee will keep the suitability 
of the revised arrangements under review during  
2013 as the Executive Directors lead the Group to  
meet the challenges ahead and focus on competing  
to win. Accordingly, we believe our policies are well  
structured to reward our directors and generate  
value for shareholders. 62
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 63
date he was appointed to the Remuneration 
Committee. He is the Senior Independent 
Director for the Company. 
In summary, as of 31 December 2012,  
Bill Thomas, Geoff Unwin, Ian Cormack  
and Michel Paulin are members of the 
Remuneration Committee.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the 
Remuneration Committee. Only Remuneration 
Committee members, the Company Secretary 
(except when his own remuneration is being 
directly considered) and the Global HR Director are 
entitled to attend meetings of the Remuneration 
Committee. However, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
(except when his own remuneration is being 
directly considered) and others including Directors 
may attend by invitation of the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. 
The Remuneration Committee’s primary 
purpose is to review the ongoing 
appropriateness of the remuneration policy as it 
applies to the Executive Directors and key senior 
management and to make recommendations 
on the framework for their remuneration and to 
determine their speciﬁc remuneration packages. 
In addition, the Remuneration Committee is 
responsible for monitoring the remuneration 
strategy and policy of the Group. In making its 
decisions, the Remuneration Committee 
considers both (i) the Employee, Social and 
Governance implications and (ii) the wider 
global employee compensation experience in 
making its decisions. For example, it receives 
annual reports on global pay budgets and 
employee pay benchmarking results. When 
overseeing variable pay matters, it is also 
mindful to ensure that inappropriate risk-taking 
is not incentivised.
The Remuneration Committee’s Terms of 
Reference can be found under the corporate 
governance section of the Xchanging website. 
The current Terms of Reference were approved 
by the Board on 11 December 2012.
The Remuneration Committee received advice 
from Towers Watson (our appointed advisers) 
and Clifford Chance during 2012. Towers 
Watson has also provided remuneration advice 
more widely to the Company with the 
permission of the Remuneration Committee. 
Towers Watson has signed the Remuneration 
Consultants Code of Conduct and has made 
the code available to Xchanging. In 2012 
Clifford Chance provided legal advice on the 
operation of share schemes, employment 
matters and legal advice more widely to  
the Company. 
Remuneration policy
Xchanging’s remuneration policy is to ensure 
that we attract and retain key talent in order to 
create sustainable long-term value for 
shareholders. To help inform the Remuneration 
Committee, total remuneration is benchmarked 
periodically against companies of a similar size 
and international scope from the FTSE 250 
(excluding ﬁnancial services) in determining 
competitive remuneration levels for Executive 
Directors and senior executives. The 
Remuneration Committee has determined that 
this peer group remains appropriate for its 
UK-based executive talent. 
Pay policy on the elements of pay may be 
amended during the year if the Remuneration 
Committee determines that it is needed to 
ensure the Company rewards its leaders for 
success and growth in a way that is neither 
excessive nor uncompetitive. The Remuneration 
Committee is committed to ensuring the 
Board’s approved business strategy clearly leads 
the drivers for variable pay plans. Regarding the 
overarching remuneration practice, the 
Remuneration Committee has agreed that the 
Executive Director remuneration philosophy for 
2013 will remain as follows:
   To position and maintain base salaries around 
competitive market practice over time. 
Mid-market base salary benchmarks will be 
determined by reference to the local 
geographic market for the role and its size  
and scope. 
  To reward our Executive Directors on Company 
success through use of a signiﬁcant proportion 
of the remuneration opportunity for them in 
the form of variable compensation, conditional 
on sustainable Company performance. We will 
position the quantum of incentive pay so that 
there is a true distinction in total pay 
depending on the value and performance of 
the Company. To this end –
–  Our annual bonus design is aligned to year-on-
year increases in business performance 
beyond stretching thresholds and assessed 
each year for affordability. Performance 
measures will be based on a balanced set of 
key value drivers of the business.
–  Long-term incentives form part of our 
market competitive remuneration package. 
We make annual awards in the form of 
conditional shares because it aligns the 
interests of our executives with those of 
shareholders. Awards only vest when 
long-term sustainable returns to 
shareholders have been delivered.
–  To encourage our Executive Directors and 
senior team to build a signiﬁcant stake in 
the business over time.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the 
remuneration philosophy described above 
remains in the interests of shareholders and 
promotes the maintenance of a robust 
remuneration policy aligned with our strategic 
priorities. As stated in its terms of reference and 
in its corporate governance codes of duty, the 
Remuneration Committee will continue to 
monitor performance against the total 
remuneration policy to ensure that it achieves its 
aim of attracting, motivating and retaining the 
leaders and talent that is required to develop the 
Company to deliver shareholder value.
Remuneration for Executive Directors  
in 2013
Remuneration packages for the Executive 
Directors will continue to consist of ﬁxed pay 
and incentive pay. Fixed pay includes base 
salary, pension beneﬁts and traditional beneﬁts. 
Incentive pay includes eligibility in an annual 
bonus plan part of which includes a deferred 
share element, and awards under share based 
long-term incentive schemes. Following  
a review of remuneration policy the 
Remuneration Committee has approved  
some changes for 2013 to more closely align 
Xchanging’s executive incentive plans with  
our key value drivers. The Remuneration 
Committee believes the changes focus the 
existing structures on providing greater line  
of sight to both Xchanging investors and the 
Executive Directors. 
Base salary
The base salaries for the Executive Directors 
have been reviewed by the Remuneration 
Committee, taking into account the global pay 
budget, the pay policy in place and 
performance in the year reported on. 
Remuneration report
continued 63
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Corporate governance 46-69
“ T o reward our Executive Directors on Company 
success through use of a significant proportion 
of the remuneration opportunity for them in 
the form of variable compensation, conditional 
on sustainable Company performance.”
Consideration was given to the 2013 salary 
budgets of the Group’s global workforce, which 
ranged between 2% and 11% depending on 
business unit and location. 
There will be no amendment to the annual base 
pay earned by the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer which 
will remain at £475,000 per annum. The Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer will receive a 5% increase in his 
annual base salary to £315,000. 
Annual bonus plan for 2013
Maximum annual bonus opportunity will 
remain at 150% of salary and the target 
opportunity, for reaching the challenging 
business plan for 2013, is almost 60% of 
maximum pay-out (i.e. 90% of base salary). 
Maintaining this policy reﬂects the current 
environment in which the business operates 
whilst also providing management with an 
incentive to deliver the agreed business strategy. 
Funding of the bonus pool begins when the 
threshold proﬁt-based hurdles are achieved. As 
in 2012, the 2013 Xchanging Bonus plan for 
Executive Directors does not include a non-
ﬁnancial performance element. Performance 
will be measured over three key metrics:
  adjusted operating proﬁt (50% of bonus);
  revenue growth (30% of bonus); and
   operating cash ﬂow targets (20% of bonus).
For 2013, our adjusted operating proﬁt target 
carries a greater weight than revenue or cash 
ﬂow to maintain focus on an improvement in 
overall performance. Payment of bonuses will 
only commence after achieving stretching 
performance hurdles for each metric which are 
determined at the outset of the year. Each 
metric is considered separately and also in 
totality with targets set to ensure that the 
proportion spent is affordable and aligned with 
investor returns. Performance will be assessed 
between each respective hurdle rate and plan 
maximum on a sliding scale basis. The targets 
are set so that if achievable but challenging 
targets on a growth trajectory in all three 
metrics are met, then an amount equal to 90% 
of salary could pay out as a bonus payment. 
All Executive Directors and management board 
members participate in the deferred bonus plan 
to ensure awards are based on sustainable 
Company performance and to align 
management to shareholders. For our Executive 
Directors one third of any bonus earned will be 
deferred into nil cost options which will vest 
after three years and will continue to be 
exercisable for a further seven years. Should a 
participant in the plan leave before vesting, the 
award lapses and the deferred amount is no 
longer available to exercise. The Remuneration 
Committee has discretion to determine whether 
the award lapses. The policy for Executive 
Directors who give notice is to lapse their 
award. In accordance with best practice, the 
Remuneration Committee has also agreed to 
introduce speciﬁc claw-back provisions in 2013 
on any deferred share element of the bonus.
Long-term incentives in 2013
Over the course of 2012 the Committee 
undertook a review of existing long-term 
incentive arrangements to ensure that they 
remain appropriate. In assessing the 
arrangements the Committee was mindful  
of the following guiding principles for incentives:
  they should be simple to understand  
and communicate;
  they should provide management with 
incentives that are appropriately geared and 
represent an acceptable cost to the Company 
and shareholders;
  they should be based on goals that are 
challenging but achievable.
For 2013 it was determined that long-term 
incentive awards under the Xchanging plc 2007 
Performance Share Plan (PSP) will continue 
under the current policy for Executive Directors, 
which is annual grants at 150% of salary under 
normal circumstances. Our policy continues to 
be that 0% to 100% of salary is in the form of a 
Basic award and 0% to 50% of salary is in the 
form of a Stretch award which is intended to 
reﬂect exceptional performance. 
However, the Remuneration Committee has 
approved a revision to the performance 
conditions used to determine vesting of awards. 
For 2013, economic proﬁt has replaced return 
on invested capital (“ROIC”) as a performance 
condition. Awards will continue to split between 
absolute total shareholder return (“TSR”) and 
economic proﬁt on a two thirds to one third 
basis beginning with grants in 2013.
The Remuneration Committee believes that 
given the business progress made to date, 
growth in economic proﬁt is now a better 
measure than ROIC to align pay to (i) value 
enhancing growth in the business and (ii) 
long-term shareholder value creation. In 
particular, the Remuneration Committee 
considers economic proﬁt to more accurately 
reﬂect the underlying performance of the 
Company because it takes into account a charge 
for the operating assets used to deliver proﬁt, 
with targets based on year-on-year growth. 
Economic proﬁt is a measure that ties in 
proﬁtability, a key component of our growth 
strategy, which ROIC overlooks. For example, in 
the short term a company could achieve a high 
ROIC even with a small proﬁt by simply 
under-investing in the business.
Under current policy, our targets for each metric 
are reviewed annually and adjusted based on 
current forecasts and analysts’ expectations. 
For 2013, the TSR growth targets will be calibrated 
to commence pay outs only if performance 
exceeds the notional cost of capital over the 
performance period. The Basic award will begin 
to vest if absolute TSR exceeds 10% compound 
growth per annum with 16.67% vesting for 
threshold performance and maximum vesting 
(or 66.67% of the total Basic award) if absolute 
TSR grows by 16.7% per annum over the three 
year period. The Stretch award will begin to vest 
where absolute TSR exceeds 16.7% per annum 
rising to maximum vesting (or 66.67% of the 
total Stretch award) for absolute TSR growth of 
20% or more per annum. The TSR value is 
determind on an end-to-end basis, assumes 
dividends are reinvested and averages the start 
and end share price over three months before 
the relevant date. Vesting is calculated on a 
straight line basis.
The remaining one third of the award will be 
structured on a similar basis for economic proﬁt. 
Vesting of that portion of the Basic award  
occurs if three year average economic proﬁt  
(i.e. after a charge for tax and the cost of 
capital) is at least £22.3 million rising to 33.33% 
of the total Basic award vesting if three year 
average growth per annumn in economic proﬁt 
is 15%. The Stretch element will begin to vest 
where three year average per annum economic 
proﬁt growth exceeds 15% rising to maximum  64
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 65
vesting (or 33.33% of the total Stretch award) 
for economic proﬁt three year average growth 
of 25% or more.
Shareholding requirement
A shareholding policy continues to apply to the 
Executive Directors that requires a minimum 
shareholding equivalent to 100% of base salary 
to build up over a maximum period of ﬁve years.  
Unvested share awards are not included as part 
of the guideline. As at 31 December 2012, the 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
have built up 82% and 67%, respectively, having 
held ofﬁce for 27 and 19 months respectively. 
Pension arrangements in 2013
Pension arrangements remain an important 
part of our desire to provide a competitive total 
remuneration package. The Remuneration 
Committee reviewed the overall package for 
Ken Lever and determined that the pension 
related payment was signiﬁcantly below 
competitive norms.
After examining the implications of a change 
very carefully, the Remuneration Committee has 
approved an increase for Ken Lever’s payment 
in lieu of pension from 10% to 15% of salary. 
This element is not bonusable or included in the 
amount used to determine the quantum of his 
share plan grants. 
The Chief Financial Ofﬁcer is a member of  
the Xchanging Stakeholder Plan, a deﬁned 
contribution plan to which he contributes  
and receives a company match of 6% up to  
the earnings limit (£136,200 as of 31 December 
2012). His pension beneﬁt remains unchanged 
for 2013. 
Pay mix in 2013
The two charts above illustrate the resulting pay 
mix for Executive Directors in 2013 based on 
target and maximum performance. In  
both cases, variable pay forms a signiﬁcant 
portion of total remuneration in accordance 
with the Remuneration Committee’s policy 
described earlier. 
Remuneration during 2012
Base salary 
Ken Lever received £475,000 as his base salary 
and David Bauernfeind received £300,000. 
Our pay policy seeks to position base pay 
around the mid-market of our chosen 
comparator group over time after taking into 
account performance and affordability. We are 
also sensitive to pay levels across the rest of the 
organisation when determining executive pay 
levels each year.
Annual bonus for 2012
Executive Directors, Ken Lever, Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer and David Bauernfeind, Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer will receive a bonus from the 2012 
annual incentive plan of £467,300 and 
£295,137 respectively. 
Under the 2012 plan, a bonus could be earned if 
the Company performed against ﬁnancial targets 
for adjusted operating proﬁt, revenue and cash 
ﬂow. Each metric was weighted equally and was 
measured independently. The targets were set 
based on year-on-year improvement. Any bonus 
pool funding was limited to ensure a majority of 
the operating proﬁt would be returned to the 
Company or investors. 
The Company achieved its targets above threshold 
on all three metrics, whereby it was in range of 
target level on two metrics and exceeding the 
stretch target in one metric. A similar bonus design 
applied to all senior managers in the Group. 
One third of bonuses will be deferred, under the 
Xchanging plc 2012 Deferred Share Bonus Plan 
(Deferred Bonus Plan), into nil cost options over 
shares, for three years, subject to continued 
employment and without a matching 
arrangement. The share price on the date of  
grant is used to determine the number of options.
Long-term incentive plans
The Company established a number of  
equity-based share incentive plans around the 
time of the initial public offering (IPO), namely  
an Approved and Unapproved Executive Share 
Option Plan (ESOP) and a Performance Share 
Plan (PSP). Other share plans, namely the Share 
Purchase Plan and earlier Approved, Unapproved 
and Unapproved G Share Options Plans were 
also in existence at the IPO, but no further 
awards will be made under the pre-IPO Plans. 
Executive Share Option Plan (ESOP)
An ESOP award was made on 4 March 2011  
to 45 senior managers including  
David Bauernfeind while he was ﬁnance director 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer – 2013
0 200,000 400,000 600,000 800,000 1,000,000 1,200,000 1,400,000 1,600,000 1,800,000 2,000,000
Below
threshold
£1,973,000
On target
£1,213,000
Stretch
£548,000
Beneﬁts (3) Performance shares (6) Deferred bonus in shares (5) Cash bonus (4) Pension (2) Base salary (1) 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer – 2013
Below
threshold
£1,270,000
On target
£766,000
Stretch
£325,000
Beneﬁts (3) Performance shares (6) Deferred bonus in shares (5) Cash bonus (4) Pension (2) Base salary (1) 
0 200,000 400,000 600,000 800,000 1,000,000 1,200,000 1,400,000
Remuneration report
continued 65
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Corporate governance 46-69
of the UK Region. He was appointed  
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer in June 2011. This  
award was made partially as approved options 
and partially as unapproved options. 
Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
Under our LTIP policy, the PSP is the primary 
vehicle through which share-based long-term 
incentives are offered annually to Executive 
Directors and other senior executives. 
Awards made in 2012 will vest three years  
after grant, depending upon the Company’s 
TSR performance, ROIC and continuous 
employment over the vesting period. Each 
Award was allocated as to 33.33% to average 
ROIC per annum over the performance period 
and as to 66.67% to compound absolute TSR 
growth per annum over the performance 
period (which is three years). ROIC is replaced  
by economic proﬁt for PSP grants in 2013  
and beyond.
Executive Directors receive PSP conditional 
shares worth 150% of salary based on the 
share price on the date of grant. For the 2012 
PSP grant, Ken Lever received 725,190 
conditional shares and David Bauernfeind 
received 458,015 conditional shares, each 
grant consisting of a Basic and Stretch award. 
The ‘Basic award’ will vest when average ROIC 
is between 19% and 25% and the compound 
annual TSR has grown by between 12.5% and 
22.5% growth per annum. The ‘Stretch award’ 
will only begin to vest if average ROIC is 25.1% 
to 27%, and the Company’s compound annual 
TSR growth is between 22.6% and 27.5%, 
with straight line vesting in between.
The extent to which the performance conditions 
are achieved will be determined by the 
Remuneration Committee, having received 
appropriate third-party advice.
Recruitment award
In addition, 150,000 shares vested to Ken Lever 
on 6 October 2012. This award represents the 
second tranche of an award previously disclosed 
in the 2010 Directors’ Remuneration Report.  
This award would not have vested if he had 
given, or received, notice of termination of his 
employment with Xchanging on the anniversary 
of the date of grant. These shares are reﬂected 
in the statement of directors’ interests (page 69).
Historical TSR graph 
The graph above is prepared in accordance with 
Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008. It shows the Company’s  
TSR for the time of listing on 24 April 2007 to  
31 December 2012 against that of the Total 
Return Indices for the FTSE 250, and the FTSE  
All-Share. We have used the FTSE 250 because 
the Remuneration Committee has determined 
that the FTSE 250 still remains the most 
appropriate peer group for its UK-based executive 
talent. We have also used the FTSE All-Share 
because of our current market capital ranking.
Other beneﬁts 
In 2012, Ken Lever received a cash allowance  
of 10% of base salary per annum in lieu of 
pension contributions. His cash allowance is 
non-bonusable. David Bauernfeind is a member 
of the Xchanging Pension scheme, a deﬁned 
contribution scheme. He received an employer 
contribution of 6% of his base salary, capped  
at a base salary of £136,200, which equalled 
£8,073 for 2012.
No payments other than base salary  
are pensionable.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive  
other beneﬁts including Life Assurance and 
Permanent Health Insurance (PHI), and are also 
eligible to join Xchanging’s private medical 
insurance scheme in accordance with the 
scheme terms and conditions under which 
cover is provided. 
The Group’s Life Assurance and PHI scheme 
provides a beneﬁt equal to four times their basic 
salary at the time of death and 75% of their basic 
salary should an individual be unavailable for 
work due to a critical illness for 26 continuous 
weeks. David Bauernfeind is a participant in the 
insured Death in Service Pension Plan.
Dilution and the pre-IPO share pool for 
entrepreneurial achievement 
As disclosed in Xchanging’s IPO prospectus, 
4,006,388 shares authorised by shareholders 
prior to the IPO, but not allocated to employees 
at that time, may be placed under option or 
issued under the Company’s share incentive 
plans without counting towards the ongoing 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) guideline 
dilution limits. The Remuneration Committee 
has subsequently approved that such pool of 
options may be awarded to employees under 
any of the shareholder approved schemes.
Value of hypothetical £100 holding
Xchanging plc FTSE 250 (Excluding investment trusts) FTSE All Share
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
31-Dec-12 30-Dec-11 31-Dec-10 31-Dec-09 31-Dec-08 31-Dec-07 24-Apr-07
Historical TSR performance
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding invested in Xchanging plc at the IPO price  
FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) & FTSE All-Share comparison based on spot values 66
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 67
Remuneration report
continued
Service contracts 
Executive Directors have service contracts with 
notice periods of 12 months from either the 
Director or the Company. This is in line with best 
practice for listed companies. The Company has 
the right to terminate the employment of an 
Executive Director without notice or with less 
than 12 months’ notice by making a payment  
in lieu of notice equal to the base salary the 
Executive Director would be entitled to receive 
during any unexpired period of the notice period. 
Non-executive Directorships and other 
external appointments
Ken Lever continues to be a member of the 
Accounting Council for which he received fees 
of £15,000 during 2012. This is a professional 
body membership, not a Non-executive position 
of a listed entity.
He was also appointed a Non-executive Director 
of FM Insurance Company Limited, a subsidiary 
of FM Global, and has received fees of £28,000 
during 2012.
Non-executive Directors 
Geoff Unwin was appointed Non-executive 
Director on 1 December 2011 which was for  
an initial term of four years unless terminated 
earlier by either party with six months’ notice.
Bill Thomas was appointed as Non-executive 
Director on 1 December 2011 for an initial term 
of three years.
Michel Paulin was appointed Non-executive 
Director on 1 January 2010, and he has been 
appointed for a period of three years from  
27 April 2010.
Ian Cormack was appointed Non-executive 
Director on the Board on 26 October 2012 for 
an initial term of three years.
Stephen Wilson was appointed Non-executive 
Director on the Board on 1 July 2012 for an 
initial term of three years.
Saurabh Srivastava was appointed Non-
executive Director on the Board on 4 September 
2012 for an initial term of three years.
The fees paid to Non-executive Directors are 
reviewed regularly. In setting the fees, a review 
of current market practice is undertaken which 
takes into account time commitment and 
responsibilities. The fees payable to Non-
executive Directors are ratiﬁed by the Board, 
based both on the recommendations of the 
Executive Directors and the Chairman. The fee 
policy for the Non-executive Directors is to pay 
an annual fee of £40,000, an additional fee of 
£10,000 per annum for chairing a Committee, 
and no separate fee for membership of a 
Committee. The Senior Independent Director 
receives a £10,000 top up to the standard fees, 
beyond any Committee Chairmanship. Our 
policy for fees for our Chairman of the Board  
is to ensure the fee structure attracts and 
retains the right calibre of candidate needed 
within the applicable corporate governance 
guidelines. The fee of Geoff Unwin is  
discussed further on page 67.
The Non-executive Directors do not participate 
in the Company’s incentive or pension schemes, 
nor do they receive any employee beneﬁts. The 
Company will reimburse all expenses reasonably 
incurred by the Non-executive Directors in the 
performance of their duties. The Company has 
obtained appropriate directors’ and ofﬁcers’ 
liability insurance. All fees to Non-executive 
Directors will cease to accrue with effect from 
the date of ceasing to be a Non-executive 
Director for whatever reason. No director is 
involved in setting their own pay. A Director  
is not present at any meetings where his pay  
is discussed.
Chairman of the Board
Geoff Unwin was appointed as a Non-executive 
Director on 1 December 2011 and was 
appointed Chairman on 1 January 2012.
Geoff Unwin receives a fee of £160,000 per 
annum which is subject to review after three 
years and thereafter annually. 
On appointment, Geoff Unwin purchased  
with his own funds 270,908 shares in 
Xchanging which he is expected to hold for  
at least four years.
In the event that Xchanging is acquired by a 
third party for a price per share in excess of 
£1.00 before 2 December 2015 the Company 
will match Geoff Unwin’s purchased shares he 
still holds on a one for one basis.
Should Geoff Unwin cease to be a director at 
any time as a result of death, disability or any 
other reason but not including resignation 
before 2 December 2015 and before such date 
Xchanging is acquired by a third party for a price 
per share in excess of £1.00, the Board may in 
its sole discretion match Geoff Unwin’s 
purchased shares on a one for one basis. 
Though the share matching and the absence of 
a requirement to hold the matched shares for a 
period of time is not compliant with D.1.3 of the 
Code, the terms of Geoff Unwin’s remuneration 
were discussed with the major shareholders in 
advance of his appointment. The Board has 
decided that this arrangement does not 
threaten his independence, nor does it alter his 
ability to steward the Company in a way which 
adheres to corporate governance standards.   67
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Corporate governance 46-69
This part of the remuneration report is audited
Individual Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration of Directors for the year ended 31 December 2012 is made up as follows:
Director
Base salary  
and fees  
(£)
Bonus  
(£)
Beneﬁts  
(£)
Total  
(£)
2011  
Total 
(£)
Executive Directors
Ken Lever 475,000 467,300
1
48,644
2
990,944 650,532
David Bauernfeind 300,000 295,137
3
9,217 604,354 239,106
Total 775,000 762,437 57,861 1,595,298 889,638
Non-executive Directors
Geoff Unwin 160,000 – – 160,000 13,333
Ian Cormack 9,103 – – 9,103 –
Michel Paulin 40,000 – – 40,000 40,000
Saurabh Srivastava 12,923 – – 12,923 –
Bill Thomas 50,000 – – 50,000 3,333
Stephen Wilson 24,167 – – 24,167 –
Dennis Millard 42,923 – – 42,923 65,000
Pat O’Driscoll 20,833 – – 20,833 50,000
Total 359,949 – – 359,949 171,666
Grand total 1,134,949 762,437 57,861 1,955,247 1,061,304
Notes:
1
 One third of the gross amount paid as a bonus are deferred into nil cost share options under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
2
 Ken Lever received a cash in lieu of pension payment equal to 10% of his salary.
3
 One third of the gross amount paid as a bonus are deferred into nil cost share options under the Deferred Bonus Plan. 68
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 69
Remuneration report
continued
Share options and long term incentive schemes
Details of share options held, granted, and exercised in 2012 in respect of qualifying services are outlined below.
Xchanging plc share options – approved scheme
Xchanging plc share options – unapproved scheme
The options shown above have no performance conditions attached and were granted when David Bauernfeind was neither on the management 
board nor an Executive Director of the Group. 
Director
Number of 
Options 
held at  
1 January 
2012
Granted 
during the 
year
Exercised 
during the 
year
Number of 
Options 
held at 31 
December 
2012
Exercise 
price
Date from 
which 
exercisable
Expiry  
date
David Bauernfeind 38,772 – – 38,772 £0.77 4/3/2014 4/3/2021
Director
Number of 
Options 
held at  
1 January 
2012
Granted 
during the 
year
Exercised 
during the 
year
Number of 
Options 
held at 31 
December 
2012
Exercise 
price
Date from 
which 
exercisable
Expiry  
date
David Bauernfeind 56,228 – – 56,228 £0.77 4/3/2014 4/3/2021
Xchanging plc 2007 Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Director
Number of PSP 
shares held on  
1 January 2012 Basic Award Stretch Award Date of Vesting
T otal Conditional 
PSP shares held 
at 31 December 
2012
Ken Lever 
Grant  
11/4/2011 572,519 458,015 114,504 11/4/2014 572,519
Grant 
23/6/2011 230,224 94,451 135,773 23/6/2014 230,224
Grant  
12/3/2012 – 483,460 241,730 12/3/2015 725,190
David Bauernfeind 
Grant  
26/8/2010 159,907 159,907 – 26/8/2013 159,907
Grant
12/4/2010 25,943 25,943 – 12/4/2013 25,943
Grant
11/4/2011 90,000 90,000 – 11/4/2014 90,000
Grant
23/6/2011 193,811 129,207 64,604 23/6/2014 193,811
Grant 
12/3/2012 – 305,343 152,672 12/3/2015 458,015
Note:
The market price at the time of the award on 12 March was £0.98. 69
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Corporate governance 46-69
Directors’ shareholdings
Number of 
shares at  
1 January 
 2012
Disposals of 
shares during 
the year
Acquisition of 
shares during 
the year
Shares  
vested
Number of 
shares at  
31 December 
2012
Executive Directors
Ken Lever 161,650 – – 150,000
1
311,650
David Bauernfeind 64,800 (42,000)
2
137,000
3
– 159,800
4
Non-executive Directors
Geoff Unwin 270,908 – – – 270,908
Ian Cormack – – 8,569 – 8,569
Michel Paulin 30,000 – – – 30,000
Saurabh Srivastava – – – – –
Bill Thomas – – – – –
Stephen Wilson – – 33,768 – 33,768
Notes:
1
  The shares vested had a market value of £0.70 valuing the grant at £105,000. This represents an award of 150,000 shares under LR 9.4.2 R(2). The shares were subsequently 
transferred to his spouse, a connected person.
2
  20,000 of the total disposals for the year were of shares held in the name of his spouse, a connected person.
3
  Of the total acquisitions for the year, 28,530 shares were acquired in the name of his spouse and child, who are connected persons.
4
  Of the total, 114,470 shares are owned directly by David Bauernfeind and the remainder by connected persons.
The Directors shareholdings have not changed between the end of the ﬁnancial year and the publication of the report and accounts.
Employee Beneﬁt Trust 
Xchanging has three Employee Beneﬁt Trusts: The Infrex Employee Share Trust, the Xchanging Employee Beneﬁt Trust and the Xchanging BV 2007 
Employee Beneﬁt Trust.
The trustees of the Infrex Employee Share Trust during 2012 were Gary Whitaker and Ken Lever. The Infrex Employee Share Trust is a discretionary trust 
for the beneﬁt of employees of Xchanging UK Limited and its subsidiaries as the trustees decide. The Infrex Employee Share Trust holds 191,108 shares.
The trustee of the Xchanging Employee Beneﬁt Trust is Ogier Employee Beneﬁt Trustee Limited, an independent professional trustee situated in Jersey. 
The Xchanging Employee Beneﬁt Trust is a discretionary trust for the beneﬁt of such employees of Xchanging BV and its subsidiaries as the trustees 
decide. The Xchanging Employee Beneﬁt Trust does not hold any shares.
The trustee of the Xchanging BV 2007 Employee Beneﬁt Trust is Ogier Employee Beneﬁt Trustee Limited, an independent professional trustee situated 
in Jersey. The Xchanging BV 2007 Employee Beneﬁt Trust is a discretionary trust for the beneﬁt of such employees of Xchanging UK Limited as the 
trustees decide. The Xchanging BV 2007 Employee Beneﬁt Trust does not hold any shares.
Approved on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Bill Thomas 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 70
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 71 70
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 71
We have audited the Group financial statements of Xchanging plc for  
the year ended 31 December 2012, which comprise the Consolidated 
income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Reconciliation of  
net cash flow to movement in net cash, the Movement in net cash, the 
Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated statement of changes in 
equity, and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that  
has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities set 
out on page 52, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on  
the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for 
the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of 
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do 
not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown 
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in 
the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of 
significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the 
financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the Group financial statements: 
  give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 
31 December 2012 and of its profit and cash flows for the year 
then ended; 
  have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted  
by the European Union; and 
  have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
  the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for 
which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the Group financial statements; and
   the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out 
on pages 53 to 60 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems and about share capital structures is consistent 
with the financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or 
  we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit; or
  a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the  
Parent Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
  the Directors’ statement, set out on page 52, in relation to  
going concern; 
  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review; and
  certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
Directors’ remuneration.
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial  
statements of Xchanging plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 
and on the information in the Remuneration Report that is described 
as having been audited. 
Paul Aitken  
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London
28 February 2013
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Xchanging plc on the Group financial statements Company overview XX-XX
71
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  71
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
Consolidated income statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2012
2012 2011
Note
Adjusted 
£m
Adjustments
 to adjusted
1
£m
Total
£m
Adjusted
£m
Adjustments
to adjusted
1
£m
Total
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 4 668.3 – 668.3 650.0 1.2 651.2
Cost of sales 5 (601.1) (4.0) (605.1) (584.7) (19.9) (604.6)
Gross profit/(loss) 67.2 (4.0) 63.2 65.3 (18.7) 46.6
Administrative expenses 5 (16.8) (0.4) (17.2) (22.1) (17.9) (40.0)
Operating profit/(loss) 50.4 (4.4) 46.0 43.2 (36.6) 6.6
Finance costs 9 (14.1) (0.4) (14.5) (14.1) (5.0) (19.1)
Finance income 9 9.9 – 9.9 10.0 – 10.0
Share of profit from joint venture 17 0.1 – 0.1 – – –
Profit/(loss) before taxation 46.3 (4.8) 41.5 39.1 (41.6) (2.5)
Taxation 10 (14.6) 1.5 (13.1) (14.2) 8.3 (5.9)
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 31.7 (3.3) 28.4 24.9 (33.3) (8.4)
Discontinued operation
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operation – – – (4.0) 8.5 4.5
Profit/(loss) for the year 31.7 (3.3) 28.4 20.9 (24.8) (3.9)
Attributable to:
– Owners of the parent 25.4 (3.7) 21.7 16.1 (28.2) (12.1)
– Non-controlling interests 30 6.3 0.4 6.7 4.8 3.4 8.2
  31.7 (3.3) 28.4 20.9 (24.8) (3.9)
Earnings per share attributable to owners  
of the parent (expressed in pence per share)
Basic
– Continuing operations 11 10.58 9.05 8.01 (5.79)
– Discontinued operation 11 – – (1.32) 0.72
Total operations 10.58 9.05 6.69 (5.07)
Diluted
– Continuing operations 11 10.38 8.88 7.99 (5.79)
– Discontinued operation 11 – – (1.32) 0.71
Total operations 10.38 8.88 6.67 (5.08)
1
  Adjustments to adjusted in 2012 and 2011 include exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised by an acquired entity, acquisition-related expenses 
and imputed interest on put options, along with the related tax impacting these items.
The notes on pages 78 to 133 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 72
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 73 72
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 73
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 December 2012
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Net actuarial losses arising from retirement benefit obligations (13.5) (6.3)
Revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets 0.8 (0.4)
Revaluation losses recycled to the income statement on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets – 0.1
Revaluation losses recycled to the income statement on impairment of available-for-sale financial assets – 4.2 
Fair value movements on hedging instrument qualifying for hedge accounting (0.9) (0.6)
Fair value movements on hedging instrument recycled to the income statement upon de-designation 0.9 0.1 
Cumulative translation differences recycled to the income statement in respect of the discontinued operation – 3.3 
Currency translation differences (5.5) (8.8)
Other comprehensive loss net of tax (18.2) (8.4)
Profit/(loss) for the year 28.4 (3.9)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 10.2 (12.3)
Attributable to:
– Owners of the parent 8.9 (16.8)
– Non-controlling interests 1.3 4.5
  10.2 (12.3)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to the owners of the parent arises from:
– Continuing operations 8.9 (22.7)
– Discontinued operation – 5.9 
  8.9 (16.8)
Items in the statement above are disclosed net of tax. The income tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income is disclosed in note 10.
The notes on pages 78 to 133 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Company overview XX-XX
73
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  73
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
Consolidated cash flow statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2012
Note
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Continuing operations:
Cash generated from operations 33 85.7 61.1
Income tax paid (9.8) (9.7)
Discontinued operation – (7.8)
Net cash generated from operating activities 75.9 43.6
Cash flows from investing activities
Continuing operations:
Acquisition cost of subsidiaries net of cash acquired (11.2) (5.3)
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary assets 0.4 –
Proceeds from sale of shares in subsidiary 0.2 –
Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale financial assets – 0.5
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (6.3) (6.6)
Purchase of intangible assets (8.6) (8.4)
Pre-contract expenditure (1.0) (2.7)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.2
Interest received 1.2 1.1
Dividends received 0.2 –
Discontinued operation:
Net proceeds from sale of discontinued operation 13 – 5.2
Other cash flows from investing activities – (0.5)
Net cash used in investing activities (24.7) (16.5)
Cash flows from financing activities
Continuing operations:
Proceeds from issue of shares 0.5 –
Proceeds from borrowings 11.0 84.1
Repayment of borrowings (25.4) (85.8)
Transaction costs of arranged borrowings (0.3) (4.0)
Acquisition of non-controlling interest in subsidiaries (6.7) (4.9)
Loan from related party 0.8 –
Interest paid (3.9) (2.0)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (7.6) (7.7)
Discontinued operation – (0.3)
Net cash used in financing activities (31.6) (20.6)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 19.6 6.5
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 98.1 91.1
Effects of exchange adjustments (1.3) 0.5
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 20 116.4 98.1
The notes on pages 78 to 133 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  74
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 75 74
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 75
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year 18.3 7.0
Cash inflow from movement in bank loans and revolving credit facilities 13.5 2.6
Movement on finance lease liabilities 0.9 (0.6)
Movement on receivable purchase facility – (0.1)
Loan from related party (0.8) –
Change in net cash resulting from cash flows 31.9 8.9
Finance lease liabilities disposed of with discontinued operation – 0.3
Receivable purchase facility disposed of with subsidiary (not discontinued operation) – 0.3
Other non-cash movements – (0.5)
Exchange movements (0.3) 2.7
Movement in net cash in the year 31.6 11.7
Net cash at the beginning of the year 45.2 33.5
Net cash at the end of the year 76.8 45.2
Movement in net cash 
for the year ended 31 December 2012
2011
£m
Cash flow
£m
Cash 
acquired
£m
Exchange
movements
£m
2012 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents per the cash flow statement 98.1 18.7 0.9 (1.3) 116.4
Bank loans and revolving credit facilities (51.1) 13.5 – (0.3) (37.9)
Finance lease liabilities (1.8) 0.9 – – (0.9)
Loan from related party – (0.8) – – (0.8)
Net cash 45.2 32.3 0.9 (1.6) 76.8
Movement in net cash 
for the year ended 31 December 2011
2010
£m
Cash flow
£m
Cash and 
debt 
acquired
£m
Other 
non-cash 
movements
£m
Exchange
movements
£m
2011 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents per the cash flow statement 91.1 13.3 (6.8) – 0.5 98.1
Bank loans and revolving credit facilities, including loan arrangement fees (55.9) 2.6 – (0.5) 2.7 (51.1)
Finance lease liabilities (1.5) (0.6) 0.3 – – (1.8)
Receivable purchase facility (0.2) (0.1) 0.3 – – –
Net cash 33.5 15.2 (6.2) (0.5) 3.2 45.2
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net cash 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 Company overview XX-XX
75
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
75
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Consolidated balance sheet 
as at 31 December 2012
Note
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill 14 175.3 167.2
Other intangible assets 15 53.4 53.2
Property, plant and equipment 16 17.5 20.2
Investment in joint venture 17 0.2 –
Available-for-sale financial assets 18 23.4 23.2
Trade and other receivables 19 4.8 4.8
Retirement benefit assets 35 0.3 0.3
Deferred income tax assets 25 32.4 24.9
Total non-current assets 307.3 293.8
Current assets
Inventories 0.1 0.2
Current income tax receivable 1.4 0.9
Trade and other receivables 19 126.8 130.1
Cash and cash equivalents 20 116.4 98.1
Total current assets 244.7 229.3
Total assets 552.0 523.1
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (150.0) (146.9)
Current income tax liabilities (12.5) (7.3)
Borrowings 23 (8.0) (4.3)
Customer accounts 20 (20.7) (11.6)
Other financial liabilities 23 (11.4) (20.0)
Provisions 24 (18.6) (22.1)
Total current liabilities (221.2) (212.2)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (5.8) (6.3)
Borrowings 23 (31.6) (48.6)
Other financial liabilities 23 (13.6) (3.6)
Deferred income tax liabilities 25 (11.1) (7.0)
Retirement benefit obligations 35 (62.4) (42.7)
Provisions 24 (6.3) (7.1)
Total non-current liabilities (130.8) (115.3)
Total liabilities (352.0) (327.5)
Net assets 200.0 195.6
Shareholders' equity
Ordinary shares 26 12.0 11.9
Share premium 28 108.6 107.8
Merger reserve 28 409.7 409.7
Reverse acquisition reserve 28 (312.2) (312.2)
Other reserves 29 (18.2) (4.1)
Retained earnings 28 (22.2) (45.7)
Total shareholders' equity 177.7 167.4
Non-controlling interest in equity 30 22.3 28.2
Total equity 200.0 195.6
The notes on pages 78 to 133 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
The consolidated financial statements on pages 71 to 133 were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2013 and signed on its behalf by:
David Bauernfeind Chief Financial Officer Kenneth Lever Chief Executive Officer
Company Number: 05818018 76
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 77 76
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 77
Attributable to owners of the parent
Note
Ordinary 
shares
£m 
Share 
premium
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Reverse 
acquisition 
reserve
£m
Other 
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
shareholders’ 
equity
£m
Non-
controlling 
interest in 
equity
£m
Total  
equity
£m
At 1 January 2011 11.9 107.8 409.7 (312.2) 20.9 (44.4) 193.7 18.9 212.6
Comprehensive 
income
Profit or loss for the year – – – – – (12.1) (12.1) 8.2 (3.9)
Other comprehensive 
income
Net actuarial losses 
arising from retirement 
benefit obligations 29/30 – – – – (7.1) – (7.1) 0.8 (6.3)
Revaluation of available-
for-sale financial assets 29/30 – – – – (0.6) – (0.6) 0.2 (0.4)
Revaluation losses 
recycled to the income 
statement on disposal 
of available-for-sale 
financial assets 29 – – – – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1
Revaluation losses 
recycled to the income 
statement on 
impairment of 
available-for-sale 
financial assets 29 – – – – 4.2 – 4.2 – 4.2
Fair value movements on 
hedging instrument 
qualifying for hedge 
accounting 29 – – – – (0.6) – (0.6) – (0.6)
Fair value movements on 
hedging instrument 
recycled to the income 
statement upon 
de-designation 29 – – – – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1
Cumulative translation 
differences recycled to 
the income statement in 
respect of the 
discontinued operation
1
29 – – – – 3.3 – 3.3 – 3.3
Currency translation 
differences 29/30 – – – – (4.1) – (4.1) (4.7) (8.8)
Total comprehensive 
income for the year
2 
– – – – (4.7) (12.1) (16.8) 4.5 (12.3)
Transactions with 
owners:
Share-based payments 27 – – – – – 3.1 3.1 – 3.1
Transaction with 
non-controlling interest 29/30 – – – – (20.3) 7.8 (12.5) 12.5 –
Dividends paid/payable 12 – – – – – (0.1) (0.1) (7.7) (7.8)
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 Company overview XX-XX
77
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
77
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Attributable to owners of the parent
Note
Ordinary 
shares
£m 
Share 
premium
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Reverse 
acquisition 
reserve
£m
Other 
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
shareholders’ 
equity
£m
Non-
controlling 
interest in 
equity
£m
Total  
equity
£m
At 31 December 2011  11.9 107.8 409.7 (312.2) (4.1) (45.7) 167.4 28.2 195.6
Comprehensive 
income
Profit for the year – – – – – 21.7 21.7 6.7 28.4
Other comprehensive 
income
Net actuarial losses 
arising from retirement 
benefit obligations 29/30 – – – – (9.8) – (9.8) (3.7) (13.5)
Revaluation of available-
for-sale financial assets 29/30 – – – – 0.7 – 0.7 0.1 0.8
Fair value movements on 
hedging instrument 
qualifying for hedge 
accounting 29 – – – – (0.9) – (0.9) – (0.9)
Fair value movements on 
hedging instrument 
recycled to the income 
statement upon 
de-designation 29 – – – – 0.9 – 0.9 – 0.9
Currency translation 
differences 29/30 – – – – (3.7) – (3.7) (1.8) (5.5)
Total comprehensive 
income for the year  – – – – (12.8) 21.7 8.9 1.3 10.2
Transactions with 
owners:
Share-based payments 27 – – – – – 2.2 2.2 – 2.2
Shares issued in respect 
of employee share-
based payments 26 0.1 0.8 – – – (0.4) 0.5 – 0.5
Transaction with 
non-controlling interest 29/30 – – – – (1.3) – (1.3) 1.3 –
Dividends paid/payable 12 – – – – – – – (8.5) (8.5)
At 31 December 2012 12.0 108.6 409.7 (312.2) (18.2) (22.2) 177.7 22.3 200.0
1
  In 2011, the cumulative translation differences recycled to the income statement in respect of the discontinued operation are included within the profit on disposal of the 
discontinued operation of £4.5 million.
2
 In total comprehensive income for the year, amounts are stated net of tax.
For a description of the nature and purpose of each reserve within shareholders’ equity refer to note 28. The notes on pages 78 to 133 form an 
integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  78
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 79 78
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 79
1 General information
Xchanging plc (‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (together ‘the Group’) provide a range of business processing services, primarily to the financial 
services and insurance industries, as well as procurement, and technology services across industries. The nature of the Group’s operations and its 
principal activities are discussed further on pages 4 to 15.
Xchanging plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the UK. The address of its registered office is 34 Leadenhall Street, London, 
EC3A 1AX. The Company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
2 Principal accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently 
applied to both years presented, unless otherwise stated.
(i) Basis of preparation of the financial statements
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the European Union (EU) endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS), IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The consolidated financial 
statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, other financial 
assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management 
to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, 
or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 3.
(ii) Going concern
The Directors have reviewed the liquidity position of the Group for the period to 31 December 2014. The cash flows of the Group have been assessed 
against the Group’s available sources of finance on a monthly basis to determine the level of headroom against committed bank facilities. Based on 
this analysis, and an assessment of the potential cash risks, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its 
consolidated financial statements.
(iii) Changes in accounting policy and disclosure
(a) New and amended standards and interpretations adopted by the Group
There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2012 that would  
be expected to have a material impact on the Group (although they may affect the accounting for future transactions and events).
(b) New standards, amendments and interpretations issued, but not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2012 and not 
early adopted:
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2012, and 
have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None of these is expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated 
financial statements of the Group, except the following set out below:
Amendment to IAS 1, ‘Financial statement presentation’, regarding other comprehensive income. The main change resulting from these amendments 
is a requirement for entities to group items presented in ‘other comprehensive income’ (OCI) on the basis of whether they are potentially reclassifiable 
to profit or loss subsequently (reclassification adjustments). The amendments do not address which items are presented in OCI.
IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’, aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single 
source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs. The requirements, which are largely aligned between IFRSs and 
US GAAP , do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already required or 
permitted by other standards within IFRSs or US GAAP .
IAS 19, ‘Employee benefits’, was amended in June 2011 and is effective from 1 January 2013. The impact on the Group will be as follows: to 
immediately recognise all past service costs; and to replace interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is 
calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability (asset). If IAS19R had been adopted by the Group as at 31 December 2012, 
it is estimated that the operating expense and pension liabilities would have been higher by approximately £0.8 million. 
IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities. IFRS 9 was issued 
in November 2009 and October 2010. It replaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the classification and measurement of financial instruments. IFRS 9 
requires financial assets to be classified into two measurement categories: those measured as at fair value and those measured at amortised cost. The 
determination is made at initial recognition. The classification depends on the entity’s business model for managing its financial instruments and the 
contractual cash flow characteristics of the instrument. For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the IAS 39 requirements. The main change 
is that, in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change due to an entity’s own credit risk is recorded 
in other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting mismatch. The Group is yet to assess IFRS 9’s full 
impact and intends to adopt IFRS 9 no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2015. The Group will also consider the impact 
of the remaining phases of IFRS 9 when completed by the Board.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 Company overview XX-XX
79
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
79
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated financial statements’, builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an 
entity should be included within the consolidated financial statements of the parent company. The standard provides additional guidance to assist in 
the determination of control where this is difficult to assess. The adoption of this new standard is not considered to have a material impact on the 
financial position or financial performance of the Group. The Group intends to adopt IFRS 10 no later than the accounting period beginning on or 
after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 12, ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’, includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint 
arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles. The adoption of this new standard is not considered to have  
a material impact on the financial position or financial performance of the Group. The Group intends to adopt IFRS 12 no later than the accounting 
period beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are endorsed by the EU but are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material 
impact on the Group.
(iv) Basis of consolidation 
(a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including special purpose entities such as an employee benefit trust) over which the Group has the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights. The existence and effect of potential 
voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity. The Group also 
assesses existence of control where it does not own more than 50% of the voting rights but is able to govern the financial and operating policies by 
virtue of de-facto control. De-facto control arises in respect of the Group’s Enterprise Partnerships through the specific contractual arrangements 
giving the Group power over the financial and operating policies. 
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control passes to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date control ceases.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. 
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Profits and losses resulting 
from intercompany transactions that are recognised in assets are also eliminated. 
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the income statement, balance sheet and other comprehensive income based on the 
non-controlling interest’s proportionate share, except where there are specific contractual arrangements where this is not applicable, for example, 
where guaranteed dividends payable to non-controlling interests exist instead of proportionate profit-sharing arrangements.
(b) Joint venture
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement, which the Group has entered into with another party to undertake an economic activity that is subject  
to joint control. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over an economic activity, and exists only when the strategic, financial and 
operating decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing the control.
Investment in joint venture is accounted for using the equity method of accounting, and is initially recognised at cost. 
The Group’s share of its joint venture’s post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement and its share of post-
acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. The cumulative post-acquisition 
movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment. 
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used under relevant local GAAP in the financial statement of the joint 
venture in line with those used by the Group under IFRS.
The investment in joint venture is reviewed for impairment annually. If any impairment indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset  
is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
The results of joint venture acquired during the year are included in the Group income statement from the effective date of acquisition. 
The joint venture, Xchanging Malaysia Sdn. Bhd., has a financial year end of 30 June. In respect of each year ending 31 December, this company is 
included based on financial statements drawn up to that date. The company has a different financial year end, as the Group’s joint venture partner’s 
financial year end is 30 June and they are responsible for drawing up the annual financial accounts.
(c) Business combinations
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. A business combination is deemed to have occurred where the 
Group acquires a third-party business, either in whole or in part, so that it obtains overall operational and financial control of that business. 
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a business is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owner 
of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting 
from a contingent consideration arrangement. 80
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 81 80
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 81
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
2 Principal accounting policies continued
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value 
of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or a liability is recognised either in the income statement or as a change in other 
comprehensive income. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for 
within equity.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at 
acquisition date. 
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition by acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling 
interest’s proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling interest over the net 
identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. If the consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the business acquired, the 
difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
(d) Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change of control
Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. That is, as transactions with 
the owners in their capacity as owners. The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying 
value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity; specifically other reserves. Gains or losses arising on disposals to non-controlling interests 
are also recorded in equity.
(e) Disposal of subsidiaries
When the Group ceases to have control of a subsidiary, any retained interests in the equity is re-measured to its fair value at the date when control  
is lost, with the change in the carrying amount recognised in profit or loss. Any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income or 
directly in equity, in respect of that subsidiary are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets and liabilities. This may 
mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income or taken directly to equity are recycled to the income statement.
(f) Discontinued operation
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of business. This may be the whole of or part 
of a subsidiary’s operations. Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classified 
as held for sale, if earlier. 
(v) Revenue recognition 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, excluding value added tax, rebates and discounts. It comprises the 
value of services provided for customer administration services, including investment administration services, business process services, software as 
a service, claims servicing, securities processing, maintenance contracts and software sales, software development services, procurement services, 
as well as human resources, finance and accounting services. The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, 
it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities 
described below.
Customer administration services
Revenue in respect of the provision of administration services comprises amounts receivable for subscription fees, a transaction charge for the 
provision of administration services and fees for other ad hoc services. Subscription fees are recognised in the income statement according to the 
period to which they relate. Transactional revenue for these services is recognised in the period in which the transaction takes place. Ad hoc revenue  
is recognised in the period in which the service is provided.
Business process services
Revenue in respect of business process services contracts is divided into an implementation phase and a service provision phase. 
Revenue in respect of the implementation phase is accounted for on a long-term contract basis, where it is separable from the provision of 
administration services. The percentage completion method is applied, based on the proportion of costs incurred to the total estimated costs. Profits 
are recognised on an implementation phase where the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty. A full provision is made for all known 
or anticipated losses on each contract immediately, once forecast.
Revenue in respect of the provision of post-implementation administration services to business process services customers is recognised in the period 
to which the service relates.
Claims servicing
Revenue from the servicing of claims is recognised over the period of the underlying service contract, where there is a defined service period. Revenue 
from incentive schemes associated with the provision of claims servicing is recognised on the basis of estimates of the amounts which are considered 
reasonably certain to be received. Company overview XX-XX
81
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
81
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Securities processing
Revenue from the provision of securities processing services is recognised according to the period to which the service relates, net of guaranteed 
rebates to customers. 
Maintenance contracts, hosting services and software sales
Revenue in respect of the rental or maintenance of computer software programs, information technology (IT) hardware, hosting and other services  
is recognised as earned. Billings are included in trade receivables in accordance with the terms of the relevant rental or maintenance contract.  
To the extent that billings are recorded in advance of the relevant revenue, such advance billings are included in deferred income.
Revenue from maintenance contracts is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the maintenance contract. 
Revenue from the sale of perpetual software licences, including revenue relating to both the initial licence fee and implementation phase, is 
recognised over the length of the implementation of the software. Revenue from the sale of subsequent licences, where no implementation is 
required, is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership are considered to have passed to the buyer and all obligations have  
been fulfilled; usually considered to occur on delivery of the licences to the buyer.
Software development services
Revenue from software development services is recognised as related services are performed when the contract is based on time and materials or 
under the percentage completion basis where work is performed under a fixed price contract. 
Procurement services
Revenue from the provision of procurement services is recognised on a gross basis where the Group is responsible for the whole supply chain process 
and associated business process from end-to-end. Where the Group acts as an agent, revenue is recognised on a net basis. Revenue is recognised,  
net of guaranteed rebates to customers, according to the period to which the service relates and only when all obligations are fulfilled.
Human resources/finance and accounting services
Revenue from the provision of human resources and finance and accounting services is recognised according to the period to which the service 
relates, net of guaranteed rebates to customers, when all obligations are fulfilled.
(vi) Deferred income
Deferred income relating to claims handling income received at claim inception in our workers’ compensation business is released in line with an 
estimate of the cost to service the claims based on actuarial table profiles. The profiles determine, for each class of claim that the Group processes,  
the estimated life-cycle and work effort of a typical claim. The majority of this revenue is released over a two-year period.
Deferred income relating to software and IT hardware maintenance, software rental fees, and licence fees received in advance is predominantly in  
our insurance and technology business. This income is released over a straight-line basis over the contract or licence period.
(vii) Finance costs 
Finance costs are charged to the income statement using the effective interest rate method. 
(viii) Finance income
Finance income is reported in the income statement as it arises through the application of the effective interest rate method.
(ix) Dividend distributions
Dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which the 
dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
(x) Foreign currency transactions 
(a) Functional and presentation currency 
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which the subsidiaries operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Company’s 
functional currency. 
(b) Transactions and balances 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign 
exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as 
qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are presented in the income statement within ‘finance 
income or cost’. All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the income statement within ‘foreign exchange (loss)/gain’ in cost of 
sales or administrative expenses. 82
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 83 82
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 83
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
2 Principal accounting policies continued
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets such as equities classified as available-for-sale are included in the revaluation reserve in equity 
through other comprehensive income. 
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in profit 
or loss as part of the fair value gain or loss. 
(c) Group companies 
The results and financial position of all the Group subsidiaries (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that have a functional 
currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: 
  All assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet. 
   Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at monthly average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable 
approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate 
on the dates of the transactions).
  All resulting currency translation differences are recognised as a separate component of equity. 
On consolidation, currency translation differences arising from the translation of long-term monetary items designated as part of the net investment 
in foreign operation are taken to shareholders’ equity. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated 
at the closing rate.
Cumulative currency translation differences recognised in equity in respect of a subsidiary disposed of are recycled to the income statement in the 
same period that the disposal is recognised. The effect of the cumulative currency translation differences is taken into account in determining the gain 
or loss on disposal.
(xi) Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.  
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature  
of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as either: 
(a) hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction (cash flow hedge); or
(b) hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation (net investment hedge).
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk 
management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge 
inception and on an on-going basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in  
fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 
12 months, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. Trading derivatives are classified 
as a current asset or liability.
a) Cash flow hedge
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other 
comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss (for example, when 
the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of forward contracts hedging foreign currency revenues 
is recognised in the income statement within ‘revenue’. 
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss  
existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement. 
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to  
the income statement.
b) Net investment hedge
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain  
or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold. Company overview XX-XX
83
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
83
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
(xii) Goodwill 
Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition to IFRS, 1 January 2003, is stated at net book value at the date of transition. 
This goodwill had been amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life (being 10 years). 
Goodwill recognised subsequent to 1 January 2003, arising from the purchase of subsidiary undertakings, represents the excess of the fair value  
of the consideration paid over the fair value of the Group’s interest in net identifiable assets (including intangible assets), liabilities and contingent 
liabilities of the acquiree and the fair value of the non-controlling interest in the acquiree. After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less  
any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill recognised subsequent to 1 January 2003 is not subject to amortisation.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a subsidiary include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the subsidiary sold.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that is 
expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level 
within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or, more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.  
The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and the fair value less costs to sell.  
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
(xiii) Other intangible assets
(a) Development costs
Where development costs meet the criteria for capitalisation, these are stated at cost less a provision for amortisation and any provision for 
impairment. Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Costs incurred during the development period of new contracts, including the costs of process and system designs that substantially improve those 
processes and systems already installed in either the Enterprise Partnerships or recently acquired subsidiaries, are treated as development costs. 
Expenditure relating to these clearly defined and identifiable development projects is recognised as an intangible asset only where costs can be 
reliably measured and after the following criteria have been met:
  The technical feasibility and commercial viability of the development project have been demonstrated.
  The availability of adequate technical and financial resources and an intention to complete the project have been confirmed.
  There is an ability to use or sell the project.
   Future economic benefits are expected.
Costs that are capitalised comprise directly attributable incremental costs incurred during the development period, including wages and salaries of 
staff employed solely for the purpose of improving the processes and systems, and third-party costs. Development costs do not include restructuring 
costs, (including redundancy, early termination penalties and such like), which are expensed to the income statement as they are incurred.
Amortisation of development costs occurs on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract to which they relate (between six and 12 years).  
This period represents the useful life of the intangible asset. 
(b) Software costs
Software costs are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Software costs include purchased software licences and software development expenditure, which are capitalised where they meet the criteria for 
recognition under IAS 38, ‘Intangible Assets’. Where the criteria for capitalisation are not met, software development expenditure is expensed as incurred. 
Software development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis at an annual rate of 20% or over the life of the related contract, where appropriate, 
so as to write off the asset cost on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic life. Purchased software is stated at cost and amortised on  
a straight-line basis over three years.
(c) Assets in the course of development
Assets in the course of development are not amortised until the asset is brought into use.
Subsequent expenditure undertaken to ensure that an asset maintains its previously assessed standard of performance, for example, routine repairs and 
maintenance expenditure, is recognised in the income statement as it is incurred. Subsequent expenditure that significantly enhances an asset is capitalised.
(d) Contractual customer relationships
Contractual customer relationships are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Contractual customer relationships are capitalised on acquisition where they meet the criteria for recognition under IFRS 3, ‘Business Combinations’, 
and IAS 38. Customer contractual relationships are amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected length of the customer relationship, which  
is between one and 10 years.  84
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 85 84
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 85
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
2 Principal accounting policies continued
(xiv) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, except for assets in the course  
of development and land. Assets in the course of development are carried at cost less any recognised impairment. Depreciation commences when  
the assets are ready for their intended use. Land is carried at cost less any recognised impairment. No depreciation is charged on land.
The cost of property, plant and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any incidental costs of acquisition.
All repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of the assets, less their estimated residual values, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful 
economic lives of the assets concerned. Depreciation is calculated over the following periods:
Buildings   20 years 
Leasehold improvements over the period of the lease 
Computer equipment three to five years  
Fixtures and fittings  three to 10 years 
Motor vehicles  four years
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within the income statement.
(xv) Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (including goodwill)
Property plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment if a trigger event is deemed to have happened, 
unless the asset has an indefinite useful life, then these assets are reviewed at least annually. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount 
of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are 
independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a discount rate that reflects the current market assessments of the time value of money. Future cash flows  
are adjusted to take account of any risks specific to an asset. Fair value less costs to sell is determined by reference to either the expected proceeds  
of sale or the expected discounted cash flows in respect of the asset, less any costs that are expected to be incurred to secure the sale. 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
(cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately as an expense in the income statement.
Where an impairment loss in respect of property, plant and equipment, and other intangible assets subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the 
asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount 
does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) 
in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Any impairment losses identified in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
(xvi) Financial assets
Classification
The Group classifies its financial assets into one of the following categories: loans and receivables, available-for-sale and financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. The Group determines the classification 
of its financial assets at initial recognition: 
  Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are 
included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets. 
   Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories. 
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date. 
   Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss includes residual equities purchased as part of a requisitioned trade on behalf of a client of the 
Financial Services sector and are held at their fair value until the opportunity arises to sell the equity as part of a new requisitioned trade by a client. 
They are included within current assets and classified as held-for-trading assets within trade and other receivables on the balance sheet.
Recognition and measurement
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date – the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. 
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss. Financial assets 
carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement. Financial assets 
are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred 
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently carried at fair value. Loans and receivables are carried 
at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Held-for-trading assets are carried at fair value through profit and loss. Company overview XX-XX
85
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
85
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in other comprehensive income 
are included in the income statement.
Dividends from available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised in the income statement as part of finance income when the Group’s right to 
receive payments is established. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values of other financial assets at fair value through profit and loss  
are presented within finance costs or income in the period in which they arise. Changes in the fair value of monetary and non-monetary securities 
classified as available-for-sale are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the 
recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.  
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is 
considered to be an indicator that the securities are impaired. If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss 
– measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously 
recognised in profit or loss – is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses recognised  
in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement. If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt 
instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was 
recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
(xvii) Put options granted to non-controlling shareholders
In accordance with IAS 32, ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’, when non-controlling interests hold put options that enable them to sell their 
investments to the Group, the net present value of the future payment is reflected as a financial liability in the consolidated balance sheet. At the end 
of each period, the valuation of the liability is reassessed with any changes recognised in the income statement for the period through finance costs. 
(xviii) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined by the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Net realisable value is  
the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses. 
(xix) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for impairment. A provision  
for the impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due 
according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or 
financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the 
provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows. Impaired debts are 
derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after  
the impairment was recognised (such as an improvement in the debtor’s credit rating), the reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss  
is recognised in the income statement.
Pre-contract costs comprise legal and other professional expenses and other directly attributable staff costs incurred in order to obtain specific 
customer contracts. Costs that are directly attributable to a contract are deferred when they are separately identifiable, can be reliably measured and 
it is probable that the contract will be awarded and the contract will result in future net cash inflows with a present value at least equal to all amounts 
recognised as an asset. 
Pre-contract costs are included within trade and other receivables and are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, starting from 
the date when the contract commences.
(xx) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, demand deposits, short-term highly liquid investments which are readily convertible to cash and  
are subject to minimal risk of changes in value and bank overdrafts. 
(xxi) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
(xxii) Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost. Any 
difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the 
borrowings, using the effective interest method. Revolving credit facilities are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the consolidated 
balance sheet. 86
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 87 86
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 87
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
2 Principal accounting policies continued
Fees paid on the initial arrangement of debt facilities are recognised as transaction costs to the extent that some or all of the facility will be drawn 
down. Fees are capitalised as a prepayment against the borrowings and amortised over the period of the facility to which they relate.
An exchange or a modification of a debt facility arrangement is accounted for as an extinguishment where the terms of the new arrangement are 
substantially different to the original arrangement. Both qualitative and quantitative factors are considered in determining whether the terms of an 
arrangement have substantially changed. 
On extinguishment, all unamortised transaction costs related to the extinguished facility are released to the income statement. All fees paid in respect 
of the exchange or modification of a debt facility are also taken directly to the income statement. These amounts are presented within finance costs.
(xxiii) Operating and finance leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Rental costs 
under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives provided by lessors to the 
Group are amortised over the lease term together with any related costs of acquiring the lease.
Assets held under finance leases are initially reported at the lower of the fair value of the assets and the present value of minimum lease payments 
with an equivalent liability categorised as appropriate under current or non-current liabilities. The asset is depreciated over the shorter of the lease 
term and its useful economic life. Finance charges are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease to produce a constant rate of return 
on the outstanding balance. 
(xxiv) Taxation including deferred income tax
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to 
items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the associated tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income 
or directly in equity, respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries 
where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions adopted in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to 
interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their 
carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition 
of goodwill; deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates 
(and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income 
tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except for a deferred income tax liability where the 
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity 
or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
(xxv) Employee benefit costs
(a) Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates, or participates in, both defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes. All the pension schemes are accounted for  
in accordance with IAS 19, ‘Employee Benefits’.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. Scheme assets are measured 
using closing market values at the balance sheet date. Pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit method and discounted at the 
current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability. Variations between the scheme assets and 
liabilities identified as a result of these actuarial valuations (actuarial gains and losses) are recognised in full through other comprehensive income in 
the period in which they arise. Current service costs, expected returns on plan assets and interest costs are charged to the income statement. 
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service 
for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Company overview XX-XX
87
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
87
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
The Group participates in a number of defined benefit schemes which are multi-employer schemes and where insufficient information exists to be 
able to account for the schemes as defined benefit plans as there is no consistent and reliable basis for allocating the obligations, plan assets and costs 
to individual entities participating in these schemes. In accordance with IAS 19, such schemes are accounted for as defined contribution schemes and 
contributions are charged to the income statement as incurred.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual 
or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as 
employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the 
future payments is available. 
(b) Share-based compensation
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for  
the grant of an equity-settled transaction, for example options, is recognised as an expense over the periods in which the performance conditions are 
fulfilled, ending on the vesting date of the award. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value 
of the equity instruments granted. Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to  
vest. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the 
revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. Awards, where vesting is conditional  
upon a market condition, are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance 
conditions are satisfied.
When the options are exercised, the Company issues new shares, except for the deferred bonus share plan, where shares are purchased on the open 
market to satisfy options exercised. The proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital (nominal 
value) and share premium when the options are exercised.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital 
contribution. The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised in the Company accounts 
over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity.
(xxvi) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when a present legal or constructive obligation exists as the result of a past event, it is probable that this will result in an 
outflow of resources and the amount of which can be reliably estimated. 
Restructuring provisions are only recognised if an obligation exists at the balance sheet date, i.e. a formal plan exists and those affected by that plan 
have a valid expectation that the restructuring will be carried out. Employee termination payments are included within restructuring provisions. 
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is 
recognised as a finance cost.
(xxvii) Share capital
Share capital comprises the nominal value of all issued shares. On subscribing for shares, any excess consideration over the nominal value of the shares 
issued less any issue costs is credited to the share premium account.
(xxviii) Fair value estimation
The fair values of short-term loans and overdrafts with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their book values. For loans 
due in more than one year the fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows  
at the market interest rate available to the Group for similar financial instruments. The fair value for quoted available-for-sale financial assets and 
held-for-trading equity securities is based on their quoted market price. The fair value of unquoted available-for-sale financial assets and held-for-
trading equity securities is estimated by reference to a discounted cash flow calculation.
(xxix) Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those items that in the Directors’ view are required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence, have been 
separately disclosed in order to improve a reader’s understanding of the financial statements. These include items relating to the restructuring of  
a significant part of the Group, impairment losses, expenditure relating to the integration and implementation of significant acquisitions and other 
one-off events or transactions.
(xxx) Segmental reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief 
operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified  
as the Executive Board. 88
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 89 88
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 89
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The Group’s principal accounting policies are set out in note 2 of these financial statements. Management is required to exercise significant 
judgement and make use of estimates and assumptions in the application of these policies.
Areas which management believes require the most critical accounting judgements are:
(i) Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates a number of defined benefit plans. The retirement benefit obligations recorded are based on actuarial assumptions, including 
discount rates, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, inflation and mortality rates. These assumptions are based on current market 
conditions, historical information and consultation with, and input from, actuaries. Management reviews these assumptions annually. If they change, 
or if actual experience is different from the assumptions, the funding status of the plan will change and the retirement benefit obligation will be 
adjusted accordingly. The assumptions used are detailed in note 35.
The assumed discount rate and life expectancy have a significant effect on the measurement of pension liabilities. The following tables show the 
sensitivity of the valuation of the pension obligations, and of the 2012 income statement charge, to changes in these assumptions for the material UK 
and German schemes at the end of the year:
UK 
Decrease/(increase) 
in liability
£m
At 31 December 2012
0.25% increase to discount rate 5.5
One year increase to life expectancy (3.0)
Germany
Decrease/(increase) 
in liability 
£m
At 31 December 2012
0.25% increase to discount rate 2.2
One year increase to life expectancy (1.7)
The impact of the 0.25% increase in the discount rate and one year increase in life expectancy on the service costs of both the UK and German 
pension schemes was assessed as insignificant.
The Group participates in various BAE Systems pension schemes. The terms on which the Group participates in these schemes give the Group 
protection against any requirement to fund future deficits that arise in the schemes, and against future exit debts that may arise on withdrawal from 
these schemes. However, in the event of BAE Systems becoming insolvent, there is a risk that the Group could become liable to fund the wider 
pension schemes of these companies, which would result in a significant exposure should these events occur. The Directors consider the risk of this 
event to be extremely remote and consequently the schemes are accounted for as defined contribution schemes as per note 35. 
(ii) Estimated impairment of goodwill
The Group tests at least annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 2(xv).  
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value in use or fair value less costs to sell calculations. These 
calculations require the use of estimates (see note 14) and judgements, including in respect of the likelihood of future renewal of key contracts.
(iii) Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those items that in the Directors’ view are required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence, have been 
separately disclosed in order to improve a reader’s understanding of the financial statements (see note 6). Consideration of what should be labelled  
as ‘exceptional’ requires management judgement to be applied.
(iv) Calculation of pre-contract costs and appropriate amortisation period
Pre-contract costs comprise legal and other professional expenses and other directly attributable staff costs incurred in order to obtain specific 
customer contracts. Costs that are directly attributable to a contract are deferred when they are separately identifiable, can be reliably measured and 
it is probable that the contract will be awarded and the contract will result in future net cash inflows with a present value at least equal to all amounts 
recognised as an asset. 
The Directors consider that this point of virtual certainty is normally reached when the memorandum of understanding related to the contract is 
signed by all parties involved (see note 19).         
Pre-contract costs are included within trade and other receivables and are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, starting from 
the date when the contract commences. Company overview XX-XX
89
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
89
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
(v) Assumptions on put options
Three put options are accounted for as financial liabilities in accordance with paragraph 23 of IAS 32. These liabilities are carried at fair value through 
profit and loss, and measured at the present value of the future cash flows associated with them. The levels of these cash flows and the relevant 
discount rates used in the fair value calculations are based on future projections, and incorporate a certain element of management judgement  
(see note 23).
(vi)  Income taxes
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Judgement is required in determining the Group-wide provision for income taxes. 
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax 
audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. When the final tax outcome of these matters results in a difference to the 
amounts that were initially recognised, such differences will impact the current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities in the period in which 
such determination is made.
The Group is required to estimate the corporate tax in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. This requires an estimation of the current tax 
liability together with an assessment of the temporary differences, which arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments. These 
temporary differences result in deferred tax assets or liabilities, which are included within the balance sheet. Deferred tax assets are not recognised 
when it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realised in the future. This evaluation requires judgements to be made, including the forecast 
of future taxable income.
(vii) Acquisitions
When acquiring a business, the Group has to make judgements and best estimates about the fair value allocation of the purchase price. Judgement is 
applied in determining what part of a business transaction relates to the acquisition of that business. Parts of a business transaction that do not relate 
to the acquisition (for example, employee costs) are accounted for in accordance with the relevant accounting standard. The Group tests the valuation 
of goodwill on an annual basis and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. These tests require 
the use of estimates (see note 3 (ii)). 
(viii) Recognition including deferred and accrued income
The Group applies judgement in determining the most appropriate method to use in estimating the amount of revenue to be recognised in a financial 
period. Where applicable, service revenue is calculated using a percentage of completion basis. This method involves estimating future costs, margins and 
the deliverability of the project. For other contracts, judgement is applied to determine whether revenue should be recognised on a gross or net basis, 
based on whether the Group is acting as principal in the contract or as an agent. Judgement is also applied to determine the amount of revenue due under 
profit-sharing arrangements, and the amount of up-front fees that can be recognised as revenue, based on whether the up-front fee has been earned. 
(ix) Valuation of provisions
Due to the nature of provisions, an element of their determination is based on estimates and judgements, including assumptions regarding the future 
anticipated cash outflows required to settle obligations, and the period over which these outflows will arise. The actual outcome of these uncertain 
factors may differ from these estimations, giving rise to differences with the estimated provisions. Any such differences between actual outcomes and 
the provisions recorded may impact the Group’s results over the periods involved. The timing of the outflow of resources required to settle these 
obligations is subject to similar uncertain factors. See note 24 for a discussion of critical estimates and judgements on specific provisions. 
4 Segmental reporting
Management has determined the operating segments based on the information presented to and reviewed by the Executive Board, the chief 
operating decision-maker for the year, on which strategic decisions are based, resources are allocated and performance is assessed. 
A brief description of each reportable segment is as follows:
   Insurance Services provides technology infrastructure and managed services for processing policies and premiums as well as handling claims, to the 
insurance market. It includes the workers’ compensation claims processing services business in Australia.
   Financial Services provides securities processing, investment account administration and fund administration in Germany and Italy.
  Technology provides technology infrastructure management services, insurance software (Xuber) and application management services to a range 
of customers. 
   Procurement and Other BPO provides procurement, HR, finance and accounting and other business processing services to a range of customers.
  Corporate provides the infrastructure, resources and investment to sustain and grow the Group, including performance management, and business 
management functions.
Insurance Services and Financial Services form a significant part of our Business Processing Services offering.
Management uses external adjusted revenue and adjusted operating profit as measures of segment performance. Adjusted revenue excludes 
exceptional revenue items. Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised by an 
acquired entity and acquisition-related expenses. Interest income and expenditure are not allocated to sectors, as this type of activity is driven by the 
Group treasury function, which manages the cash position of the whole Group. 
Management makes regular use of these measures to evaluate performance in the operating segments, both in absolute terms and comparatively 
from period to period, and to allocate resources among its operating segments. Management believes that these measures provide a better 
understanding, for both management and investors, of the operating results of its business segments for the year under review. 90
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 91 90
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 91
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
4 Segmental reporting continued
The Group’s reportable segments account for inter-segment sales, and transfers, as if the sales or transfers were to third parties, i.e. at current 
market prices. 
Corporate costs reallocated to operating segments includes investments in Enterprise Partnerships, depreciation and amortisation of centrally 
recognised other intangible assets, lease payments and other costs incurred centrally on behalf of other operating segments.
The segment information for continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2012 is as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2012
 Insurance 
Services 
£m 
 Financial 
Services 
£m 
Technology
£m 
Procurement 
and 
Other BPO 
£m 
Corporate
£m 
Total 
£m 
Revenue 198.4 163.0 129.9 213.1 – 704.4
– From external customers 197.5 163.0 98.8 209.0 – 668.3
– Inter-segment 0.9 – 31.1 4.1 – 36.1
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 37.5 10.6 9.6 8.0 (15.3) 50.4
Adjusted operating profit margin 19.0% 6.5% 9.7% 3.8% – 7.5%
Segment assets 134.3 184.8 138.0 134.9 67.1 659.1
– Inter-segment assets (7.0) (4.6) (26.9) (21.4) (81.0) (140.9)
– Unallocated assets – deferred and corporate tax assets 33.8
Total assets 127.3 180.2 111.1 113.5 (13.9) 552.0
Segment liabilities (86.8) (105.9) (90.3) (63.1) (58.6) (404.7)
– Inter-segment liabilities 46.0 19.5 16.9 22.4 36.1 140.9
– Unallocated liabilities – borrowings and other financial liabilities (64.6)
– Unallocated liabilities – deferred and corporate tax liabilities (23.6)
Total liabilities (40.8) (86.4) (73.4) (40.7) (22.5) (352.0)
Reconciliation of non-GAAP adjusted operating profit from continuing operations measures to IFRS statutory operating profit from  
continuing operations:
Year ended 31 December 2012
 Insurance 
Services 
£m 
 Financial 
Services 
£m 
Technology
£m 
Procurement 
and 
Other BPO 
£m 
Corporate
£m 
Total 
£m 
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 37.5 10.6 9.6 8.0 (15.3) 50.4
Adjusting items:
 –  Amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised 
by an acquired entity (1.4) (2.1) (0.4) (0.1) – (4.0)
– Acquisition-related expenses (note 7) – (0.4) – – – (0.4)
Operating profit/(loss) before allocation of corporate costs 36.1 8.1 9.2 7.9 (15.3) 46.0
Allocation of corporate costs (0.8) (0.5) 0.1 – 1.2 –
Operating profit/(loss) 35.3 7.6 9.3 7.9 (14.1) 46.0
Share of profit from joint venture 0.1
Net finance costs (4.6)
Taxation (13.1)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 28.4
Other segment information for continuing operations by segment was as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2012
 Insurance 
Services 
£m 
 Financial 
Services 
£m 
Technology
£m 
Procurement 
and 
Other BPO 
£m 
Corporate
£m 
Total 
£m 
Depreciation and amortisation 7.4 9.4 8.5 4.1 1.1 30.5
Capital expenditure
– Related to business combinations, including goodwill – 22.3 – – – 22.3
– Normal business activities 5.0 2.5 5.9 2.9 0.1 16.4 Company overview XX-XX
91
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
91
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
The segment information for continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2011 is as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2011
 Insurance 
Services 
£m 
 Financial 
Services 
£m 
Technology
£m 
Procurement 
and 
Other BPO 
£m 
Corporate
£m 
Total 
£m 
Revenue 193.6 187.7 132.5 200.6 – 714.4
 – From external customers 189.0 179.8 97.9 183.3 – 650.0
 – Inter-segment 4.6 7.9 34.6 17.3 – 64.4
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 36.6 12.3 7.0 7.2 (19.9) 43.2
Adjusted operating profit margin 19.3% 6.8% 7.2% 3.9% – 6.6%
Segment assets 98.5 173.2 135.6 143.2 59.1 609.6
– Inter-segment assets (7.6) (1.7) (26.1) (10.1) (66.8) (112.3)
– Unallocated assets – deferred and corporate tax assets 25.8
Total assets 90.9 171.5 109.5 133.1 (7.7) 523.1
Segment liabilities (78.4) (77.0) (85.4) (61.6) (46.6) (349.0)
– Inter-segment liabilities 44.7 10.9 21.0 14.1 21.6 112.3
– Unallocated liabilities – borrowings and other financial liabilities (76.5)
– Unallocated liabilities – deferred and corporate tax liabilities (14.3)
Total liabilities (33.7) (66.1) (64.4) (47.5) (25.0) (327.5)
Reconciliation of non-GAAP operating profit from continuing operations measures to IFRS statutory operating profit from continuing operations:
Year ended 31 December 2011
 Insurance 
Services 
£m 
 Financial 
Services 
£m 
Technology
£m 
Procurement 
and 
Other BPO 
£m 
Corporate
£m 
Total 
£m 
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 36.6 12.3 7.0 7.2 (19.9) 43.2
Adjusting items:
–  Amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised 
by an acquired entity (1.0) (2.1) (1.4) (0.3) – (4.8)
– Exceptional revenue (note 6) – 1.2 – – – 1.2
– Exceptional cost of sales (note 6) (0.9) (7.8) (3.5) (2.9) – (15.1)
– Exceptional administrative expenses (note 6) – – – (10.4) (7.5) (17.9)
Operating profit/(loss) before allocation of corporate costs 34.7 3.6 2.1 (6.4) (27.4) 6.6
Allocation of corporate costs (0.4) (0.5) – (0.4) 1.3 –
Operating profit/(loss) 34.3 3.1 2.1 (6.8) (26.1) 6.6
Net finance costs (9.1)
Taxation (5.9)
Loss for the year from continuing operations (8.4)
Other segment information for continuing operations by segment was as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2011
 Insurance 
Services 
£m 
 Financial 
Services 
£m 
Technology
£m 
Procurement 
and 
Other BPO 
£m 
Corporate
£m 
Total 
£m 
Depreciation and amortisation 7.3 10.4 9.5 2.5 1.9 31.6
Capital expenditure
– Related to business combinations, including goodwill 0.5 – – – – 0.5
– Normal business activities 1.6 4.0 8.3 2.2 0.2 16.3 92
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 93 92
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 93
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
4 Segmental reporting continued
The tables below present revenue from continuing operations by the geographical location of customers and by category:
Revenue from continuing operations by geographical destination
2012 
£m
2011
£m
United Kingdom 408.0 385.8
Germany 141.1 163.0
Italy 13.2 10.9
Other Continental Europe 20.5 14.7
United States of America 27.8 20.7
Australia 39.0 37.2
South East Asia 10.8 12.2
Rest of World 6.2 5.4
India 1.7 1.3
Revenue from continuing operations 668.3 651.2
Analysis of revenue from continuing operations by category
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Revenue from services 644.0 607.9
Sale of goods 24.3 43.3
Revenue from continuing operations 668.3 651.2
The table below presents total assets other than financial instruments, income and deferred tax assets, and retirement benefit assets by the 
geographical location:
Total assets by geographical destination
2012 
£m
2011
£m
United Kingdom 201.8 212.7
Germany 114.3 117.6
Italy 32.7 5.3
Other Continental Europe 10.4 7.0
United States of America 44.3 43.9
Australia 25.7 24.2
South East Asia 5.0 6.1
India 60.2 57.0
Total assets by geographical destination 494.4 473.8
Total assets by geographical destination reconciled to total assets presented in the Consolidated balance sheet as follows:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Total assets by geographical destination 494.4 473.8
Available-for-sale financial assets 23.4 23.2
Retirement benefit assets 0.3 0.3
Deferred income tax assets 32.4 24.9
Current income tax receivable 1.4 0.9
Total assets 552.0 523.1
Material customers
Revenues from two external customers each account for greater than 10% of the Group’s external revenues. Revenues of £162.5 million, attributable 
to the Procurement and Other BPO segment, and £82.6 million, attributable to the Financial Services segment, have been derived from these two 
customers for the year ended 31 December 2012 (2011: £144.4 million and £83.9 million respectively).  Company overview XX-XX
93
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
93
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
5 Expenses by nature from continuing operations
Note
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Cost of goods and services directly related to sales 185.6 177.2 
Direct staff costs 8 245.1 249.2 
Other staff-related costs 40.9 31.1 
Technology and communications 65.3 64.4 
Property costs 29.0 29.2 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 9.6 11.0 
Net amortisation of intangible assets
– Amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised by an acquired entity 15 4.0 4.8
– Amortisation of other intangible assets 15 14.6 15.8
Amortisation of pre-contract costs 19 2.3 1.8 
Other costs 25.5 27.1
Exceptional items 6 – 33.0 
Acquisition-related expenses 7 0.4 – 
Total cost of sales and administrative expenses from continuing operations 622.3 644.6
  
Included within:  
– Cost of sales 605.1 604.6 
– Administrative expenses 17.2 40.0 
  622.3 644.6 
Other items charged to operating profit from continuing operations are:   
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Research and development 3.8 2.4
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets – 0.8
Loss on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets – 0.1
Impairment of trade receivables 0.6 0.3
Operating leases 14.3 12.1
Foreign exchange gain (0.6) (1.3)
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors in the year were as follows:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Audit services
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the annual audit of the Company and  
Consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.1
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for other services
Audit of Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.8 0.9
Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1
Tax advisory services 0.3 0.4
All other services – 0.1
Total fees payable to the Company’s auditors 1.4 1.6 94
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 95 94
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 95
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
6 Exceptional items from continuing operations
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Exceptional items from continuing operations comprise the following:
Impairment of goodwill – (9.8)
Impairment of other intangible assets – (0.6)
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets – (4.2)
Total impairment losses – (14.6)
Contract settlements – 1.2
Restructuring costs – (18.4)
Debt refinancing costs – (4.3)
Total exceptional items from continuing operations – (36.1)
Included within:
– Revenue – 1.2
– Cost of sales – (15.1)
– Administrative expenses – (17.9)
– Finance costs – (4.3)
 – (36.1)
In 2011, statutory operating profit also included net exceptional costs of £31.8 million related to restructuring costs of £18.4 million incurred in respect 
of the Four-Part Action Plan, impairment of goodwill, intangibles and other assets of £14.6 million and contract settlement income of £1.2 million.
7 Acquisition-related expenses from continuing operations
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Acquisition-related expenses from continuing operations incurred in respect of the following
Legal fees 0.1 –
Bank fees 0.3 –
Other professional and advisers’ fees 0.3 –
Total acquisition-related expenses from continuing operations 0.7 –
Included within:
– Administrative expenses 0.4 –
– Finance costs 0.3 –
 0.7 –
The £0.7 million of acquisition-related expenses incurred in the financial year ended 31 December 2012 relate to the acquisition of AR Enterprise S.r.L. 
(AR). Refer to note 34 for more information on this business combination.  Company overview XX-XX
95
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
95
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
8 Employees and Directors
Note
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Staff costs for the Group during the year
Wages and salaries (including Directors) 210.9 228.3
Social security costs 22.2 22.9
Share-based payments 1.9 3.3
Pension costs – defined contribution schemes 35 7.5 7.5
Pension costs – defined benefit schemes 35 4.1 4.5
  246.6 266.5
Included within:
– Cost of sales from continuing operations 237.1 239.2
– Administrative expenses 8.0 10.0
5 245.1 249.2
– Net finance costs from continuing operations 9 1.5 1.4
– Discontinued operation 13 – 15.9
  246.6 266.5
During 2012, £4.7 million of staff costs were capitalised (2011: £7.4 million). 
2012 
Number
2011
Number
Average monthly number of persons (including Executive Directors) employed by segment
Insurance Services 2,724 2,669
Financial Services 1,760 1,667
Technology 1,673 1,800
Procurement and Other BPO 1,903 1,688
Corporate 62 106
 8,122 7,930
Disclosures in relation to Director and key management compensation are included within the related party disclosures in note 38.  
Further information is provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 69 of this Annual Report.
In 2012 the average number of offshore employees has been allocated between sectors based on the external customer revenue of that sector.  
Comparatives have been reallocated on the same basis.
9 Finance costs and income from continuing operations
Note
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Finance costs from continuing operations
Bank and other interest (4.4) (4.1)
Debt refinancing costs 6 – (4.3)
Acquisition-related expenses 7 (0.3) –
Interest cost on defined benefit pension schemes 35 (9.7) (9.7)
Imputed interest on put option to acquire non-controlling interest (0.1) (0.7)
Amortisation of loan arrangement fees – (0.3)
Total finance costs from continuing operations (14.5) (19.1)
Finance income from continuing operations
Bank interest 1.4 1.5
Expected return on plan assets – defined benefit pension schemes 35 8.2 8.3
Dividends received on available-for-sale financial assets 0.2 –
Other interest 0.1 0.2
Total finance income from continuing operations 9.9 10.0
Net finance costs from continuing operations (4.6) (9.1) 96
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 97 96
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 97
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
10 Taxation from continuing operations
The analysis of the tax charge from continuing operations is presented below.
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Current tax:
– Current tax on profits for the year 15.4 10.8
– Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.4) (1.6)
Total current tax 15.0 9.2
Deferred tax:
– Origination and reversal of temporary differences for the year (2.7) (3.8)
– Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.6) (0.3)
– Impact of the change in the UK tax rate 1.4 0.8
Total deferred tax (1.9) (3.3)
Tax charge for the year from continuing operations 13.1 5.9
In addition to the above amounts charged to the income statement, a current income tax credit of £0.5 million (2011: £0.3 million credit) has been 
recognised in equity, of which £0.5 million (2011: £0.2 million) has been credited in other comprehensive income and £nil (2011: £0.1 million) has been 
credited directly to equity. A deferred tax credit of £4.9 million (2011: £1.5 million credit) has been credited in other comprehensive income.
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
The tax charge for the year is higher (2011: higher) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 
changed from 26% to 24% with effect from 1 April 2012. Accordingly, the Group’s profits for this accounting period are taxed at a blended rate of 
24.5% (2011: 26.5%). The differences are explained below: 
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Profit/(loss) before taxation from continuing operations 41.5 (2.5)
Profit/(loss) before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 24.5% (2011: 26.5%) 10.2 (0.7)
Changes in tax rates 1.4 0.8
Goodwill impairment – 2.6
Investment impairment – 1.1
Refinancing costs – 1.7
Unutilised tax losses 1.0 0.9
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.3 0.8
Research and development credits – (0.2)
Adjustments for tax in respect of prior years (1.0) (1.9)
Difference on foreign tax rates 1.2 0.8
Tax charge for the year from continuing operations 13.1 5.9 Company overview XX-XX
97
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
97
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
The tax credit/(charge) relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows:
2012 2011
Before tax 
£m
Tax  
credit
Net  
of tax
Before  
tax
Tax  
credit
Net of tax 
£m
Actuarial loss arising from retirement benefit obligations (18.9) 5.4 (13.5) (8.0) 1.7 (6.3)
Revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets 0.8 – 0.8 (0.4) – (0.4)
Revaluation losses recycled to the income statement on disposal of 
available-for-sale financial assets – – – 0.1 – 0.1
Revaluation losses recycled to the income statement on impairment of 
available-for-sale financial assets – – – 4.2 – 4.2
Fair value movements on hedging instrument qualifying for hedge 
accounting (0.9) – (0.9) (0.6) – (0.6)
Fair value movements on hedging instrument recycled to the income 
statement upon de-designation 0.9 – 0.9 0.1 – 0.1
Cumulative translation differences recycled to the income statement in 
respect of the discontinued operation – – – 3.3 – 3.3
Currency translation differences (5.5) – (5.5) (8.8) – (8.8)
Other comprehensive loss (23.6) 5.4 (18.2) (10.1) 1.7 (8.4)
Current tax 0.5 0.2
Deferred tax 4.9 1.5
Total tax 5.4 1.7
11 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares of the Company.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in existence is adjusted to include all potential dilutive ordinary shares. 
The Group has three types of potential dilutive ordinary shares: share options, share awards under the Performance Share Plan and other share awards 
to the extent that the performance criteria as at balance sheet date for vesting of the awards are expected to be met. 
Continuing operations 
Earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
number of 
shares
thousands
Earnings per 
share
pence
Basic earnings per share:
– 31 December 2012 21.7 239,695 9.05
– 31 December 2011 (13.9) 239,510 (5.79)
Diluted earnings per share:
– 31 December 2012 21.7 244,277 8.88
– 31 December 2011 (13.9) 239,510 (5.79)
The incremental shares from assumed conversions are not included in calculating the diluted earnings per share in 2011 for continuing operations as 
the numerator is negative (i.e. loss from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company).
Discontinued operation 
Earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
number of 
shares
thousands
Earnings per 
share
pence
Basic earnings per share:
– 31 December 2012 – 239,695 –
– 31 December 2011 1.7 239,510 0.72
Diluted earnings per share:
– 31 December 2012 – 244,277 –
– 31 December 2011 1.7 240,207 0.71 98
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 99 98
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 99
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
11 Earnings per share continued
The following reflects the share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations:
 
2012
thousands
2011
thousands
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 239,695 239,510
Dilutive potential ordinary shares:
– Employee share options 320 52
– Awards under the Performance Share Plan 4,262 645
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 244,277 240,207
Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share
In addition to the above, adjusted earnings per share values are disclosed to provide a better understanding of the underlying trading performance of 
the Group. The adjusted value is in line with the KPIs as used to measure the Group’s performance in 2012. 
Continuing operations 
Earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
number of 
shares
thousands
Earnings 
per share
pence
Adjusted basic earnings per share:
– 31 December 2012 25.4 239,695 10.58
– 31 December 2011 19.2 239,510 8.01
Adjusted diluted earnings per share:
– 31 December 2012 25.4 244,277 10.38
– 31 December 2011 19.2 240,207 7.99
Discontinued operation 
Earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
number of 
shares
thousands
Earnings 
per share
pence
Adjusted basic earnings per share:
– 31 December 2012 – 239,695 –
– 31 December 2011 (3.2) 239,510 (1.32)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share:
– 31 December 2012 – 244,277 –
– 31 December 2011 (3.2) 239,510 (1.32)
The incremental shares from assumed conversions are not included in calculating the adjusted diluted earnings per share in 2011 for discontinued 
operations as the numerator is negative (i.e. adjusted loss from discontinued operations attributable to equity holders of the Company).
The adjusted earnings per share figures are calculated based on the Company’s share of adjusted net profit for the year, divided by the basic and 
diluted weighted average number of shares as stated above.
The owners of the parent’s share of adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations is calculated as follows:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent 21.7 (13.9)
Exceptional items (net of tax) – 27.4
Acquisition-related expenses (net of tax) 0.7 –
Amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised by an acquired entity (net of tax) 2.5 0.9
Imputed interest and fair value adjustments on put options (net of tax) 0.1 0.7
Debt refinancing costs (net of tax) – 4.3
Non-controlling interests’ share of adjustments (net of tax) 0.4 (0.2)
Adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent 25.4 19.2 Company overview XX-XX
99
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
99
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
The owners of the parent’s share of adjusted profit for the year from the discontinued operation is calculated as follows:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Profit for the year from the discontinued operation attributable to owners of the parent – 1.7
Exceptional items (net of tax) – (9.2)
Amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised by an acquired entity (net of tax) – 0.7
Non-controlling interests’ share of adjustments (net of tax) – 3.6
Adjusted loss for the year from the discontinued operation attributable to owners of the parent – (3.2)
12 Dividends payable
No dividends were declared or paid in 2012 and 2011. A dividend of 1 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012, amounting to 
a total dividend of £2,403,109, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2013. If approved, this dividend will be paid on 22 May 
2013 to shareholders on the register as at the close of business on 26 April 2013. These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
13 Discontinued operation
The discontinued operation in the year ended 31 December 2011 represented the assets and liabilities associated with the workers’ compensation and 
third-party administration operations of Cambridge Integrated Services Group Inc. (CISGI), which constituted the Group’s US BPO cash-generating 
unit within the Insurance Services business sector. 
The business was sold on 31 May 2011, for a cash consideration of USD22.4 million (£13.6 million). Subsequent to the business sale, the CISGI legal 
company was put into an Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors, effective on 26 September 2011. All residual assets and liabilities of CISGI were 
assigned to Lawrence M. Adelman, as the CISGI insolvency trustee. Cash of USD10.6 million (£6.8 million) was disposed of, and directly attributable 
costs of £1.6 million were incurred.
Financial information relating to the discontinued operation for the period to 26 September 2011 is set out below. There have been no transactions 
relating to the discontinued operation in the year ended 31 December 2012.
2011
Adjusted
£m
Adjustments 
to adjusted
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 24.0 11.5 35.5
Cost of sales (27.9) (7.5) (35.4)
Gross (loss)/profit (3.9) 4.0 0.1
Administrative expenses – – –
Operating (loss)/profit (3.9) 4.0 0.1
Finance costs (0.1) – (0.1)
Loss before tax from discontinued operation (4.0) 4.0 –
Taxation – – –
Loss after tax from discontinued operation (4.0) 4.0 –
Profit before tax on disposal of discontinued operation – 4.8 4.8
Taxation – (0.3) (0.3)
Profit after tax on disposal of discontinued operation – 4.5 4.5
(Loss)/profit for the period from discontinued operation (4.0) 8.5 4.5
Revenue from the discontinued operation of £35.5 million for the year ended 31 December 2011 included a £11.5 million exceptional release of 
deferred income on a significant contract termination. 
Cost of sales of the discontinued operation of £35.4 million for the year ended 31 December 2011 included provisions for potential liabilities and 
additional exposures totalling £6.8 million (£3.3 million is within the litigation provision, £2.5 million is within employee-related provisions and 
£1.0 million is within other provisions in note 24) and amortisation on intangible assets previously unrecognised by an acquired entity of £0.7 million. 100
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 101 100
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 101
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
14 Goodwill
Note £m
Cost
At 1 January 2011 289.7 
Disposal – discontinued operation 13 (3.3)
Exchange adjustments (10.0)
At 31 December 2011 276.4
Business combination 34 11.7
Exchange adjustments (6.9)
At 31 December 2012 281.2
 
Aggregate impairment
At 1 January 2011 (99.4) 
Impairment charge 6 (9.8) 
At 31 December 2011 (109.2)
Exchange adjustments 3.3
At 31 December 2012 (105.9)
Net book amount
At 1 January 2011 190.3
At 31 December 2011 167.2
At 31 December 2012 175.3
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs) identified according to operating business for internal management purposes, this 
being the lowest level at which assets generate separately identifiable cash inflows independent of the cash inflows of other assets or groups of assets.
An analysis of goodwill and adjusted operating profit by operating segment is as follows:
2011 
£m
Business 
combination 
£m
Foreign 
currency 
movements 
£m
2012 
£m
Adjusted  
operating profit
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Insurance Services 42.0 – (1.3) 40.7 37.5 36.6
Financial Services 32.6 11.7 (1.2) 43.1 10.6 12.3
Technology 40.7 – (1.1) 39.6 9.6 7.0
Procurement and Other BPO 51.9 – – 51.9 8.0 7.2
167.2 11.7 (3.6) 175.3
Impairment testing of goodwill
The key assumptions applied in the impairment testing of goodwill as at 31 December 2012 are set out in the table below.
Basis of  
cash flows
Operating 
margin range
Weighted 
average  
margin
Operating  
margin  
growth rate¹
 Weighted 
average  
growth rate
Terminal  
growth rate
Pre-tax  
discount rate
Insurance Services Value-in-use 5.0% – 19.0% 18.0% 0% – 5.0% 4.0% 0% 11.0% 
Financial Services Value-in-use 8.0% – 18.0% 13.0% 12.0% 12.0% 0% 12.0%
Technology Value-in-use 6.0% – 19.0% 15.0% 2.0% – 23.0% 20.0% 0% 12.0%
Procurement and Other BPO Value-in-use 4.0% – 14.0% 7.0% 12.0% – 26.0% 24.0% 0% 12.0%
1
 Based on compound growth rate over five years, as detailed in management budgets and forecasts. 
Where the recoverable amount of a CGU has been determined based on value-in-use, the value-in-use calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections 
based on budgets approved by the management of the CGU and the Board (which cover a one-year period), as well as cash flows for years two to five 
using management’s expectations of sales growth, operating costs and margin based on past experience, and expectations regarding future 
performance and profitability for each individual CGU. 
A terminal value has been calculated using a nil growth rate assumption. Company overview XX-XX
101
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
101
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
A post-tax discount rate ranging between 10.0% – 11.0% (2011: 10.0% – 11.0%) is applied to cash flow projections. The discount rate is based on 
management’s estimate of the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, with an appropriate risk adjustment depending on the CGU. Management 
believes it is appropriate to use rates within this range on the basis that cash flows are adjusted as considered appropriate to reflect any risks associated 
with operating within specific geographic or operational segments. The increase in discount rate applied to certain CGUs reflects the increased risk 
profile within the respective markets.
Sensitivity analysis
The carrying value of goodwill is most sensitive to changes in material customer contracts as described below.
Insurance Services
This sector is consistently profitable and cash generative. It is considered unlikely that there could be changes to key assumptions sufficient to give rise 
to an impairment at an individual CGU level. 
Financial Services
Two large customers dominate the overall activity in the Financial Services sector. In respect of the investment accounts administration business  
with an existing goodwill balance of £18.0 million, failure to renew our major contract at an acceptable margin in 2016, (which is likely to require  
a reassessment of the costs of that business at the same time), would cause a material impairment.
During 2012, we acquired AR and recognised goodwill of £11.7 million. We have merged AR with our loss making Kedrios business. Our plans assume 
successful integration and synergies leading to a combined business generating sustainable profits. Failure to deliver successful integration could give 
rise to an impairment in goodwill.
Technology
This sector has two material, profitable and cash generative contracts, combined with an important short order book business, supporting goodwill 
of £23.8 million. Loss of either one of these contracts, or growth of less than 7% in the short order book business could give rise to an impairment  
in goodwill.
Procurement and Other BPO
One large customer’s contract underpins the results and future cash flow projections of our Procurement businesses. The value-in-use calculation, 
supporting goodwill of £44.3 million, requires a growth in contract profitability in this relationship and the securing of additional business to the 
platform.  Failure to deliver this additional business or a failure to achieve savings projections could result in an impairment of the goodwill.
Our BPO business in India (goodwill of £47.0 million allocated amongst the revenue generating Sectors) is core to our delivery processing skills and is 
supported by the significant cash flows generated from our worldwide customer base. It is considered unlikely that there could be changes to key 
assumptions sufficient to give rise to an impairment charge.  102
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 103 102
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 103
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
15 Other intangible assets
Development 
costs
£m
Software
£m
Customer 
contractual 
relationships
£m
Assets in
the course of 
development
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2011 18.3 102.6 44.4 1.2 166.5
Business combinations – – 0.5 – 0.5
Additions – internal – 4.7 – 0.4 5.1
Additions – external – 3.9 – 1.0 4.9 
Transfers (to)/from property, plant and equipment (0.4) 4.8 – – 4.4 
Transfer from assets in the course of development 0.8 0.7 – (1.5) –
Disposal – discontinued operations (note 13) – (35.5) (14.6) – (50.1)
Disposals/write-offs – (2.3) (1.0) – (3.3)
Exchange adjustments – (4.1) (1.5) (0.1) (5.7)
At 31 December 2011 18.7 74.8 27.8 1.0 122.3
Business combination (note 34) – 3.6 6.7 – 10.3 
Additions – internal 0.4 3.3 – 2.2 5.9 
Additions – external – 2.8 – 0.4 3.2 
Transfer from assets in the course of development – 1.0 – (1.0) –
Disposals/write-offs (1.3) (4.1) – (0.2) (5.6)
Exchange adjustments – (1.7) (0.6) – (2.3)
At 31 December 2012 17.8 79.7 33.9 2.4 133.8 
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2011 13.2 62.1 23.6 – 98.9 
Charge for the year 1.9 14.1 5.5 – 21.5 
Impairment losses – 0.6 – – 0.6 
Transfers from property, plant and equipment – 2.9 – – 2.9 
Disposal – discontinued operation (note 13) – (34.1) (12.9) – (47.0)
Disposals/write-offs – (2.1) (1.0) – (3.1)
Exchange adjustments – (3.7) (1.0) – (4.7)
At 31 December 2011 15.1 39.8 14.2 – 69.1
Charge for the year 3.0 11.6 4.0 – 18.6 
Disposals/write-offs (1.3) (4.1) – – (5.4)
Exchange adjustments (0.1) (1.4) (0.4) – (1.9)
At 31 December 2012 16.7 45.9 17.8 – 80.4 
Net book amount
At 1 January 2011 5.1 40.5 20.8 1.2 67.6 
At 31 December 2011 3.6 35.0 13.6 1.0 53.2 
At 31 December 2012 1.1 33.8 16.1 2.4 53.4 
Amortisation expense for continuing operations of £16.8 million (2011: £19.1 million) has been charged through cost of sales, and £1.8 million (2011: 
£1.5 million) through administrative expenses. Amortisation expense for discontinued operation of £nil (2011: £0.9 million) has been charged through 
cost of sales from the discontinued operation.
Impairment loss for the year of £nil (2011: £0.6 million) has been charged through exceptional administrative expenses from continuing operations in 
the income statement. 
In 2012, all of the customer contractual relationship amortisation charge of £4.0 million (2011: £5.5 million) relates to amortisation previously 
unrecognised by an acquired entity, of which £4.0 million (2011: £4.8 million) is from continuing operations and £nil (2011: £0.7 million) is from the 
discontinued operation.  Company overview XX-XX
103
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
103
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Significant individual assets, which are included in the balances above, are as follows:
Software
  Xuber is the Group’s internally generated, global insurance application platform, and provides support for the full insurance cycle including 
quotation, claim notification as well as payment and settlement. The asset has a carrying amount as at 31 December 2012 of £11.8 million  
(2011: £11.5 million) and is made up of several components being amortised to 2016.
   Abgeltungssteuer is the German withholding tax processing system developed to provide regulatory tax reporting requirements for financial 
services customers based in Germany. The asset has a carrying amount as at 31 December 2012 of £2.0 million (2011: £2.6 million) and the 
remaining amortisation period is two years and nine months.
   A front-end software platform for financial services customers based in Germany. This software ensures the ability to deliver the requested 
transaction services in line with the lifetime of the contract. The asset has a carrying amount as at 31 December 2012 of £2.5 million  
(2011: £3.5 million) and is being amortised to 2015.
   Funds administration processing platforms, including costs of migration of new customers on to the platform. The asset has a carrying amount  
as at 31 December 2012 of £3.9 million (2011: £5.2 million), and is made up of several components being amortised up to 2019.
   IT platform and software acquired with AR during the year relates to a comprehensive information technology (IT) solution for the securities 
brokerage and asset management industry in Italy. The asset has a carrying amount of £3.6 million, and is being amortised to 2017.
Assets in the course of development
   Netsett is the Group’s internally generated, global (re)insurance and accounting net settlement service. It is a netting and settlement solution designed 
to deliver operational efficiency, transparency, and capital efficiency benefits to participants through the implementation of a centralised, multi-lateral, 
multi-currency engine platform for premium and claims flows within and between global cedents, brokers and carriers. The asset has a carrying 
amount as at 31 December 2012 of £2.5 million (2011: £0.2 million). This software development is in pilot phase and will be launched in 2013.
Customer contractual relationships
  Open architecture customer contracts relating to investment fund administration. The asset has a carrying amount as at 31 December 2012  
of £7.0 million (2011: £8.3 million) and the remaining amortisation period is seven years and three months.
  Contractual relationship relating to the Victoria workers’ compensation contract. The asset has a carrying amount as at 31 December 2012  
of £1.2 million (2011: £2.5 million) and the remaining amortisation period is to 2014.
   Brokerage and Asset management customers acquired as part of the acquisition of AR in 2012. These assets have a carrying amount of £6.7 million 
and are being amortised to 2022.
  104
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 105 104
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 105
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
16 Property, plant and equipment
Leasehold 
improvements 
£m
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Computer 
equipment 
£m
Fixtures and 
fittings 
£m
Motor 
vehicles 
£m
Assets in the 
course of 
development 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2011 13.8 – 40.8 13.5 0.2 1.1 69.4
Additions – internal – – 0.2 – – – 0.2
Additions – external 0.9 – 3.2 0.5 0.3 1.2 6.1
Transfers from intangibles – – (4.4) – – – (4.4)
Transfers to/(from) assets in the course of development – 0.2 – – – (0.2) – 
Disposal – discontinued operation (note 13) (1.1) – (2.3) (5.3) – – (8.7)
Other disposals/write-offs (1.2) – (2.8) (1.3) – – (5.3)
Exchange adjustments (0.7) – (1.3) (1.1) (0.1) (0.4) (3.6)
At 31 December 2011 11.7 0.2 33.4 6.3 0.4 1.7 53.7
Business combination (note 34) – – 0.3 – – – 0.3 
Additions – external costs 0.6 – 3.1 0.8 0.3 2.5 7.3 
Transfers to/(from) assets in the course of development – 2.8 0.1 0.4 – (3.3) –
Other disposals/write-offs (0.3) – (8.8) (0.3) (0.2) – (9.6)
Exchange adjustments (0.3) (0.2) (0.5) (0.4) (0.1) (0.1) (1.6)
At 31 December 2012 11.7 2.8 27.6 6.8 0.4 0.8 50.1 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2011 6.2 – 24.5 8.9 0.1 – 39.7
Charge for the year 2.1 – 7.0 2.0 0.1 – 11.2
Transfer from intangibles – – (2.9) – – – (2.9)
Disposal – discontinued operation (note 13) (0.7) – (2.0) (4.7) – – (7.4)
Other disposals/write-offs (0.7) – (2.5) (1.3) – – (4.5)
Exchange adjustments (0.4) – (1.3) (0.8) (0.1) – (2.6)
At 31 December 2011 6.5 – 22.8 4.1 0.1 – 33.5
Charge for the year 1.4 0.1 6.5 1.5 0.1 – 9.6 
Other disposals/write-offs (0.3) – (8.7) (0.3) (0.2) – (9.5)
Exchange adjustments (0.2) – (0.4) (0.4) – – (1.0)
At 31 December 2012 7.4 0.1 20.2 4.9 – – 32.6 
Net book value
At 1 January 2011 7.6 – 16.3 4.4 0.1 1.1 29.7 
At 31 December 2011 5.2 0.2 10.6 2.2 0.3 1.7 20.2 
At 31 December 2012 4.3 2.7 7.4 1.9 0.4 0.8 17.5 
Depreciation expense for continuing operations of £9.1 million (2011: £9.9 million) has been charged through cost of sales, and £0.5 million  
(2011: £1.1 million) through administrative expenses. Depreciation expense for the discontinued operation of £nil (2011: £0.2 million) has been 
charged through cost of sales from the discontinued operation.
Included in property, plant and equipment are computer equipment assets held under finance leases with a net book value of £0.9 million  
(2011: £2.0 million).
17 Investment in joint venture
On 4 April 2012, Xchanging Asia Pacific Sdn. Bhd., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, and YTL Communications Sdn. Bhd. (YTL), in Malaysia, 
entered in to a joint arrangement. As per the terms of the joint arrangement, a new entity called Xchanging Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. (XMSB) was 
incorporated in Malaysia, with ownership shared equally by both the parties to the arrangement. XMSB has been established for the purpose of 
carrying out the business of providing next-generation, mission-critical mobile internet and Cloud-based hosting offerings in the Malaysian market. 
XMSB will leverage the Group’s technology, delivery expertise and global footprint with YTL’s 4G network and local market reach. Company overview XX-XX
105
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
105
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
The classification of a joint arrangement as a joint operation or a joint venture depends upon the rights and obligations of the parties to the 
arrangement. The Group has determined the existence of a joint venture by reference to the joint arrangement agreements, articles of association, 
structure and voting protocol of the boards of directors of the above venture and other facts and circumstances.
2012 
£m
2011
£m
At 1 January – – 
Investment in joint venture 0.1 –
Share of profit 0.1 –
At 31 December 0.2 – 
Summarised financial information relating to the Group’s share of its joint venture (50.0%) is as follows:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Current assets 0.8 –
Non-current assets 0.1 –
Current liabilities 0.7 –
Revenues 0.8 –
Profit after tax 0.1 –
There are no contingent liabilities and commitments relating to the Group’s interest in the joint venture.
18 Available-for-sale financial assets
2012 
£m
2011
£m
At 1 January 23.2 24.6 
Disposals (0.1) (0.6)
Impairment loss – current year diminution in value – (0.8)
Net gains transferred to other comprehensive income 0.8 0.5 
Exchange adjustments (0.5) (0.5)
At 31 December 23.4 23.2 
There was no impairment loss for the year (2011: £0.8 million). The 2011 impairment loss was charged through exceptional items from continuing 
operations in the income statement. This 2011 charge was included in the total impairment loss of available-for-sale financial assets of £4.2 million 
in note 6.
Available-for-sale financial assets include the following:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Listed equity securities – Eurozone 3.0 2.5 
Listed debt security 20.4 20.7 
Total available-for-sale financial assets 23.4 23.2 
The listed equity securities are held at fair value, based on the listed price of the securities at the year end date. The underlying currency of these 
investments is the Euro. 
The listed debt security investments are held within our XTB Enterprise Partnership and are held at fair value, based on the listed price of the securities 
at the year end date. Conversion of the listed debt security investments into cash is restricted under the terms of a trust agreement until 18 March 
2017. The listed debt security may be transferred between specific investment classes under the terms of the trust agreement. The underlying 
currency of these investments is the Euro. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the debt and equity securities classified as available-for-sale. 106
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 107 106
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 107
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
19 Trade and other receivables
Note
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Current trade and other receivables
Trade receivables – non-related parties 48.1 40.5 
Trade receivables – related parties 38 5.0 8.6 
Trade receivables 53.1 49.1 
Less provision for impairment of receivables   (3.9) (3.5)
Net trade receivables 49.2 45.6 
Other receivables – non-related parties 8.1 9.9
Other receivables – related parties 38 6.0 5.2
Loans to related parties 38 – 1.7 
Prepayments – non-related parties 16.0 15.9 
Accrued income – non-related parties 43.8 47.4 
Accrued income – related parties 38 1.1 0.4 
Held-for-trading equity securities  1.0 0.7 
Pre-contract costs         1.6 3.3 
Total current trade and other receivables 126.8 130.1 
Non-current trade and other receivables 
Other receivables 1.1 2.7 
Prepayments 1.9 0.8 
Pre-contract costs  1.8 1.3 
Total non-current trade and other receivables  4.8 4.8 
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Pre-contract costs
Written down value at 1 January 4.6 3.6
Pre-contract costs deferred in the year 1.3 2.8 
Amortisation charge for the year 5 (2.3) (1.8)
Exchange adjustments (0.2) –
Written down value at 31 December 3.4 4.6 
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Held-for-trading equity securities
At 1 January 0.7 1.2 
Additions 0.3 –
Disposal – (0.5)
At 31 December 1.0 0.7 
The carrying values of all financial assets within trade and other receivables are considered to approximate to their fair values. It has been assumed 
that the loans to related parties will be repaid in the short term and no discounting has been applied. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the 
reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does not hold any collateral as security. Company overview XX-XX
107
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
107
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
As at 31 December 2012, trade receivables of £12.1 million (2011: £14.0 million) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of 
independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default. All trade receivables, whether current or past due, are reviewed for impairment 
on a case-by-case basis to identify impairment taking into account the ageing of the debt, the likelihood of recoverability and other external factors. 
The ageing analysis of the trade receivables is as follows:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Neither past due nor impaired 37.1 31.6 
Past due:
1 – 30 days 8.1 8.6 
31 – 60 days 2.5 3.0 
61 – 90 days 1.4 1.5 
Over 90 days 0.1 0.9 
Net trade receivables 49.2 45.6 
Movements on the Group’s provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
At 1 January 3.5 5.5
Business combination 0.1 –
Disposal – discontinued operation – (1.0)
Charged/(credited) to cost of sales in the income statement:
– Provided in the year 0.8 0.8
– Released in the year (0.2) (0.7)
Used in the year (0.2) (0.9)
Exchange adjustments (0.1) (0.2)
At 31 December 3.9 3.5
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Sterling 67.0 82.5 
Euros 39.6 35.1 
US Dollars 8.6 7.4 
Australian Dollars 6.3 3.6 
Indian Rupees 7.7 3.3 
Other 2.4 3.0
At 31 December 131.6 134.9  108
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 109 108
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 109
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
20 Cash and cash equivalents
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Cash at bank and in hand – held in Enterprise Partnerships 69.4 55.4
Cash at bank and in hand – held in non-Enterprise Partnerships 36.1 29.9
Cash at bank and in hand 105.5 85.3
Short-term deposits – held in Enterprise Partnerships 5.0 7.5
Short-term deposits – held in non-Enterprise Partnerships 5.9 5.3
Cash and cash equivalents 116.4 98.1
Included in the above cash at bank and in hand held in non-Enterprise Partnerships is £0.1 million (2011: £0.2 million) held as collateral against various 
bank guarantees.
The cash reflected on the Group’s balance sheet not only includes cash immediately accessible for wholly owned operations but also includes cash 
held within the Enterprise Partnerships. The Enterprise Partnerships make cash payments to the Group on an annual, or in some cases quarterly, basis 
as contractual dividends and licence fees. Enterprise Partnerships operate a 100% profit distribution policy and dividends are paid to shareholders on 
an annual basis. 
In 2011, cash and cash equivalents of Kedrios S.p.A. (Kedrios) were considered as a part of cash at bank and in hand – held in Enterprise Partnerships. 
On 7 November 2012, Kedrios issued new shares which were fully subscribed to by the Group and this resulted in dilution of the shareholding of  
SIA S.p.A. (formerly SIA-SSB S.p.A.) (SIA) from 49% to 1.3%. As SIA no longer holds a significant shareholding in Kedrios, the cash in Kedrios is now 
considered to be held in non-enterprise Partnerships. 
Included in the cash at bank and in hand held in Enterprise Partnerships is £20.7 million (2011: £11.6 million) which relates to interest-bearing customer 
cash accounts held by FdB, on behalf of its customers. A customer accounts liability for the outstanding cash accounts is recognised on the balance 
sheet as FdB is liable to repay these funds on demand to its customers. 
21 Trade and other payables
Note
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Current trade and other payables
Trade payables – non-related parties 19.5 24.0
Trade payables – related parties 38 9.3 7.2
Trade payables 28.8 31.2
Social security and other taxes 15.5 12.4
Other payables – non-related parties 13.2 22.8
Other payables – related parties 38 0.3 0.4
Accruals – non-related parties 70.0 58.6
Accruals – related parties 38 1.1 1.0
Deferred income – non-related parties 22 20.3 20.0
Deferred income – related parties 22/38 – 0.4
Dividends payable to non-controlling interests 0.8 0.1
Total current trade and other payables 150.0 146.9
Non-current trade and other payables
Other payables – non-related parties – 0.2
Accruals – non-related parties 0.6 0.9
Deferred income – non-related parties 22 4.7 4.9
Social security and other taxes 0.5 0.3
Total non-current trade and other payables 5.8 6.3 Company overview XX-XX
109
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
109
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other payables are denominated in the following currencies:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Sterling 91.8 93.9
Euros 41.5 39.1
US Dollars 5.7 5.6
Australian Dollars 9.5 8.7
Indian Rupees 6.1 4.5
Other 1.2 1.4
At 31 December 155.8 153.2
The carrying values of all financial liabilities within trade and other payables are considered to approximate to their fair values.
22 Deferred income
The reconciliation of movements in deferred income, disclosed in note 21 above, is as follows:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
At 1 January 25.3 36.5
Disposal – discontinued operation – (7.0)
Revenue deferred in year 18.5 19.3
Revenue recognised in the income statement in year (18.9) (22.4)
Exchange adjustments 0.1 (1.1)
At 31 December 25.0 25.3
Included in the £18.9 million (2011: £22.4 million) of revenue recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2012 is £nil 
(2011: £12.7 million) of revenue recognised in relation to the discontinued operation.
The balance at the end of the reporting period comprised the following:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Workers’ compensation claims handling 3.1 –
Software maintenance and licence fees 8.7 12.8
Other 8.3 7.0
Amounts to be credited to revenue in future periods 20.1 19.8
Lease incentives 4.9 5.5
Total 25.0 25.3
Included in deferred income is £4.9 million (2011: £5.5 million) relating to a lease incentive, which is being amortised over the lease term. The amount, 
which is amortised, is offset against the operating lease expense in the income statement. 110
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 111 110
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 111
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
23 Borrowings and other financial liabilities
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Current borrowings
Bank loans 6.5 3.0 
Loan from related party 0.8 –
Finance lease liabilities 0.7 1.3 
Total current borrowings 8.0 4.3 
Non-current borrowings
Bank loans and revolving credit facilities 31.4 48.1 
Finance lease liabilities 0.2 0.5 
Total non-current borrowings 31.6 48.6
Current other financial liabilities
Put options to acquire the non-controlling interest in Enterprise Partnerships 11.1 12.1 
Derivative liabilities – cash flow hedge 0.3 –
Deferred consideration on acquisitions – 7.9 
Total current other financial liabilities 11.4 20.0 
Non-current other financial liabilities
Put options to acquire the non-controlling interest in Enterprise Partnerships 3.7 3.6 
Deferred contingent consideration on acquisitions 9.9 – 
Total non-current other financial liabilities 13.6 3.6 
The Group has non-controlling shareholders in two Enterprise Partnerships that hold the right to sell their shares to the Group at a future date.  
The estimated future cash flows associated with these options are discounted back to their present value.
The fair value of deferred contingent consideration on acquisition is calculated by discounting the estimated future cash flow using the effective 
interest rate.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s financial liabilities are denominated in the following currencies:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Sterling 27.9 57.4 
Euros 36.1 15.7 
US Dollars 0.1 2.9 
Indian Rupees 0.5 0.3 
Australian Dollars – 0.2 
 64.6 76.5
The fair values of the put options not yet exercisable are based on the cash flows expected to settle the obligation discounted using a rate based on 
the year end effective interest rate. No discounting is applied to determine the fair value of put options exercisable. At the year ended 31 December 
2012, one put option (2011: one put option) is not yet exercisable and is disclosed as a non-current other financial liability. The fair value of this 
Euro-denominated instrument has been determined by using a discount rate of 3.75% (2011: 5.25%). 
The fair values of the bank loans and revolving credit facilities are assumed to equal their carrying value as these are recent arm’s length transactions, 
and are subject to floating rate interest rates determined by movements in LIBOR. Company overview XX-XX
111
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
111
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Credit facilities and liquidity management
The Group maintains committed credit facilities to ensure that it has sufficient liquidity to maintain its on-going operations. The facilities comprise  
a £75.0 million multi-currency revolving credit facility with maturity in August 2015 and a £20.0 million term loan. Scheduled repayments of the  
£20.0 million term loan start from January 2013. The amortisation rate is £3.3 million every six months.
There is a subsidiary cross guarantee arrangement on the committed facilities and the Group has provided security in the form of share pledges over 
its investments in its subsidiaries. The facilities are subject to debt service, leverage and interest cover financial covenants, and contain representations 
and warranties commonly associated with corporate bank debt. As at 31 December 2012, £7.0 million and €13.0 million (£10.6 million) 
(2011: £28.0 million) was drawn as cash under the revolving credit facility and a further €20.0 million (£16.5 million) and USD2.7 million (£1.7 million) 
(2011: €20.0 million (£16.8 million) and USD2.7 million (£1.7 million)) were utilised for letters of credit issued on behalf of the Group. At the end of 
2012, the balance outstanding against the term loan was £20.0 million (2011: £20.0 million). As at 31 December 2012, the Group had £39.3 million 
(2011: £28.5 million) of headroom available under its committed debt facilities. 
In addition to these facilities, there is a working capital facility of INR330.0 million (£3.7 million) provided to Xchanging Technology Services India 
Private Limited (XTSI), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group. The facility is secured by way of a charge on the current assets of XTSI and is subject  
to a corporate guarantee. The working capital facility is uncommitted and renewed on an annual basis. As at 31 December 2012, the cash amount 
drawn under the facility was £nil (2011: £2.9 million).
The Group has a £10.0 million (2011: £10.0 million) uncommitted overdraft facility linked to its UK notional cash pool. 
The Group has the following undrawn committed and uncommitted borrowing facilities available: 
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Expiring within one year 13.7 11.0
Expiring later than two years but not more than five years 39.3 28.5 
53.0 39.5
The finance leases held by the Group relate to leased assets including computer equipment and other various items of office equipment.
The gross finance lease obligation and present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Expiring within one year 0.7 1.3 
Expiring later than one year but not more than five years 0.2 0.5 
Gross finance lease obligation 0.9 1.8 
Present value of future finance leases 0.9 1.8  112
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 113 112
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 113
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
24 Provisions
  
Onerous 
leases and 
contracts
£m
Restructuring
£m
Operational 
risk 
£m
Litigation 
provision 
£m
Employee-
related 
provisions 
£m 
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2012 3.0 10.3 0.9 4.8 5.9 4.3 29.2 
Charged/(credited) to the income statement:
– Provided in the year 3.0 1.6 0.2 – 2.2 0.3 7.3
– Released in the year – – (0.2) – (1.2) (0.1) (1.5)
Used in the year – (7.8) (0.1) – (1.1) (0.6) (9.6)
Reallocations of provisions – – – – 2.3 (2.3) –
Exchange adjustments (0.1) – – (0.1) (0.4) 0.1 (0.5)
At 31 December 2012 5.9 4.1 0.8 4.7 7.7 1.7 24.9
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Current 18.6 22.1
Non-current 6.3 7.1
 24.9 29.2
Included in the onerous leases and contracts provision is an onerous contract provision in the Australian workers’ compensation business of  
£2.6 million (AUD4.0 million), recognised in 2010. The value of this provision is based on the best estimate of the costs to exit this contract. The costs 
are expected to be lower than the expected future losses to be incurred on continuation of this business. The £3.0 million of provisions recognised in 
the year includes £1.8 million for a lease expiring in January 2014 relating to an underutilised data centre. The rental payment for this lease is based on 
a minimum power usage. The provision has been determined based on the best estimate of the average power usage over the remaining lease term. 
£0.7 million was recognised in respect of rent and rates for surplus office space resulting from the integration of our existing Italian operations with 
the acquired AR operations (note 34). This lease expires in August 2014. A further £0.5 million was recognised in respect of a dilapidation provision  
for an office expected to be exited as part of the restructuring in the XBS business. The provision recognised is based on the best estimate of the 
redecorations and re-carpeting costs on exit.
The £10.3 million restructuring provision recognised in the year ended 2011 related to an estimate of the cost of the Four-Part Action Plan 
restructuring programmes. During 2012, £7.8 million of this restructuring provision has been utilised against redundancy payments. The remaining 
£2.5 million will continue to be utilised through to 2014 in respect of payments to individuals who have exited the business. Included in the  
£1.6 million of restructuring provisions recognised in the year was £1.1 million relating to the transformation of the operating model in XBS to meet 
changing customer demands. A further £0.5 million has been recognised in the year relating to redundancies in our Italian operations following the 
acquisition of AR. The provisions recognised in the year are both expected to be utilised in 2013. The estimated costs include expected and known 
termination and redundancy payments along with employee-related taxes.
The operational risk provision comprises an estimated liability in respect of identified operating errors, which had occurred in the ordinary course  
of business in the Financial Services sector up to 31 December 2012. This is an on-going provision representative of the nature of the securities 
processing market. The timing of expected outflows is uncertain as utilisation of the provision is dependent on when claims are made for past errors.
The litigation provision relates to a number of on-going claims and potential exposures. The utilisation of the provision is dependent on the timing of 
the settlement of the underlying cases. The settlement is, to an extent, outside the Group’s control, and there is therefore an element of uncertainty 
regarding the timing of the provision’s utilisation. Estimates have been made of the expected cash outflows in relation to future and current litigation. 
This provision includes £3.0 million relating to potential claims following the sale of the US BPO operations in 2011. 
The employee-related provision includes gratuity provisions, early and part-time retirement provisions, long service provisions, compensated absences 
and workers’ compensation claims provisions for former employees of the US BPO operations sold in 2011. Long service awards and compensated 
absences are based on actuarial valuations, which are updated at each reporting date. The gratuity provisions as well as the early and part-time 
retirement provision both have an element of uncertainty surrounding their amount and timing of utilisation. The workers’ compensation claims 
provisions are based on the best estimate of the expected medical insurance claims that former employees will submit. There is uncertainty over the 
timing of payments therefore the provision has been classified as current.
The other provisions primarily include provisions for archiving required under banking regulations, and costs to migrate an IT platform following the 
disposal of the US BPO operations. The provision is based on a best estimate of the costs of the migration solution and it is expected to be fully utilised 
in 2013. 
In prior years, the compensated absences provisions were included under other provisions. In the current year, it was decided that these provisions 
should be disclosed within the employee-related provision as this better reflects the nature of the provision.
  Company overview XX-XX
113
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
113
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
25 Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 23% (2011: 25%) for differences arising in the 
UK, and at the relevant local statutory rates for differences arising in other countries.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legal right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balance net. Deferred 
income tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following items:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Deferred tax assets
Retirement benefit obligation 16.7 12.4
Tax losses 1.8 2.6
Decelerated tax depreciation 4.3 3.5
Share-based payments 0.4 –
Other 9.2 6.4
Total deferred tax assets 32.4 24.9
Recoverable within one year 8.9 6.4
Recoverable after more than one year 23.5 18.5
 32.4 24.9
Deferred tax liabilities
Retirement benefit asset (2.0) –
Accelerated tax depreciation (0.1) –
Put option – (0.1)
Other (9.0) (6.9)
Total deferred tax liabilities (11.1) (7.0)
Arising within one year (4.0) (1.0)
Arising after more than one year (7.1) (6.0)
(11.1) (7.0)
Tax losses arising in the current and previous years from continuing operations, total an estimated carried forward amount of £nil in the UK (2011:  
£2.6 million) and losses of £39.7 million in the US (2011: £39.2 million) and £18.3 million (2011: £14.9 million) in other tax jurisdictions, including Italy. 
US losses expire 20 years from the year in which they arise. Losses arising in Italy can be carried forward indefinitely.
The principal deferred tax assets recognised for losses are £nil (2011: £0.7 million) in respect of the UK and £1.8 million (2011: £1.8 million) in respect 
of the US.
The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of £16.0 million (2011: £17.8 million) which principally arise on losses in certain businesses in Italy 
and the US. The Directors consider that it is unlikely that there will be sufficient profits arising in these businesses in the future to realise these deferred 
tax assets, and therefore the assets have not been recognised in these financial statements.
The Finance Act 2012, which was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012, includes legislation reducing the main rate of corporation tax in the UK to 
23% from 1 April 2013. The change to 23% has been reflected in the closing UK deferred tax balances included in these financial statements.
A proposed further reduction of the main rate of corporation tax in the UK by 2% to 21% by 1 April 2014 is expected to be enacted separately.  
This change had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and therefore is not included in these financial statements. The impact  
of the 2% reduction is expected to reduce the net deferred tax asset included in the financial statements by approximately £1.2 million. 114
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 115 114
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 115
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
25 Deferred tax continued
The movement in the net deferred tax position is as follows:
Retirement 
benefit 
obligation
£m
Tax losses
£m
Decelerated/ 
(accelerated) 
tax 
depreciation
£m
Share-based 
payments
£m
Put option
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 10.6 3.4 (0.1) 0.1 (0.1) (1.0) 12.9
Reclassifications (0.9) 0.1 2.9 – (0.1) (2.0) –
Disposal – discontinued operations (note 13) – – – – – 0.8 0.8
Credited/(charged) to the income statement 1.2 (0.5) 0.7 (0.1) 0.1 1.9 3.3
Credited directly to other comprehensive income 1.5 – – – – – 1.5
Exchange adjustments – (0.4) – – – (0.2) (0.6)
At 31 December 2011 12.4 2.6 3.5 – (0.1) (0.5) 17.9
Reclassifications (2.0) – – – – 2.0 –
Recognised on business combinations – – – – – (3.2) (3.2)
(Charged)/credited to the income statement (0.4) (0.7) 0.7 0.4 0.1 1.8 1.9
Credited directly to other comprehensive income 4.9 – – – – – 4.9
Charged to equity – – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Exchange adjustments (0.2) (0.1) – – – 0.2 (0.1)
At 31 December 2012 14.7 1.8 4.2 0.4 – 0.2 21.3
26 Ordinary shares
£m
2012
Number
of shares £m
2011
Number  
of shares
Authorised
Company ordinary shares of £0.05 each 17.5  350,000,000 17.5 350,000,000
  
Allotted and fully paid
At 1 January 11.9 239,509,739 11.9 239,509,739
Exercise of share options and share awards 0.1 801,180 – –
At 31 December 12.0 240,310,919 11.9 239,509,739
During the year, 651,180 share options were exercised (2011: no share options) and 150,000 share awards were issued.
Share rights
All Company ordinary shares carry equal share rights.  Company overview XX-XX
115
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
115
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
27 Share-based payment plans 
The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based payment plans. These plans are detailed below.
(i) Share options
Options are granted with a fixed exercise price at the date of grant. The contractual life of an option is 10 years. Awards are granted to Directors and 
employees on a merit basis, and are subject to continuous employment. Options granted become exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of 
grant, and are valued using the Black-Scholes pricing model. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the options 
in cash. 
The number of shares subject to options, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be exercised are outlined in the 
table below.
Grant 
Balance at  
1 January 2012 Granted in year Exercised in year
Lapsed/forfeited 
in year
No. of options 
outstanding at  
31 December 
2012
Exercise price  
per share Exercise period
2003 Approved*/** 85,180 – (85,180) – – 0.94   Nov 06 – Nov 13
2004 Approved* 63,950 – (6,000) (20,000) 37,950 0.97 Apr 07 – Apr 14
2004 Approved* 12,000 –  – (12,000) – 0.97 Aug 07 – Aug 14
2005 Unapproved* 200,000 –  –  – 200,000 0.95 Apr 08 – Apr 15
2006 Approved* 64,000 – (32,000) – 32,000 0.93 Apr 09 – Apr 16
2006 Unapproved* 216,000 – (48,000) – 168,000 0.93 Apr 09 – Apr 16
2007 Approved* 141,468 –  – (45,280) 96,188 1.33 Feb 10 – Feb 17
2007 Unapproved* 746,532 –  – (314,720) 431,812 1.33 Feb 10 – Feb 17
2007 Unapproved* 104,938 –  –  – 104,938 2.77 Dec 10 – Dec 17
2008 Unapproved* 95,062 –  –  – 95,062 2.81 Mar 11 – Mar 18
2011 Approved 737,720 – (116,316) (35,000) 586,404 0.77 Mar 14 – Mar 21
2011 Unapproved 2,202,280 – (363,684) (270,000) 1,568,596 0.77 Mar 14 – Mar 21
2011 Approved 35,000 –  – (35,000) – 0.80 Sep 14 – Sep 21
Total 2012 4,704,130 – (651,180) (732,000) 3,320,950
WAEP *** 0.95 – 0.86 0.99 0.86
WAEP**** 1.02 – 0.79 1.07 1.05  
Total 2011 3,128,055 4,025,000                   –   (2,448,925) 4,704,130
WAEP *** 1.07 0.77 – 0.89 0.95
WAEP**** 1.28 0.77 – 0.99 1.02
* These options have fully vested
**   In 2012, the 2003 approved share options that lapsed in 2011, were reinstated by the Remuneration Committee, and exercised by the option participant. The 2011 total shares 
and WAEP numbers have been recalculated to show this reinstatement.
***  Approved shares weighted average exercise price (£)
**** Unapproved shares weighted average exercise price (£)
At the end of the year, 1,165,950 options were exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of £1.43 (2011: £1.37). During the year, 651,180 share 
options (2011: nil) were exercised. 
The options outstanding at 31 December 2012 have an exercise price in the range of £0.77 to £2.81 and a weighted average contractual life of 6.7 years. 
At 31 December 2012, the Company’s share price £1.25 (201 1: £0.64).
No share options were granted during the year. 
The total income statement impact for the year relating to employee share-based payments under the share option plans, excluding social security 
charges, was a debit of £0.3 million (2011: debit of £0.2 million), all of which related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions. 
During the year, 480,000 share options from the unvested 2011 share option award were exercised early by good leavers. In accordance with the Share 
Option Plan rules, these good leavers were given six months from their leave date to exercise their unvested share options. Of the £0.3 million share 
option charge for the year, £0.1 million relates to the accelerated share option charge for these share options exercised. 
(ii) Performance Share Plan 
Awards have been granted under the Performance Share Plan (PSP) to Executive Directors and certain members of the Group’s management group. 
Under the terms of the scheme, two types of awards are granted: conditional awards, which will vest at the end of a three-year performance period; 
and non-conditional awards. In both cases, awards are granted to Directors and employees on a merit basis, and are subject to continuous employment 
over the length of the vesting period, or at the discretion of the Group if determined to be a ‘good leaver’ upon leaving. Awards granted vest three 
years from the date of the award. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the awards in cash. 116
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 117 116
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 117
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
27 Share-based payment plans continued 
For 2012, the number of conditional basic and stretch awards that will vest is dependent on the performance of the Company’s absolute total 
shareholder return (TSR) and attainment of return on invested capital (ROIC) percentage. 33% of the basic awards will vest if the three-year average 
ROIC per annum attains 25% and 100% if the three-year compound TSR growth rate per annum is 22.5%, combined with the basic ROIC condition. 
33% of the stretch awards will vest if the three-year average ROIC per annum attains 27%, and 100% if the three-year compound TSR growth rate per 
annum is 27.5% combined with the stretch ROIC condition.
For prior years, the number of conditional basic and stretch awards that will vest is dependent on the performance of the Company’s TSR as compared 
with the performance of its comparator group (defined as the constituents of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts) and on the attainment of 
an earnings per share growth underpin. 25% of the basic awards will vest if TSR is at a median position and 100% if TSR is in the upper quartile. In 
between these positions, the basic award will vest on a straight-line basis. The stretch award will also vest on a straight-line basis, with 0% vesting if 
TSR is at an upper quartile position, up to 100% if TSR is in the top decile. The earnings per share underpin is the UK RPI plus 3%. 
Conditional awards are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The Monte Carlo simulation model used for valuing PSP awards with a  
TSR performance condition requires additional assumptions. The co-efficient assumption for 2011 was between 17% and 18% (based on historical 
analysis), representing the level of correlation of growth in TSR between the comparator companies simulated in the model. The three year historical 
volatility for each company in the comparator group at grant date has been analysed and this historical volatility has been used in the model to project 
TSR for each company. 
The share awards granted and the assumptions used as inputs into the fair valuation model are as follows:
PSP 2012 2011
Vesting period (years) 3 3
Expected life 3 3
Expected dividends expressed as dividend yield (%) 0 1
Possibility of ceasing employment before vesting (%) 10 10
Risk-free interest rate (%) 0.22 – 0.55 1.21 – 1.95
Weighted average share price at grant date (£) 0.95 – 1.06 0.84 – 1.04
Weighted average fair value at grant date (£) 0.55 – 0.96 0.52 – 0.69
Grant
Balance at  
1 January 2012 Granted in year Vested in year Lapsed in year
No. of PSP awards 
outstanding at  
31 December 2012 
2009 April 1,139,405  –  –  (1,139,405) –
2009 September 902,991  –  – (902,991) –
2010 April  3,284,426  –  – (1,205,556) 2,078,870
2010 August  983,917  –  – (115,909) 868,008
2011 April  2,849,229  –  – (661,397) 2,187,832
2011 June  424,035  –  – –  424,035 
2012 March – 3,735,078 (345,200) 3,389,878
2012 April – 526,315 – – 526,315
2012 August – 489,918 – – 489,918
Total 2012 9,584,003 4,751,311 – (4,370,458) 9,964,856
Total 2011 10,905,353  3,872,686  –  (5,194,036) 9,584,003 
Of the 9,964,856 PSP awards outstanding at 31 December 2012 (2011: 9,584,003), 2,277,350 (2011: 2,003,917) are non-conditional awards, which 
will vest only upon continuous employment over the length of the vesting period. These awards do not have a TSR performance condition.
The total charge for the year relating to the PSP was £1.5 million (2011: £2.7 million). Company overview XX-XX
117
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
117
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
(iii) Share Purchase Plan 2007 (SPP)
The Group adopted the SPP during 2007, in which Executive Directors and certain members of senior management were invited to participate. Under 
this scheme, set up in February 2007, an employee benefit trust loaned money to the participants in order to allow them to purchase class F shares in 
Xchanging BV at the market value at the time of £5.30 (the Company equivalent value £1.33). These loans are non-interest bearing and the terms and 
conditions are described further in note 38. Participants may not normally sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of the shares awarded under the scheme 
for a period of 18 months from issue. Shares may now be sold on the condition that a pro-rata proportion of any loan from the employee benefit trust 
is repaid. As the shares were granted at the fair market value at the time there is no share-based payment charge as a result of this scheme. 
(iv) Share Awards
In December 2012, two share awards of 42,644 ordinary shares each in the Company, vesting in December 2013 and 2014 respectively, were granted 
to the newly appointed Executive Director for Insurance Services. The awards are subject to continuous employment within the Company, up to 
December 2013 for the first award, and December 2014 for the second award.
In October 2010, share awards were granted to the newly appointed Chief Financial Officer. Two awards of 150,000 ordinary shares each in the 
Company vested in October 2011 and 2012 respectively. These awards were subject to the continuous employment within the Company up to 
October 2012.
The total charge for the year relating to the share awards, excluding social security charges on the awards, was £0.1 million (2011: £0.2 million).
(v) Deferred Share Bonus Plan
During the year, options were granted to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer under the 2012 Deferred Bonus Share Plan as part of 
their 2011 performance bonus. Under the plan, a third of their performance bonus is granted as options. These have a three-year vesting period, in 
which they are required to continue their employment within the Group. The remainder of the bonus (two thirds) was paid out in cash during the 
year. At the end of the three-year period, options are delivered to them at £nil consideration. The Company has the choice to settle the options in cash 
or purchase shares on the open market. The contractual life of the options are eight years from grant date.
For 2011, Ken Lever and David Bauernfeind received a £150,000, and a £60,000 performance bonus respectively. The numbers of options granted 
during 2012, at a share price of £0.97 each, were:
Options
Ken Lever 51,414
David Bauernfeind 20,566
In 2012, the scheme was extended to Executive Directors and certain members of the Group’s management group. The options will be granted to  
the individuals during 2013. For 2012, a charge of £0.3 million was included in wages and salaries expenses.
28 Shareholders’ equity
Ordinary shares
The balance classed as ordinary shares is the nominal proceeds on issue of the Company’s equity share capital, comprising 5 pence ordinary shares.
Share premium
The amount paid to the Company by shareholders over and above the nominal value of the shares issued to them, less the direct costs of issuing  
the shares, is classified as share premium.
Merger reserve and reverse acquisition reserve
The merger and reverse acquisition reserves arise because of the share for share exchange undertaken in advance of the initial public offering. 
The merger reserve comprises the excess of the market value of the Company shares issued to the Xchanging BV shareholders over the nominal value 
of those shares and arises because of the application of merger relief under Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985. The reverse acquisition reserve 
consists of the difference between the market value of the Company shares issued to the Xchanging BV shareholders and the total share capital and 
share premium of the Xchanging BV shares.
Other reserves
Composition of the other reserves is described in note 29. 
Retained earnings
These represent the accumulation of the Group’s net profits retained within the business, after the payment of any dividends.
Non-controlling interest in equity
These represent the non-controlling interests’ share in the assets and liabilities of the Enterprise Partnerships, Xchanging Solutions Limited (XSL) 
(formerly Cambridge Solutions Limited), in which the Group had a 75.0% (2011: 75.6%) interest as at 31 December 2012, and Kedrios S.p.A., in 
which the Group had a 98.7% (2011: 59.0%) interest as at 31 December 2012. 118
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 119 118
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 119
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
29 Other reserves
Available- 
for-sale  
reserve 
£m
Translation  
reserve 
£m
Hedging  
reserve 
£m
Other  
reserves 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2011 (1.9) 17.5 – 5.3 20.9
Revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets (net of non-controlling interest‘s share) (0.6) – – – (0.6)
Revaluation losses recycled to income statement on disposal of available-for-sale 
financial assets (net of non-controlling interest’s share) 0.1 – – – 0.1
Revaluation losses recycled to income statement on impairment of available-for-sale 
financial assets (net of non-controlling interest’s share) 4.2 – – – 4.2
Actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations (net of non-controlling interest’s share) – – – (9.4) (9.4)
Deferred tax on retirement benefit obligations (net of non-controlling interest’s share) – – – 2.1 2.1
Current tax on retirement benefit obligations (net of non-controlling interest’s share) – – – 0.2 0.2
Fair value movements on hedge instruments qualifying for hedge accounting – – (0.6) – (0.6)
Fair value movements on hedge instruments recycled to the income statement upon 
de-designation – – 0.1 – 0.1
Transaction with non-controlling interest – – – (20.3) (20.3) 
Cumulative translation differences recycled to the income statement in respect of the 
discontinued operation – 3.3 – – 3.3 
Currency translation differences (net of non-controlling interest share) – (4.1) – – (4.1)
At 31 December 2011 1.8 16.7 (0.5) (22.1) (4.1)
Revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets (net of non-controlling interest‘s share) 0.7 – – – 0.7
Actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations (net of non-controlling interest’s share) – – – (13.5) (13.5) 
Deferred tax on retirement benefit obligations (net of non-controlling interest’s share) – – – 3.3 3.3
Current tax on retirement benefit obligations (net of non-controlling interest’s share) – – – 0.4 0.4 
Fair value movements on hedge instruments qualifying for hedge accounting – – (0.9) – (0.9)
Fair value movements on hedge instruments recycled to the income statement upon 
de-designation – – 0.9 – 0.9 
Transaction with non-controlling interest (note 31) – – – (1.3) (1.3)
Currency translation differences (net of non-controlling interest share) – (3.7) – – (3.7)
At 31 December 2012 2.5 13.0 (0.5) (33.2) (18.2)
Available-for-sale reserve
The available-for-sale reserve comprises the fair value adjustments and related tax on the available-for-sale financial assets held by the Group.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises the exchange adjustments arising from translating the results of foreign operations into the Group’s presentation 
currency of Sterling. 
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises amounts taken to equity in respect of cash flow hedges in place to mitigate foreign exchange volatility in the Group’s 
Indian operations.
Other reserves
The other reserves comprise the amounts taken to equity in respect of retirement benefit obligations, transactions with non-controlling interests and 
differences in share price between the date of issue, and the date of control passing in respect of acquisitions. Company overview XX-XX
119
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
119
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
30 Non-controlling interest in equity
Note
2012
£m
2011
£m
At 1 January 28.2 18.9
Non-controlling interest’s share of adjusted profit for the year 6.3 4.8
Non-controlling interest’s share of adjustments to adjusted 0.4 3.4 
Non-controlling interest's share of profit for the year 6.7 8.2 
Non-controlling interest's share of actuarial gains and losses (5.4) 1.4 
Non-controlling interest's share of deferred tax on retirement benefit obligations movements 1.6 (0.6)
Non-controlling interest's share of current tax on retirement benefit obligations movements 0.1 –
Non-controlling interest's share of revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets 0.1 0.2 
Non-controlling interest's share of currency translation differences (1.8) (4.7)
Non-controlling interest’s share of other comprehensive income (5.4) (3.7)
Transaction with non-controlling interest 31 1.3 12.5 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (8.5) (7.7)
Non-controlling interest’s share of items taken directly to equity (7.2) 4.8 
At 31 December 22.3 28.2
Non-controlling interest calculations for the Group’s Enterprise Partnerships are dependent upon the individual contractual terms. Some define 
adjustments in relation to certain items prior to calculating profit share based on the percentage share ownerships. These may include, for example, 
adjustments for differences between local and international accounting standards, adjustments for any discounts or fees payable between parties.
31 Transactions with non-controlling interests
(a) On 7 November 2012, Kedrios, a subsidiary of the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of AR (refer note 34). To fund this investment, 
an arrangement has been entered in to with SIA, non-controlling interest, and according to the terms of arrangements, Kedrios issued new shares 
worth £10.4 million, which were fully subscribed by the Group.
The above resulted in the dilution of the non-controlling interest’s shareholding from 49.0% to 1.3%. The debit balance of non-controlling interest on 
the date of dilution was £1.0 million. The Group derecognised non-controlling interests of £1.0 million and recorded a decrease in equity attributable 
to owners of the parent of £1.0 million. The effect of changes in the ownership interest of Kedrios on the equity attributable to owners of the parent 
during the year is summarised as follows: 
2012 
£m
Carrying value (debit balance) of non-controlling interests derecognised on dilution (1.0)
Deficit of consideration paid recognised in shareholders’ equity (1.0)
(b) In October 2012, Xchanging Mauritius Limited (XML), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group sold 0.62% of its holding in XSL for £0.1 million. 
This resulted in reduction of the XML’s holding from 75.62% to 75.00%. The credit balance of non-controlling interest on the date of dilution was 
£14.0 million. The Group recognised non-controlling interests of £0.4 million and recorded a decrease in equity attributable to owners of the parent 
of £0.3 million. The effect of changes in the ownership interest of XSL on the equity attributable to owners of the parent during the year is 
summarised as follows: 
2012 
£m
Fair value of non-controlling interests recognised on sale (0.4)
Consideration received from non-controlling interests 0.1
Deficit of consideration received recognised in shareholders’ equity (0.3)
  120
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 121 120
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 121
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
32 Financial commitments and contingent liabilities
At 31 December, future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: 
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Within one year 13.2 15.6
Later than one year but not more than five years 23.0 28.5
Later than five years 7.6 9.9
43.8 54.0
The Group’s most significant leases are those of the premises at Leadenhall Street, London, Basildon, Sydney, Melbourne, Chicago, Milan and 
Frankfurt. The London lease expires in February 2021, the Basildon lease expires in September 2014, the Sydney lease expires in February 2016,  
the Melbourne lease expires in March 2015, the Chicago lease expires in April 2018, the Milan lease expires in November 2016 and the Frankfurt  
lease expires in December 2013. 
The Group is contractually obligated to invest amounts, on behalf of the Enterprise Partnerships it has established, in technology development and 
maintenance and in the development of new processes and systems. The total commitment outstanding at 31 December is presented below as 
analysed by the period in which the commitment falls due:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Within one year 0.7 4.5
 0.7 4.5
During the year Xchanging Global Insurance Solutions Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, contracted to purchase software licences  
of £0.6 million and capital goods of £0.1 million in 2013. 
The Group have put in place guarantees covering contributions to two of its pension schemes as part of agreements reached with the schemes’ 
trustees following recent valuations. One of the guarantees is on a fixed and everlasting basis and set at a level of £15 million. The other decreases  
in line with deficit contributions paid to the scheme under the agreed Schedule of Contributions. The value of this guarantee was £5.5 million as at  
31 December 2012 (2011: £5.5 million).
The Group would be required to make contributions to the schemes under the guarantees following any of the below occurring:
   An insolvency event of the sponsoring employers of the scheme
   A failure by the sponsoring employers to make contributions to the scheme under Section 75 or Section 75a of the Pensions Act 1995 
   A failure by the sponsoring employers to make contributions to the scheme under the agreed contributions schedule within 15 business days of that 
payment becoming due. 
The Group has provided £20.7 million (2011: £21.1 million) of bank guarantees in respect of non-performance of obligations under contracts entered 
into in the ordinary course of business and lease property deposits. £18.1 million of the guarantees (2011: £18.5 million) are issued under the Group’s 
£75.0 million revolving credit facility and a further £2.6 million (2011: £2.6 million) are guarantees issued under separate facilities of which £0.1 million 
(2011: £0.2 million) are collateralised with cash from the operating business for which they are issued.
The Group has contingent liabilities arising from guarantees in respect of subsidiary undertakings, which are entered into in the normal course of 
business. It is not practicable to estimate the magnitude of possible obligations that may arise in respect of subsidiary undertakings. 
On 31 May 2011, following the sale of the US workers’ compensation and third-party administration operations, certain guarantees were made to  
the buyer as part of the sale and purchase agreement, in respect of any claims that may arise relating to periods prior to the sale. Amounts have been 
provided within the litigation provision for claims that the Directors reasonably believe may arise.
In the normal course of the Group‘s business, legal proceedings are pending or may be brought against the Company and its subsidiaries arising out 
of current and past operations, including matters related to commercial disputes, product liability, antitrust and premises-liability claims. The Directors 
believe that the impact of these legal proceedings on the Group‘s results of operations, liquidity or financial position will not be material, apart from 
those matters specifically provided against at year end. Refer to note 24.
  Company overview XX-XX
121
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
121
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
33 Cash generated from operations 
Note
2012
£m
2011
£m
Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations 41.5 (2.5)
Net finance income 9 4.6 9.1
Share of profit from joint venture (0.1) –
Operating profit from continuing operations 46.0 6.6
Adjustment for non-cash items:
– Impairment losses 6 – 14.6
– Profit on disposal of subsidiary assets (0.4) –
– Employee share-based payment charges 8 1.9 3.3
– Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5 9.6 11.0
– Amortisation of other intangibles 5 18.6 20.6
– Amortisation of pre-contract costs 5 2.3 1.8
– Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and other intangibles 5 – 0.8
– Loss on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets – 0.1
78.0 58.8
Changes in working capital (excluding the effects of business combinations):
– Decrease in trade and other receivables 4.1 22.1
– Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables
1
     9.8   (19.6)
Decrease in retirement benefit obligations (2.4) (0.6)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (3.8) 0.4
Cash generated from continuing operations 85.7 61.1
1
 £9.1 million of the increase in trade and other payables relates to an increase in the cash placed in customer deposit accounts held by FdB.
34 Business combinations 
On 7 November 2012, Kedrios, a 98.7% owned subsidiary acquired 100% of share capital of AR Enterprise S.r.L.(AR). The results of AR have been 
consolidated by the Group from the point of acquisition.
The total consideration for the shares booked on acquisition was €24.9 million (£20.0 million). Of this, €12.9 million (£10.4 million) was paid on 
signing the agreement and €12.0 million (£9.6 million) is the estimated amount of the deferred contingent payment, which shall be due, calculated 
and paid as per the terms of the agreement.
AR contributed revenue of £1.9 million, profit before tax of £0.5 million and profit after tax of £0.2 million to the Group for the period from 
acquisition to 31 December 2012. If the acquisition date had been 1 January 2012, AR would have contributed revenue of approximately £11.6 million, 
profit before tax of £1.7 million and profit after tax of approximately £0.9 million to the Group. 
The fair values of significant assets and liabilities acquired are provisional and will be finalised during the period to 7 November 2013, as permissible 
under IFRS 3 (revised). The estimated fair values of those assets and liabilities as at 1 November 2012 are set out below:
Provisional 
fair value
£m
Intangible asset – Software 3.6
Intangible asset – Customer contracts 6.7
Property, plant and equipment 0.3
Trade and other receivables 3.2
Cash and cash equivalents 0.9
Trade and other payables (1.8)
Pension liability (1.4)
Deferred income tax liabilities (3.2)
Net assets acquired 8.3 122
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 123 122
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 123
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
34 Business combinations continued
The fair value adjustments in respect of intangible assets relate to the recognition of £6.7 million in respect of customer contracts and £3.6 million of 
software assets. The adjustment to deferred tax liabilities relates to the valuation adjustments for intangible assets. 
Goodwill represents the value of both sales and cost synergies expected to arise from combining and integrating the operations of AR with Kedrios.
Details of net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows:
£m
Fair value of purchase consideration 
– Cash on acquisition 10.4
– Estimated deferred cash payment 9.6
Total fair value of purchase consideration 20.0
Less: Fair value of net assets acquired (8.3)
Goodwill 11.7
35 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes plans for its qualifying employees. The principal plans are three defined benefit schemes in 
the UK, four defined benefit schemes in Germany and two long-service obligations in Italy presented together under the heading ‘Continental Europe’.  
In the UK, the defined benefit schemes are funded and assets are held in separate trustee administered funds. In Continental Europe, only the largest 
scheme (the XTB Scheme) has assets held in a separate Contractual Trust Agreement (CTA). The remaining schemes do not have assets in a CTA and  
as a result, pension liabilities are fully recognised on the balance sheet as a retirement benefit obligations with pension assets being integrated with  
the business assets. The Group also participates in a number of multi-employer defined benefit schemes and operates a number of defined  
contribution schemes. 
(i) Defined benefit schemes
The disclosures below relate to post-retirement benefit plans in the UK and Continental Europe which are accounted for as defined benefit plans in 
accordance with IAS 19. The valuations used for the IAS 19 disclosures are based on the most recent actuarial valuations undertaken by independent 
qualified actuaries and updated to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 in order to assess the funding position of the plans at 31 December 
each year. Plan assets are shown at the market value at 31 December each year.
Financial assumptions
The assumptions used by the actuaries are chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the long-term nature of the schemes, 
may not necessarily be borne out in practice. These assumptions are as follows:
2012 2011
UK
%
Continental 
Europe
%
UK
%
Continental 
Europe
%
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.65 2.50 3.75 2.50
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (RPI up to 5%) 2.80 n/a 2.80 n/a
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (RPI up to 2.5%) 1.60 n/a 1.90 n/a
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (CPI up to 5%) 2.20 n/a 2.30 n/a
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (fixed 5%) 5.00 n/a 5.00 n/a
Rate of increase in pensions in payment n/a 2.00 n/a 2.00
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.10 2.00 2.20 2.00
Discount rate 4.40 3.42 4.80 5.37
Inflation assumption (RPI) 2.90 2.00 3.00 2.00
Inflation assumption (CPI) 2.10 n/a 2.20 n/a
Long-term rate of return expected at 31 December n/a 5.00 n/a 5.00
– Equities 7.15 n/a 7.25 n/a
– Gilts 2.70 n/a 2.80 n/a
– Bonds 4.40 n/a 4.80 n/a
– Property 7.15 n/a 7.25 n/a
– Cash 0.50 n/a 0.50 n/a
To develop the assumption around the expected long-term rate of return on assets, the Group considered the current level of expected returns on 
risk-free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the 
portfolio is invested, and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on 
the target asset allocation to develop the expected long-term rate of return assumption for the portfolio.  Company overview XX-XX
123
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
123
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
The post-retirement mortality tables used for the schemes are based on country-specific mortality tables, namely the PA 00 series for the Rebus and 
XDBS schemes in the UK (based on year of birth with a scaling factor of 110% with allowance for the CMI 2011 future improvement projections and a 
0.75% long-term improvement rate), the SAPS Light table for the LPC Scheme in the UK (rated up by one year and based on year of birth with 
allowance for the CMI 2011 future improvement projections and a 0.75% long-term improvement rate) and the Richtaffeln 2005 G, Heubeck-
Richtaffeln GmbH, Koln 2005 table in Germany. The table below illustrates life expectancy assumptions at age 65 for current pensioners and future 
pensioners aged 45 for the UK schemes at the accounting date and at age 65 for current pensioners and future pensioners aged 17 for the material 
Continental Europe schemes at the accounting date:
2012 2011
UK (Rebus 
and XDBS 
schemes) 
years
UK (LPC 
scheme) 
years
Continental 
Europe 
years
UK (Rebus 
and XDBS) 
years
UK (LPC 
Scheme) 
years
Continental 
Europe 
years
Male current pensioner 22.1 22.5 18.5 22.0 22.4 18.4
Male future pensioner 23.0 23.6 24.7 23.0 23.6 24.6
Female current pensioner 24.0 23.6 22.6 24.0 23.6 22.5
Female future pensioner 25.2 25.1 28.4 25.1 25.0 28.3
Amounts recognised in the financial statements in respect of the defined benefit pension schemes
The net retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet is:
2012 2011
UK
£m
Continental 
Europe
£m
Total 
£m
UK
£m
Continental 
Europe
£m
Total 
£m
Equities 51.5 5.0 56.5 42.8 3.7 46.5
Sovereign and corporate bonds 52.6 48.5 101.1 49.1 46.5 95.6
Property 5.7 – 5.7 5.6 – 5.6
Cash 0.1 1.8 1.9 0.3 3.9 4.2
Derivative instruments – 4.7 4.7 – 4.9 4.9
Fair value of plan assets 109.9 60.0 169.9 97.8 59.0 156.8
Present value of funded obligations (151.6) (80.4) (232.0) (135.5) (63.7) (199.2)
Net deficit recognised in the balance sheet (41.7) (20.4) (62.1) (37.7) (4.7) (42.4)
The fair value of plan assets at 31 December 2012 do not include any amounts in respect of Xchanging’s own financial instruments or any property 
occupied by, or other assets used by Xchanging. 
The derivative instruments estimated to be £4.7 million (2011: £4.9 million) relate to interest swaps that are designed to align to the interest rate 
exposures on the XTB scheme plan assets and plan liabilities.
The net deficit of £62.1 million (2011: £42.4 million) at 31 December 2012 comprises £0.3 million retirement benefit asset in respect of one of the 
schemes and £62.4 million retirement benefit obligation (2011: £0.3 million and £42.7 million respectively).
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
2012 2011
UK
£m
Continental 
Europe
£m
Total 
£m
UK
£m
Continental 
Europe
£m
Total 
£m
Current service cost (1.9) (1.0) (2.9) (1.8) (1.2) (3.0)
Past service cost – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Interest cost (6.5) (3.2) (9.7) (6.4) (3.3) (9.7)
Expected return on plan assets 5.4 2.8 8.2 5.6 2.7 8.3 
Curtailment – 0.3 0.3 – – –
Total included within staff costs (note 8) (3.0) (1.1) (4.1) (2.7) (1.8) (4.5)
Included within:
– Cost of sales (1.9) (1.1) (3.0) (1.9) (1.2) (3.1)
– Net finance costs (1.1) – (1.1) (0.8) (0.6) (1.4)
(3.0) (1.1) (4.1) (2.7) (1.8) (4.5) 124
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 125 124
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 125
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
35 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The total amounts for the defined benefit schemes (charged)/credited to the statement of other comprehensive income are as follows.
2012 2011
UK
£m
Continental 
Europe
£m
Total 
£m
UK
£m
Continental 
Europe
£m
Total 
£m
Actuarial (losses)/gains (6.1) (12.8) (18.9) (16.0) 8.0 (8.0)
Exchange adjustments – – – – – –
(6.1) (12.8) (18.9) (16.0) 8.0 (8.0)
Cumulative amounts recognised (26.6) (1.5) (28.1) (20.5) 11.3 (9.2)
Analysis of the movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation
2012 2011
UK
£m
Continental 
Europe
£m
Total 
£m
UK
£m
Continental 
Europe
£m
Total 
£m
Fair value at 1 January (135.5) (63.7) (199.2) (117.3) (65.2) (182.5)
Transfer in – (0.1) (0.1) – – –
Acquisition – (1.4) (1.4) – – –
Current service cost (1.9) (1.0) (2.9) (1.8) (1.2) (3.0)
Settlements/curtailments – 0.3 0.3 – – –
Interest cost (6.5) (3.2) (9.7) (6.4) (3.3) (9.7)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (11.4) (15.1) (26.5) (14.5) 1.3 (13.2)
Past service cost – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Benefits paid 3.7 2.8 6.5 4.6 3.2 7.8
Exchange adjustments – 1.0 1.0 – 1.5 1.5 
Fair value at 31 December (151.6) (80.4) (232.0) (135.5) (63.7) (199.2)
Analysis of the movement in the fair value of the plan assets
2012 2011
UK
£m
Continental 
Europe
£m
Total 
£m
UK
£m
Continental 
Europe
£m
Total 
£m
Present value at 1 January 97.8 59.0 156.8 95.0 53.9 148.9
Expected return on plan assets 5.4 2.8 8.2 5.6 2.8 8.4 
Actuarial gains/(losses) 5.3 2.3 7.6 (1.5) 6.7 5.2
Employer contributions paid 5.1 (2.7) 2.4 3.8 (3.0) 0.8 
Benefits paid (3.7) – (3.7) (5.1) – (5.1)
Exchange adjustments
– (1.6) (1.6) – (1.4) (1.4)
Present value at 31 December 109.9 60.0 169.9 97.8 59.0 156.8
Actual return on plan assets 10.7 5.1 15.8 4.0 9.4 13.4 
The assets and liabilities at 31 December 2012 for the UK include £4.6 million (2011: £4.8 million) in relation to pensioner members of the London 
Processing Centre Limited Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme who have insurance policies held in respect of their benefits. Company overview XX-XX
125
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
125
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Historical information of experience adjustments on plan assets and liabilities
The historical information below has been presented in relation to the schemes from the later of 1 January 2008, or the date the scheme was acquired 
by the Group.
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
UK     
Fair value of scheme assets (£m) 109.9 97.8 94.9 84.6 72.8 
Present value of defined benefit obligation (£m) (151.6) (135.5) (117.3) (106.9) (87.3)
Net liability recognised (£m) (41.7) (37.7) (22.4) (22.3) (14.5)
Experience adjustments on plan assets:
– Amount (£m) 5.3 (1.6) 3.8 6.5 (17.8)
– Percentage of scheme assets 5% (2%) 4% 8% (24%)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities:
– Amount (£m) (0.8) 0.9 1.0 (0.7) 0.7 
– Percentage of scheme liabilities 1% 1% 1% (1%) 1%
Continental Europe
Fair value of scheme assets (£m) 60.0 59.0 53.9 57.7 62.3 
Present value of defined benefit obligation (£m) (80.4) (63.7) (65.2) (65.3) (66.0)
Net liability recognised (£m) (20.4) (4.7) (11.3) (7.6) (3.7)
Experience adjustments on plan assets:
– Amount (£m) 2.3 6.7 (0.2) (0.5) (0.9)
– Percentage of scheme assets 4% 11% 0% (1%) (1%)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities:
– Amount (£m) 1.3 0.1 1.4 (2.8) 0.3 
– Percentage of scheme liabilities 2% 0% 2% (4%) 0%
Total
Fair value of scheme assets (£m) 169.9 156.8 148.8 142.3 135.1 
Present value of defined benefit obligation (£m) (232.0) (199.2) (182.5) (172.2) (153.3)
Net liability recognised (£m) (62.1) (42.4) (33.7) (29.9) (18.2)
Experience adjustments on plan assets:
 – Amount (£m) 7.6 5.1 3.6 6.1 (18.7)
 – Percentage of scheme assets 4% 3% 2% 4% (14%)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities:
– Amount (£m) 0.4 1.0 2.4 (3.5) 1.0 
– Percentage of scheme liabilities 0% 0% 1% (2%) 1%
It is expected that the contributions to the schemes during 2013 will be £5.4 million for the UK schemes (of which £2.0 million is funded from UK 
Enterprise Partnerships) and £2.7 million for the Continental Europe schemes (all of which is funded from the Enterprise Partnerships in Germany).
(ii) BAE Systems defined benefit schemes
The Group also participates in a number of multi-employer defined benefit schemes run for the employees of BAE Systems.
The terms on which the Group participates in these schemes were set in commercial agreements reached with BAE Systems during 2006. Under the terms 
of these agreements, the contributions payable by the Group represent the cost of accrual of future service benefits and the Group’s share of the deficit 
contributions made by BAE Systems to the schemes only (not including any one-off contributions made by BAE Systems during 2006). The contributions 
are expressed as fixed percentages of pensionable payroll. The Group’s contribution rates to the schemes are contractually fixed and will only be affected 
by changes to the cost of accrual of future service benefits, as determined at the triennial valuations of the schemes. The Group’s contribution rates are not 
affected by any future changes in the past service position of the schemes, relating to past service of its own employees or other members of the scheme. 
It is not possible to identify the Group’s share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the schemes on a consistent and reasonable basis. Accordingly, the 
Group accounts for contributions to the schemes as if they were defined contribution schemes under IAS 19.
The pension cost that was charged in the income statement relating to current year contributions was £0.4 million (2011: £0.4 million).
(iii) Xchanging Group defined contribution schemes
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution schemes for the employees of various subsidiary companies of Xchanging plc. Retirement benefit 
costs for the Group that were charged to the income statement for the year relating to current year contributions were £7 .5 million (201 1: £7 .5 million). 126
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 127 126
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 127
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
36 Financial instruments
Classification of financial instruments
The following tables analyse by classification and category all of the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements.
Assets as per the balance sheet Note
Loans and 
receivables 
£m
Assets at  
fair value 
through 
profit and 
loss 
£m
Available- 
for-sale 
financial 
assets 
£m
Total 
£m
31 December 2012
Available-for-sale financial assets 18 –  –  23.4  23.4 
Held-for-trading equity securities 19 –  1.0  –  1.0 
Trade and other receivables 19 64.4  –  –      64.4 
Cash and cash equivalents 20 116.4  –  –     116.4 
Total 180.8  1.0  23.4 205.2 
31 December 2011
Available-for-sale financial assets 18 – – 23.2  23.2 
Held-for-trading equity securities 19 – 0.7 – 0.7
Trade and other receivables 19 65.1 – –     65.1 
Cash and cash equivalents 20 98.1 – – 98.1 
Total 163.2 0.7 23.2 187.1
Financial assets within trade and other receivables comprise net trade receivables, other receivables, loans to related parties, which have been 
classified as loans and receivables in the table above, and held-for-trading equity securities classified as assets at fair value through profit and loss.
Liabilities as per the balance sheet Note
Liabilities at 
fair value 
through 
profit and 
loss 
£m
Other 
financial 
liabilities 
£m
Total 
£m
31 December 2012
Trade and other payables 21        –             42.3              42.3 
Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 23        –             37.9              37.9 
Finance lease liabilities 23        –               0.9                0.9 
Loan from related party – 0.8 0.8
Customer accounts –           20.7              20.7 
Contingent consideration on acquisitions 23        –               9.9                9.9 
Put options to acquire the non-controlling interest in Enterprise Partnerships 23     14.8                 –                14.8 
Vacant leasehold property provision 24 – 2.5 2.5
Total      14.8          115.0           129.8 
31 December 2011
Trade and other payables 21 – 54.6  54.6
Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 23 – 51.1  51.1 
Finance lease liabilities 23 – 1.8  1.8 
Customer accounts – 11.6 11.6
Deferred consideration on acquisitions 23 –  7.9  7.9 
Put options to acquire the non-controlling interest in Enterprise Partnerships 23 15.7  –  15.7 
Total  15.7 127.0 142.7
Financial liabilities within trade and other payables comprise trade payables, and other payables.
Fair value estimations
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined as follows:
  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).
   Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that 
is, derived from prices) (level 2).
  Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3). Company overview XX-XX
127
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
127
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Credit quality of financial assets
The credit quality of financial assets that are not impaired can be assessed by reference to external credit ratings (if available) or to historical 
information about counterparty default rates:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Trade receivables  
Counterparties with external credit rating (S&P)
A+ 4.8 6.5
A 1.8 –
BBB+ 0.6 –
7.2 6.5
Counterparties without external credit rating:  
Group 1 8.9 5.7
Group 2 34.5 34.7
Group 3 2.5 2.1
45.9 42.5
Total unimpaired trade receivables 53.1 49.0 
Cash at bank and short-term deposits
AAA 12.7 –
AA+ – 2.2
AA 4.9 21.2
AA- 17.3 16.7
A+ 17.4 48.6
A 15.3 7.7
A- 39.3 –
BBB+ 2.0 0.1
BBB 0.5 –
BBB- 3.3 0.1
BB+ – 1.4
None 3.7 0.1
 116.4 98.1 
Available-for-sale debt securities
A- 20.4 20.7
 20.4 20.7
Group 1 – new customers/related parties (less than six months).
Group 2 – existing customers/related parties (more than six months) with no defaults in the past.
Group 3 – existing customers/related parties (more than six months) with some defaults in the past. All defaults were fully recovered.
None of the loans to related parties is past due but not impaired. 128
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 129 128
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 129
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
36 Financial instruments continued
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2012:
Level 1
£m
Level 2 
£m
Level 3 
£m
Total 
£m
Assets
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – held-for-trading equity securities 1.0  –  – 1.0 
Available-for-sale financial assets
– Equity securities 3.0  –  – 3.0 
– Debt security 20.4  –  –  20.4 
Total assets 24.4  –  –  24.4 
Liabilities
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – put options to acquire the non-controlling 
interest in Enterprise Partnerships –  –  14.8 14.8
Total liabilities –  –  14.8  14.8 
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2011:
Level 1
£m
Level 2 
£m
Level 3 
£m
Total 
£m
Assets
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – held-for-trading equity securities 0.7  – –  0.7 
Available-for-sale financial assets 
– Equity securities       2.5         –         – 2.5 
– Debt security      20.7         –          –              20.7 
Total assets      23.9         –            –       23.9 
Liabilities
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – put options to acquire the non-controlling 
interest in Enterprise Partnerships –  – 15.7 15.7
Total liabilities – – 15.7 15.7
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. A market is regarded as 
active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and 
those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. The quoted market price used for financial assets 
held by the Group is the current bid price. These instruments are included in level 1. 
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. These valuation techniques 
maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs 
required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2. If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on 
observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include:
  Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments.
   Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments. Company overview XX-XX
129
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
129
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
The following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments for the year ended 31 December 2012:
Put options 
to acquire
the non-
controlling 
interest in 
Enterprise 
Partnerships 
£m
At 1 January 2012 15.7 
Dividend payments (0.7)
Change in fair value recognised in profit or loss 0.1
Imputed interest recognised in profit or loss 0.1
Exchange adjustments (0.4)
At 31 December 2012 14.8 
Total gains or losses for the period included in profit or loss for assets held at the end of the reporting period 0.2 
The following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments for the year ended 31 December 2011:
Note
Put options 
to acquire
the non-
controlling 
interest in 
Enterprise 
Partnerships 
£m
At 1 January 2011 26.2 
Exercise of put option 23 (10.0)
Dividend payments (0.9)
Imputed interest recognised in profit or loss 0.7 
Exchange adjustments (0.3)
At 31 December 2011 15.7 
Total gains or losses for the period included in profit or loss for assets held at the end of the reporting period 0.1 
The loss of £0.1 million (2011: £0.7 million) recognised in profit or loss for the year is disclosed as imputed interest on put options to acquire  
non-controlling interest within finance costs (note 9). 130
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 131 130
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 131
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
37 Financial risk management
The multinational nature of the Group’s operations and their financing exposes it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange 
risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on 
the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group may use 
derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures but the Group does not undertake any speculative trading in financial instruments.
The Group’s treasury function acts as a service centre and all treasury activity takes place within a formal control framework under policies that are 
approved by the Board. Compliance with key policies and exposure limits is monitored through regular reporting of treasury activities and reviews  
by internal audit. 
Interest rate risk
The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates arises primarily from long-term debt obligations, which carry a floating interest 
rate charge. The Group reviews its interest rate exposure against acceptable risk profiles on a periodic basis and may enter into interest rate swap 
agreements in order to achieve an acceptable balance of fixed and floating rate interest exposure. Currently all financial liabilities are subject to 
floating rate interest. 
The Group holds a Euro-denominated financial asset, which carries a fixed coupon. 
Working capital is generally held in variable rate operational accounts, with surplus cash placed on fixed rate short-term deposits.
The Group has used a sensitivity analysis technique that measures the estimated impact on the income statement and equity of a reasonably possible 
change in market interest rates of 25bps to 100bps for each class of financial instruments, with all other variables held constant. The sensitivity 
analysis is based on the following assumptions:
  Changes in market interest rates affect interest income or expense of variable interest financial instruments; and
   Changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense in relation to financial instruments with fixed interest rates if these are 
recognised at their fair value.
With all other variables held constant the Group has assessed that this reasonably possible change in market interest rates does not present a material 
exposure to the Group’s balance sheet and income statement.
Foreign exchange risk
The international nature of the Group’s operations exposes the Group to a number of foreign currencies. The Group does not hedge foreign currency 
profit and loss translation exposures and the reported results may therefore be affected by currency fluctuations.
The Group is not generally subject to foreign exchange transaction exposure except in its Indian operations where revenues are generated in Sterling, 
US Dollars and Euros and the cost base is primarily in Indian Rupees. Under the Group’s foreign exchange risk management policy, exposures may  
be hedged with forward foreign exchange contracts when the underlying cash flows are deemed to be highly probable. It is the Group’s policy to 
negotiate the terms of the hedge derivatives to match the terms of the underlying cash flows in order to maximise hedge effectiveness. At  
31 December 2012 the Group had forward FX contracts of £11.4 million, €3.3 million and USD8.2 million (2011: £4.8 million and USD4.8 million) in 
place to mitigate foreign exchange volatility relative to the Indian Rupee. Of these, £10.6 million, €2.9 million and USD7.4 million (2011: £4.7 million 
and USD4.2 million) were designated as cash flow hedges of highly probable US Dollar, Euro and Sterling revenue. The cash flow hedges were 
assessed to be highly effective as at the year end date and a net unrealised loss of £0.3 million (2011: £0.6 million net unrealised loss) was recognised 
in equity. The cash flow hedges have been transacted to fix the INR value of USD, GPB and EUR cash flows expected to arise during the period 
January 2013 to November 2013.
The Group has used a sensitivity analysis technique that measures the estimated impact on the income statement and equity of a reasonably possible 
change in foreign currency exchange rates for each class of financial instruments, with all other variables held constant. The sensitivity analysis is based 
on material non-functional currency financial instruments within each entity within the Group.
The Group has assessed that a reasonably possible change of 10.0% in non-functional currency foreign exchange rate does not present a material 
exposure to the Group’s balance sheet and income statement. Foreign exchange sensitivity on the Group’s assets other than financial instruments is 
not included in this assessment.
Credit risk
Credit risks arise from the possibility that customers may not be able to settle their obligations as agreed. To manage this risk, the Group periodically 
assesses the financial reliability of customers, taking into account their financial position, past experience and other factors. Individual risk limits are  
set accordingly. Receivable balances are monitored on an on-going basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not material. The 
Group has a concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables due to the nature and structure of the Enterprise Partnerships. An analysis of 
all debts, which are past due, is included in note 19. Credit risk assessments are performed when signing up new customers. Credit risk is mitigated to 
an extent by the profile of companies with whom the Group has entered into Enterprise Partnerships, being blue chip companies. 
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, the principal assets being cash and cash equivalents, the Group’s 
exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty. The Group’s treasury function only transacts with counterparties that have a strong 
investment grade rating from a credit rating agency and ensures that no exposure to any one institution at any given time exceeds the Board-
approved exposure limit. Company overview XX-XX
131
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
131
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Liquidity risk
The Group holds cash and undrawn committed facilities at a level sufficient to ensure that the Group has available funds to meet its medium-term 
capital and funding obligations, including organic growth and acquisition activities, and to meet any unforeseen obligations and opportunities. 
The Group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using a daily cash management process and through regular cash reporting. These processes 
consider the maturity of both the Group’s financial assets and liabilities and projected cash flows from operations. The Group’s policy is to ensure 
that all projected borrowing needs are covered by committed facilities, maintaining minimum funding headroom defined by the Board.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group had available cash of £116.3 million (2011: £97.9 million) and undrawn committed debt facilities of £39.3 million 
(2011: £28.5 million).
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractually agreed undiscounted cash flows:
Expiring 
within one 
year 
£m
Expiring later 
than one
 year but not 
more than 
two years 
£m
Expiring later 
than two 
years but not 
more than 
five years 
£m
Total 
contractual 
amount 
£m
At 31 December 2012
Trade and other payables, excluding taxes, accruals and deferred income 42.3 – – 42.3 
Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 6.5 6.5 24.9 37.9 
Interest on bank borrowings 1.2 1.0 0.4 2.6 
Loan from related party – – 0.8 0.8
Finance lease liabilities including related finance cost 0.7 0.2 – 0.9 
Other financial liabilities 13.4 6.7 7.9 28.0 
Total 64.1 14.4 34.0 112.5 
At 31 December 2011
Trade and other payables, excluding taxes, accruals and deferred income 54.4 0.2 – 54.6
Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 3.0 6.6 41.5 51.1
Interest on bank borrowings 2.2 2.0 2.6 6.8
Finance lease liabilities including related finance cost 1.3 0.5 – 1.8
Other financial liabilities 20.0 – 3.6 23.6
Total      80.9 9.3 47.7 137.9
Price risk
The Group holds listed investments, classified as available-for-sale financial assets, which expose the Group to equity securities price risk. 
Potential investments are thoroughly analysed in respect to their past financial track record (mainly cash flow and return on investment), their 
market potential, their management and their competitors. These investments are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure their suitability according 
to the Group’s risk profile.
A 5.0% increase or decrease in the market value of the Group’s available-for-sale financial assets would have a £1.2 million impact on equity 
(2011: £1.2 million) and no impact on the income statement.
Capital risk 
The Group’s objective in managing its capital structure is to keep the ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 
below a target level reviewed by the Board. The Board sets the dividend policy and reviews uses of cash and debt to ensure that this ratio remains 
comfortably below the leverage covenant limit of 2.0 times that is contained within the Group’s debt facilities.
The table below presents quantitative data for the components the Group manages as capital:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Shareholders’ funds attributable to owners of the parent 177.7 167.4
Bank loan and revolving credit facilities 37.9 51.1
Obligations under finance leases 0.9 1.8
Cash in hand and at bank (116.4) (97.9)
At 31 December          100.1 122.4 132
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 133 133 132
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 133
37 Financial risk management continued
The Group operates in a number of regulatory regimes. The securities processing and retail investment account management businesses in Germany, 
XTB and FdB, maintain full banking licences and are regulated under the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin). The holding of full 
banking licences requires XTB and FdB to maintain Risk and Compliance departments that ensure the German businesses comply with German 
banking laws and are appropriately capitalised and maintain liquid assets in a pre-planned and controlled manner. Operationally the Risk and 
Compliance departments report directly to the Chief Financial Officer of XTB and FdB and maintain independent checks and balances to ensure the 
operations follow all BaFin required risk and compliance processes, such as running a Sub-Risk Committee Board. Both XTB and FdB were compliant 
with the regulatory capital requirements stipulated by BaFin during the period.
38 Related party transactions
The following companies are considered to be related parties of the Group as they hold non-controlling shareholdings in a number of the subsidiaries 
of the Group.
  The Corporation of Lloyd’s held a 25.0% interest in Ins-sure Holdings Limited and a 50.0% interest in Xchanging Claims Services Limited for the  
full year ended 31 December 2012. Some of the directors of Xchanging Claims Services Limited are employees of the Corporation of Lloyd’s.  
The emoluments of these directors were borne by the Corporation of Lloyd’s. 
  The International Underwriting Association held a 25.0% interest in Ins-sure Holdings Limited for the full year ended 31 December 2012. 
  Deutsche Bank AG held a 49.0% (including 5.0% through its wholly owned subsidiary) interest in Xchanging etb GmbH for the full year ended  
31 December 2012. Some of the directors of Xchanging etb GmbH are employees of Deutsche Bank AG. The emoluments of these directors  
were borne by Deutsche Bank AG.
   Allianz Global Investors Kapitalanlagegesellschaft mbH held a 49.0% interest in FdB for the full year ended 31 December 2012.
  SIA S.p.A. (formerly SIA-SSB S.p.A.) held a 49.0% interest in Kedrios S.p.A. on 1 January 2012. On 7 November 2012, the shareholding of SIA S.p.A.  
was reduced to 1.3%. 
A description of the nature of the services provided to/from these companies by/to the Group and the amount receivable/(payable) in respect of each 
at 31 December, are set out in the table below:
Sales/(purchases)
Year end receivables/  
(payables)
Services provided by/to the Group
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Securities processing services 98.4  104.9  8.8  10.1 
Processing, expert and data services 1.3  26.3  1.0  0.9 
Property charges –  0.3  –  (0.1)
Consultancy services 0.2  0.3 – – 
IT costs, premises, divisional corporate charges and other services in support of operating activities (20.5) (22.6) (10.0) (7.4)
Operating systems, development, premises and other services in support of operating activities 0.6  1.3  0.2 –
Desktop, hosting, telecommunications, accommodation and processing services (2.1) (2.2) (0.6) (0.7)
Consortium relief –  –  –  (0.4)
No provisions (2011: £nil) have been recognised against receivables from companies that are related parties. 
The Group holds a receivable balance of £6.0 million (€7.3 million) (2011: £5.2 million (€6.2 million)) due from the trustee of the Xchanging 
Transaction Bank GmbH pension plan, Deutsche Treuinvest Stifrung. This balance is for employee benefits paid out by the Group that are refundable 
to the Group by the pension trustee.
Transactions with Directors and key management
The compensation disclosure below relates to the Company Directors and key senior managers within the Group, who constitute the people having 
authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the Group’s activities. For the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2012, the key 
senior managers within the Group are deemed to be the Executive Board members.
Key management compensation (including Directors)
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Short-term employee benefits 2.8 4.0
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.3
Share-based payments 0.9 1.2
Termination benefits 0.3 1.4
Total 4.1 6.9
A non-interest-bearing loan of £34,000 was made to Andrew Binns in November 2012. The loan amount is outstanding at 31 December 2012.  
The repayment date is April 2013.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued Company overview XX-XX
133
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
133
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  133
Further information regarding Company Directors’ remuneration is disclosed in the Remuneration report on pages 61 to 69. 
The total gain made by Directors during the year from the exercise of share options was £nil (2011: £nil).
During 2007, prior to the IPO, loans were provided by the Xchanging BV Employee Benefit Trust to a number of employees including Directors and 
key management personnel to enable them to purchase shares in Xchanging BV (these shares have been subsequently exchanged for shares in the 
Company). The loans are non-interest-bearing and become repayable on the earlier of the cessation of employment, transfer or disposal of the shares, 
or acceptance of another loan from the Group to refinance the shares and 31 December 2011.
No balances are outstanding from current Directors and key management personnel.
The following table shows balances due from those individuals who were either Directors or members of key management in prior years but have 
subsequently left the Group and are therefore no longer considered to be related parties of the Group. The information is provided for comparative 
purposes only. 
F share Loans
2012 
Balance 
outstanding 
£m 
2011 
Balance 
outstanding 
£m 
S Beard – 1.0
R Houghton – 0.7
Total – 1.7
During 2011, Richard Houghton and Steven Beard repaid in full loans provided by the Xchanging BV Employee Benefit Trust.
Melissa Bruno has signed an amended loan agreement allowing her to repay the remaining amount of £48,000, monthly on a means-tested basis 
commencing on 1 January 2012.
A non-interest-bearing loan of £1.2 million (€1.5 million) was granted to Matthias Sohler (key management at the time of the loan) for the purpose of 
purchasing shares in the Company. Matthias Sohler left the Group in February 2011. In March 2012, Xchanging GmbH initiated a court claim against 
Matthias Sohler in order to recover a total of £1.4 million owed to the Company and Matthias Sohler initiated a counter claim against the Group to 
recover £1.2 million of unpaid bonuses. A settlement agreement was reached with Matthias Sohler on 29 January 2013, who agreed to reimburse the 
Group £0.4 million in total.
39 Investments in subsidiaries
A list of significant subsidiaries of the Group is provided in note 4 of the Company financial statements. 134
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 135 134
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 135
Independent auditors’ report to the members  
of Xchanging plc on the parent company financial statements
We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Xchanging 
plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Company 
balance sheet, the Company cash flow statement, Reconciliation of 
operating loss to net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities and 
the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities set 
out on page 52, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on 
the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the 
company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of 
the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to 
any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in 
the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Parent Company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of 
significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the 
financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: 
  Give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at  
31 December 2012 and of its cash flows for the year then ended;
  Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
   Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
  The part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
   The information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year  
for which the Parent Company financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where 
the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: 
   Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or 
   The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the 
Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or 
   Certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or 
  We have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of 
Xchanging plc for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Paul Aitken  
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London
28 February 2013 Company overview XX-XX
135
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  135
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
Note
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Fixed assets
Investments 4 77.5 75.8
77.5 75.8
Current assets
Debtors 5 258.3 249.7 
258.3 249.7 
Current liabilities
Bank overdraft 6 (8.2) (2.0)
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 7 (56.0) (55.5)
Net current assets 194.1 192.2 
Total assets less current liabilities 271.6 268.0 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 8 (0.2) (0.1)
Net assets 271.4 267.9 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 9 12.0 11.9 
Share premium account 10 108.6 107.8 
Other reserves 10 7.8 7.8 
Profit and loss account 10 143.0 140.4 
Total shareholders' funds 11 271.4 267.9 
These financial statements on pages 135 to 140 were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2013 and signed on its behalf by:
David Bauernfeind Kenneth Lever 
Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer
Company balance sheet 
as at 31 December 2012
Company Number: 05819018 136
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 137 136
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 137
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Net cash outflow from operating activities (6.2) (1.3) 
Net decrease in cash (6.2) (1.3)
Cash at 1 January (2.0) (0.7) 
Cash at 31 December (8.2) (2.0)
Reconciliation of operating loss to net cash  
outflow from operating activities
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Operating profit/(loss) from continuing activities 1.3 1.3
Share-based payment expense 0.5 0.9 
Increase in debtors (8.6) (0.8)
Increase in creditors 0.6 0.3 
Net cash outflow from continuing operating activities (6.2) (1.3)
Company cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2012 Company overview XX-XX
137
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  137
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
1 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable 
Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom. A summary of the more important Company accounting policies, which have been applied 
consistently, is set out below.
No profit and loss account has been presented by the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. 
(i) Going concern
The Directors believe that preparing the financial statements on the going concern basis is appropriate based on projections for the foreseeable future.
(ii) Fixed asset investments
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment. Impairment reviews are conducted at the end of the first full year 
following acquisition and thereafter where indicators of impairment are present. As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, cost is the aggregate of 
the nominal value of the relevant number of the Company’s shares and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the share capital of 
the subsidiary undertakings.
(iii) Financial instruments
The accounting policy for the Company for financial instruments is the same as that shown in the Group accounting policies. This policy is in 
accordance with FRS 26, ‘Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement’.
(iv) Dividend income
Dividends receivable from the Company’s investments in subsidiary undertakings are recognised when the Company’s right to receive payment 
is established.
(v) Share-based payments
The Company operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for 
the grant of an equity-settled transaction is recognised as an expense over the periods in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on 
the vesting date of the award. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the equity 
instruments granted. Non-market vesting conditions are reflected in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest. At each 
balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision to 
original estimates, if any, in the profit and loss account, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. Awards where vesting is conditional upon a 
market condition are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions 
are satisfied. 
Equity-settled share-based compensation plans that are made available to employees of the Company’s subsidiaries are treated as increases in equity 
over the vesting period of the award, with a corresponding increase in the Company’s investments in subsidiaries, based on an estimate of the 
number of shares that will eventually vest.
The proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium when the 
options are exercised. 
(vi) Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available in FRS 8, ‘Related party disclosures’, not to disclose transactions with its wholly owned 
subsidiary undertakings. There are no other external related parties.
2 Directors’ emoluments
Disclosure of the Directors’ remuneration is contained in the Remuneration report on pages 61 to 69 and in note 38 of the Group financial statements.
3 Auditors’ remuneration
The audit fees payable in relation to the audit of the financial statements of the Company are £0.2 million (2011: £0.1 million). Fees paid to the 
auditors and their associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the individual financial statements of the Company 
because Group financial statements are prepared which disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
4 Investments
£m
At 1 January 2011 73.4
Increase in investments in subsidiaries – share-based payments 2.4
At 31 December 2011 75.8
Increase in investments in subsidiaries – share-based payments 1.7
At 31 December 2012 77.5
Notes to the Company financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012 138
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 139 138
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 139
Notes to the Company financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
4 Investments continued
The Company has the following significant subsidiary undertakings:
Name Country of incorporation Principal activity
Effective 
interest and 
proportion of 
equity held
Xchanging Holdings Limited* England and Wales Holding company 100%
Xchanging BV Netherlands Intermediate holding company 100%
Xchanging GmbH Germany Business processing services 100%
Xchanging UK Limited England and Wales Management services to Group companies 100%
Xchanging Claims Services Limited England and Wales Intermediate holding company 50%
Ins-sure Services Limited England and Wales Business processing services 50%
London Processing Centre Limited England and Wales Business processing services 50%
LPSO Limited England and Wales Business processing services 50%
LCO Non-Marine and Aviation Limited England and Wales Business processing services 50%
LCO Marine Limited England and Wales Business processing services 50%
Xchanging Procurement Services Limited England and Wales Business processing services 100%
Xchanging HR Services Limited England and Wales Business processing services 100%
Xchanging Transaction Bank GmbH Germany Business processing services 51%
Fondsdepot Bank GmbH Germany Business processing services 25.5%
Xchanging Broking Services Limited England and Wales Business processing services 100%
Xchanging Global Insurance Solutions Limited England and Wales Business processing services 100%
Xchanging Systems & Services Inc USA Business processing services 100%
Xchanging Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd Malaysia Business processing services 100%
Xchanging Technology Services India Private Limited India Business processing services 100%
Xchanging Resourcing Services Limited England and Wales Business processing services 100%
Ferguson Snell and Associates Limited England and Wales Business processing services 93.9%
Xchanging Procurement Services Europe SAS France Business processing services 100%
Xchanging (Mauritius) Limited Mauritius Intermediate holding company 100%
Xchanging Solutions Limited (formerly Cambridge  
Solutions Limited) India Business processing services 75%
Xchanging Solutions (USA), Inc. (formerly Scandent Group Inc.) USA Business processing services 75%
Nexplicit Infotech India Pvt. Limited India Business processing services 75%
Xchanging Solutions (Europe) Limited (formerly Cambridge 
Solutions Europe Limited) England and Wales Business processing services 75%
Xchanging Solutions (Singapore) Pte Limited (formerly 
Cambridge Solutions Pte. Limited) Singapore Business processing services 75%
Xchanging Solutions (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd (formerly Cambridge 
Solutions Sdn. Bhd.) Malaysia Business processing services 75%
Cambridge Solutions Pty Limited
1
Australia Business processing services 75%
Xchanging Integrated Services Victoria Pty Limited Australia Business processing services 100%
Xchanging Integrated Services Australia Pty Limited Australia Business processing services 100%
Data Integration Limited England and Wales Business processing services 100%
Xchanging Business Service Deutschland GmbH  
(formerly Xchanging Investmentservice GmbH) Germany Business processing services 25.5%
Xchanging Italy Holding S.r.L. (formerly Xchanging Italy S.r.L) Italy Intermediate holding company 100%
Kedrios S.p.A.
2
Italy Business processing services 98.7%
Xchanging Procurement Services Italy S.r.L Italy Business processing services 100%
Xchanging Procurement Services Spain SL Spain Business processing services 100%
Xchanging Services Inc USA Business processing services 100%
Xchanging Builders Private Limited (formerly  
Cambridge Builders Private Limited)
3
India Property development company 100%
Xchanging US Funding Limited England and Wales Financing company 100%
Xchanging Finance (Luxembourg) SARL Luxembourg Financing company 100%
* Held directly 
1
 Liquidated during 2012 
2
 Subsequent to 31 December 2012 Kedrios S.p.A. changed its name to Xchanging Italy S.p.A. and merged with AR Enterprises S.r.L. 
3
 Subsequent to 31 December 2012 Cambridge Builders Private Limited changed its name to Xchanging Builders Private Limited
A full list of subsidiaries will be annexed to the Company’s next annual return filed with the Registrar of Companies.
Entities in which the Company holds less than 51% of the equity share capital are treated as subsidiaries because the Company has overall operational 
and financial control.  Company overview XX-XX
139
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  139
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Financial statements 70-140
5 Debtors
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 256.3 249.0
Corporation tax 2.0 0.7
Total debtors 258.3 249.7
Included within amounts owed by Group undertakings above, is an unsecured loan to XUK Holdco (No. 2) Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary, 
of £47.7 million (2011: £47.7 million), which bears interest at 2.5% above LIBOR, with no fixed date of repayment.
All other amounts are unsecured, interest-free and have no fixed date of repayment. 
6 Cash and bank
Xchanging plc’s current account forms part of a regional cash pooling arrangement. The cash balances within this pool are offset on a notional basis 
to optimise the region’s liquidity management. There is a £10.0 million (2011: £10.0 million) net overdraft facility attached to the cash pool.
7 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Trade creditors 0.1 0.1
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 55.2 55.2
Other creditors 0.3 0.1
Accruals 0.4 0.1
Total creditors falling due within one year 56.0 55.5
All amounts owed to Group undertakings included in the above balance are unsecured, interest-free and have no fixed date of repayment. 
8 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
An amount of £0.2 million has been included in long-term creditors (2011: £0.1 million) relating to tax and social security balances due after more than 
one year. 
9 Called up share capital
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Allotted and fully paid
240,310,919 (2011: 239,509,739) ordinary shares of 5 pence each 12.0 11.9
Issued share capital – ordinary shares
During 2012, 651,180 share options (2011: nil) have been exercised and 150,000 share awards (2011: nil) issued.
Share rights
All Xchanging plc ordinary shares carry equal share rights. 
Share-based payments
A charge of £0.5 million (2011: £0.9 million) has been incurred in the year in respect of the Performance Share Plan. Further details on this scheme are 
included within note 27 of the Group financial statements. 140
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 141 141 140
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 141
Notes to the Company financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued
10 Reserves
Share 
premium
£m
Other 
reserves
£m
Profit and 
loss reserve
£m
At 1 January 2012 107.8 7.8 140.4 
Profit for the year – – 0.8 
Value of employee services attributable to share-based payments – – 2.2
Issue of shares – in respect of share options and share awards issued in the year 0.8 – (0.4)
At 31 December 2012 108.6 7.8 143.0 
Other reserves comprise differences in share price between the date of issue and the date of control passing in respect of acquisitions.  
This reserve relates to the 2009 Cambridge Solutions Limited acquisition.
The Company’s profit for the year was £0.8 million (2011: £1.2 million)
11 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Opening equity shareholders' funds 267.9 263.6 
Issue of shares – in respect of share options issued in the year 0.5 –
Profit for the year 0.8 1.2
Value of employee services attributable to share-based payments 2.2 3.1
Closing equity shareholders' funds 271.4 267.9 
12 Contingent liabilities
The Xchanging plc Group, of which the Company is a member, has a £75.0 million multicurrency revolving credit facility and a £20.0 million term  
loan provided by a syndicate of banks in respect of which Xchanging plc is a guarantor. As at 31 December 2012, £7.0 million and €13.0 million  
(£10.6 million) (2011: £28.0 million) was drawn as cash under the revolving credit facility, and a further €20.0 million (£16.5 million) and USD2.7 million 
(£1.7 million) (2011: €20.0 million (£16.8 million) and USD2.7 million (£1.7 million)) were utilised for letters of credit issued on behalf of the Group.  
At the end of 2012, the balance outstanding against the term loan was £20.0 million (2011: £20.0 million). Scheduled repayments of the term loan 
commence from January 2013. Both the facilities mature in August 2015.
On 31 May 2011, following the sale of the US workers’ compensation and third-party administration operations, certain guarantees were made to the 
buyer as part of the sale and purchase agreement, in respect of any claims that may arise relating to periods prior to the sale. Amounts have been 
provided within the Group litigation provision for claims that the Directors reasonably believe may arise. Company overview XX-XX
141
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  141
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  141
Shareholder information
Other information 141-143
Share price information
The Company’s share price can be found  
on the Company’s corporate website at  
www.xchanging.com within the Investor 
Relations section.
Shares online
Equiniti Limited provides a range of shareholder 
information online. Shareholders can access 
their shareholdings and find advice on 
transferring shares and updating their details  
on www.shareview.co.uk
ShareGift
Shareholders who only have a small number of 
shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell 
them may wish to consider donating them to 
charity through ShareGift, the independent 
charity share donation scheme (registered 
charity no. 1052686). Further information about 
ShareGift may be obtained from Equiniti Limited 
or from ShareGift on +44 (0)20 7337 0501 or at 
www.sharegift.org. There are no implications 
for capital gains tax purposes (no gain or loss) 
on gifts of shares to charity and it is also 
possible to claim income tax relief.
Shareholder enquiries
For queries concerning shareholdings, contact 
Xchanging’s registrars, Equiniti Limited, whose 
details are below.
Shareholders who have any questions about  
the Group’s business should contact  
Xchanging’s Investor Relations team  
on +44 (0)20 7780 6999 or  
email investor.relations@xchanging.com
Shareholder fraud
Fraud is on the increase and many shareholders 
are targeted every year. If you have any reason 
to believe that you may have been the target  
of a fraud, or attempted fraud in relation to  
your shareholding, please contact  
Equiniti Limited immediately.
Company registration number
5819018
Company’s registered office
Xchanging plc 
34 Leadenhall Street  
London EC3A 1AX  
United Kingdom
Registrars 
Equiniti Limited  
Aspect House  
Spencer Road  
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA  
United Kingdom 
Telephone: +44 (0)871 384 2030 
Overseas tel: +44 (0)121 415 7047
The helpline is open from 8.30 am  
Monday to Friday. 
UK calls to 0871 numbers are charged at  
8 pence per minute from a BT landline and 
other telephone providers’ costs may vary.
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
1 Embankment Place  
London WC2N 6RH  
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0)20 7583 5000
Bankers
Lloyds TSB Bank plc  
City Office  
Gillingham  
PO Box 72 
Bailey Drive 
Gillingham Business Park 
Kent ME8 0LS  
United Kingdom
Corporate brokers
Citigroup  
Citigroup Centre  
Canada Square  
London E14 5LB  
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0)20 7986 4000 
Fax: +44 (0)20 7986 2266
Espirito Santo 
10 Paternoster Square 
London 
EC4M 7AL 
Tel: +44 (0)20 7456 9191 
Fax: +44 (0)20 7456 9189
Financial public relations
The Maitland Consultancy Limited 
Orion House 
5 Upper St. Martin’s Lane 
London 
WC2H 9EA 
Tel: +44 20 7379 5151 
Fax: +44 20 7379 6161
Financial calendar
15 May 2013 Annual General Meeting 
30 June 2013 Half year end 
31 July 2013 Announcement of 
  half-year results 
31 December 2013 Financial year end 142
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 143
Glossary of terms
A
AGI – Allianz Global Investors 
Kapitalanlagesellschaft mbH.
AGM – Annual General Meeting.
Adjusted operating profit – excludes 
exceptional items, amortisation of intangible 
assets previously unrecognised by an acquired 
entity, acquisition costs, and non-recurring 
operational items that the Directors believe will 
aid the reader’s understanding of the accounts.
Adjusted earnings per share – Xchanging’s 
share of adjusted profit for the year divided by 
the weighted average basic number of 
Xchanging plc shares in issue for the year ended 
31 December.
AR – AR Enterprises S.r.L.
Articles or Articles of Association – the 
Articles of association of Xchanging plc.
B
BaFin – German Federal Financial Supervisory 
Authority overseeing banking, insurance, 
securities and asset management.
Board of Directors – the Board of Directors of 
Xchanging plc, comprising Geoff Unwin, Ken 
Lever, David Bauernfeind, Michel Paulin,  
Bill Thomas, Stephen Wilson, Saurabh Srivastava 
and Ian Cormack. 
BPaaS – Business processing as a Service
BPO – Business Process Outsourcing.
BPS – Business Processing Services.
C
CAD – Computer-aided design.
CAM – Computer-aided manufacturing.
CAGR – compound annual growth rate. 
Cambridge – Cambridge Solutions Limited has 
been renamed as Xchanging Solutions Limited.
Cash conversion – is calculated as operating 
cash flow divided by adjusted operating profit.
Cedent – A party to an insurance contract who 
passes financial obligation for certain potential 
losses to the insurer.
CEO – Chief Executive Officer.
CFO – Chief Financial Officer.
CLASS – Claims Loss Advice and Settlement 
System.
Cloud computing – is the provision of fully 
managed consumption-based services over 
high speed internet infrastructure.
CO
2
e – equivalent carbon dioxide.
Combined Code – the Combined Code 
published in June 2008 by the Financial 
Reporting Council. Company – Xchanging plc.
CRM system – customer relationship 
management system.
CSR – Corporate Social Responsibility.
CTA – Contractual Trust Arrangement.
D
DI – Data Integration Limited, one of the UK’s 
leading networking, security and 
communication technology providers, acquired 
by Xchanging in June 2010.
DB – Deutsche Bank AG.
Directors – the Board of Directors of 
Xchanging plc, comprising Geoff Unwin, Ken 
Lever, David Bauernfeind, Michel Paulin, Bill 
Thomas, Stephen Wilson, Saurabh Srivastava 
and Ian Cormack. 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules – the 
disclosure and transparency rules of the UK 
Listing Authority.
 
E
EBIT – see adjusted operating profit.
EBITDA – adjusted operating profit before 
depreciation and amortisation.
Economic profit – Adjusted operating profit 
less a charge for tax and a charge for cost of 
invested capital.
EdW – Entschädigungseinrichtung der
Wertpapierhandelsunternehmen.
EP – Enterprise Partnership, a corporate 
partnership between Xchanging and 
a customer.
ESG – Employee, Social and Governance.
ESOP – Executive Share Option Plan.
EU – European Union.
Executive Board – the Executive Board of 
Xchanging are listed on pages 48 to 49.
F
FdB – Fondsdepot Bank GmbH, an EP between 
Xchanging and AGI in Germany.
FRS – Financial Reporting Standards.
FSA – Financial Services Authority. 
FSB – FondsServiceBank GmbH.
Four Part Action Plan – Xchanging’s Four Part 
Action Plan developed in 2011 includes 
performing a strategic and intrinsic value review, 
generating operational improvements, revenue 
growth and cash flow funding structure.
G
GPO – Gainshare Procurement Outsourcing 
model.
Group – Xchanging plc and its subsidiaries and 
subsidiary undertakings.
H
HR – Human resources.
I
IaaS – Infrastructure as a Service.
IAS – International Accounting Standards. 
IFRIC – International Financial Reporting 
Interpretations Committee.
IFRS – International Financial Reporting 
Standards.
IMR – Insurers’ Market Repository.
IP – intellectual property.
IPO – initial public offering.
IRIS – International Insurance and Reinsurance 
Solution.
IT – information technology.
ITIL – information technology infrastructure 
library.
ITO – information technology outsourcing.
IUA – International Underwriting Association of 
London is the world’s largest representative 
organisation for international and wholesale 
insurance and reinsurance companies.
J
JV – Joint venture.
K
Kedrios – Kedrios S.p.A., representing the 
partnership between Xchanging and SIA S.p.A. 
in Italy.
KPI – key performance indicator.
L
LCH – London’s Clearing House.
The Leading Edge Programme – Xchanging’s HR 
initiative which selects employees from each 
region and business to develop into the 
Company’s future executives.
LME – London Metal Exchange.
London insurance market – comprises 
insurance and reinsurance companies, 
Lloyd’s syndicates, P & I clubs, and brokers 
with the core of its activity being the conduct 
of internationally traded insurance and 
reinsurance business.
LMA – London Market Association provides 
professional, technical support to the Lloyd’s 
underwriting community and represents 
their interests.
N
Nearshore – near to the customer’s premises, 
typically in a cheaper region of the same 
country.
Non-executive Directors – the Non-executive 
Directors of Xchanging are listed on pages 46  
to 47. 143
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Other information 141-143
O
Offshore – another country or region where 
costs are lower. 
On-site – where Xchanging operations are 
located at the customer’s site.
Operating cash flow – is calculated  as 
operating profit (EBIT) plus non-cash items  
and working capital movements less  
capital expenditure and dividends to  
non-controlling interests.
OTC – over the counter.
P
PaaS– Platform as a Service.
PSP – Performance Share Plan.
PwC – PricewaterhouseCoopers.
R
Revenue visibility – recurring revenue 
comprising three components: annuity, volume 
at risk and renewals.
RFP – Request for Proposals.
RPI – Retail Price Index.
S
SaaS – Software as a Service.
SDF – service delivery framework.
SEE – social, ethical and environmental.
SIA S.p.A. – formerly SIA-SSB S.p.A. 
A European financial and payment systems 
services provider and Xchanging’s partner in 
the Kedrios partnership. 
Six Sigma – a process optimisation 
methodology, which seeks to improve outputs 
through eliminating errors and variance.
Solvency II – the updated set of regulatory 
requirements for insurance firms operating in 
the European Union, effective 1 January 2013.
Special Economic Zone – a region within a 
country where economic growth is promoted 
through local economic and legal incentives.
SPP – Share Purchase Plan.
SWIFT – Society for Worldwide Interbank 
Financial Telecommunication.
 
T
TESA – The Electronics Securities Architecture, 
our proprietary trading software.
TPA – Third party adviser.
TRC – Treasury Risk Committee.
TSR – Total shareholder return.
U
UK Corporate Governance Code – the UK 
Corporate Governance Code published in June 
2010 by the Financial Reporting Council.
UK Critical National Infrastructure – The 
national infrastructure comprises the facilities, 
systems, sites and networks necessary for the 
delivery of the essential services upon which 
daily life in the UK depends.
UK GAAP – UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice.
X
XBS – Xchanging Broking Services Limited. 
Xchanging – Xchanging plc and its subsidiaries 
and subsidiary undertakings.
Xchanging Italy S.p.A. – An Xchanging 
company comprised of Kedrios and AR formed 
on 1 February 2013.
Xchanging Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. – Joint 
venture with YTL Communications.
XIS – Ins-sure Holdings Limited, an EP between 
Xchanging, Lloyd’s of London and the 
International Underwriting Association in  
the UK.
XMB – Xchanging Management Board.
XPC – Xchanging Performance Committee.
XTB – Xchanging Transaction Bank GmbH, an 
EP between Xchanging, Deutsche Bank and Sal 
Oppenheim in Germany. 
XTS – Xchanging Technology Services, 
Xchanging’s technology businesses in the UK.
Xuber – Xchanging’s Insurance software 
business.
Y
YTL – YTL Communications Sdn. Bhd.  
of Malaysia, a subsidiary of YTL Power 
International Berhad, and joint venture  
partner with Xchanging in Xchanging  
Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.
  144
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012
Notes Designed and produced by MerchantCantos  
www.merchantcantos.com
Printed by Pureprint Group using their  
environmental print technology, a guaranteed,  
low carbon, low waste, independently audited 
process that reduces the environmental impact  
of the printing process. Pureprint Group is a 
CarbonNeutral
®
 company and is certified to 
Environmental Management System, ISO 14001  
and registered to EMAS, the Eco Management  
and Audit Scheme.
This report is printed utilising vegetable based inks 
on Heaven 42, which is sourced from well managed 
forests independently certified according to the 
rules of the Forest Stewardship Council. Xchanging
34 Leadenhall Street
London
EC3A 1AX
UK
T: +44 20 7780 6999
F: +44 20 7780 6998
Registered in England and Wales 
company number 5819018
Foundations
 f o r gr ow t h
Foundations for growth      Xchanging Annual report 2012
Annual report 2012
