 TECHNOLOGY  
AT OUR CORE
Annual Report 2014
TECHNOLOGY AT OUR CORE      Xchanging Annual Report 2014 XCHANGING is a business technology 
and services provider . We operate with 
three segments: Business Processing, 
T echnology and Procurement. Through 
innovation, technology, customer and 
market insight, we provide differentiated 
solutions that address our customers’ 
operational and processing challenges 
and add value to their businesses. 01
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
• 
Adjusted operating profit of £55.8 million (2013: £55.5 
million), representing a 21.5% underlying year-on-year 
improvement; 
• 
Expected revenue reductions (Xchanging T ransaction 
Bank, HR Services business, London Metal Exchange 
contract) partially offset by full first year revenue benefit 
from MM4 and first contribution from acquisition of 
Agencyport Europe
*
;
• 
Y ear-end net cash of £13.7 million (2013: £120. 1 million) 
reflected £90.3 million of acquisitions and £43. 4 million 
of capital expenditure;
• 
Board recommend an increase in dividend of 0.25 pence 
to 2.75 pence.
406.8
526.4
2014 2013
NET REVENUE (£million)
13.7
10.5
2014 2013
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN (%)
STRATEGIC HIGHLIGHTS
• 
Achieved year’s objectives of matching 2013 level 
of profitability despite businesses exited in 2013, 
and positioning the Company for growth in 2015;
• 
Our transformation is complete. Xchanging is now 
a business technology and services provider;
• 
Business Processing Services: further simplified structure 
with full ownership of German business, Fondsdepot 
Bank, and Xchanging Italy;
• 
T echnology: accelerated strategic development of 
Xuber insurance software business with acquisitions 
of T otal Objects (£11.5 million) and Agencyport Europe
*
 
(£64. 1 million); well positioned to offer software products 
meeting international and standardised needs of our 
customers. Application Services business grew well;
• 
Procurement: now based around MM4 technology 
platform; refocused range of services; new leadership; 
good sales successes in the second half; acquisition of 
Spikes Cavell Analytic (in February 2015);
• 
Invested in Group’s infrastructure to support future growth.
55.8
55.5
2014 2013
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT (£million)
6.5
52.9
2014 2013
OPERATING CASH FLOW (£million)
CONTENTS
Section 1: Strategic report
04 Xchanging at a glance
06 Chairman’s statement
08 Our business model
10 Our strategic objectives
12 Key performance indicators
14  Xchanging’s four key strengths
16 Our year in review
18 Chief Executive’s report
18 Market review
24 Principal risks and uncertainties
28 Business review
34 Financial review
40 Corporate social responsibility
Section 2: Corporate governance
46 Chairman’s overview
48 Board of Directors
50 Executive Board
52 Corporate governance report
55 Audit Committee report
58 Nomination Committee report
59 Remuneration Committee report
75 Directors’ report
Section 3: Financial statements
82  Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members 
of Xchanging plc
88 Consolidated income statement
89 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
90 Consolidated cash flow statement
91 Consolidated balance sheet
92 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
137 Company balance sheet
138 Notes to the Company financial statements
 
Section 4: Other information
142 Shareholder information
143 Glossary of terms
View the report online at www.xchanging.com
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 02 03
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 
04 Xchanging at a glance
06 Chairman’s statement
08 Our business model
10 Our strategic objectives
12 Key performance indicators
14 Xchanging’s four key strengths
16 Our year in review
18  Chief Executive’s report 
18  Market review
24 Principal risks and uncertainties
28 Business review
34 Financial review
40 Corporate social responsibility
 STRA TEGIC 
 REPORT
In this Strategic report we describe our business 
model, strategy and performance during 2014, and 
provide a review of the markets in which we operate 
and the risks we face. TECHNOLOGY PROCUREMENT
BUSINESS  
PROCESSING 
SERVICES
Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 04
Xchanging at a glance
 Putting technology  
 at our core
BUSINESS PROCESSING 
SERVICES
USING TECHNOLOGY TO ENHANCE THE 
VALUE OF BUSINESS PROCESSING SERVICES
We manage complex back and middle office processes enabling 
customers to focus on the growth of their core businesses. T o 
support our customers, we offer flexible solutions supported by 
domain expertise and, increasingly, by innovative technology. 
T echnology is changing the approach our customers take to their 
own markets: digitalisation is a significant driver . 
We help customers address these sometimes ‘disruptive’ challenges 
and opportunities, including linking their digital and legacy 
environments by using technology-enabled processes. 
Whilst we have particular domain strength in the P&C Insurance 
and Banking and Capital Markets industries, we have customers in 
a variety of industries, including: Private Equity, Construction & Real 
Estate, Manufacturing, Retail & Distribution, Healthcare and the 
Public Sector . Our depth of insight into our customers’ markets and 
into their individual businesses enables us to provide differentiated 
innovative industry and customer-specific solutions in response to 
new challenges. Our delivery locations across 11 countries allow us to 
offer solutions that are delivered from on, near and offshore centres 
as well as across multiple geographies to address our customers’ 
processing challenges and add value to their businesses (see the 
Business review on pages 28 to 29). Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 05
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
PROCUREMENT
WRAPPING SERVICES AROUND A CORE 
TECHNOLOGY PLATFORM
Our Procurement business remains a global leader in its field
*
. 
Across 48 countries we employ over 900 procurement specialists 
who, every year , manage over £13 billion of spend and help 
improve customers’ business profits by up to 30%. This global 
reach and strength of industry expertise allows us to add value 
to a wide range of businesses. 
Our Procurement business has been significantly repositioned 
in 2014 following the acquisition of MM4 in September 2013. The 
acquisition enabled us to put technology at the centre of our 
procurement offerings. MM4 can now be offered as technology in its 
own right, via a stand-alone licence to the MM4 platform; and as part 
of a newly re-focused set of four technology-enabled procurement 
services: Procurement Outsourcing (‘PO’), Software-as-a-Service 
(‘SaaS’), Procurement-as-a-Service (‘PaaS’) and Tail-end Spend 
Management (‘TSM’). In February 2015 we announced a further 
procurement technology acquisition, Spikes Cavell, to complete 
the procurement technology platform.
The broadening of our offerings to span simple and low cost entry 
point SaaS licences through to complex technology-enabled 
services is allowing us to build our customer base more rapidly. 
We are also building our leadership position in the TSM market, 
addressing the 20% of organisations’ spend that typically goes 
unmanaged (see the Market review on page 18 and the Business 
review on pages 32 to 33).
TECHNOLOGY
PROVIDING ENABLING TECHNOLOGY  
FOR CUSTOMERS’ BUSINESSES
T echnology is at the core of everything we do at Xchanging,  
but it is also a business in its own right. We employ over 2,000 
technology professionals including project management teams, 
testing staff, solutions architects and software developers.
Constantly innovating, Xchanging uses its market insight and 
understanding of its customers to help them to maintain a 
competitive edge in the face of rapid industry and technology 
developments. We are investing significantly in our capabilities to 
bring technology to the market either directly, for example in the 
form of software licences, or through technology-enablement of 
business processing services that we provide. Within our Application 
Services business, we build, test and support software applications 
for customers, many of whom are global leaders in their own field 
(see the Business review on pages 30 to 31).
OUR PEOPLE
At the end of 2014 we had over 7 ,400 employees 
globally. Our employees are spread across our global 
offices including the UK, India, the US, continental 
Europe, South East Asia and Australia. 
We actively promote adoption of Xchanging’s Values 
across our global Company in a number of ways. The 
2014 employee engagement survey showed that 88% 
of employees apply these values in the way they work 
(see page 40 for more information on the survey). This 
is a very encouraging step towards achieving ‘One 
Xchanging’ (see page 10 – Our strategic objectives).
*
Everest Group: Procurement Outsourcing (PO) – Annual Report 2014: Expanding New Horizons, June 2014
370
102.3
54.1
282.4
93.1
31.3
2014 2013
NET REVENUE (£million)
 Business Processing Services
 T echnology
 Procurement
59.7
9.2
1.8
64.1
6.8
(2.5)
2014 2013
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT (£million)
 Business Processing Services
 T echnology
 Procurement
16.1
9.0
3.3
22.7
7.3
(8.0)
2014 2013
ADJUSTED OPERATING MARGIN (%)
 Business Processing Services
 T echnology
 Procurement Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 06
 2 01 5 is the year  
we prove ourselves 
Chairman’s statement
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT
In last year’s annual report I said that the new Xchanging 
was clearly starting to emerge. The last four years have been 
spent working to transform the Company according to a new 
business model (see page 8) and to position it as a strong 
competitor in its chosen markets. 2014 was another year of 
intense activity as the new Xchanging took further shape as 
a business technology and services provider . 
First and foremost, we took a number of organic and 
inorganic steps in pursuit of our strategy of putting 
technology at the core of our business. We further simplified 
the Company’s structure. In Germany we drew to a close 
another legacy Enterprise Partnership, giving us direct 
control and full enjoyment of the benefits of future growth. 
We have made good progress addressing customer 
concentration and are starting to see the balance of 
smaller customers grow.
GEOFF UNWIN  
CHAIRMAN
“2014 was another year of intense 
activity and the new Xchanging 
took further shape as a business 
technology and services provider . ” Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 07
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
PEOPLE
Once again in 2014 we made challenging demands of our 
employees, and once again they have responded with dedication 
and enthusiasm. After a strong improvement last year , it was very 
encouraging to see another good response to our annual employee 
engagement survey in 2014. The results showed particularly strong 
engagement with our Values initiatives and Awards programme and 
with the Company’s objectives (see more on page 40). 
Although cultural change is challenging and takes time, especially in 
a Company undergoing significant transformation, it is clear that the 
new ‘One Xchanging’ culture is steadily taking root. I would like to 
thank all our employees for their continuing support and hard work 
without which we would not have been able to make the progress we 
have in such a short space of time. 
SHAREHOLDER RETURNS AND DIVIDENDS
After a strong +23% performance in 2013, and a further 20% rise 
by autumn 2014, the share price ended the year flat. This was 
disappointing. We believe the Competition and Markets Authority 
(‘CMA’) decision towards the end of the year to refer the Agencyport 
Europe
*
 acquisition for a Phase 2 review has had an impact.
We have felt and, in the first half of 2015, will continue to feel the 
negative effects of the demands the CMA review process places 
upon the Company’s resources, and on our ability to win new 
business in the insurance software market. We cannot predict the 
outcome of the review, expected mid-2015, however we remain 
confident that our own assessment at the time we made the 
acquisition in July 2014, showing no competition issues, was sound.
Given the year’s performance, sales success in 2014 and the growth 
prospects for the business in 2015, the Board feels it is appropriate 
to recommend raising the dividend by 0.25 pence to 2.75 pence.
FUTURE
After four exacting years, we have completed the re-shaping of the 
Company and have positioned it for a resumption of revenue and 
profit growth in 2015. We have a much stronger senior management 
team and have started to demonstrate our ability to sell effectively. 
We are closer to our customers and are using the insights we gain 
to raise the value of the services we provide to them. 
Much still remains to be done, and in 2015 our challenge will be to 
prove ourselves and demonstrate absolute growth in the business. 
Our focus will remain on developing and deploying our sales 
capabilities; on stimulating and harnessing innovation; and on putting 
technology at our core. Having resolved the majority of our legacy 
issues, simplified the business, continued to progress our strategy 
and invested in strong offerings with improved sales capability, 2015 
is the year we prove ourselves.
GEOFF UNWIN 
CHAIRMAN 
26 February 2015
CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION AND MARGIN 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
£million %
CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION AND MARGIN
 Revenues from customer contracts greater than £10 million
 2011 2012 2013 2014
 Revenues from customer contracts less than £10 million
 Margin on net revenue     
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
Critically, building on the work of 2013, our sales and marketing 
capability has gained momentum. We focused on putting our 
resources behind a prioritised range of offerings and were more 
selective about the sales opportunities that we pursued. The benefits 
are starting to show. Management changes have re-energised parts 
of our business, notably in Procurement and Application Services, 
and investment in a more efficient infrastructure is evidenced by the 
reduction in our operating cost.
We said in last year’s annual report that we expected 2014 to be a 
challenging year . We rose to the challenge, achieving our objectives 
of matching 2013 profitability, making up the additional ground from 
business exited in 2013, and positioning the Company for growth in 
2015. We had our disappointments: Xuber contracts have proved 
slower to crystallise than we expected; the Agencyport Europe
*
 
acquisition was referred for CMA Phase 2 review; and we did not 
win the New South Wales Workers’ Compensation contract re-bid. 
Despite these, we achieved a commendable performance in a 
demanding year . We have concluded the year having met our 
financial objectives and having also further shaped the business 
in line with our strategic aims (you can read more on these themes 
in the Chief Executive’s report on page 18).
BOARD
Our current Board composition has been in place for two years. This 
period of stability has enabled Board members to develop a deeper 
understanding of the Company and its operations. In turn, this has 
brought continuity to the Board’s strategic thinking at a critical and 
demanding period in Xchanging’s development.
The benefits these factors are bringing to overall Board performance 
were reflected in the first external assessment which was conducted 
during the year . Other factors included the satisfactory resolution of 
legacy issues and stronger relationships between Board members. 
We have welcomed a number of new people at Executive Board and 
senior management levels. The appointments are a further measure 
of the transformation of our businesses, and an integral part of our 
repositioning for renewed growth in refocused markets.
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 08
Our business model
 Our business model
Through technology, innovation, customer and industry insight,  
Xchanging develops and delivers differentiated solutions that address 
customers’ operating and processing challenges, thereby adding value  
to their businesses.
TO DELIVER PRODUCTS  
AND SERVICES
THAT UNLOCK VALUE  
IN OUR CUSTOMERS’  
BUSINESSES
WE UTILISE 
OUR CAP ABILITIES
STRENGTHS
• 
Domain expertise
• 
Complex business processing and critical technology
• 
On/near/offshore – flexible cost base
• 
Adaptability and flexibility
BUSINESS PROCESSING 
SERVICES
• 
Chosen industries and markets
• 
Well-established, lower risk
• 
With a significant annuity element
• 
Cash generative
• 
Growing at a moderate rate
• 
Frequently we own the technology 
platform and the intellectual property
VISIBILITY HIGH
GROWTH MEDIUM 
POTENTIAL
MARGIN STEADY 
POTENTIAL
INNOVATION
• 
Defining business outcomes 
• 
Adding value
TECHNOLOGY
• 
Based on a variety of types and lengths 
of contract
• 
Built around some specific applications
• 
In markets growing at 5-10%
• 
Benefiting from a base of well-established 
customer relationships
• 
Frequently we own the intellectual property
• 
Potential for higher growth and margins
VISIBILITY  LOW
GROWTH HIGH 
POTENTIAL
MARGIN TO RISE 
POTENTIAL
TECHNOLOGY
• 
Embedded in processes
• 
Creating differentiation
• 
Driving innovation
PROCUREMENT
• 
Building broader customer base
• 
In markets growing at >10%
• 
Offerings based around core technology
• 
Investing to enter new markets
• 
Global market leading position
• 
Traditional expertise based services refocused 
• 
New Tail-end Spend Management offering 
in niche market
VISIBILITY  MEDIUM
GROWTH HIGH 
POTENTIAL
MARGIN TO RISE 
POTENTIAL
CUSTOMER AND INDUSTRY INSIGHT
• 
Supports ability to innovate business outcomes  Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 09
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HELPING OUR CUSTOMERS  
UNLOCK VALUE
Our depth of insight into our customers’ businesses and their 
markets means that we offer more than solutions that simply 
address a particular operating or processing problem. We aim 
higher , and think instead in terms of our customers’ ultimate 
business outcomes. We combine the ‘One Xchanging’ 
expertise we have across our three segments with our 
innovative skills to bring customers solutions that unlock 
value and realise the growth potential in their businesses.
CUSTOMERS
VALUE
DIFFERENTIATED 
OFFERING
INSIGHT
TECHNOLOGY 
INNOVATION
THAT UNLOCK V ALUE  
IN OUR CUSTOMERS’  
BUSINESSES
AND GENERATE VALUE FOR  
OUR OWN SHAREHOLDERS  
OVER THE LONGER TERM
REINVESTMENT IN 
INNOVA TION, TECHNOLOGY 
AND GROWTH POTENTIAL
T o achieve our growth ambitions we have invested 
in our existing businesses as well as in acquisitions, 
particularly where they bring technology capabilities 
that support our strategic objectives. Unlocking 
value in our customers’ businesses in turn enables 
us to deliver value to our own shareholders. 
RETURNS TO  
SHAREHOLDERS Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 10
 •
COMPETE TO WIN
We compete in global markets for customers with diverse 
business needs. We have a refocused set of offerings and 
serve customers in multiple geographies. In recent years 
we have made great progress building our sales capabilities 
and redefining our ‘go-to-market’ strategies to ensure they 
drive success. 
In doing this we continuously test three fundamental questions: 
What are we selling? Who are we selling to? Why would the 
customer buy from us? 
We have focused our legacy portfolio of offerings to 
concentrate our resources behind what we do best. We have 
focused on target customers that have a clear propensity to buy 
from us, and on those opportunities where we are confident we 
can compete successfully. We have focused our efforts to 
ensure that our offerings are clearly differentiated and 
increasingly technology-enabled. In particular , we are 
harnessing technology with a renewed focus on the 
development of offerings that are repeatable and scalable, and 
that capture valuable intellectual property. Y ou can read more 
about the strengths that build our ability to compete on page 14, 
‘Xchanging’s four key strengths’.
 •
INCREASE REVENUE FROM  
EXISTING CUSTOMERS
We have maintained our focus on cross-selling and  
up-selling within those organisations where we already 
have relationships. The business case for presenting the full 
range of our services to these customers is strong. Many are 
global names, often within the top three of their individual 
industries, and they are predominantly in industries where 
we can demonstrate deep domain expertise.
Many have long-term relationships with us, some built over 
10 to 15 years of collaboration. So they already have trust and 
confidence in what we can provide. However we started working 
together , these organisations will continue to meet both 
disruptive challenges and opportunities as technology rapidly 
permeates all business sectors. We help customers address 
both challenges and opportunities in ways that unlock 
significant value at the same time as further embedding 
our relationships.
T echnology-enablement
Xchanging has emerged from a four year transformation journey 
that puts technology at our core. In a business world that is 
rapidly digitalising, we address our customers’ most complex 
processing challenges through innovation.
Our strategic objectives Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 11
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
 •
YEAR-ON- YEAR IMPROVEMENT 
IN FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Meeting our financial objectives whilst carrying out a 
fundamental transformation of the business has tested us 
over the last four years. Despite the significant headwinds we 
set out in last year’s annual report as we entered 2014, we 
have achieved our objectives of matching 2013 profitability 
and positioning the Company for growth in 2015. 
Over the last four years, we have turned loss-making 
businesses into profit. We have been replacing legacy contracts 
that are either commercially unattractive or no longer core to 
our strategy with new business on more robust terms and at 
improving margins. We have reduced customer concentration 
and thereby the risk that the loss of any one contract can 
destabilise the overall business (see page 26). We have 
simplified our corporate structure and the basis of our 
shareholders’ returns. 2015 is the year we prove ourselves.  
Our objectives for 2015 are to show a resumption of growth in 
revenue and profitability, a return to stronger cash generation 
and to see returns on the substantial investment that has  
been made.
 •
ACHIEVE ‘ONE XCHANGING’
The objective of increasing revenue from our existing 
customers is aligned to and assisted by going to market as 
one coherent organisation with the provision of technology-
enabled solutions at its core. Great progress has been made 
with this strategy over the past four years, moving beyond a 
silo mentality and focusing on delivering successful business 
outcomes for our customers rather than selling individual 
‘point’ products and services. 
We have sustained our efforts to embed a ‘One Xchanging’ 
culture. Through our management leadership, Values, internal 
communication initiatives, collaborative tools and operating 
structure these efforts are showing results. Our people are 
pivotal to the success of our business and we strive to ensure 
high engagement levels both vertically and horizontally in 
order to achieve a unified culture. Our 2014 employee 
engagement survey showed particularly strong commitment to 
the Company and its objectives (see page 10). We have further 
to go; but the convergence of our offerings around technology 
supports this objective. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 12
Key performance indicators
Measuring value creation
KPI DESCRIPTION RELEVANCE
ADJUSTED  
OPERATING  
PROFIT MARGIN %
13.7%
Adjusted operating profit
*
 expressed as a  
percentage of net revenue. 
*  Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets 
previously unrecognised by acquired entities and acquisition-related expenses.
13.7
10.5
9.5
2014 2013 2012
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN (%)
Places focus on increasing the proportion 
of net revenue from technology and 
technology-enabled services where 
higher returns can be made.
Measures ongoing performance in 
managing the efficiency and cost- 
effectiveness of the business.
PERFORMANCE
See page 35 for more detail.
 The adjusted operating profit margin 
was impacted by the loss of the LME 
contract and the exit of the XTB and 
HR businesses and certain insurance 
contracts, offset by increased processing 
volumes within the BPS business, and 
improvements in operating efficiency.
KPI DESCRIPTION RELEVANCE
ECONOMIC 
PROFIT £M
£24.9m
Adjusted operating profit less a tax charge at the  
Group’s effective rate, less a charge for invested capital.
24.9
28.4
22.3
2014 2013 2012
ECONOMIC PROFIT (£m)
Measures the value generated for 
shareholders.
Performance condition of the Group’s 
Long T erm Incentive Plan in 2014.
PERFORMANCE
Economic profit decreased as a result 
of increased investment during the year , 
partially offset by a lower tax rate. 
KPI DESCRIPTION RELEVANCE
RETURN ON 
INVESTED  
CAPIT AL %
21.0%
Adjusted operating profit less a tax charge at the  
Group’s effective rate, divided by invested capital.
21.0
33.4
28.0
2014 2013 2012
RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL (%)
Measures the efficiency of the use 
of the Group’s assets.
Measures shareholder value over 
the long term.
PERFORMANCE
Return on invested capital was 
impacted as a result of the increased 
investment during the period. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 13
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
KPI DESCRIPTION RELEVANCE
ADJUSTED  
CASH  
CONVERSION %
17 .2%
Percentage of adjusted operating profit converted to 
adjusted operating cash flow.
*
*  Adjusted operating cash flow is defined as operating cash flow after adding back the cash 
impact of exceptional items, acquisition-related expenses and movements on customer 
cash accounts held by FdB. divided by adjusted operating profit. See previous KPI for 
definition of adjusted operating profit.
17.2
58.0
122.0
2014 2013 2012
ADJUSTED CASH CONVERSION (%)
Ensures the Group has the financial 
strength to reinvest in the development 
of the business. 
Effective measure of the quality 
of earnings.
PERFORMANCE
 Adjusted cash conversion was impacted 
by the increased level of investment 
combined with a net working capital 
outflow in the year .
KPI DESCRIPTION RELEVANCE
EQUITY FREE 
CASH FLOW £M
(£7.6m)
Operating cash flow
*
 less cash tax and net interest  
paid including dividends received. 
*  Operating cash flow is calculated as cash generated from operations less net capital 
expenditure (including pre-contract costs) and dividends to non-controlling interests.
(7.6)
33.4
50.3
2014 2013 2012
EQUITY FREE CASH FLOW (%)
Provides an assessment of how much 
cash is generated by the Group, which is 
available to invest in acquisitions, return 
to shareholders and pay down 
outstanding debt.
Indicates cash available to the Group’s 
shareholders, which includes 
movements on customer cash 
accounts held by Fondsdepot Bank 
(‘FdB’).
PERFORMANCE
Equity free cash flow was impacted 
by the increased level of investment 
combined with a net working capital 
outflow in the year . Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 14
Xchanging’s four key strengths
Why do customers  
choose Xchanging?
Our competitive position is enhanced by four key strengths that  
enable us to differentiate ourselves in our chosen markets.
 •
DOMAIN EXPERTISE
Our competitive landscape is varied. One of the major 
factors allowing us to stand out within that landscape is an 
acknowledged depth of insight into specific markets. This 
domain expertise is the result of long-standing customer 
relationships, providing innovative technology-enabled 
solutions to organisations which are often amongst the 
leaders in their industries. 
This has allowed us to accumulate intellectual property which 
we embed into our technology solutions and platforms such 
as Netsett, Xuber and MM4. Our employees share a wealth of 
expertise built up over decades. We understand our markets 
and enable customers to meet their changing needs. 
 •
COMPLEX BUSINESS PROCESSING 
AND CRITICAL TECHNOLOGY
Our customers drive value by entrusting us to find solutions 
for complex business processes which would otherwise 
absorb valuable resources and distract them from their key 
business objectives. With the rapid spread of digitalisation, 
technology has become central to this strategy, for ourselves 
and for our customers alike. 
We bring this critical technology to our customers in two ways. 
We sell technology to them directly with, for example, licences 
to use our Xuber insurance software or our MM4 procurement 
technology platform. In addition, we also provide customers 
with technology as an enabler for their business processes 
embracing, for example, robotics – whether that is an 
application we develop internally, where we own the intellectual 
property, a best-in-class third party solution or a solution 
delivered through partnering with an external provider . Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 15
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
 •
ADAPT ABILITY AND FLEXIBILITY
We understand that, whilst seeking greater efficiencies and 
data intelligence from their business processes, customers 
also want to retain varying degrees of control and influence, 
and to operate in ways that fit with their particular business. 
Xchanging’s size and operational organisation enables us 
to offer a high degree of flexibility in the way we work with 
our customers. 
Our flexible operating model is a point of difference – 
especially when competing with some of the larger , less 
flexible vendors in our markets. T ogether with our culture of 
approachability and access to the most senior management, 
this continues to be a critical factor in winning contracts.
 •
ON/NEAR/OFFSHORE – FLEXIBLE 
COST BASE
Xchanging offers a flexible base of on, near and offshore 
centres in order to provide customers with an optimised cost 
base for their business processing needs. We also recognise 
that what customers expect from these assets – and from 
outsourcing in general – is changing. 
In the past, the primary driver was labour arbitrage through 
offshoring. From there, we saw the emphasis develop to 
operational efficiency through ‘follow-the-sun’ workflows, in 
which tasks flow between sites that are time zones apart, as 
well as process automation and economies of scale. T oday, we 
are transformation partners to our customers and use all our 
assets – including our on/near/offshore centres – to improve 
business outcomes. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 16
 •
TECHNOLOGY
SMMT SELECTS  
XCHANGING 
JANUARY
In a competitive tender , Xchanging was 
selected to provide software development 
and outsourcing services for The Society of 
Motor Manufacturers and T raders (‘SMMT’). 
As part of this contract we will build an 
innovative big data solution and deliver 
centralised back office processing services.
 •
PROCUREMENT
MM4 CUSTOMER WINS 
SINCE ACQUISITION
JANUARY
We announced in January that MM4 had 
gained 11 new customer contracts since 
acquisition in September 2013, cementing its 
position in the eSourcing market. Such wins 
showcase the success of our innovative 
technology-enabled procurement offerings 
and MM4’s growing presence in key sectors 
and new industries. 
 •
BPS
NEW RISK DATA 
CAPTURE SERVICE 
(‘DCS’)
FEBRUARY
We launched a new shared service to 
capture insurers’ policy information. 
DCS is an innovative offering that 
delivers high quality risk data within 
hours of service initiation and enhances 
Xchanging’s shared services offerings 
to the London insurance market.
 •
BPS
BINDER 360 LAUNCH
FEBRUARY
February saw the launch of our 
bordereaux transformation solution, 
‘Binder 360 Services’. The insurance 
service offers users the freedom to 
utilise the facility according to their 
evolving business requirements and 
ultimately provides operational 
efficiency and effectiveness through 
an innovative consumption model.
 •
PROCUREMENT
GODIVA CONTRACT WINS
FEBRUARY
We signed two new contracts with 
Godiva Chocolatier Inc., following the 
successful delivery of procurement 
services to Godiva Belgium B.V. 
over the previous 12 months. This 
demonstrated our ability to compete 
to win with our procurement services, 
supported by world-class processes 
and technology. 
 •
TECHNOLOGY
EXPANSION OF 
PARTNERSHIP WITH 
DASSAULT INDIA
FEBRUARY
In line with our strategy to increase 
revenue from existing customers, we 
have expanded our partnership with 
Dassault Systèmes. This partnership 
will help us to bring increasingly 
innovative and integrated solutions to 
manufacturers and their supply chain.
 •
TECHNOLOGY
NEW XUBER CUSTOMER, 
ASCOT
MARCH
We competed for and won a contract with 
Ascot Underwriting Ltd., the global speciality 
insurance underwriter and Lloyd’s syndicate, 
for the provision of Xuber Claims. Xuber will 
deliver a specifically designed management 
solution to optimise, automate and measure 
each stage of the claims life-cycle.
 •
TECHNOLOGY
INVESTMENT IN 
MACHINESHOP INC.
MARCH
In March we made a US$1 million investment 
in MachineShop Inc., a Boston-based, next 
generation enterprise middleware provider . 
The investment is part of our strategy to 
penetrate the Internet of Things (‘IoT’) market 
more deeply and demonstrates our focus on 
providing technology-enabled solutions. 
 •
PROCUREMENT
LAUNCH OF MM4  
IN AUSTRALIA
MARCH
MM4 was formally launched to the Australian 
market in March as part of our focus on 
driving technology-enabled, collaborative 
procurement solutions to the Australian 
market. MM4 was already being used by 
Xchanging as a tool to support existing 
clients in the Insurance and Higher Education 
sectors in Australia, helping customers to 
streamline the sourcing process, remove 
administrative workload and drive market 
pricing for goods and services.
 •
GENERAL
XCHANGING MOVES INTO 
NEW LONDON OFFICE
APRIL
This year our London office relocated to 
The Walbrook Building. The move has 
allowed all London employees to be 
located on a single, 50,000 sq. ft. floor 
which also includes a dedicated 
customer business lounge and two demo 
rooms featuring innovative technology. 
 •
BPS
NEW LLOYD’S CLAIMS 
PROCESSING CONTRACT
APRIL
In April we agreed a three year claims 
processing contract to support our 
Lloyd’s customers. Using innovative 
technology, our claims business will 
continue to serve customers in the 
London insurance market.
 •
BPS
FEES DIRECT REBRANDED 
AS VEROMETRIX
MAY
Known previously as Fees Direct+, 
Verometrix is a third-party management 
solution designed to provide customers 
with greater insight and full control over 
expert outsourcing. There are currently 
11 customers that use Verometrix, six of 
which were won in 2014. 
Our year in review
2014: Another year  
of intense activity Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 17
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
 •
TECHNOLOGY
LAUNCH OF XUBER RA TING 
MAY
Xuber’s new tool ‘Xuber Rating’ was launched 
in May providing our customers with a software 
solution to help measure the risk of providing 
insurance and the cost to customers. The 
offering was developed in partnership with 
Moore Stephens Consulting and provides 
insurers with a more manageable, 
distributable and auditable rating solution.
 •
TECHNOLOGY
XCHANGING ACQUIRES 
AGENCYPORT EUROPE
*
 
JUL Y
We acquired Agencyport Europe
*
, 
a software business, in July. The 
acquisition will strengthen the Xuber 
insurance software offerings and provide 
access to the growing Health Insurance 
sector . The acquisition is currently being 
investigated by the CMA, it is in Phase 2 
with a decision expected in Q2 2015.
 •
PROCUREMENT
EXECUTIVE APPOINTMENT
JUL Y
Chirag Shah was appointed to the 
position of Executive Director , 
Procurement, putting technology at 
the core of Xchanging’s Procurement 
business. Chirag is the co-founder 
of MM4, the procurement business 
acquired by Xchanging in 2013.
 •
TECHNOLOGY
ACQUISITION OF 
FONDSDEPOT BANK
JUL Y
In July Allianz Global Investors exercised 
its put option and Xchanging became the 
sole owner of Fondsdepot Bank (‘FdB’), 
a provider of investment account 
administration. This acquisition is in line with 
our move towards a simplified Xchanging. 
Simultaneously, FdB was awarded a contract 
extension to assume legal investment 
account management for all accounts held 
at Allianz Global Investors as of mid-2015.
 •
TECHNOLOGY
C.R.I. PUMPS CHOOSE 
XCHANGING
AUGUST
We competed and won a contract with C.R.I. 
Pumps, a leading pump manufacturer in 
India. Xchanging will be supporting 
innovation by streamlining operations and 
enabling product performance. The team 
will deploy a Dassault Systèmes platform 
to shorten product time-to-market and 
enhance a customer-centric approach. 
 •
TECHNOLOGY
NEW SERVICES A T KUALA 
LUMPUR’S SECOND 
TERMINAL
AUGUST
In August we extended our award winning 
Automatic Fare Collection (‘AFC’) solution 
for Express Rail Link Sdn in Malaysia. The 
cloud-based ticketing solution allows rapid 
integration of new stations at any time, 
making the system fully scalable. The system 
includes a number of innovative solutions to 
enable passengers to plan and manage their 
itinerary more efficiently. 
 •
BPS
NEW CUSTOMERS PILOT 
NETSETT
SEPTEMBER
September saw the launch of Netsett in 
partnership with Deutsche Bank. Netsett 
is a pioneering technology platform that 
adds value to the accounting and net 
settlement process. Following the launch, 
customers including Willis, Cooper Gay 
Swett & Crawford, and Ruschlikon UK 
members, ACE, XI Group and Generali 
participated in pilot programmes for 
inter-company processing.
 •
PROCUREMENT
XCHANGING RECOGNISED 
AS ‘LEADER’ IN GLOBAL 
PROCUREMENT 
OUTSOURCING MARKET
SEPTEMBER
In September , Xchanging was recognised 
in Everest Group’s annual Procurement 
Outsourcing (‘PO’) Service Provider 
Landscape report as both a ‘Leader’ and 
a ‘Star Performer’ for our procurement 
services. As well as recognising our 
performance, experience, ability and 
knowledge, Everest’s ‘Leaders’ are known 
for leveraging their technology 
capabilities to deliver transformational 
solutions to clients.
 •
BPS
NEW MEDICARE 
REPORTING SERVICES
NOVEMBER
In November , we announced an alliance with 
ExamWorks Clinical Solutions, the industry 
leader and provider of Medicare Compliance 
Services to the Global Insurance and 
Self-Insurance Marketplace. This innovative 
tie-in allows insurers to check and report on 
US Medicare eligible claimants to the Centre 
for Medicare Services (‘CMS’).
 •
TECHNOLOGY
END OF WORKERS’ 
COMPENSA TION CONTRACT 
IN NEW SOUTH WALES (‘NSW’)
NOVEMBER
Xchanging had been managing c.5% of 
the Australian State of NSW’s Workers’ 
Compensation portfolio since 2010 under 
a contract that expired at the end of 2014. 
The contract was not renewed after a re-bid. 
 •
TECHNOLOGY
XCHANGING ACQUIRES 
TOT AL OBJECTS 
DECEMBER
This year , we acquired T otal Objects Ltd., 
a (re)insurance software provider . The 
addition of T otal Objects strengthens our 
technology capability and is part of our 
strategy to become increasingly technology-
enabled. The acquisition was completed in 
December following clearance by the CMA.
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 18
KEN LEVER 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Chief Executive’s report and Market review
2014: T urning the corner
“We continue to simplify our 
structure as we exit legacy business 
and have invested significantly in 
our strategy to put technology at 
the core of all our businesses. ”
MEETING THE CHALLENGE
We have completed our transformation into a business 
technology and services provider . In last year’s annual 
report we said 2014 would be a challenging year as we 
transition from ‘old’ to ‘new’ Xchanging. We set ourselves 
two objectives for the year: to match 2013 profitability, 
despite the additional ground we needed to make up from 
businesses we chose to exit in the previous year; and to 
position the Company for a resumption of growth in 2015. 
I am pleased to report we have met the stretching challenge 
we set ourselves and achieved both our objectives. 
STRATEGIC PROGRESS
In 2014 Xchanging turned the corner . We continued 
to simplify our structure as we exited legacy business 
and, as set out in last year’s report, we have invested 
significantly in our strategy to put technology at the 
heart of all our businesses.  Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 19
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
MARKET REVIEW
MOVING FROM OUTSOURCING TO ‘OUT-TASKING’
The Business Processing Services (‘BPS’) market has changed. 
Low-priced service provision is no longer enough. Service 
providers must add value for their customers. Innovation and 
technology-enablement are prerequisites for successful 
partnerships. Providers are turning to analytics and data 
manipulation to move from data provider to knowledge creator , 
empowering decision makers within customer organisations.
As the BPS market matures, becoming more sophisticated, 
enterprises are increasingly recognising value in signing deals 
with specialist, best-in-class providers.
i
 Industry-specific 
providers, or those with focused offerings within industry 
agnostic services are well-placed to address this demand. 
Delivery models are also changing. Approximately one-in-three 
enterprises are already using (or are about to use) Business-
Processing-as-a-Service (‘BPaaS’) or Software-as-a-Service 
(‘SaaS’) as an alternative to traditional outsourcing in areas 
including industry-specific operations and procurement.
ii
 
Recognising these trends, Ken Lever predicts that “ As part of this 
market evolution, I see a trend towards ‘out-tasking’ rather than 
outsourcing. Processes will no longer be acknowledged as 
processes, just things that are done. Companies rarely invest in 
technology and capabilities to provide their own postal service. 
At Xchanging, we are positioning ourselves for this trend. ” 
Xchanging provides both technology and technology-enabled 
services to customers in a range of industries. Industry-specific 
solutions are provided for the P&C Insurance and Banking and 
Capital Markets sectors. In P&C Insurance, customers are 
increasingly demanding that service providers inject innovation 
into their operations.
iii
 Xchanging has responded with, for 
example, Netsett, Xpresso and Xoom. In Banking and Capital 
Markets, the market for BPS is driven by cost reduction; however , 
analytics, regulatory management capabilities and the demand 
for technology-enablement are creating new opportunities. 
Xchanging is identified as a ‘leader’ and ‘technology-driven’ 
provider to Capital Markets customers.
iv
Some of the markets where Xchanging has targeted for growth 
are explored on the next three pages.
Although interest is strong, the signing of Xuber contracts is taking 
longer than we anticipated, affected by softness in the market and 
the inherent time it takes for large software infrastructure 
investments to be approved by potential customers. The uncertainty 
created by the CMA review process has also impacted this business. 
The significant Everest Re win in the US in late 2013 however 
evidences why we remain confident about the prospects for Xuber 
over time. 
Our T echnology business is also being reshaped by the strong 
emergence of our Application Services business, which came 
under dynamic new leadership in late 2011. This business, which was 
also reviewed at our November 2014 Investor Seminar  
(see www.xchanging.com), addresses a large and attractive global 
market where we have demonstrated our ability to grow existing 
accounts as well as to win new contracts.
PROCUREMENT
We have now also largely dealt with the legacy issues in our 
Procurement business which since July has been under new 
leadership. We have dramatically refocused the range of our 
traditional services and introduced a new offering, Tail-end Spend 
Management. This is an emerging market segment where we believe 
we can compete very effectively. All our procurement offerings are 
now based around the MM4 technology platform which is enhanced 
by our acquisition of Spikes Cavell in February 2015. 
Following these changes mid-year we have seen some significant 
sales successes in the second half of 2014, building on a good 
year’s performance by the core MM4 business. Our rejuvenated 
Procurement business was reviewed at our November 2014 Investor 
Seminar (see www.xchanging.com). 
BUSINESS PROCESSING SERVICES
We exited another Enterprise Partnership when we gained 100% 
ownership of our German Investment Account Administration BPS 
business, Fondsdepot Bank. We further strengthened this business 
by acquiring the remaining accounts we did not already own. The 
contract to service these remaining accounts was due for renewal 
in 2015, so by securing this customer base we have removed 
a significant risk. We now have an opportunity to develop and grow 
this business.
Our remaining, core, partnerships lie in our Insurance business 
where we enjoy a good and mutually supportive relationship with our 
Lloyd’s and International Underwriters Association partners. In our 
provision of services to the market we are active contributors to the 
Lloyd’s Central Services Refresh Programme and integral to the 
Lloyd’s Market Modernisation Programme. Investment will 
commence in 2015 alongside investment by our partners as we 
collectively invest in technology to support market modernisation. 
TECHNOLOGY
In our T echnology segment, to accelerate the building of our Xuber 
insurance software business, we made two acquisitions: T otal Objects 
and Agencyport Europe
*
. These two businesses offer operating 
synergies, bring new customer bases and open up or support 
existing additional segments of the insurance software market 
including in Binders, Risk exposure modelling and Health Insurance 
claims processing. The CMA decision to refer the Agencyport Europe
*
 
acquisition for a Phase 2 review was disappointing. We await the 
outcome which should be known by the middle of the year .
Insurance is increasingly a global business and we are well 
positioned to offer insurance software products that meet the 
international and standardised needs of global players. 
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 20
INFRASTRUCTURE FOR FUTURE GROWTH
T o support our future growth, we continued to invest in our 
organisational infrastructure in 2014. This has in part involved 
rationalising a myriad of legacy systems, for example in HR, Finance 
and IT , as well as introducing new technology, in particular , to 
enhance our Management Information systems and our ability 
to collaborate efficiently.
We also made further investment in the development of our Sales 
& Marketing infrastructure, and our improving sales performance in 
2014 provided some first rewards from this. After three years, we are 
well through both of these investment programmes, which are 
starting to show returns. We will continue to invest incrementally.
Our London head office move into new premises in early April has 
proved successful, offering a much improved working environment 
for employees and the technology infrastructure to suit our  
re-focused technology-enabled portfolio of offerings.
INVESTMENT PROPOSITION
In 2011 we set out to reshape the Company. We recognised that 
revenue was likely to shrink as we improved the quality of our 
earnings. Navigating through the replacement of legacy business 
with new has presented timing challenges, in particular in 2014. We 
have had disappointments, for example in not winning the re-bid for 
the New South Wales Workers’ Compensation contract in Australia, 
and the CMA Phase 2 referral for the Agencyport Europe acquisition.
*
 
Xuber contracts are taking longer to secure than we originally 
anticipated. 
However we have now completed our transformation process. Our 
BPS business has substantially exited all the legacy business that did 
not fit our future strategy and will see the last of this run off in 2015. 
T echnology has also made good progress exiting its legacy portfolio 
and reshaping the business, although we must wait for the CMA 
outcome to know if we can look forward to the benefits of the 
Agencyport Europe acquisition.
*
 Procurement is now remodelled 
and already demonstrating significant sales agility. 
Chief Executive’s report and Market review
continued
MARKET REVIEW CONTINUED
INSURANCE SOFTWARE
The market is characterised by the need to overcome the 
constraints of legacy systems while reducing operational costs and 
expanding technology use into areas like mobile and analytics.
iv
 
Property and casualty (‘P&C’) insurers are facing particular 
competitive pressures. Many drivers for change are internal, 
including the need for greater operational efficiency, lower cost 
of maintenance and the imperative of combining new technologies 
such as mobile and analytics effectively with old software systems. 
Externally, primary catalysts are growing regulatory requirements 
and an increasingly global and consolidated competitive 
landscape.
Ken Lever reflects, “We have anticipated the dynamics which are 
accelerating the requirements for legacy replacement and have made 
investments to develop a best-in-class Insurance Software business, 
Xuber . Xuber provides an end-to-end modular product suite targeted 
at the global complex P&C insurance market, a market where 
Xchanging has a strong history and a wealth of domain expertise. ”
The market for industry-specific insurance software requires 
insurance industry expertise, a global reach to mimic the 
multinational operations of insurance providers, and investment 
to develop the software itself. Many large insurance companies 
have established an international presence by acquisition and 
are increasingly looking to standardise software solutions across 
their organisation. 
The software functionality required for the nuanced London Market 
has historically resulted in global insurance companies 
implementing additional software alongside that for the rest of 
their operations, where functional requirements are more limited. 
Providers must offer a global solution that addresses this scope of 
needs. Xuber achieves this, with a single, componentised solution. 
A recognised brand for global complex commercial P&C insurance 
software, Xuber specifically targets this marketplace. It is in order 
to build our capabilities here that Xchanging made the acquisitions 
of T otal Objects and Agencyport Europe
*
 during 2014. 
Ken Lever comments that “The acquisition of T otal Objects will 
accelerate Xchanging’s insurance strategy in London and globally , 
providing potential synergies with Xuber . The combination of 
Xchanging’s Binder 360 solution and T otal Object’s BinderCloud 
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 21
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 
Our objective remains to develop higher value offerings that help 
customers achieve their desired business outcomes, rather than 
simply offering discrete processing services. Our three business 
segments together provide a range of offerings that, through 
technology, are increasingly bound together . This is evidenced  
by the growing level of cross-selling we are achieving. 
The new Xchanging shape is clearer now. We have a core Business 
Processing Services business, built on significant depth of expertise 
in the complex areas of the Insurance and Financial Services sectors. 
The business offers lower risk, predictable revenue with good 
margins, moderate growth, and strong cash generation. Currently 
this represents the majority of our business.
Coupled with BPS, our T echnology and Procurement businesses, offer 
the potential for higher growth and margin expansion. Both of these 
businesses have been going through significant transformation and 
carry higher risk profiles than our BPS business. They also have the 
potential to rebalance our overall business significantly in the future.
will provide insurers with greater efficiency and data accuracy . 
We recognise the importance of driving value and insight from 
data and will continue to add value to our customers by providing 
technology-enabled solutions to drive knowledge creation. ”
APPLICATION SERVICES
T echnology markets are changing rapidly. The size of the 
worldwide IT Services market is estimated at US$648 billion with 
a compound annual growth rate (‘CAGR’) of 4.7% between 2012 
and 2017.
vi
 T raditionally, this market has been suited to large 
technology providers benefiting from economies of scale and 
operating on transactional processing models. The marketplace 
for large enterprise software systems supports demand in an 
adjoining market, for customisation of those systems, integration 
and maintenance. As the technology market moves towards a 
more agile and flexible model, new opportunities are presenting 
themselves for specialist best-in-class providers. Services are often 
provided on an outcome based model.
Ken Lever considers that “We have found ways of carving out a niche 
for ourselves where we are able to bring value to our customers and 
sell technology-enablement as a service or as technology itself . 
The large application services market allows many companies 
with differentiated offerings to participate and still have a healthy 
business in this marketplace. ”
Enterprises are increasingly demanding an ‘unbundling’ of 
services, giving rise to a market for dedicated providers. Nimble 
approaches to application services are requisite in a world where 
the norm is constant technological change. Companies are 
re-examining their engagement with technology, demanding 
greater IT agility. The result: a sharp shift towards simple, modular , 
custom apps.
vii
 
Ken Lever comments “We look to provide differentiated, technology-
enabled capabilities which we combine with our deep industry 
expertise in our target markets, keeping us relevant and critical to our 
customers’ IT environments. Our Application Services business is 
important for Xchanging as a whole – it provides a technology 
backbone that helps us supplement and support the entire Xchanging 
business with a source of knowledge, skills and capabilities that we 
can use to drive innovation. ” 
“Basic business processing based  
around people has commoditised and 
customers are looking further for value. ” Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 22
Chief Executive’s report and Market review
continued
MARKET REVIEW CONTINUED
PROCUREMENT
The Procurement Outsourcing (‘PO’) market reached nearly 
US$2 billion in 2014 and has a forecast CAGR of 10. 4% to 2018.
viii
 
Within this expanding market, Xchanging was recognised by 
industry analysts Everest Group as a ‘Leader’ and a ‘Star 
Performer’ for the second consecutive year .
ix
 
Ken Lever reflects, “ As in the wider BPS market, the PO market is 
now well established. Procurement has evolved and is now perceived 
as a ‘value focused’ activity as well as a ‘cost focused’ activity . 
Examples of ‘out-tasking’ have emerged, of which MM4 is a good 
example. eSourcing is not disruptive to companies’ existing 
infrastructure. Rather than investing to develop in-house capabilities, 
this very specific operation is increasingly ‘out-tasked’. This shift 
has made investment in technology an imperative. ”
Everest Group have established that partnerships between 
procurement vendors and technology firms are the preferred 
way for service providers to deliver technology-enablement to 
their customers. However , there is a potential weakness in this 
approach. Multiple service providers using the same technology 
vendors can lead to undifferentiated solutions, resulting in the 
erosion of PO providers’ competitive edge.
x
 
As technology becomes increasingly central to PO delivery, 
Xchanging has differentiated itself by obtaining intellectual 
property in technology capabilities. This includes acquiring 
MM4 (in 2013), Spikes Cavell (in February 2015) and developing 
proprietary in-house solutions, including a savings tracker , now 
incorporated within the MM4 platform. 
The maturing PO market and increasing vendor technology 
capabilities have given rise to a market for Tail-end Spend 
Management (‘TSM’). The ‘tail-end’ of a procurement 
department’s spend refers to the 20% of non-core transactions 
that typically go unmanaged. The 20% ‘tail’ is often made up of 
a large number of ‘one-off’ or low volume purchases from 
multiple suppliers that are difficult to source cost-effectively if 
in-house resources and processes are limited. Service providers 
are typically able to achieve incremental savings of 15-17% of the 
customer’s cost base
xi
 using technology to enhance sourcing 
effectiveness. T o do this effectively requires strong technology 
capabilities, scale efficiencies, a track record of sourcing and 
credible supplier relationships. Service providers in TSM today 
have an early mover advantage to establishing best practice 
strategies and strong reputations in a new PO market segment. 
Ken Lever believes Xchanging’s established position in PO 
means we are well placed to address the new TSM market: 
“Xchanging’s technology capabilities and agile delivery model 
are uniquely suited to this new marketplace and we have several 
customers for whom we already provide T ail-end Spend 
Management services. ”
SUMMARY
Ken Lever summarises, “Xchanging looks to position itself in 
markets that are attractive and where we have differentiated 
offerings and the organisational capabilities that allow us to 
compete to win. It is against this backdrop that our strategy , 
outlined on page 10, has been built. ” Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 23
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Technology Procurement BPS
T echnology
Xchanging IP
T echnology-enabled
Third party IP or Xchanging IP
Customer
platform
Customer Customer 
‘Big T’ ‘Little t’
TECHNOLOGY-ENABLEMENT
OUTLOOK
In 2014 the ‘new Xchanging’ emerged.
An enormous amount of work has been accomplished over the last 
four years to reshape the business. We are clear about our strategy 
(see page 10). We are no longer pursuing major business process 
outsourcing contracts. This market is commoditising in the absence 
of technology and organisations are increasingly looking to automation 
or to returning activity in-house. The potential for the growth we seek is 
no longer available in that arena.
T o address the future market we have re-defined and focused our 
range of higher value offerings, based around technology, both in 
its own right and as an enabler and differentiator , and driven by 
innovation and insight into our markets.
In the first half of 2015, our T echnology business will be hampered 
by the CMA review of our Agencyport Europe acquisition* and the 
longer than expected Xuber sales cycle. However , Xchanging has 
undoubtedly turned a corner . We have repositioned the Company 
and in 2015 we will devote our resources to proving our technology 
strategy and demonstrating renewed revenue and profit growth.
KEN LEVER 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
26 February 2015
References
i Everest Group: Rising Anti-Incumbency in Outsourcing – Breaking Up is Not Hard to Do, 
October 2014
ii Horses for Sources: The state of services and outsourcing in 2014, October 2014
iii Horses for Sources: Closing the Innovation Gap in Insurance Operations, April 2014
iv Everest Group: Banking and Financial Services (BFS) BPO Annual Report 2014 – Low 
on Growth, High on Regulations – BFS BPO Adapts to the “New Normal”, August 2014
v Celent: IT Spending in Insurance: A Global Perspective, April 2014
vi Horses for Sources: Outsourcing is Dead, Long Live Outsourcing!, June 2013
vii Accenture: Every Business is a Digital Business: From Digitally Disrupted to Digital 
Disrupter, 2014
viii Nelson Hall: Procurement BPO Market Forecast: 2014 – 2018, August 2014
ix Everest Group: Procurement Outsourcing (PO) – Annual Report: Expanding 
New Horizons, June 2014 
x Everest Group: Procurement Outsourcing (PO) – Service Provider Landscape 
with PEAK Matrix™ Assessment 2014, September 2014
xi Everest Group: Betting on Tail Spend to Save Coin, March 2014
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 24
Principal risks and uncertainties
 Principal risks and  
uncertainties
Xchanging maintains risk registers covering 
each signiﬁcant operation, business sector, 
and the Group. We review our risk 
assessment four times a year, which helps 
to ensure we focus on the right risks and 
have appropriate mitigating actions. 
The Audit Committee reviews the risk assessment at each meeting and the 
Board reviews the Group risk register annually.
2014 has seen the overall risk profile of the Group increase as we have invested 
in growing our technology-enabled products and services, and as a result of the 
acquisition activity in the year . The risk from our concentration of customer 
contracts has reduced, following an increase in the number of contracts, as 
outlined in the Chairman’s statement. All other risks remain stable.
The Corporate governance section on pages 56 to 57 includes details about 
Xchanging’s risk management process.
HEAT MAP OF RISK CHANGE DURING THE YEAR
1.  Failure to secure new business
2.  Development of increased competition within the London 
insurance market
3.  Failure to execute integration of acquisitions
4.  Failure to utilise and exploit technology-enablement 
for growth
5.  Failure to successfully transact appropriate acquisitions 
and disposals 
6.  Concentration of material contracts
7.  Reputational risk from failure to implement and deliver 
existing and new contracts
8.  Financial results subject to volatility arising from external 
economic changes
9.  Risk arising from increased debt funding
Decreasing
Impact
Likelihood No movement Increasing
2
4
5
3
6
7
1
9
8 PRINCIPAL RISKS
RISKS COMMENTARY AND  
MITIGATING ACTIONS
RISK CHANGE  
IN YEAR
1. STRATEGIC 
Failure to secure new business from 
both new and existing customers
We operate in dynamic and competitive markets and, as such, 
failure to secure new business could result in the slowdown in the 
replacement of businesses exited during 2014 and write down of 
a significant amount of goodwill (see note 11, page 105).
Software licences are becoming an increasingly important element 
of our offerings. The timing of signing of licences is difficult to 
foresee so our revenue may become less predictable than before 
as a consequence.
Successfully winning new business is managed by:
• 
Investing in innovative products and services for both new and 
existing customers
• 
Ensuring utilisation of our technology capabilities and competitive 
low-cost offshore services 
• 
Effective performance management of sales team across 
products and services.
2. COMMERCIAL 
The development of, and increased 
competition within, the London 
insurance market
The Lloyd’s and London insurance market is subject to increased 
competition. We continue to utilise our significant domain expertise 
in this area in order to establish ourselves as the leading provider to 
the market. Xchanging, along with the other two shareholders 
(Lloyd’s and the IUA), continues to invest in our technology platform 
and systems in order to meet the future needs of the insurance 
market, and to drive change for the benefit of the market. The risks 
associated with the UK Claims business have reduced over the last 
year , albeit this will result in lower revenues than in previous years. 
The model for Claims management in the London Market has 
been clarified.
3. OPERATIONAL
Failure to execute integration  
of acquisitions
Following the acquisitions of Agencyport Europe
*
 and T otal Objects 
in 2014, successful integration is necessary in order to realise and 
maximise synergies. The referral to a Phase 2 review of the 
Agencyport Europe
*
 acquisition by the CMA impacts the timing 
of integration activity and delays the delivery of revenue and cost 
synergies. The process inevitably creates some uncertainty in the 
insurance software market. 
Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 25
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 OTHER RISKS
RISKS COMMENTARY AND  
MITIGATING ACTIONS
RISK CHANGE  
IN YEAR
4. STRATEGIC 
Failure to utilise and  
exploit technology-enablement 
for growth
The rapidly changing nature and impact of technology means that 
we need to respond to technology trends. Injecting technology-
enablement into our products and services is core to our growth 
strategy as we continue to:
• 
Invest in the development of new offerings 
• 
Develop innovative value-adding customer solutions
• 
Utilise our skilled knowledgeable resources
• 
Review our existing products and services to ensure that they 
meet our customers’ requirements
• 
Investing in our technology-enabled products such as MM4  
and Xuber .
5. STRATEGIC 
Failure to successfully  
transact appropriate  
acquisitions and disposals
As a result of the current strategy there is a risk in successfully 
identifying appropriate acquisition targets, and in ensuring that 
these are successfully acquired. 
There also remains a continuous requirement to manage the 
portfolio of businesses within Xchanging. The history of previous 
complex acquisitions and disposals in Xchanging could result in 
legacy risks emerging unexpectedly.
Legacy litigation risk from previous transactions is reviewed and 
managed on an ongoing basis. Details of contingent liabilities 
can be found in note 26 on page 123 and details of the litigation 
provision can be found in note 27 on page 124. 
Mitigating actions include:
• 
Robust analysis and due diligence of identified acquisition targets
• 
Professional negotiation and execution of transactions
• 
All businesses are subject to review including a robust process  
of intrinsic economic valuation analysis. 
6. COMMERCIAL 
We have a concentration of material 
contracts with customers in key 
markets, which may have a significant 
impact on the Group’s performance
A concentration of material contracts can lead to a reliance on specific 
customers, which may result in increased variability and uncertainty in 
the Group’s results if one of those contracts were to be lost.
Partial or full termination of certain customer contracts could result in 
impairment of goodwill through impacting operational performance. 
Our commercial risks continue to be well managed through legal review, 
delegated authorities and contract monitoring processes.
Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 26
Principal risks and uncertainties
continued OTHER RISKS
RISKS COMMENTARY AND  
MITIGATING ACTIONS
RISK CHANGE  
IN YEAR
7 . OPERATIONAL
Our reputation, and ultimately our 
profitability, is dependent upon the 
high level of service we deliver in 
implementing existing and new 
contracts for our customers
Failure to meet our customers’ expectations and contractual 
commitments would have a significant impact upon our reputation 
and profitability and could result in unexpected and costly litigation. 
Following contract wins with Xuber and in the Procurement business, 
we continue to have an implementation delivery risk in relation to 
these large contracts. We must ensure that we continue to strengthen 
and build upon these relationships.
Mitigating actions include:
• 
Consistently ensuring that our service levels are on target 
• 
Optimising our cost of delivery through standardisation 
and simplification
• 
Investing internally in Group change programmes to improve  
our shared service centre and support services
• 
Ongoing contract management 
• 
Building on existing customer relations. 
For new contract wins and implementation:
• 
Detailed implementation and delivery plans with strong 
management control and oversight
• 
Standardised procedures in use for the implementation 
and delivery of new contracts
• 
Use of experienced employees with strong project, change  
and people management skills in order to ensure successful 
implementation.
8. FINANCIAL 
The Group’s financial results may 
be subject to volatility arising from 
movements in interest and foreign 
exchange rates, pension asset and 
liability valuations, and changes in 
taxation legislation, policy or tax rates
We continue to manage our financial risk through our established 
budgeting, forecasting and working capital and treasury controls. 
This reduces the volatility of our financial results, giving the Board 
greater medium-term visibility and ensuring we have the required 
credit facilities in place.
9. FINANCIAL 
The capital structure of the Group 
includes debt funding resulting in a 
requirement to manage cash across 
the legal entities within the Group
Investments made during 2014 have resulted in an increase to the 
Group’s leverage ratio. The leverage ratio remains within the target 
range and the capital structure of the Group is reviewed by the 
Board on a regular basis. 
All investment decisions are considered within the context  
of the impact they will have on the Group’s current and forecast 
leverage ratio.
Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 27
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Operating platforms 
(‘SaaS’)
Business Processing 
Services
MANAGES MOVEMENT OF PREMIUMS AND CLAIMS
FACILITATES TRADING
REVIEWS AND ADJUSTS CLAIMS
INSURANCE
COMPANIES
BROKERS REINSURERS
SERVICE
COMPANIES
LOSS 
ADJUSTERS
THE LONDON 
INSURANCE 
MARKET
£60 billion
GROSS WRITTEN 
PREMIUM PER 
YEAR
300
ORGANISATIONS 
CONNECTED TO 
XCHANGING 
SERVICES
XCHANGING
• 
Provides robust  
IT platforms
• 
Manages 2 million 
transactions a year
• 
Allows access  
to over 40 million 
documents  
via IMR
• 
Manages gross 
premiums and 
claims over  
£54 billion p.a
• 
Daily netting 
function reduces 
cash requirement  
to £11 billion
• 
Invested  
US$200 million 
in insurance 
technology  
since 2011
XCHANGING’S ROLE IN THE LONDON INSURANCE MARKET
Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 28
Business review
 Impr o ved pr ofit  
performance
BUSINESS PROCESSING SERVICES
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Business Processing Services (‘BPS’) net revenue decreased 23.7% 
to £282. 4 million (2013: £370.0 million), including a negative foreign 
exchange impact of £7 .0 million related to movements in the Euro. 
Adjusted operating profit increased 7 . 4% to £64. 1 million (2013: £59.7 
million), representing an adjusted operating profit margin of 22.7% 
(2013: 16. 1%), including a negative foreign exchange impact of £1.2 
million. This increase in profit is despite the sale of the XTB business 
in 2013 that contributed £10.5 million adjusted operating profit in 
2013. The business delivered an improved profit performance with 
the increase in processing volumes offsetting the reduction in 
broking and securities processing revenues. The business has 
invested £5.8 million in a combination of internal change 
programmes and strategic product development that will 
simultaneously drive cost reduction and further enhance the 
product offering.
During 2014 within the Insurance business the Claims Adjusted 
Followers (‘CAF’) contract in London ended and we received notice 
that the New South Wales Workers’ Compensation contract would 
not be renewed in 2015. The exit of our New South Wales Workers’ 
Compensation contract resulted in £7 . 1 million of exceptional 
expenses. £4. 1 million of this cost resulted from writing off the 
software developed for the contract and £3.0 million of restructuring 
related charges to be incurred on contract exit.  Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 29
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
BUSINESS DRIVERS
282.4
370.0
2014 2013
NET REVENUE (£million)
64.1
59.7
2014 2013
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT (£million)
22.7
16.1
2014 2013
ADJUSTED OPERATING MARGIN (%)
On a like-for-like basis the Financial Services business has improved 
revenue and profit performance during 2014, as the investment in 
operational efficiencies continues. During the year the Group gained 
100% ownership of the German Investment Account Administration 
BPS business, Fondsdepot Bank, as well as gaining 100% of the Italian 
business. During the year the German business renewed the Allianz 
Global Investor (‘AGI’) processing contract, which will result in a 
transfer of approximately 250,000 AGI accounts to Fondsdepot Bank.
CASE STUDY: ROBOTIC PROCESS 
AUTOMATION
Xchanging has partnered with Blue Prism, a robotic 
automation provider , to provide innovative and 
efficient approaches to streamline processing. 
Within Insurance, Xchanging has automated 
10 processes, including in static claims. Staff at 
Xchanging have been trained as process modellers 
and there are now 12 virtual robots operating across 
a number of repetitive processes.
HIGHLIGHTS
In addition to greater accuracy and efficiency, 
customers will benefit from lower cost, improved 
productivity and the ability to focus on more 
value-enhancing activities in their businesses, 
leaving robotics addressing repetitive, time 
consuming tasks. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 30
Business review
continued
Continued investment  
in insurance software 
APPLICATION SERVICES: THREE CAPABILITIES ACROSS THREE OFFERINGS
TECHNOLOGY
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Net revenue for the T echnology sector has decreased 9.0% to £93. 1 
million (2013: £102.3 million), including a negative foreign exchange 
impact of £1.6 million. Adjusted operating profit decreased 26. 1% to 
£6.8 million (2013: £9.2 million), representing an adjusted operating 
profit margin of 7 .3% (2013: 9.0%). The material reduction in scope of 
the London Metal Exchange contract from May 2014 accounted for 
this decrease. 
During the year the T echnology sector continued to invest in the 
Insurance Software business. £75.6 million was spent on the 
acquisitions of Agencyport Europe
*
 (4 July 2014) and T otal Objects 
(18 December 2014). A further £11.7 million was spent developing 
the modules of the Xuber software suite, the global insurance 
application platform that provides support for the full insurance 
processing cycle. In March we also invested in an 8.3% stake in the 
enterprise middleware provider MachineShop Inc. for £0.6 million.
 
  
DEVELOPMENT  
  
TESTING  
  
SUPPORT
OFFERINGS
BESPOKE
 
  
CUSTOMISED SOLUTIONS FOR SPECIFIC  
BUSINESS NEEDS
ENTERPRISE
 
   OFF THE SHELF SOLUTIONS CONFIGURED  
FOR THE PARTICULAR ENTERPRISE
PLATFORM/PRODUCTS
 
  
IN-HOUSE DEVELOPED PLATFORMS/PRODUCTS  
AND OUTSOURCED PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
CAPABILITIES
REVENUE MODEL: Annuity and project based
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 31
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
The Application Services business continued to grow in the year and 
now constitutes a significant part of the T echnology sector . Since its 
acquisition Agencyport Europe
*
 has performed well, delivering net 
revenue of £10.5 million and adjusted operating profit of £2.8 
million in the six months to 31 December 2014. The performance of 
T otal Objects since acquisition on 18 December 2014 has not been 
included in the Group results due to materiality.
VALUE PROPOSITION FOR CUSTOMERS
2012 2014 2016
Increasing customer value
Cost  
Arbitrage
Operational 
Efﬁciency
Business 
Outcome
OPERATIONAL 
PARTNER
TRANSFORMATION 
PARTNER
BUSINESS DRIVERS
93.1
102.3
2014 2013
NET REVENUE (£million)
6.8
9.2
2014 2013
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT (£million)
7.3
9.0
2014 2013
ADJUSTED OPERATING MARGIN (%)
CASE STUDY: SMMT
In 2014, it was announced that Xchanging won a 
competitive tender for an eight year contract with 
The Society for Motor Manufacturers and T raders 
(SMMT), a trade association for the UK motor 
industry. 
The contract involved the design, development, 
deployment and hosting of a replacement solution 
to the legacy Motor Vehicle Registration Information 
System (MVRIS). The purpose-built solution 
provides enhanced functionality, flexibility and 
usability for SMMT .
The contract has required a collaborative working 
model to provide value to the customer . Within this 
Xchanging leveraged a ‘One Xchanging’ approach, 
combining services from multiple business lines in 
order to differentiate ourselves from competitors.
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 32
 R estructur ed operations
Business review
continued
OUR FOUR PROCUREMENT OFFERINGS
PROCUREMENT
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Procurement net revenue decreased 42. 1% to £31.3 million 
(2013: £54. 1 million), including a negative foreign exchange impact of 
£0.5 million. Adjusted operating profit decreased 241.2% to a loss of 
£2.5 million (2013: profit of £1.8 million), representing an adjusted 
operating loss margin of (8.0%) (2013: adjusted operating profit margin 
of 3.3%), including a positive foreign exchange impact of £0.2 million. 
The reduction was primarily due to the decision to exit from the Human 
Resources Services business (‘XHRS’) that was returned to BAE 
Systems at the end of 2013. The reduction in net revenue and adjusted 
operating profit was partially offset by the additional revenue from the 
acquired business MM4 in September 2013. In the second half of the 
year the Procurement sector had new leadership (one of the founders 
of MM4), and as such the earn-out arrangements were altered to reflect 
the broader management responsibilities in the Procurement business. 
The total potential earn-out remained unchanged, but the performance 
criteria changed to be more relevant to the broader roles. During the 
year the sector was awarded a three year contract from Godiva and MM4 
entered Australia for the first time. 
During the year £1.5 million was invested in the MM4 platform. There 
have also been a series of steps taken throughout 2014 to restructure 
the operations and reduce the cost base within the sector in Europe, 
Australia and the US.
The existing L ’Oréal contract, due to expire at the end of 2015, is 
being terminated for convenience five months early, in August 2015, 
in accordance with the terms of the contract. However , Xchanging has 
received a Letter of Intent from L ’Oréal for a new contract proposal for 
a minimum of 18 months’ duration with one extra year extension 
under discussion.
MM4 – SOFTWARE-AS-A- 
SERVICE (‘SaaS’)
 
  
Cloud-based technology  
available by subscription,  
hosted by Xchanging
    
Online MarketMaking support
Subscription model
OFFERING REVENUE MODEL
PROCUREMENT-AS-A- 
SERVICE (‘PaaS’)
 
  
SaaS (as above) and on  
premise services 
 
   Flexible menu of people, 
technology and expertise as a 
managed service
Subscription with  
‘On Demand’ services
PROCUREMENT  
OUTSOURCING (‘PO’)
    
T raditional procurement  
services now built around  
MM4 technology
Fee + gainshare
T AIL -END SPEND  
MANAGEMENT (‘TSM’)
 
   T echnology-led service designed to 
address spend activities not usually 
in scope within traditional PO or 
SaaS activity
T ransaction charge +  
performance incentive Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 33
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
TOTAL SPEND (BY SUPPLIER)
NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS
Strategically managed spend
Tail spend
STRA TEGICALL Y MANAGED SPEND VS. T AIL SPEND
80%
OF SPEND
20%
OF SPEND
BUSINESS DRIVERS
31.3
54.1
2014 2013
NET REVENUE (£million)
(2.5)
1.8
2014 2013
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT (£million)
(8.0)
3.3
2014 2013
ADJUSTED OPERATING MARGIN (%)
CASE STUDY: MCCARTHY & STONE 
MM4 provides value to customers by enhancing 
spend visibility, allowing savings to be driven on 
spend. One such customer is McCarthy & Stone, a UK 
based retirement property developer and manager , 
who signed an agreement with MM4 in 2013.
Xchanging provides Procurement-as-a-Service (‘PaaS’) 
for McCarthy & Stone, combining people, technology and 
expertise as a managed service. Since partnering with 
MM4, McCarthy & Stone has run 26 eSourcing projects 
for materials and services equating to over £32 million of 
spend. MM4 has delivered over £7 million of identified 
savings, a 23% reduction on the original spend.
HIGHLIGHTS
Since the start of the relationship, MM4 has 
expanded the categories of spend addressed, 
delivering savings on items ranging from lighting to 
steel and achieving savings of up to 61%. The level 
of savings attained demonstrates the value MM4 can 
provide to companies in the construction industry, 
an industry traditionally under-penetrated by 
procurement technology solutions. The use of 
procurement software within the construction sector 
is an innovative way of tackling the rising costs within 
construction. Since the start of the relationship with 
McCarthy & Stone, MM4 has secured two further 
customers in this sector . Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 34
A year of significant  
investment
INTRODUCTION
2014 has been a year of significant investment, helping the business 
transform into a business technology and services provider . During 
the year £115.0 million was drawn down from the £165.0 million 
revolving credit facility signed during the year . Of this £75.6 million 
was spent on the acquisitions of Agencyport Europe
*
 and T otal 
Objects to accelerate the building of our Insurance Software business. 
£14.8 million was spent on obtaining 100% ownership of our German 
Investment Account Administration BPS business, Fondsdepot Bank 
and our Italian business, Xchanging Italy S.p.A. £46.7 million of 
capital expenditure was undertaken to invest organically in our 
organisational backbone and build our product offerings. This 
increased level of investment is discussed in more detail later in this 
report. Other financial highlights from 2014 include:
• 
Y ear-on-year organic growth in adjusted operating profit of 
21.5% on a like-for-like basis despite the exit of the HR business 
in 2013 and the exit of the services contract with the London 
Metal Exchange
• 
Y ear-on-year growth in adjusted operating profit margin to 13.7%
• 
Y ear-on-year growth in basic adjusted EPS of 15. 1% due to drop in 
the 2014 effective tax rate to 14.9%
• 
Statutory operating profit was £36.6 million (2013: £81.9 million). 
This included exceptional restructuring expenses of £10.3 million 
and costs incurred from not winning the re-bid of the New South 
Wales Worker’s Compensation contract of £7 . 1 million, partially 
offset by exceptional profit during the year from the surrender 
of the Leadenhall Street Office lease and related items of 
£9.7 million
• 
The pension liability increasing by £15.0 million to £67 . 4 million 
due to decreasing bond yields
• 
The recommendation of an increase in the dividend to 2.75 pence.
GROUP FINANCIAL  
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
In 2014, the Group’s performance was impacted by the disposal of 
Xchanging T ransaction Bank (‘XTB’) in August 2013, that was not 
treated as a discontinued operation, combined with the significant 
investment programme during 2014. Please refer to the ‘like-for-
like analysis’ in the Sector performance section on page 36, for 
the impact of the disposal of XTB on net revenue and adjusted 
operating profit.
2014 2013
Increase/
(decrease)
Revenue £573.5m £685.9m (16.4%)
Net revenue
1
£406.8m £526.4m (22.7%)
Adjusted operating profit
2
 £55.8m £55.5m 0.5%
Adjusted operating profit margin 13.7% 10.5% 320bps
Statutory operating profit £36.6m £81.9m (55.3%)
Adjusted profit before tax £51. 1m £51.7m (1.2%)
Adjusted EPS – basic 11.86p 10.30p 15. 1%
Statutory EPS – basic 6.62p 21.76p (69.6%)
Operating cash flow
3
£6.5m £52.9m (87 .7%)
Adjusted cash conversion
4
17.2% 58.0% (4,080bps)
Net cash
5
£13.7m £120. 1m (88.6%)
Xchanging’s share of net cash (£31.6m) £52.8m (159.8%)
Equity free cash flow
6
(£7.6m) £33.4m (122.8%)
Return on invested capital
7
21.0% 33.4% (1,240bps)
Economic profit
8
£24.9m £28.4m (12.3%)
Notes:
1 Net revenue is total revenue less supplier costs on procurement contracts (where the 
Group acts as principal) that are incurred by the Group and recharged to the customer.
2 Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items (2014: £7.1 million expense 2013: 
£29.9 million income), amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised by 
acquired entities (2014: £6.1 million 2013: £3.2 million) and acquisition-related expenses 
(2014: £6.0 million 2013: £0.3 million).
3 Operating cash flow is calculated as cash generated from operations less net capital 
expenditure (including pre-contract costs) (2014: £43.4 million 2013: £26.6 million) and 
dividends to non-controlling interests (2014: £11.2 million 2013: £8.7 million).
4 Adjusted cash conversion is calculated as operating cash flow, after adding back the cash 
impact of exceptional items (2014: £0.7 million outflow 2013: £6.6 million inflow), 
acquisition-related expenses (2014 £1.7 million 2013: £0.4 million) and the movement 
in customer cash accounts held by Fondsdepot Bank (2014: £0.7 million outflow 2013 
£14.5 million inflow) divided by adjusted operating profit.
5 Net cash is calculated as cash and cash equivalents less bank loans and revolving credit 
facilities and finance lease liabilities.
6 Equity free cash flow is calculated as operating cash flow less cash tax (2014: £12.4 million 
2013: £17.0 million) and net interest paid including dividends received (2014: £1.7 million 
2013: £2.5 million).
7 Return on invested capital is adjusted operating profit (2014: £55.8 million 2013: £55.5 
million) less a tax charge at the Group’s effective tax rate (2014:14.9% 2013: 26.9%), divided 
by invested capital. Invested capital (2014: £226.3 million 2013: £122.0 million) is 
calculated as the Group’s net assets (2014: £240.0 million 2013: £242.1 million), less net 
cash (2014: £13.7 million 2013: £120.1 million).
8 Economic profit is adjusted operating profit (2014: £55.8 million 2013: £55.5 million) less 
a tax charge at the Group’s effective tax rate (2014: 14.9% 2013: 26.9%), less a charge for 
invested capital. The charge for invested capital is calculated as the Group’s invested 
capital (as defined above, (2014: £226.3 million 2013: £122.0 million)) multiplied by the 
Group’s weighted average cost of capital, being 10.0% (2013: 10.0%). 
Financial review
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 35
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT 
Adjusted operating profit remained constant at £55.8 million, 
representing a 21.5% increase on a like-for-like basis. This resulted in 
an adjusted operating profit margin of 13.7%. The increase was driven 
by further operating efficiencies and the impact of the restructuring 
activities taken during the year , offset by the reduction in revenue. 
Further details on the adjusted operating profit performance of each 
sector can be found in the business review.
30
40
50
60
70
80
 
£m
AOP
2013
55.5
18.8 (18.3)
(7.1)
2.4 (10.5)
16.1 (1.1) 55.8
Impact of
revenue
growth
Impact of
revenue
shrinkage
Impact of 
acquisitions
Impact of
LME and 
XHRS 
1
Impact of 
disposal
of XTB
Change in 
cost base
Foreign
exchange
AOP
2014
1  Impact of LME and XHRS refers to: 
the exit of the services contract with the London Metal Exchange in May 2014; 
the exiting of the Human Resourcing Services business (‘XHRS’) in December 2013. 
MARGINS
Adjusted operating profit margin improved by 320 bps to 13.7% in 
2014. Further details on the adjusted operating profit performance 
of  each sector can be found in the business review.
INCOME STATEMENT
NET REVENUE
Net revenue decreased by £119.6 million. The growth in revenue 
from the full year impact of MM4 (£3.5 million) and the acquisition 
of Agencyport Europe
*
 during the year were offset by the loss of 
revenue following the disposal of XTB (£71.8 million), the exiting 
of the Xchanging HR Services business (£25.8 million) and the loss 
of the London Metal Exchange (‘LME’) contract (a net reduction of 
£22.0 million in 2014). Further details on the net revenue 
performance of each sector can be found in the business review.
 
300
400
500
600
£m
Net
revenue 
2013
526.4
37.3 (42.2)
14.0 (71.8)
(9.1)
406.8
Impact of
revenue
growth
Impact of
revenue
shrinkage
Impact of 
LME and 
XHRS 
1
Impact of
acquisition
Impact of
disposal of
XTB
Foreign 
Exchange
Net
revenue 
2014
(47.8)
1  Impact of LME and XHRS refers to: 
the exit of the services contract with the London Metal Exchange in May 2014; 
the exiting of the Human Resourcing Services business (‘XHRS’) in December 2013. 
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 36
Financial review
continued
EARNINGS PER SHARE 
Adjusted basic earnings per share were 11.86 pence, an increase of 
15. 1% on 2013, primarily due to the very low tax rate incurred in 2014. 
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Statutory operating profit was £36.6 million (2013: £81.9 million). 
This includes the following exceptional items that have been 
recognised in the year resulting in a net operating loss of £7 . 1 million 
(2013: profit of £29.9 million) and an operating cash outflow of 
£3. 1 million (2013: cash inflow of £21.5 million).
The most significant items within this are:
• 
Accelerated exit of Leadenhall Street premises: £9.7 million has 
been recognised as being the net of the incentive received from 
the landlord for the early surrender of the leasehold, the release of 
an historic lease incentive and the associated costs of moving that 
have been incurred during the year . 
• 
Restructuring costs of £10.3 million, as part of a Group-wide 
restructuring plan in order to drive operating efficiencies within 
the business.
• 
£7 . 1 million of costs relating to the restructuring of the Australian 
business following the loss of the Workers’ Compensation contract 
with the State of New South Wales.
CORPORATE
Corporate costs for the year totalled £12.6 million (2013: £15.2 
million). Corporate run costs in 2014 have benefited from the 
restructuring activities undertaken in previous years, which led to a 
reduction in headcount and simpler , more streamlined processes. 
However , there was also an increase in costs due to the investment in 
change projects during the year as part of the Group transformation, 
and the investment in the creation of shared services.
TAXATION
The Group’s effective tax rate on adjusted profit before tax was 14.9% 
(2013: 26.9%). The decrease in the rate in 2014 is largely due to the 
recognition of the tax benefit of historic losses in Italy and the lower 
UK corporate tax rate. The cash tax rate on adjusted profit before tax 
was 24.8% (2013: 28.2%). The effective rate for 2014 is lower than 
the 2014 cash tax rate largely due to the recognition of the tax benefit 
for the Italian losses. 
SECTOR PERFORMANCE 
Sectors
2013
£m
2013 impact 
of 2013
disposal
£m
2013 impact
of 2013
acquisition
£m
Exchange 
rate effect
£m
Prior year
like-for-like
£m
2014 impact
of 2013
acquisition
£m
2014 impact
of 2014
acquisition
£m
Underlying
change
£m % 
2014
£m
Group          
Net revenue 526.4 (71.8) (1. 1) (9.1) 444.4 4.6 10.5 (52.7) (11.9%) 406.8 
Adjusted operating profit 55.5 (10.5) (0.3) (1.0) 43.7 (0. 1) 2.8 9.4 21.5% 55.8 
Business Processing 
Services
          
Net revenue 370.0 (71.8) – (7 .0) 291.2 – – (8.8) (3.0%) 282.4 
Adjusted operating profit 59.7 (10.5) – (1.2) 48.0 – – 16. 1 33.5% 64. 1 
Technology          
Net revenue 102.3 – – (1.6) 100.7 – 10.5 (18. 1) (18.0%) 93. 1 
Adjusted operating profit 9.2 – – – 9.2 – 2.8 (5.2) (56.5%) 6.8 
Procurement          
Net revenue 54.1 – (1. 1) (0.5) 52.5 4.6 – (25.8) (49. 1%) 31.3 
Adjusted operating profit 1.8 – (0.3) 0.2 1.7 (0. 1) – (4. 1) (241.2%) (2.5) 
Corporate          
Adjusted operating profit (15.2) – – – (15.2) – – 2.6 17 . 1% (12.6)  Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 37
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
• 
Expenditure on product development was £21. 4 million (2013: 
£11.9 million). We accelerated our development plans for Xuber 
to enhance existing modules as well as creating a US Admitted 
module. In Germany we are investing significantly in product 
development, automation and process efficiency in our investment 
accounts administration business to ensure that we remain 
competitive in this market. We have invested in new products for the 
London insurance market and we are also further developing our 
Procurement technology, building on the MM4 software framework. 
• 
2014 has been a pivotal year for our internal change programme 
following an investment of £13.8 million (2013: £3.0 million). 
Shared service centres have been established in India and 
Basildon for shared functions such as sales, finance, HR and IT . 
We have invested in technology to drive performance and cost 
efficiencies within these service centres such as Salesforce, 
Workday for HR and Office 365. We have started a finance 
transformation programme, which will provide a single SAP 
finance system, supporting our finance shared service and giving 
our managers the tools and information to better manage 
resources and costs. We have completed the move to our new 
Walbrook London office, spending £4.6 million on fit out costs. 
The bulk of this work is largely done and will provide the backbone 
for leveraging operational and performance efficiencies as the 
business grows. We expect the investment required in 2015 to 
bring the outstanding projects to conclusion to be around 
£5.0 million. 
• 
Expenditure on refresh was £5.6 million (2013: £9. 4 million). 
During 2014 we spent £3.9 million upgrading the technology 
platforms that underpin the London insurance market.
• 
£5.9 million (2013: £2.3 million) was spent on miscellaneous 
capital expenditure, including pre-contract costs (£2.6 million 
(2013: £0.9 million)).
OPERATING CASH FLOW
2014
£m
2013
£m
Statutory operating profit 36.6 81.9
Depreciation and amortisation 26.5 21.7
Non-cash items/non-cash exceptional items 9.3 (20.0)
Share-based payments 2.7 3.2
Statutory operating profit less non-cash items 75. 1 86.8
(Decrease)/increase in customer cash deposits (0.7) 14.5
Movement in working capital (7 .9) (6.3)
Movement in pensions (6.2) (2.4)
Movement in provisions 0.8 (4.4)
Cash generated from operations 61.1 88.2
Dividends to NCI (11.2) (8.7)
Capital expenditure (43.4) (26.6)
Operating cash flow 6.5 52.9
The movement in pensions was impacted by a transfer by 
Fondsdepot Bank of £3.2 million into a trust to fully fund its future 
pension liabilities. This was a one-off payment to fund previously 
unfunded liabilities. Working capital was impacted by the acquisition 
of Agencyport Europe
*
 as it collects a significant amount of its cash 
at the start of the year . 
On 30 July 2014, consistent with our plan to transform the 
Procurement business, we agreed to transfer back to BAE Systems 
the UK procurement services in 2015. As a result there will be a cash 
outflow of approximately £15.0 million relating to the working capital 
unwind during the first half of 2015. 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
The Group increased capital expenditure to £46.7 million in 2014 
(2013: £26.6 million), of which £43. 4 million was paid out as cash 
during the year . Our organic investment programme can be split 
into three areas: 
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 38
Financial review
continued
MOVEMENTS IN NET CASH
2014
£m
2013
£m
Operating cash flow from operations 6.5 52.9
Interest (1.7) (2.5)
Tax (12.4) (17 .0)
Equity free cash flow from operations (7 .6) 33.4
Acquisitions and disposals (including put 
options)
(85.6) 15.2
Dividends paid to shareholders (6. 1) (2.4)
Other cash flows (3.3) 0.5
Foreign currency movements (3.8) (3.4)
Movements in net cash in the period (106.4) 43.3
Net cash has decreased by £106. 4 million primarily driven by the 
increase in acquisitions due to the focus on investments in 2014.
ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS
In 2014 we invested £85.6 million on acquisitions. 
• 
On 24 January 2014 SIA S.p.A. exercised their put option on their 
remaining 1.3% shareholding in Xchanging Italy S.p.A. for £4.0 
million (€4.8 million). The Group now owns 100% of the share 
capital of Xchanging Italy S.p.A. A further £2.6 million was paid 
as deferred consideration for the AR Enterprise S.r .l. business 
that we acquired in October 2012. 
• 
On 20 March 2014 the Group acquired an 8.3% stake in 
MachineShop Inc., a US based enterprise middleware provider 
for £0.6 million (US$ 1.0 million). 
• 
On 4 July 2014 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of 
Agencyport Europe
*
, a provider of insurance software to the 
property & casualty and health insurance markets in Europe and 
the US, for consideration of £64. 1 million. The acquisition was 
subsequently reviewed by the Competition and Markets Authority 
(‘CMA’) and in December the CMA announced that it would be 
extended to a Phase 2 review. We continue to work constructively 
with the CMA and the outcome of the review will be known at the 
latest on 24 May 2015. 
• 
On 30 July 2014 Allianz Global Investors GmbH exercised their 
put option on their remaining shareholding in Fondsdepot Bank 
GmbH for £10.8 million (€13.6 million). The Group now owns 
100% of the share capital of Fondsdepot Bank GmbH. 
• 
On 18 December 2014 the Group acquired 100% of the share 
capital of T otal Objects Ltd, a provider of (re)insurance software 
to the London and global insurance markets. Xchanging paid an 
initial consideration of £11.5 million in cash with further payments 
of up to £9.5 million payable in 2015, 2016 and 2017 , of which 
£1.5 million is deferred and £8.0 million is subject to certain 
performance targets being achieved. IFRS 3 Business 
Combinations requires the contingent payments to be recognised 
as post-acquisition related expenses if they are conditional on the 
employee staying with the business, and therefore are not 
included in the purchase price. See note 29 to the accounts 
for more information.
• 
On 10 October 2014 the Group disposed of an office building 
in Chatham for net proceeds of £4.7 million. 
This table shows the total cash outflow during 2014 and potential future payments for acquisitions. Note that in the cash flow these amounts 
are presented net of any cash acquired from the business on acquisition.
Date of transaction
Payments to
31 Dec 2013
Gross
payments
in 2014
Payments in
2014 (net
of cash
acquired)
Outstanding deferred 
consideration
Outstanding performance  
related payments T otal
£m £m £m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2017
£m £m
Acquisition of AR Enterprise October 2012 12.8 2.6 2.6 2.4 – – – – 17 .8
Acquisition of MM4 September 2013 6.6 – – – – 6.4 0.5 – 13.5
Xchanging Italy put  
option exercise
January 2014 – 4.0 4.0 – – – – – 4.0
Investment in MachineShop March 2014 – 0.6 0.6 – – – – – 0.6
Agencyport Europe
*
July 2014 – 64.1 63. 1 – – – – – 63. 1
FdB put option exercise July 2014 – 10.8 10.8 – – – – – 10.8
T otal Objects December 2014 – 11.5 9.2 0.8 0.7 1.5 1.5 5.0 18.7
Total 19.4 93.6 90.3 3.2 0.7 7.9 2.0 5.0 128.5
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 39
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
At 31 December 2014, £115.0 million (2013: £nil) was drawn as cash 
and a further £0.8 million (2013: £16.7 million) was utilised through 
guarantees. The Group had £49.2 million (2013: £58. 4 million) of 
headroom under this facility.
In addition to the committed revolving credit facility the Group 
has uncommitted working capital facilities of INR330.0 million 
(£3.3 million) in India and £10.0 million in the UK. At 31 December 
2014 no funds were drawn under these facilities. 
BORROWING COVENANTS 
The Group is subject to covenants, representations and warranties 
commonly associated with corporate bank debt. As at 31 December 
2014, the Group was compliant with both of its financial covenants:
As at 31
 December 
2014
As at 31 
December
 2013 Metric
T est 
criteria
Interest 
cover
21.6x 21.2x Ratio of
Xchanging’s share
of EBITDA to net 
consolidated
finance charges
Minimum
of 5.0x
Leverage 1.8x 0. 1x Ratio of consolidated 
borrowings to Xchanging’s 
share of EBITDA
Maximum
of 2.5x
DIVIDENDS
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.75 pence per share 
for 2014, compared to 2.5 pence per share in 2013. Dividend cover on 
this basis would be 4.3 times.
DAVID BAUERNFEIND  
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
26 February 2015
NET CASH
2014
£m
2013
£m
Cash  
Xchanging wholly owned entities 92.8 30.4
Xchanging Solutions 7.8 7.6
Enterprise Partnerships 28.6 83.3
 129.2 121.3
Xchanging’s share of cash 
Xchanging wholly owned entities 58.3 30.4
Xchanging Solutions 5.9 5.7
Enterprise Partnerships
1
19.7 17 .9
Bank and other debt (115.5) (1.2)
 Xchanging’s share of net cash (31.6) 52.8
1 The aggregate cash balance in Enterprise Partnerships represents working capital and 
accumulated but unpaid distributions to the shareholders. Xchanging receives cash from 
Enterprise Partnerships through contractual licence fees and dividends. To provide greater 
transparency on the amount of cash that is attributable to the shareholders of Xchanging 
we show Xchanging’s share of net cash. It takes a prudent view as it makes no attempt to 
allocate Xchanging’s share of working capital that is held in the Enterprise Partnerships.
In July 2014 Xchanging acquired the remaining shares in Fondsdepot 
Bank from Allianz Global Investors through the exercise of a put 
option. Fondsdepot Bank’s cash is now included in Xchanging wholly 
owned entities although the cash held in customer deposit accounts, 
which totalled £34.5 million at 31 December 2014, continues to be 
excluded from Xchanging’s share of net cash.
BORROWING FACILITIES
In February 2014 the Group signed a new £125.0 million four and a 
half year revolving credit facility with four of its existing lenders that is 
committed until June 2018. Following the announcement of the 
acquisition of Agencyport Europe
*
 in July, the Group agreed with its 
lenders to increase the size of its revolving facility by a further £40.0 
million to £165.0 million. 
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 40
Corporate social responsibility
Creating value through good practice
PEOPLE 
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Employee engagement is tracked annually at Xchanging. Our 2014 
‘Y our Voice’ employee engagement survey had an 80% response 
rate. There was a small, 1% increase in overall employee 
engagement levels compared with 2013. 55% of employees feel 
fully engaged with the business, this is 6% higher than the global 
benchmark of 49%, compiled by our engagement survey provider . 
Our T echnology, Procurement and Financial Services businesses had 
formal programmes of work to improve engagement levels and we 
have seen significant year-on-year gains in these sectors. 
Whilst many of the survey themes remained flat year-on-year , 
there are noticeable improvements in perceptions of all aspects 
of communication – upwards, downwards and lateral. This year we 
have worked to create a manager community, a key channel to widen 
employee engagement in which managers roll out a structured 
framework in order to drive a positive culture of engagement 
throughout the business. 
We encourage all employees to consistently demonstrate the 
Xchanging Values and our engagement survey demonstrated that 
a key area of strength for the business was the extent to which our 
employees understand and live these values globally. 
As in previous years, a focused project will drive responses to the 
survey, targeting and co-ordinating activities globally and at business 
or regional levels.
INTRODUCTION
Xchanging’s corporate social responsibility 
(‘CSR’) strategy is designed to ensure that 
we have a positive impact on the people we 
work with and in the communities in which we 
work. We ﬁrmly believe that demonstrating 
good practice in all aspects of CSR creates 
long-term value for our shareholders and 
other stakeholders. Our CSR Committee 
meets quarterly to address key areas of 
interest and to manage all CSR activities.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS:
  Chris Fussell, General Counsel and Company Secretary  
and Chairman of the CSR Committee; 
 Melanie Wheeler, Head of CSR and Internal Communications; 
 Campbell Hair, Group HR Director; 
 Siobhan Quinn, Head of Facilities Management;
 Rob Myers, Global Director of Operations. 
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SURVEY STATISTICS 
88
86
EMPLOYEES APPLY THE XCHANGING VALUES 
IN THE WAY THEY WORK (%)
 2014
 2013
97
85
EMPLOYEES ARE COMMITTED TO DELIVERING 
THE BEST SERVICE THEY CAN TO CUSTOMERS (%)
 2014
 EG BMX (industry benchmark)
86
75
EMPLOYEES SUPPORT WHAT THE COMPANY 
IS TRYING TO ACHIEVE IN ITS STRATEGY (%)
 2014
 EG BMX (industry benchmark)
92
78
EMPLOYEES ARE COMMITTED TO PLAYING 
THEIR PART IN XCHANGING’S SUCCESS (%)
 2014
 EG BMX (industry benchmark) Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 41
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY
We are committed to embedding a culture of diversity and 
inclusion across our Group. This includes ensuring opportunity 
for all and embraces the positive effect that our diverse 
workforce brings. 
We do not tolerate any form of discrimination and our 
employment policies and practices focus on ensuring that 
all our employment processes are free from unlawful 
discrimination on any grounds. Our Board’s diversity policy 
is described on page 76. 
Employees
worldwide 
Senior 
managers Plc Board
Female 3,075 66 0
Male 4,334 277 8
T otal 7 ,409 343 8
DEVELOPING TALENT
Following significant progress with leadership development efforts 
in 2013, we turned our attention to the wider management 
population in 2014. Partnering with a management and leadership 
development consultancy, we took the step of training a group of 
senior managers across the world to co-facilitate a focused and 
practical management development programme, which has seen 
more than 150 managers participate across the UK, India, the US, 
Germany and Malaysia. The programme features 360 degree 
feedback and incorporates a range of unique tools that internal 
research has shown will have the most significant impact on 
performance. Managers leave the programme committing to work 
on deliverables that will make an impact on their team or business 
unit as well as in their personal performance. Early analysis suggests 
that more than 65% of participants have already applied learning 
from the programme, which is demonstrating improved coaching, 
succession planning and communication.
Our Sales Academy continues to improve our sales capability and 
embed best practice across the organisation. All sales professionals 
have now attended our ‘Growing and Winning Business’ programme 
which has enabled a common language and methodology for sales 
across Xchanging. The tools taught on the workshop have been 
built into ‘how we sell’ and have been incorporated into core 
sales processes. 
We recognise that junior talent is pivotal for the future success of 
our business, and in 2013 we made a commitment to overhaul our 
graduate scheme to support this. We did this by hiring graduates 
into suitable level ‘real’ business roles as opposed to a two year 
rotational scheme. 
We have transformed our UK recruitment model in 2014 moving 
away from a Recruitment Process Outsourcing model to building 
an in-house team. By using a newly implemented recruitment 
technology system, we have improved the recruitment process. 
This model is being extended into the US, Australia and 
continental Europe.
Alongside the changes in service, we also introduced a 
comprehensive testing and assessment framework in the UK and 
India in Q4. We plan to roll this out further in 2015 in order to increase 
the quality of hires we are making and allow us to benchmark our 
talent against competitors and within our key geographical regions.
In order to continue to achieve ‘One Xchanging’, we have continued 
the transformation of our HR function, which was initiated in 2013. 
We have now nearly completed the implementation of the Workday 
HR information system and the creation of a global HR shared 
service organisation, incorporating day-to-day HR support, 
recruitment and learning and development.
CASE STUDY: MINI CEOs PROGRAMME
Our Application Services business has worked closely with 
HR this year to develop a ‘Mini CEOs’ programme to share 
ownership for the development of the business. 
A unique development programme was created with the 
Indian School of Business, which featured a five day event 
on the campus in Hyderabad, covering business strategy, 
innovation and leadership. This was followed by a series of 
live webinars with faculties from top business schools 
across the world and six ‘action learning projects’, which 
have laid the foundations for fundamental change and 
growth across the Application Services business.  Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 42
Corporate social responsibility
continued
*
Does not include the acquisition of T otal Objects which completed on 19 December 2014
MARKETPLACE 
What we do and where we operate geographically means that we  
do not consider it necessary to include specific human rights 
information in this report. 
However , Xchanging prioritises the ethical conduct of our people. 
No matter where we operate in the world, in our interactions with 
customers, partners, suppliers and each other , we live our corporate 
values of ‘excellence’ and ‘integrity’. 
We demonstrate our corporate Value of ‘integrity’ in the way we work 
and behave. This means we are dependable, responsible and 
committed to being open, transparent, honest and direct in all  
of our activities. 
We continue to be a constituent member of the FTSE4Good Index 
Series which confirms that we carry out responsible business 
practices. 
COMMUNITIES
In 2014, we focused our efforts on a number of local and national 
charities in order to support the communities in which we operate. 
This year the CSR Committee asked Xchanging employees to 
choose the charities that Xchanging would support, allowing 
employees to feel more engaged with the projects and choose 
charities that they felt strongly about. We supported 27 charities 
in 2014 varying in size and with a range of causes. These included 
London’s Air Ambulance, Dignity for Children (Kuala Lumpur) and 
RSPCA (Melbourne, Australia). 
In addition, in line with our ‘One Xchanging’ objective, we joined 
together to support global initiatives such as ‘Movember’. Employees 
across all areas of the business participated to raise money and 
awareness for men suffering from prostate cancer , testicular cancer 
and mental health problems. 
ENVIRONMENT
Our customers and employees demonstrate increasing concern 
for environmental issues and our progress towards the ISO14001 
accreditation this year demonstrates our commitment to review the 
impact our business has on the environment. We have commenced 
our planning phase and have completed environmental reviews of 
our main UK centres. We have a clear understanding of our main 
environmental impacts and we have prioritised our objectives and 
targets for 2015 which will focus on energy consumption, waste and 
transport. We are working towards accreditation in the UK by the end 
of 2015.
Whilst Xchanging’s environmental impacts are not significant, it 
remains important to evaluate the carbon footprint of our worldwide 
operations annually. We measure our carbon footprint in accordance 
with the Greenhouse Gas (‘GHG’) protocol which is an internationally 
recognised standard for corporate reporting.
Our most significant environmental impacts are:
• 
Greenhouse gas emissions as a result of our energy use  
to run our offices in the UK and India
• 
Greenhouse gas emissions from business travel.
Emission data is collected from all our locations globally. 
We continue to track and monitor our environmental impact from 
these activities and we have published our carbon footprint annually 
since 2008.
OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT
We are pleased to report that during 2014 our comparative footprint 
reduced by 0.09% compared to the previous year to 20,706 tonnes 
of CO
2 e, mainly driven by reductions in Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions (relating to energy usage) within a number of regions.
Although our emissions have reduced in real terms, raw data for 2014 
shows an increase in carbon emissions from previous years. This is a 
factor of continued improvements in international data collection 
which have meant that more of our environmental impact is now 
being recorded. Emissions data for all sites is now being captured, 
with nine new sites
*
 now accounted for . These account for 5,044 
tonnes of CO 2 e, providing a total capture of 25,751 tonnes of CO 2 e 
for 2014. In order to provide a year-on-year comparison, carbon 
emissions from additional data collection are excluded from 
comparative performance measures. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 43
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
SECTOR EMISSIONS
Data from our global operations is segregated into ‘Scopes’ 
determined by our level of control over emission levels at each  
our locations. These Scopes are:
• 
Scope 1: Direct emissions resulting from activities within 
Xchanging’s operational control
• 
Scope 2: Indirect emissions from electricity used at sites where 
Xchanging undertakes business operations
• 
Scope 3: Indirect emissions from areas outside of Xchanging’s 
control, such as third party suppliers and some areas of 
business travel.
The figures below record Xchanging’s carbon emissions according 
to the above Scopes since our 2010 benchmark year .
T onnes CO2 per annum
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Scope 1 2,773 3,023 3,231 5,672 4,763
Scope 2 15,677 15,729 15,552 12,748 10,664
Scope 3 4,429 3, 122 2,367 2,304 5,279
Total 22,879 21,874 21, 150 20,724 20,706
Note: 2013 and 2014 carbon figures exclude additional carbon emissions resulting from improved 
data collection.
THE WALBROOK
In April 2014 we relocated our corporate headquarters within the City 
of London. Our new building, The Walbrook, is an ‘Excellent’ rated 
building, meaning that the environmental impact of our head office 
operations is significantly less than our previous site. This rating is 
measured against the world’s foremost environment assessment 
method and rating system for buildings and includes aspects related 
to energy and water use, the internal environment (health and 
well-being), pollution, transport, materials, waste, ecology and 
management processes.
The introduction of the UK Government’s Energy Savings 
Opportunity Scheme (‘ESOS’) in 2015 and the accreditation 
to ISO14001 which we are currently working towards, will offer 
recognition of measures which are already in place for carbon 
monitoring through the UK Government’s CRC Energy Efficiency 
Scheme and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative. 
Figure 1 shows the change in carbon footprint since our benchmark 
year of 2010. 
19,000
20,000
21,000
22,000
23,000
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
T onnes CO2 e per annum
Figure 1: Annual carbon emissions. 
Carbon emissions can change over time through organisational 
variations such as expansion or operational changes. As such, it is 
important to consider carbon emissions in terms of a recognised 
metric. Xchanging measure their carbon emissions against annual 
revenue as a measure of environmental performance in the context 
of our overall activity for this year .
Additional reporting metrics have also been included to aid the 
comparison of year-on-year emissions whilst accounting for 
organisational changes, in particular the additional sites now 
captured within our reporting. T o account for this we have measured 
the recorded CO
2 e against occupied floor area.
Reporting Y ear
Carbon emissions per unit
revenue (g CO2e/£)
Carbon emissions per unit floor
area (kg CO2e/m
2
)
2010 3.36 Unknown
2011 3.37 Unknown
2012 3. 17 Unknown
2013 3.04 244
2014 3.61 241
Figure 2 records our annual carbon emissions in kg of CO 2 e against 
2014 revenue and floor area. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 44 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 45
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 
46 Chairman’s overview
48 Board of Directors
50 Executive Board
52 Corporate governance report
55 Audit Committee report
58 Nomination Committee report
59 Remuneration Committee report
75 Directors’ report
   C ORPORA TE 
 GOVERNANCE
In this section we outline that good governance is an 
essential component in our strategy and how we go 
about fulfilling our governance responsibilities. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 46
Corporate governance report
Chairman’s overview
GEOFF UNWIN  
CHAIRMAN
“We believe that good governance 
is a key part of our strategy of 
delivering long-term performance 
to our shareholders. ” Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 47
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Dear Shareholders
Xchanging is committed to the principles of best 
practice for corporate governance. We believe 
that good governance is a key part of our strategy 
of delivering long-term performance to our 
shareholders. This report sets out our approach 
to governance, and how our governance 
framework supports our wider strategy (which is 
set out in the Strategic report on pages 10 to 11). 
We value integrity in all our dealings with our 
clients, and on page 42 you can read more about 
our ethical approach to business.
In 2014 one of our main areas of focus at Board level was to design  
a detailed succession plan, with the support of the Nomination 
Committee (see page 58). We also undertook an externally 
facilitated Board evaluation, and you can read more about the  
results of the evaluation process on page 54. 
In July 2014 Gary Whitaker notified the Company of his intention 
to step down from his position as General Counsel and Company 
Secretary. With effect from the end of January 2015, Chris Fussell 
has taken over Gary’s responsibilities as General Counsel and he was 
appointed as Company Secretary on 26 January 2015. While we will 
miss Gary’s skilled guidance, we welcome the expertise that Chris 
brings to the role. 
Xchanging plc is required to comply with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (September 2012) (the ‘Code’). We set out a 
review of our compliance with the Code in the Corporate governance 
report (see page 52), followed by an overview of the role and 
responsibilities of the Board, and the various Board committees  
(see page 52). 
GEOFF UNWIN 
CHAIRMAN 
26 February 2015
“We value integrity in all our 
dealings with our clients. ” Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 48
Corporate governance report continued
Board of Directors
GEOFF UNWIN 
CHAIRMAN
Skills and experience
Geoff has extensive experience in 
the technology services sector. He 
spent over 20 years at Hoskyns, 
the computer services company, as 
Managing Director at first, before 
becoming Executive Chairman. 
From 1990-2002 he held roles at 
Capgemini, rising to Chief Executive 
Officer in 2000. 
Appointment Date: 1 December 
2011. Term of Appointment: 4 
Years. Independent: N/A. Other 
directorships and offices  
(current and recent):
Current
Chairman of the Advisory Board 
of Palamon Capital Partners
Non-Executive Director of Towry 
Holdings Limited
Chairman of Tryzens Holdings 
Limited
Past
Chairman of RD Card Holdings 
Limited
Chairman of OpenCloud Limited
Chairman of United Business Media plc
Chairman of Liberata plc
Chairman of Omnibus Systems Ltd
Chairman of Alliance Medical Group
Non-voting director of Capgemini S.A.
Chairman of Taptu Limited
Chairman of Halma plc
Director of Gunwin Limited
Board Committee membership
Chairman of Nomination 
Committee
Member of Remuneration 
Committee
KEN LEVER 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Skills and experience
Ken initially joined Xchanging in 
October 2010 as Chief Financial 
Officer . He became acting Chief 
Executive in February 2011 before 
becoming Chief Executive in June 
2011. 
Prior to Xchanging, Ken was a 
partner at Arthur Andersen. He 
served as a company director 
with Corton Beach plc, a small 
conglomerate (initially as Group 
Managing Director), and then as 
Finance Director of Alfred McAlpine 
plc, the international construction 
services group. 
He spent four years at Albright 
& Wilson, the global chemicals 
group and eight years with Tomkins 
plc, the global engineering and 
manufacturing group formerly 
listed on the London and New York 
Stock Exchanges. Following this 
Ken moved into the role of Chief 
Financial Officer of Numonyx BV, 
based in Switzerland. 
Appointment Date: 7 June 
2011. Term of Appointment: 
N/A. Independent: N/A. Other 
directorships and offices (current 
and recent):
Current
Non-Executive Director of FM 
Insurance Company Limited
Adviser to DAC Beachcroft LLP
Board Committee membership
None
Past
Non-Executive Director of Catesby 
Property Group plc. Ken Lever 
stepped down from the Board of 
Catesby Property Group plc on 
26 February 2015
DAVID BAUERNFEIND 
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Skills and experience
David is a qualified Chartered 
Accountant having worked in the 
audit discipline with Deloitte & 
Touche, before gaining experience 
with Johnson Matthey plc and 
progressing to Head of Audit with 
Airbus. 
David joined BAE Systems 
in 1998 where he became 
Financial Controller (Defence). 
Responsibilities included acting as 
the commercial lead in the creation 
of an HR shared services joint 
venture with Xchanging.
In 2001 David joined Xchanging HR 
Services Limited to oversee this joint 
venture. He has worked in almost 
all areas of the business in senior 
financial positions for over a decade. 
David was appointed to CFO of 
Xchanging in 2011. 
Appointment Date: 7 June 
2011. Term of Appointment: 
N/A. Independent: N/A. Other 
directorships and offices: None
Board Committee membership
None
IAN CORMACK 
SENIOR INDEPENDENT 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Skills and experience
Ian has wide experience of the City 
and financial markets together 
with first-hand experience of the 
insurance sector . He spent over 
30 years at Citibank, latterly as UK 
Country Head and co-head of the 
Global Financial Institutions Group. 
Ian was Chief Executive Officer of AIG 
Europe from 2000-2002.
A former member of the Chancellor’s 
City Advisory Panel, he has served 
on committees for the London Stock 
Exchange, CHAPS, APACS and the 
European Securities Forum. He 
founded and ran (until 2008) Cormack 
Tansey Partners which provided 
strategic consulting to financial 
institutions. 
Ian brings his acute insight of the 
insurance industry to Xchanging’s 
Board and his knowledge of financial 
markets to his role as Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director . 
Appointment Date: 26 October 
2012. T erm of Appointment: 3 Y ears. 
Independent: Yes. Other directorships 
and offices (current and recent):
Current
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee at Bloomsbury 
Publishing plc
Chairman of Maven Income and 
Growth VCT 4 plc
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee of 
Phoenix Group Holdings plc
Non-Executive Director of National 
Angels Limited
Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Risk Committee of 
Partnership Assurance Group plc
Chairman of Temporis Capital LLP
Past
Member of the Development 
Council for the National Theatre 
and Campaign Committee of 
Pembroke College, Oxford
Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
of Aspen Insurance Holdings Ltd, 
Bermuda
Continued on following page Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 49
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
MICHEL PAULIN 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Skills and experience
Michel has more than 20 
years’ experience in the 
telecommunications industry as well 
as extensive experience of working 
in continental Europe. 
In his early career Michel was a 
consultant for McKinsey & Company . 
Following this he became Chief 
Operations Officer of Louis Dreyfus 
Group’s major commodity trading 
business and also recently held the 
position of Chief Executive Officer of 
Neuf Cegetel.
Appointment Date: 1 January 
2010, renewed in 2013. Term of 
appointment: 3 Years. Independent: 
Yes. Other directorships and offices 
(current and recent):
Current
Chief Executive Officer of Méditel 
Chairman of ERRAZA
Past
Chief Executive Officer of 
Neuf Cegetel
Chief Operations Officer at the 
Louis Dreyfus Group’s major 
commodity trading business
Non-Executive Director Myriad 
Group AG 
Non-Executive Director LDC SEV
Independent Director of Bull S.A.
Board Committee membership
Member of Nomination Committee
Member of Remuneration 
Committee 
Ian Cormack continued...
Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of Audit Committee of 
Qatar Financial Centre Authority
Non-Executive Director of Mphasis 
Ltd, India
Non-Executive Director of CEDEL, 
Luxembourg
Chairman of CHAPS
Board Committee membership
Member of Audit Committee
Member of Nomination Committee
Member of Remuneration 
Committee
SAURABH SRIVASTAVA 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Skills and experience
Saurabh is one of India’s leading IT 
entrepreneurs, angel investors and 
venture capitalists and has a deep 
knowledge of the Indian IT market. 
He founded and chaired IIS Infotech, 
NASSCOM, and co-founded the Indian 
Angel Network. He also chairs the 
Indian operations of CA T echnologies 
Inc., the US listed software business.
He chaired the Indian Venture Capital 
Association and is Chairman Emeritus 
of TIE Delhi. Previously Saurabh 
has served on the Advisory Board of 
Imperial College Business School, 
London, and on the advisory boards of 
Uttarakhand and Himachal Universities 
in India. He serves on the Prime 
Minister’s National Innovation Council 
and on various government boards/
committees. Saurabh has been awarded 
a Lifetime Achievement award from the 
IT Industry in India and a Distinguished 
Alumnus from IIT Kanpur .
Saurabh brings to Xchanging’s 
Board this wealth of knowledge of 
the IT services industry in India. 
Appointment Date: 4 September 
2012. Term of Appointment: 3 
Years. Independent: Yes. Other 
directorships and offices (current 
and recent):
Current
Saurabh is on the board of a large 
number of unlisted Indian entities as 
well as being a trustee of the America 
India Foundation and Chairman of the 
Indian Venture Capital Association.
Past
National Executive Committees of CII 
(Confederation of Indian Industries)
Executive Committee of FICCI 
(Federation of Indian Chambers of 
Commerce and Industry)
Chair of Indian Operations of CA 
Technologies Inc.
Board Committee membership
Member of Audit Committee
BILL THOMAS 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Skills and experience
Bill has more than 30 years’ 
experience of the IT services 
sector. He spent his early career 
at Marconi and SD-Scicon in a 
range of engineering, technical 
and programme management 
roles. For over 20 years he worked 
with EDS, starting as Director and 
General Manager, Aerospace Group 
Defence, and latterly running the 
EMEA services business. Following 
this, Bill worked at Hewlett Packard 
in Enterprise Services in the US and 
Europe. Since 2009 Bill has had a 
portfolio career involving business, 
universities and politics. Bill brings 
his deep understanding of IT service 
businesses to the Board and to his 
Chairmanship of the Remuneration 
Committee. 
Appointment Date: 1 December 
2011. Term of Appointment: 3 Years, 
renewed in 2014. Independent: 
Yes. Other directorships and offices 
(current and offices):
Current
Independent Director of GFI 
Software SARL
Non-Executive Director of The Co-
operative Bank plc
Adviser on Defence and Business to 
the Labour Party
Chairman of the Advisory Board of 
Cranfield School of Management
Member of the University Council of 
Cranfield University
Director of the Advisory Board at 
Leeds University Business School
Past
Non-Executive Director of Balfour 
Beatty plc
Board Committee membership
Chairman of Remuneration 
Committee
Member of Audit Committee
Member of Nomination Committee
STEPHEN WILSON 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Skills and experience
Stephen has significant financial 
and business experience in both 
technology and outsourcing. He has 
spent most of his career in the IT 
industry, including 25 years with IBM 
where he was Chief Financial Officer 
for the UK and Ireland from 2002 
to 2009.
In 2009 he joined Misys plc as 
Vice President Group Finance and 
became Chief Financial Officer in 
June 2010, taking Misys through its 
acquisition by Vista Equity Partners 
and its subsequent merger with 
Turaz in 2012. On 14 January 2013 
he joined the Board of Genus plc 
and became Group Finance Director 
on 1 March 2013. He is also a 
Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants. 
Stephen contributes to the Board 
his deep insight into the IT services 
and software industries, and his 
experience as a Chief Financial 
Officer to the role of Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. 
Appointment Date: 1 July 
2012. Term of Appointment: 3 
Years. Independent: Yes. Other 
directorships and offices (current 
and recent):
Current
Executive Director of Genus plc
Past
Executive Director of Misys plc
Director of IBM UK Ltd.
Board Committee membership
Chairman of Audit Committee Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 50
Corporate governance report continued
Executive Board
KEN LEVER
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
See biography on page 48
DAVID BAUERNFEIND
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
See biography on page 48
EXECUTIVE BOARD 
SUPPORT GROUP 
CHRIS FUSSELL 
GENERAL COUNSEL AND 
COMPANY SECRETARY 
SUBRAMANIAN 
GOPALARATNAM
GLOBAL HEAD OF 
INNOVATION 
CAMPBELL HAIR
GLOBAL HR DIRECTOR
ALEXANDRA HOCKENHULL
DIRECTOR OF CORPORATE 
COMMUNICATIONS AND 
INVESTOR RELATIONS
ROB MYERS
GLOBAL DIRECTOR  
OF OPERATIONS 
JIM SADLER
GLOBAL CHIEF 
INFORMATION OFFICER 
ALOK SINHA 
PRESIDENT , APPLICATION 
SERVICES
CHRIS BAKER 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 
XUBER
Business
Insurance Software 
Skills and experience
Chris joined Xchanging in August 
2014 as Managing Director of 
Xuber , Xchanging’s Insurance 
Software business; he was 
appointed to the Executive 
Board in January 2015. As part of 
Chris’s role he is responsible for 
the integration of Xchanging’s 
insurance software acquisitions 
with the goal of expanding Xuber’s 
global presence and offerings.
Before joining Xchanging Chris 
spent 17 years at Oracle, latterly 
to the role of global Senior Vice 
President of Oracle’s Independent 
Software Vendor and Java 
Businesses. Prior to Oracle 
Chris held a number of senior 
UK roles, including that of Sales 
Director for Outsourcing at Digital 
Equipment. Chris has a degree 
in civil engineering and worked 
in that field at Brian Colquehoun 
and Partners and at a computer 
bureau SIA as a consultant before 
moving to IT. 
Date appointed to  
Executive Board
January 2015
ANDREW BINNS 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 
TECHNOLOGY
Business
Technology 
Skills and experience
Andrew joined Xchanging in 
January 2012 to lead the global 
technology business. He is 
responsible for the Application 
Services, Internet of Things, 
Learning Platforms and Analytics 
products and services. He 
has extensive experience of 
the IT industry having held 
positions within multinational 
companies spanning software, 
technology services, management 
consultancy and start-up ventures. 
Before joining Xchanging, Andrew 
was Chief Executive Officer 
of global services at T emenos 
Group, a market leading provider 
of packaged banking software. 
Other senior roles include 
Managing Director of Aon BPO and 
Consulting, Chief Executive Officer 
of software company Netengines 
and Managing Director of the 
EMEA outsourcing business of 
Digital Equipment Corporation 
(now Hewlett Packard). 
Date appointed to  
Executive Board
January 2012 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 51
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
ADRIAN GUTTRIDGE 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 
INSURANCE
Business
Business Processing Services
Skills and experience
Adrian joined Xchanging in 
December 2012 as Executive 
Director, Insurance. He now is 
responsible for industry specific 
business processing services 
in the insurance industry, and 
services including Finance 
and Accounting and Mortgage 
Processing to clients in a variety 
of industries including Healthcare, 
Banking & Capital Markets, and 
Retail & Distribution. 
Prior to Xchanging, Adrian was Vice 
President of Business Processing 
Outsourcing, EMEA at Hewlett 
Packard. He has a background in 
the technology industry and is a 
Chartered Engineer , and a Fellow 
of the British Computer Society. His 
30 year career includes extensive 
insurance sector experience 
including senior roles at Accenture 
and Marlborough Stirling. 
Date appointed to  
Executive Board
December 2012
STEPHEN SCOTT 
GROUP DIRECTOR OF 
SALES AND MARKETING
Business
Cross-sector 
Skills and experience
Stephen first joined Xchanging 
in 2006 and held the position of 
Australian Relations Director until 
August 2007. Following a period 
working in senior management 
positions at Aon and Westpac 
Banking Corporation, he returned 
to Xchanging in 2009. In 2011 
Stephen became the Australian 
Sales and Services Director, as 
well as Managing Director for 
the Procurement and Advisory 
Services businesses in Australia 
before being appointed to his 
current role in 2012. In his current 
role he defines the Xchanging 
Sales and Marketing strategy and 
has developed a culture of selling 
and sales governance.
Prior to joining Xchanging, 
Stephen gained 16 years of 
business experience in a number 
of roles in government and 
industries including banking, 
insurance, and internet/new 
media. Immediately prior to 
Xchanging, Stephen worked in 
senior management positions at 
the Australian Federal Treasury 
and the Financial Services 
Institute of Australasia. 
Date appointed to  
Executive Board
March 2012
CHIRAG SHAH 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 
PROCUREMENT
Business
Procurement 
Skills and experience
Chirag joined Xchanging in 
September 2013 at the time of 
the acquisition of MM4 where 
he was previously co-founder 
and Chairman. His career spans 
over 20 years in the provision of 
services and technologies within 
the supply chain sector. 
Prior to Xchanging, Chirag held 
senior positions in industrial, 
consultancy and technology 
companies including Rover 
Group, GE and A.T. Kearney’s 
eBreviate, TradingParters and 
most recently, MM4. Chirag has 
extensive experience in running 
businesses in the US, UK, China 
and continental Europe.
Date appointed to  
Executive Board
July 2014
JON STRATFORD 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND 
GROUP DIRECTOR OF 
CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT 
& STRATEGY
Business
Business Processing Services  
and Cross-sector 
Skills and experience
Jon joined Xchanging in 2006 
as Corporate Development 
Director and led the Xchanging 
IPO in April 2007. Following 
this Jon became Chief Financial 
and Commercial Officer for 
Xchanging’s Americas business 
before returning to the UK 
in the role of Group Director 
of Corporate Development 
and Strategy in August 2011. 
During most of 2012, Jon was 
also interim Executive Director, 
Insurance. In October 2013 Jon 
was additionally appointed to the 
position of Executive Director 
Financial Services. 
Jon has 20 years’ experience in 
strategic transactions, financial 
services, insurance and business 
services. He began his career at 
KPMG, is a qualified Chartered 
Accountant and spent 10 years 
working in investment banking 
advising on strategic acquisitions, 
disposals, financing and 
private equity. 
Date appointed to  
Executive Board
August 2011/October 2013 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 52
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee does not report to 
the Board, but the framework within which it operates is set by the 
Board. The Company Secretary is a member of the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee. For more information on the activities of 
our Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, see page 40. Below 
we describe how the remaining governance committees are 
constituted and operate.
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
Corporate  
Social  
Responsibility
 
Nomination  
Committee
 
Board of 
Directors
Shareholders
 
Audit 
Committee
Executive  
Board
 
Remuneration 
Committee
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Information on the impact on the Company as required by the 
Takeover Directive, and information required under the Disclosure 
and T ransparency Rules, is given in the Directors’ report (see pages 
75 to 78) and forms part of this Corporate governance statement.
The attention of shareholders is drawn to the Independent Auditor’s Report 
on page 82, which incorporates their report on corporate governance.
THE BOARD
Board composition
Our Board has eight Directors, comprising a Non-Executive 
Chairman, two Executive Directors, and five further Non-Executive 
Directors. Ian Cormack is the Senior Independent Director . Geoff 
Unwin, our Chairman, and Ian Cormack are available to shareholders 
who have concerns that cannot be addressed through the normal 
channels. For further information about communication between 
the Board and shareholders, please refer to communication with 
shareholders on page 53.
The Board has recruited Non-Executive Directors of a high calibre 
with broad commercial, international or other relevant experience. 
Non-Executive Directors are expected to bring objectivity and 
independence of view to the Board’s discussions, and to help provide 
the Board with effective leadership in relation to the Company’s 
strategy, performance, risk and people management as well as 
ensuring high standards of financial probity and corporate 
governance. Xchanging believes that the Board has the appropriate 
balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the 
Group to support the long-term success of the Company. 
Corporate governance 
report
Corporate governance report  
continued
COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE
Throughout the year , Xchanging has complied with all the provisions 
of the Code, with the exception of D. 1.3. We have previously reported 
that the terms of appointment of Geoff Unwin (dated 1 December 
2011) do not comply with D. 1.3 of the Code because of his share 
matching agreements. As in previous years, the Senior Independent 
Director met with the other Non-Executive Directors without the 
Chairman present and, amongst other matters, discussed the terms 
of this arrangement. Noting that this arrangement will continue 
for a fixed period (until December 2015) and given the limited 
circumstances in which the share matching arrangements apply, 
and their relatively modest quantum, the Board members agreed 
that the Chairman’s judgement was unlikely to be affected by such 
arrangements. Given this conclusion, and the fact that the 
arrangements were discussed with the Group’s then major 
shareholders in advance of Geoff Unwin’s appointment, the Board 
believed then, and continues to believe now, that the share matching 
arrangement did not then and does not now adversely impact Geoff 
Unwin’s ability to provide effective leadership and stewardship of 
the Company or Board and remains pleased to have him as 
Chairman of Xchanging. 
XCHANGING’S GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
The Board is ultimately accountable and responsible for the 
performance and affairs of the Company. The Board is responsible 
for reviewing and guiding corporate strategy, the establishment of 
key policies and objectives, understanding the key risks faced by the 
Company, determining the risk tolerance of the Company and the 
processes in operation to mitigate these. The Board has overall 
responsibility for the management of the Company in order to 
maximise shareholder value. 
In discharging its responsibilities, the Board is supported by its 
management together with specialist committees. The Board has 
established Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, each 
of which works from terms of reference which are reviewed annually 
and are available on the website: www.xchanging.com. The terms of 
reference for each committee were last approved by the Board on 
5 November 2014. These committees have appropriately skilled 
members, senior management participation and access to specialist 
advice when considered necessary. The minutes of the Audit, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee meetings are sent to 
all Directors and oral updates are given at Board meetings. 
The Audit Committee report (which includes an overview of the 
Company’s control and risk management framework) can be found 
on pages 55 to 57 . Page 58 describes the remit and activities of the 
Nomination Committee. The activities of the Remuneration 
Committee are described in the Remuneration Committee report 
on page 59. 
The Board is also supported by an Executive Board, which is not 
a decision making body, but an advisory forum supporting the 
Executive Directors. Brief biographies of the members of the 
Executive Board can be found on pages 50 to 51.  Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 53
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Independence of Directors
The Board reviewed the independence of all Non-Executive 
Directors (excluding the Chairman) at its meeting on 10 December 
2014, and determined that they all continue to be independent. 
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman was independent upon 
appointment notwithstanding the share matching arrangements in 
his original terms of appointment, for the reasons set out at page 52. 
Role and responsibilities of the Board
The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for creating 
and sustaining shareholder value through the management of the 
Group’s businesses, and the long-term success of the Group.  
It sets the Group’s strategic plan and budgets, monitors their 
implementation and, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, 
ensures that executive management maintain a system of internal 
operational, financial and regulatory controls that identify and 
manage appropriately the risks set out on pages 24 to 27 . 
Summary of matters reserved for the Board
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, 
which includes the approval of half-year and full-year financial 
statements, changes to the Group’s capital structure and significant 
investments, contracts, acquisitions, mergers and disposals. 
These reserved matters were last reviewed by the Board on 
5 November 2014. Other specific responsibilities are delegated to 
the Board Committees, which operate within clearly defined terms 
of reference. 
Full details of the schedule of matters reserved for decision by the 
Board and the responsibilities delegated to the Board Committees 
can be found on the Group’s website www.xchanging.com 
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are clearly 
segregated and the division of responsibilities between them is set 
out in writing and was last agreed by the Board on 5 November 2014.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, and ensuring 
its effectiveness by facilitating debate and the contribution of Non-
Executive Directors. Meeting agendas are set by collaboration between 
the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary . 
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for running Xchanging’s 
business, and providing strategic leadership to the Group, in 
consultation with the Board. 
COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Board places importance on communication with shareholders 
and gives them the opportunity to meet the Chairman and Directors 
as appropriate. Shareholders will continue to be given the 
opportunity to meet the Chairman and Directors in the coming 
12 months. Arrangements can be made for major shareholders to 
meet with any newly appointed Directors. The Company’s Investor 
Relations team organises an ongoing programme of dialogue and 
meetings between the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer and institutional investors, fund managers and analysts. 
Brokers’ reports and investors’ feedback are circulated regularly to 
the Board, who discuss these and any other key matters relating 
to investors. In each case the Board, in conjunction with advisers 
where appropriate, determines the strategy to address significant 
issues raised.
The Company’s Annual General Meeting on Wednesday 14 May 2015 
will provide a valuable opportunity for the Board to communicate 
with private investors. We encourage shareholders to attend the 
meeting and to ask questions of any of the Directors following the 
conclusion of the formal part of the meeting. Details of proxy 
voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, will be made 
available on request and will be placed on the Company’s website 
following the meeting.
Directors’ induction, training and development
While no new Directors were appointed to the Board during 2014, 
Xchanging has a structured induction programme for all newly 
appointed Non-Executive Directors which includes visits to 
companies and their respective management teams in each of 
Xchanging’s business sectors and meetings with members of the 
Executive Board. Newly appointed Directors have access to the 
Company Secretary’s assistance both in orientation and guidance 
around the Xchanging Group, in addition to the exposure gained 
at regular Board meetings.
All Directors receive ongoing updates on the Company’s service 
offerings and activities and on legal and regulatory changes. In 2014 
this included management presentations on the services provided 
by MM4, Xuber and Netsett, and a briefing by PwC on changes to the 
Code, relating to setting and monitoring the Company’s risk 
management framework. 
Formal papers are circulated to the Directors before each Board 
meeting, which enable them to make an informed decision on the 
issues under consideration. In addition to formal Board meetings, 
during 2014 the Chairman maintained regular contact with the Chief 
Executive Officer , the Chief Financial Officer and other Executive 
Directors to discuss specific issues. The Company Secretary acts 
as an adviser to the Board on matters concerning governance and 
ensures compliance with Board procedures. All Directors had access 
to the Company Secretary’s advice and during 2014 this was sought 
from time-to-time. Directors may also take independent professional 
advice at the Company’s expense. In the event that any Director has 
concerns about the running of the Company, or a proposed action, 
which cannot be resolved within the Board forum, such concerns 
may be reflected in the Board minutes. Minutes of each Board 
meeting are circulated by the Company Secretary following the 
meeting to allow such comments to be raised. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 54
Corporate governance report
continued
Directors’ interests
Under Xchanging’s Articles of Association, the Board may authorise 
any actual or potential conflicts of interest for Directors. Each Director 
provides the Company Secretary with information regarding any 
actual or potential interests that may conflict with those of 
Xchanging, such as other directorships, and any other potential 
interests that each thinks may cause a conflict requiring prior Board 
authorisation on an annual basis. If the circumstances of any of these 
disclosed interests change, the relevant Director is required to 
update the Company Secretary promptly. 
The register setting out each Director’s current disclosures (where 
relevant) was last reviewed and approved by the Board at its meeting 
on 10 December 2014. In each such situation, the Director under 
consideration did not vote on the matter . The Board will continue to 
review the register of interests regularly to ensure the authorisations, 
and any conditions attached to them, are appropriate for the relevant 
matter to remain authorised. The Company Secretary maintains a list 
of all authorisations granted to Directors, setting out the date of 
authorisation and its expiry, scope and any limitations imposed 
(as applicable).
Board performance evaluation
Each year the Board undertakes an evaluation process in respect of 
itself and its Committees. The 2014 Board evaluation was facilitated 
by the JCA Group, an independent external company specialising in 
Board reviews. The evaluation process started with a written 
questionnaire, followed by individual interviews during which Board 
members were invited to evaluate and comment on the operation 
of the Board and its Committees. Emma Fallon, the facilitator from 
the JCA Group met with the Chairman to discuss the results of the 
process and a briefing note was submitted to the Board setting out 
the principal issues raised and suggesting appropriate action points. 
The principal issues raised in the 2014 performance evaluation were 
discussed at the 10 December 2014 Board meeting with Emma 
Fallon of the JCA Group present. Based on the feedback received, 
the Board concluded that the Board and its Committees continue to 
operate effectively. A list of specific actions was agreed to address 
the comments made by Directors, including the continued 
development of the Non-Executive Directors’ detailed knowledge 
of the businesses operated by the Group through a programme of 
regular business reviews. During the 2014 evaluation process, the 
Non-Executive Directors (in the absence of the Chairman) met with 
Ian Cormack, as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director , to 
review the performance of Geoff Unwin during 2014. This is the 
occasion when they also confirmed his independence upon 
appointment. Mr Cormack later de-briefed the Chairman. All 
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman then met to evaluate 
the performance of the CEO, Ken Lever . Finally, the CEO joined the 
meeting to brief the Board on the performance of the CFO, David 
Bauernfeind. The performance of the Non-Executive Directors 
during 2014 was reviewed by Geoff Unwin, taking into account the 
views of the other Directors. 
0%
38%
63%
TENURE OF THE BOARD OF 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS (%)
 1-2 years
 2-3 years
 3 years+
T enure, election and re-appointment of Directors
All Non-Executive Directors have three year appointments, save for 
Geoff Unwin who has a four year appointment from 1 December 2011. 
All Non-Executive Director appointments may be terminated by 
either party upon three months’ (or in the case of Geoff Unwin,  
six months’) written notice, or by shareholder vote at the AGM. 
The Non-Executive Directors do not have any entitlement to 
compensation if their office is terminated. Full details of the 
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors can be found on page 
63 of the Remuneration report.
Under the Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to 
re-election at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) at intervals of no 
more than three years. At its meeting on 10 December 2014, the 
Board agreed that all Directors will be put forward for re-election at 
the 2015 AGM. The Board believes that each of the Directors makes a 
valuable contribution to Xchanging, and supports their re-election in 
each case. 
Board Committees
Attendance at Board meetings and committees of the Board
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Meetings in the year 8 6 5 2
Geoff Unwin 8 5 2
Ken Lever 8   
David Bauernfeind 8   
Ian Cormack 8 6 5 2
Michel Paulin 6
1
 4 1
Saurabh Srivastava 6
2
5  
Bill Thomas 7
3
5 3 2
Stephen Wilson 8 6  
1 Michel Paulin was absent from two Board meetings during 2014, due to clashing 
commitments. 
2 Saurabh Srivastava did not attend two Board meetings during 2014, due to clashing 
commitments.
3 Bill Thomas did not attend one Board meeting during 2014, due to clashing commitments. COMPOSITION AND ROLE OF AUDIT COMMITTEE
During 2014, the composition of the Audit Committee complied with 
the Code and comprised four Independent Non-Executive Directors: 
Stephen Wilson, Saurabh Srivastava, Bill Thomas and Ian Cormack. 
The Board considers Stephen Wilson, the Chairman, to have recent 
and relevant financial experience. The Audit Committee maintains 
a formal agenda for each year to ensure compliance with the 
requirements of the Code, and met five times during the year . Items 
considered during 2014 include the review of accounting treatment 
of material judgements; scope of work and findings of the 2014 
internal and external audits; half-year and full-year financial 
statements; risk management process; the effectiveness, 
independence and terms of appointment of the external auditors; 
non-audit services provided by the external auditors; and the 
effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems.
In its July 2014 and February 2015 meetings, the Audit Committee 
approved the half-year and full-year financial statements 
respectively, and confirmed agreement with key accounting policies 
and material judgements after having received reports from the 
external auditors.
AREAS OF SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENT CONSIDERED  
DURING THE YEAR
The table on the following page provides details about the significant 
issues considered by the Audit Committee in approving the financial 
statements and how these were addressed.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, is responsible for 
regularly reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal controls. The internal control system is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives 
and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against 
material errors, losses or fraud. The Board is also responsible for 
ensuring that appropriate systems are in place to enable it to identify, 
assess and manage key risks. 
The financial reporting process and control system (which includes 
the preparation of consolidated accounts) is monitored and 
maintained through the use of internal control frameworks which 
address key financial reporting risks, including risks arising from 
changes in the business or accounting standards. Effectiveness is 
assessed through self-certification and independent testing of the 
controls. During the year the Audit Committee regularly received 
updates from management on the progress of internal 
transformation projects including finance system consolidations 
and the increased use of shared service centres.
Dear Shareholders,
The Audit Committee’s role is to protect the 
interests of shareholders by ensuring sound 
control of the Group, the integrity of published 
financial information, and effective audit.
T o ensure the Company receives the best audit service, we ran 
a competitive tender for the external audit during the year . The 
Audit Committee reviewed three high quality proposals, deciding 
ultimately to recommend the re-appointment of PwC. This was 
approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. 
During 2014 we have continued to focus on accounting judgements, 
particularly in relation to intangible assets, the presentation of 
exceptional items and the accounting for acquisitions and disposals. 
We have also worked on the identification and management of risks 
for the Group, the internal control environment and the work of the 
internal and external auditors in giving assurance over it. Further 
details about these activities can be found in the report below.
STEPHEN WILSON 
CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 
26 February 2015
Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 55
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Audit Committee report 
Chairman’s overview Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 56
Corporate governance report
continued
RISK MANAGEMENT
Xchanging maintains risk registers covering each significant operation, 
business sector , and the Group. We review the risk assessment four 
times per year , which helps to ensure a consistent approach and focus 
on the right risks. The Board reviews the Group risk register annually, 
with the last review occurring on 10 December 2014.
In managing risk we analyse the nature and extent of risks and consider 
their likelihood and impact, both on an inherent and a residual basis, after 
taking account of mitigating controls. This allows us to determine how we 
should manage each risk in order to achieve our strategic objectives.
Risk registers are maintained in a hierarchy across the business and 
include risks which are strategic, commercial, operational and 
financial in nature.
• 
Strategic risks reflect the potential for a significant strategic action, 
or a failure to react to developing trends in the market, to have a 
financial impact on the economic value of our business.
• 
Commercial risks reflect the potential to enter into a critical 
contract or commercial arrangement which may have an adverse 
impact on the business.
• 
Operational risks reflect the potential for the failure of a critical 
process or procedure to have an adverse impact on the business.
• 
Financial risks include interest, foreign exchange, tax rate changes, 
pension valuations and liquidity. Failure to manage these risks 
could negatively impact the economic value of our business. 
As part of the quarterly business review process, management 
discuss the key risks along with the mitigating action plans. 
Following sign off by the Executive Board, the output of this review 
is presented to the Audit Committee.
The Group’s key risk management procedures have been in place 
throughout 2014 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report. 
OVERVIEW OF RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS
Internal control
The Group’s key internal control procedures include the following:
• 
Review of the Group’s strategy and the performance of principal 
subsidiaries and EPs, through a comprehensive system of 
reporting based on variances to annual budgets, key performance 
indicators and regular forecasting.
Areas of significant judgement Judgements and assumptions considered
Carrying value of intangible 
assets including goodwill
Goodwill of £209. 4 million is a significant asset in the balance sheet and the impairment testing includes subjective judgements about the future 
results of the businesses. The goodwill balance has increased by £38. 4 million in the year as a result of acquisitions made by the Group. 
Impairment testing of the goodwill balance is performed annually for each cash generating unit (‘CGU’). 
Goodwill includes £54. 1 million relating to the Procurement business, an area that we focused on given the sector loss for the year and the forecast 
growth rates. The headroom, whilst sufficient to support the carrying value, is lower than in 2013 for the Procurement CGU. In addition, goodwill 
includes £79. 1 million (£40.7 million excluding the acquisitions in the year) relating to the T echnology business, a focus area given the low level 
of Xuber sales in the year . 
The Audit Committee then reviewed the carrying value of the Agencyport
*
 business given the CMA review that is ongoing at the year end and 
ensured that sufficient disclosure was made of the risk of impairment in the event of an adverse outcome or a failure to integrate the business. 
The primary judgements, relating to assumptions that support the calculations of the value in use of the CGUs being tested for impairment, are  
the growth in operating profit of the CGU, and macroeconomic assumptions such as the discount rate. These assumptions were considered by 
reviewing the Board approved business plans, historic trends, sensitivity analysis, sales pipeline analysis and a qualitative analysis of the business. 
The Audit Committee focused their discussion on the sales pipeline assumptions, including the track record of conversion, and the business plans 
for the sector , underpinning the future performance. Having considered the results of the impairment reviews and the assumptions used, the Audit 
Committee then reviewed the disclosures made in the financial statements in this area. 
The Audit Committee reviewed impairment papers prepared by Group Finance and, in addition, the external auditors provide a written report 
covering this area of significant judgement and audit risk. Further disclosures, particularly in respect of the growth assumptions and the sensitivity 
analysis, are set out in note 11 to the accounts. 
Within the other intangible assets balance of £123.0 million, Xuber (£24.0 million) and Netsett (£4.0 million) were also reviewed for impairment. 
The same impairment testing process was applied to these assets as described above. The key judgements relate to the conversion of the Xuber 
sales pipeline and the conversion of the Netsett pilots into future sales. Capitalisation of internal time within intangibles assets was discussed to 
ensure compliance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets. 
The results of the testing were reviewed by the Audit Committee and discussed with management and the external auditors. Details of intangible 
assets can be found in note 12.
Acquisitions and disposals The Audit Committee considered the acquisition accounting prepared by management for T otal Objects and Agencyport
*
. The key areas of 
judgement were the identification and valuation of any intangible assets acquired, any additional opening balance sheet adjustments required 
and whether any deferred consideration (up to the value of £8.0 million for T otal Objects) should be accounted for as post-acquisition expenses. 
The Audit Committee reviewed the submitted accounting papers and the Board approvals of the due diligence work. They assessed the 
assumptions used in determining the fair values of the intangible assets all of which was discussed with the external auditors. Further details 
can be found in note 29.
Exceptional items In 2014 there have been a number of exceptional items which total £7 . 1 million, the details of which can be found in note 4. The key items are the 
net impact of the lease surrender at our Leadenhall Street premises (£9.7 million income), restructuring costs (£10.3 million) and the expense 
for the exit of the Workers’ Compensation contract with the State of New South Wales (£7 . 1 million).
The key judgements relate to the nature, amount and presentation of exceptional, along with ensuring that statutory financial information is given 
equal prominence. Accounting papers are prepared that set out the rational for the classification as exceptional items. The Audit Committee 
reviewed these papers together with the detail provided by the external auditors in their written report. Full details of the items that have been 
agreed and presented as exceptional items are set out in note 4 to the accounts.
Revenue recognition The changing business model has increased the level of variable technology based software revenues. Management accounting papers were 
reviewed which included presentation and subsequent discussion by the Audit Committee about the revenue recognition policy. The key 
judgements related to the accounting treatment of software licences, including when bundled with licence support, maintenance and 
implementation services. Further details about revenue recognition can be found in note 1.
Pensions, taxation and 
other provisions
The level of provisioning for contingent and other liabilities, including pensions, taxation, litigation and other provisions, requires judgement and 
subject matter expert advice. The Audit Committee receives written reports from Group Finance and in-house legal counsel and discusses with 
management the key management, accounting and actuarial judgements, including relevant legal advice. The Audit Committee also discussed 
how these matters are presented and disclosed in the annual report. The external auditors also report on all material provisions and pension 
benchmarking to the Audit Committee.
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 57
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
• 
A quarterly business review for each business sector . This covers 
financial performance, a detailed range of strategic risks, 
opportunities and KPI metrics which measure the overall 
performance of the business sector . This process also identifies 
the key operational issues and actions required to address any 
deficiencies.
• 
Well-defined Group policies and processes, communicated 
through the Group Financial Reporting Procedures Manual and 
intranet site, and a defined process governing the approval of sales 
opportunities and capital expenditure.
• 
A defined organisational structure with appropriate delegation 
of authority across all levels of the organisation.
• 
Formal authorisation procedures for all investments with clear 
guidelines on appraisal techniques and success criteria.
• 
Formal authorisation procedures for all significant sales 
opportunities and bid management, with clear guidelines on 
success criteria and contracting practices.
The Audit Committee has, on behalf of the Board, conducted an 
annual review of the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control 
systems for 2014 and the period prior to approval of this Annual 
Report. The Audit Committee reported its findings to the Board at 
the 25 February 2015 Board meeting. It considered all material 
controls in accordance with the T urnbull guidance. Following this 
review no significant weaknesses or failings were identified and 
noted improvement areas are being addressed by management.
The internal control environment will continue to be monitored and 
reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee.
1. Organisation  
strategic 
objectives
 
6. Monitoring
 
2. Risk  
assessment
 
5. Residential  
risk reporting 
3. Risk  
reporting
 
4. Risk  
mitigating  
activity
Internal Audit
The work performed by the Group’s Internal Audit department is 
focused on areas of greatest risk to the Group, as well as issues 
identified by the quarterly performance reporting, including any 
significant change projects occurring within the business. The 
objective of Internal Audit is to provide independent assurance to 
the Audit Committee over the financial, operational and compliance 
controls and to assist the Audit Committee in its assessment of the 
effectiveness of internal controls. The Head of Internal Audit reports 
directly to the Chief Financial Officer , but has the right to report to 
the Audit Committee Chairman independently of the Executive 
Directors. All significant internal audit reports are reviewed by the 
Audit Committee and all reports are made available to the external 
auditors. During the year the Audit Committee approved the internal 
audit plan, reviewed the findings from audits and monitored the 
follow up of actions identified in audits.
External Auditor
As PwC had been auditor for 13 years and the audit partner was due 
for rotation in 2014, the Audit Committee conducted a competitive 
tender process for the external auditor during the year . Following a 
thorough review of three high quality proposals, we concluded that 
the Company would be best served by re-appointing PwC. The Board 
approved this recommendation in April 2014 and a resolution put to 
the 2014 AGM was approved by shareholders.
Following the competitive tender for the external audit and the 
change of audit partner during the year , the Audit Committee plans to 
conduct the annual assessment of the performance of the external 
auditors in May 2015. This will be based on the findings of a survey 
that will be completed by all key stakeholders from across the Group.
T o ensure that the objectivity and independence of the audit is not 
compromised, the level of non-audit services provided by the 
external auditors is regularly monitored, and the appropriateness of 
the relevant safeguards required to maintain independence are 
reviewed regularly. The policy for the engagement of external 
auditors to supply non-audit services is reviewed annually by the 
Audit Committee. The policy categorises services between 
prohibited, type 1 and type 2 services. Prohibited services are those 
which the external auditor are not allowed to undertake, type 1 
services are those which are not normally permitted but would be 
allowable with prior authorisation from the Audit Committee and 
type 3 services are allowable but require ongoing monitoring by the 
Audit Committee based upon value. Each service type has clearly 
defined safeguards required by the Audit Committee to ensure 
auditor objectivity is maintained. 
The level of non-audit services in 2014 is lower than in 2013 as the 
work of PwC as implementation partner for Xchanging’s new Human 
Resources System has been completed. The overall level of 
non-audit services remained at an acceptable level during the year . 
EU regulations which came into enforce in mid-2014, effective from 
2016, state that non-audit fees must be less than or equal to 70% of 
the average sum of the previous three years’ audit fee. The Group will 
work towards this ratio.
Based on these considerations the Audit Committee concluded 
that PwC remained independent during 2014. 
Ethics
Xchanging is committed to the highest standards of business 
integrity in each country where it operates, maintaining an Ethical 
Business Code of Conduct which applies to all employees and 
provides guidance regarding their conduct, and how Xchanging 
conducts business. 
Xchanging will not tolerate any form of bribery or corruption by 
its employees. Measures have been taken to ensure Group-wide 
compliance with the Bribery Act 2010. In the event of any bribery 
or corruption incident brought to the Group’s attention, Xchanging 
would take immediate steps to effect corrective action and report it 
to the relevant authorities as required. Xchanging considers that each 
employee has the duty to the Group to act with integrity and good 
faith in their role, and avoid any circumstance which either conflicts, 
or could potentially conflict, with Xchanging’s interests. 
Xchanging has a Whistle-Blowing Policy to allow employees to voice 
any concerns in a responsible and effective manner , without fear of 
reprisal. In 2014, the Company implemented an externally facilitated 
whistle-blowing hotline, which can be accessed by telephone or on 
the web, and allow employees to communicate concerns in absolute 
confidence.
Reported concerns are investigated at the earliest opportunity by 
the Company Secretary, the Group Head of Governance, Risk and 
Compliance, and, if appropriate, by management of the respective 
businesses. The concerns raised and actions taken are reported to 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 58
Corporate governance report
continued
The Nomination Committee recognises that diversity, in all its 
dimensions, across an organisation, including at Board level, is 
important to support innovation, strategic development and 
operational efficiency. The Board’s diversity policy includes only 
using executive search firms that have signed up to the Executive 
Search Firms Voluntary Code of Conduct and to use long lists that 
include at least 50% female candidates, wherever possible. The 
Nomination Committee will consider candidates for appointment as 
Non-Executive Directors from a wider pool, including those with 
limited (or no) listed company experience. It is not the Board’s policy 
to have specific voluntary targets, but it will continue to recruit board 
members based on skills and experience, having regard to the 
requirements of the Code in respect of diversity, including gender . 
For more information about gender diversity in Xchanging, refer to 
the Corporate Social Responsibility report (page 40). 
Key areas of responsibility
• 
Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and diversity of 
experience of the Board and, in light of such evaluation, preparing 
descriptions of the role and the capabilities required for any 
appointment.
• 
Ensuring that plans are in place for orderly succession for 
appointments to the Board and senior management, to retain an 
appropriate balance of skills and experience within Xchanging and 
on the Board.
The Nomination Committee meets at least once a year . During 2014 
it met twice, to agree a succession plan strategy for the Directors and 
senior management, to review the findings of the externally 
facilitated 2014 Board evaluation and Board succession. The 
Nomination Committee also reviewed the composition of the Audit 
Committee and reviewed the Board diversity policy for submission 
to the Board (which is described above). 
While no new appointments were made during 2014, there is a 
rigorous and transparent procedure for appointments to the Board 
and its Committees, involving undertaking an assessment of the 
skills and capabilities required, drafting a description of the role, and 
carrying out an assessment of potential candidates, before making 
a recommendation to the Board. 
GEOFF UNWIN
CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
26 February 2015
Dear Shareholders,
The report below describes the main 
responsibilities of the Nomination Committee 
and how it achieved these in 2014. I would like to 
draw your attention to what we achieved in 2014 
and what we will focus on in 2015.
Following the significant refresh of the Board in 2012, undertaken 
with the aim of enhancing the combined knowledge and expertise of 
the Board and so to benefit from a more diverse leadership team, the 
Committee’s main focus in 2014 was to monitor the functioning of 
the Board and to satisfy itself that the Board had the right balance 
of skills and experience to enable it to provide leadership and 
accountability. It was therefore pleasing to see that the feedback 
from the Board effectiveness evaluation process (which you can read 
about on page 54) provided confirmation that the Board, and the 
Board committees, continue to operate effectively. 
The Board is responsible for succession generally, but the 
Nomination Committee will advise the Board on appropriate 
succession planning in the year ahead. In 2014 the Committee 
reviewed Bill Thomas’ service contract, which was due to expire on 
30 November 2014, and recommended that his term of service be 
extended for a further three year period (subject to being re-elected 
at the 2015 Annual General Meeting). The Board subsequently 
approved the extension of Bill Thomas’ service contract.
The Nomination Committee leads the process for all Board 
appointments and is responsible for reviewing candidates and 
making a final recommendation to the Board, in compliance with the 
Code. The Nomination Committee also reviews the structure, size 
and membership of the Board itself, as well as Board committees 
from time to time, to ensure an appropriate mix of experience and 
skill, as well as the orderly refreshing as required. During 2014, the 
composition of the Nomination Committee complied with the Code, 
comprising of a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors. 
Nomination Committee report 
Chairman’s overview Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 59
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to present our Annual Report on 
Directors’ Remuneration for the year ended 
31 December 2014.
In May 2014, we published our Directors’ Remuneration Report for 
the first time under the new reporting Regulations. My Board 
colleagues and I would like to thank our Shareholders for the strong 
support displayed for the Remuneration Policy, which was approved 
by 98.3% of Shareholders at the 2014 AGM. Our intention is for this 
Policy, which came into effect on 13 May 2014, to apply for three years 
from the date of approval. The Policy is structured to balance our 
objectives of supporting Xchanging’s strategic aims to deliver 
long-term sustainable growth and providing appropriate levels of 
remuneration and reward to Executive Directors.
Given that a substantial part of the total remuneration for Directors is 
weighted towards long-term performance, the Committee believes 
that the current policy is flexible enough to connect growth with 
rewards. The policy includes a deferral element of the annual bonus, 
and malus provisions are in place in performance plans. The 
Committee is comfortable that the remuneration policy is robust and 
transparent and the policy will therefore remain unchanged for 2015.
During 2014, the Remuneration Committee was compliant with the 
Code. The key activities of the Remuneration Committee in 2014 are 
given in the Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 60.
2014 remuneration highlights 
As highlighted in the Chairman’s statement and Chief Executive’s 
report earlier in this annual report, the Group set very challenging 
objectives in 2014, including replacing revenue and profit from a 
business which had been disposed of. Our adjusted operating profit 
performance warranted an element of bonus payout but a second 
performance hurdle, requiring year-on-year profit growth to fund the 
bonus pool, was not met. Consequently no bonuses were paid for 2014.
In the medium term our resilient performance has been reflected in 
Xchanging’s TSR. Over the three years 2012-2014, Xchanging’s TSR 
of 149.8%, significantly outperformed the 71.2% return generated by 
the FTSE 250 over the same period. The Committee believes the 
100% vesting outcome of the 2012 PSP cycle (which also reflects the 
Group’s average Return on Capital of 27 .5% over the three years to 
2014) appropriately reflects this level of absolute – as well as relative 
– outperformance, and we are encouraged by the close alignment 
between executive long-term incentive outcomes and value creation 
for our shareholders.
Activities of the Remuneration Committee
During the year under review, the Committee’s main goal has been to 
ensure that remuneration practice has been in line with our approved 
During 2014, the Remuneration Committee was 
compliant with the Code. The key activities of the 
Remuneration Committee in 2014 are given in 
the Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 60.
Remuneration Committee report 
Chairman’s overview Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 60
Corporate governance report
continued
Remuneration Policy. We are also committed to best practice in 
corporate governance, and so have kept abreast of legislative 
developments and corporate governance requirements to inform 
ongoing effectiveness of remuneration policy. In November 2014, for 
example, we reviewed our existing malus provisions against the new 
requirements of the FRC’s UK Corporate Governance Code. The 
Committee concluded that our existing policy (which incorporates 
malus in both the deferred bonus and PSP) remains appropriate at 
this time, but that we would keep under review emerging trends in 
this area. As such, no changes to the Policy are considered necessary 
for 2015.
Y our Remuneration Report
The report is divided into a separate policy section which came into 
effect in May 2014, and an Annual Report on Remuneration which 
sets out and explains the outcomes of the various elements that 
make up 2014 remuneration for Directors.
The sections of the Annual Report on Remuneration subject to audit 
are indicated. At the 2015 AGM, the Annual Report on Remuneration 
will be put to an advisory Shareholder vote.
This report complies with the requirements of the Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 and the 2013 Amendments, the provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Listing Rules.
It is in this context that I would like to share with you our 2014 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
BILL THOMAS 
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
26 February 2015
REMUNERATION REPORT
Xchanging’s remuneration policy is to ensure that we attract and 
retain key talent in order to create sustainable long-term value for 
shareholders. T o help inform the Remuneration Committee, total 
remuneration is benchmarked periodically against companies of a 
similar size, complexity and geographic scope when determining 
competitive remuneration levels for Executive Directors. The 
Remuneration Committee has determined that this peer group 
remains appropriate for executive talent.
The Remuneration Committee commits to:
• 
ensuring the Board’s approved business strategy is supported 
by our variable pay plans;
• 
rewarding the Executive Directors on Company success by linking 
a significant proportion of their remuneration opportunity to 
Company performance;
• 
encouraging our Executive Directors and senior team to build 
a significant stake in the business; and
• 
monitoring the ongoing effectiveness of our remuneration policy 
to ensure that it achieves its aim of attracting, motivating and 
retaining the leaders and talent required to deliver exceptional 
shareholder value.
The Committee believes that the remuneration philosophy described 
above remains in the interests of shareholders and promotes the 
maintenance of a robust remuneration policy aligned with our 
strategic priorities. The Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors 
set out below is unchanged from that disclosed in the 2013 
Remuneration Report and approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM 
(save for references to financial years, which have been updated where 
appropriate), and will continue to apply for the 2015 financial year .  Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 61
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
POLICY TABLE
FUNCTION OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS
Base salary
T o attract and retain talented leaders of the 
calibre required to deliver on the Group’s 
strategic goals.
Base pay is reviewed annually by the 
Committee with reference to the average 
salary increases across the Group’s 
businesses, mid-market rate pay in our 
comparator group companies (comprising 
FTSE companies of similar size and 
geographic revenue and profit mix to 
Xchanging) and business performance.
If adjusted, the effective date for base 
salary increases is 1 January.
Base salary increases will be informed by 
the general increase awarded to the 
broader employee population. On 
occasion, the Committee may need to 
make higher than average awards to 
recognise, for example, individual 
development in role, changes in 
responsibility, and/or to address specific 
retention or competitiveness issues, as is 
the case throughout the organisation.
The annual review takes account of 
individual and business performance,  
their level of experience, and the scope 
of responsibility and criticality of the role 
to  the business.
Pension 
T o provide an opportunity for executives to 
build up income on retirement.
Executive Directors are either members of 
the Xchanging Stakeholder Plan, which is a 
defined contribution scheme, or receive a 
cash allowance in lieu of pension.
Current Executive Directors receive a 
pension contribution of a maximum of 15% 
of salary or an equivalent cash allowance.
None
Benefits
T o ensure our provision of benefits are 
competitive in the market in which the 
executive is employed.
Executive Directors receive standard 
market benefits, including health 
insurance, income protection, life 
insurance, although can include any such 
benefits that the Committee deems 
appropriate.
In addition, the Chief Financial Officer who 
has a legacy employment contract with the 
Company is also eligible for a death in 
service pension.
Set at a level which the Committee 
considers appropriate in light of relevant 
market practice for the role and individual 
circumstances.
Benefits in respect of the year under review 
are disclosed in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration. It is not anticipated that the 
cost of benefits provided will exceed this 
level in the financial years over which this 
policy will apply, although the Committee 
retains the discretion to approve a higher 
cost in exceptional circumstances (e.g. 
relocation expenses and expatriation 
allowances) or in circumstances where 
factors outside the Company’s control have 
changed materially (e.g. market increases 
in insurance costs).
None
Annual bonus
T o incentivise behaviours aligned to Group 
performance and values and to support 
delivery of Group strategy.
Performance measures, weightings and 
targets are set at the beginning of each 
year by the Committee and are weighted  
to reflect business priorities.
One-third of any bonus earned is deferred 
into shares (in the form of nil cost options) 
which vest after three years and continue  
to be exercisable for a further five years.
Malus provisions apply to deferred 
bonuses in the event of a material 
misstatement or gross negligence.
Dividend equivalents may be payable in 
respect of the performance shares which vest.
Maximum bonus opportunity is 150% 
of salary.
For meeting challenging targets across all 
metrics, an amount equal to 90% of salary 
would be earned (i.e. 60% of maximum).
At threshold levels of performance, the 
bonus outcome will be 2% of the 
maximum opportunity.
The vesting schedule is calibrated to be a 
straight-line sliding scale between threshold 
and maximum levels of performance.
Performance is assessed on an annual 
basis, using a combination of the Group’s 
main KPIs for the year . The measures 
include financial metrics and could include 
non-financial metrics. The weighting of the 
non-financial element (if any) will be 
capped at 20% of the total award.
When assessing financial performance, the 
Committee considers adjusted operating 
profit, net revenue growth and cash flow, 
as well as other indicators of performance 
defined at the start of the year . 
Details of the measures, weightings and 
targets applicable for the financial year 
under review are provided in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration.  Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 62
Corporate governance report
continued
FUNCTION OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS
Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) 
Incentivise long-term value creation, 
aligning the interests of executives and 
shareholders through the delivery of 
awards in shares.
Annual awards of shares (or nil cost 
options) with performance measured over 
three financial years.
T o encourage long-term decision-making 
and further improve shareholder alignment, 
the Committee will introduce a holding 
period on PSP awards. 2014 PSP awards 
have a three year performance period, but 
with an additional six months holding period. 
Awards will not be released to the Executive 
Directors until three and a half years in total 
from the date of grant. From 2015, a five year 
holding period, measured from the date of 
grant, will apply to awards. Performance will 
continue to be measured over three years.
Malus provisions would apply to shares 
during the holding period in the event of a 
material misstatement or gross negligence.
Dividend equivalents may be payable in 
respect of the performance shares which vest.
The normal maximum award in any year is 
up to 150% of base salary. The award is 
split between ‘basic’ and ‘stretch’ 
components, of which the ‘basic’ award is 
capped at 100% of base salary. 
In exceptional circumstances, to be 
determined at the Committee’s discretion, 
the Committee may award shares of up to 
300% of base salary, i.e. in line with the 
exceptional limit in the PSP Rules. The 
‘basic’ award may not comprise more than 
two-thirds of any award. 
At threshold levels of performance, 16.67% 
of the ‘basic’ award will vest. This level of 
vesting equates to approximately 11% of 
the maximum normal award opportunity of 
150% of salary.
Vesting of PSP awards is currently subject 
to Xchanging’s total shareholder return 
(TSR) and Economic Profit (EP) 
performance over a three year period.
At the start of each cycle, the Committee 
will determine the weighting of each 
measure and the targets that will apply 
to the awards. The Committee also has 
discretion to adjust the performance 
measures to ensure they continue to align 
with Xchanging’s strategy. 
Further details, including the performance 
targets attached to the PSP in respect of 
each cycle, will be disclosed in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration.
Executive Share Option Plan (‘ESOP’)
The ESOP allows the company to reward 
all eligible employees in a tax efficient 
manner through the approved scheme.  
An unapproved scheme is also in 
operation.
Awards of market value options which vest 
after three years and which remain 
exercisable until the 10th anniversary of 
grant, subject to continued employment.
The ESOP is typically employed below the 
Board level but awards held by employees 
who are promoted to the Board will be 
allowed to vest according to their normal 
vesting schedule. For Executive Directors, 
the Committee does not intend to make 
further awards under this plan.
No claw-back or malus provisions currently 
apply to grants.
The maximum face value of an award 
which may be granted under this plan is  
set out below.
Approved plan: £30,000 (in line with the 
HMRC limit).
Unapproved plan: normal maximum of 
200% of base salary. In exceptional 
circumstances, the Committee may grant 
an award of up to 300% of base salary.
Performance conditions do not typically 
apply to ESOP awards. If awards are made 
to Executive Directors in the future, the 
Committee will apply stretching 
performance conditions as under the PSP .
NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE
The Remuneration Committee may exercise discretion in two broad 
areas for each element of remuneration, as follows:
• 
T o ensure fairness and align Executive Director remuneration with 
underlying individual and Company performance, the Committee 
may adjust, upwards or downwards, the outcome of any short- or 
long-term incentive plan payment within the limits of the relevant 
Plan Rules. Any adjustments in light of corporate events will be 
made on a neutral basis, i.e. the intention of any adjustment will 
be that the event is not to the benefit or detriment of participants. 
Adjustments due to underlying performance may be made in 
exceptional circumstances to ensure outcomes are fair both to 
shareholders and participants.
• 
In the case of a non-regular event occurring, the Committee may 
apply its discretion to ensure fairness and seek alignment with 
business objectives. Non-regular events include, but are not limited 
to: corporate transactions, changes in the Company’s accounting 
policies, administrative matters, internal promotions, external 
recruitment, terminations, etc.
• 
Any use of discretion by the Committee during the financial year 
will be detailed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 63
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES
The Xchanging executive shareholding policy continues to apply to 
the Executive Directors and requires a minimum shareholding 
equivalent to 100% of base salary to be built within five years. 
Unvested share awards do not count towards meeting this guideline. 
For PSP grants made in 2014 onwards, shares which have vested for 
performance, but remain subject to a holding period and claw-back, 
will count towards the requirement.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION
All Non-Executive Directors have three year appointments, save for 
Geoff Unwin who has a four year appointment from 1 December 2011. 
All Directors are subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
All Non-Executive Director appointments may be terminated by either 
party upon three months’ (or in the case of Geoff Unwin, six months’) 
written notice, or by shareholder vote at the AGM. The Non-Executive 
Directors do not have any entitlement to compensation if their office 
is terminated. 
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the 
Company’s performance related bonus plan, long-term incentive 
plans or pension arrangements. 
Details of the policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are 
set out in the table below:
Non-Executive Directors Date of service contract
Geoff Unwin 1 December 2011
Ian Cormack 26 October 2012
Michel Paulin 01 January 2010
Saurabh Srivastava 4 September 2012
Bill Thomas 1 December 2011
Stephen Wilson 01 July 2012
PERFORMANCE MEASURE SELECTION AND APPROACH TO 
TARGET SETTING
Our annual bonus plan is designed to reward year-on-year 
improvements in business performance. Performance measures are 
based on a balanced set of key value drivers which are directly aligned 
to the business strategy: operating profit, net revenue and cash flow 
(see page 10 for further details of our strategy). Payment of bonuses 
is subject to achieving stretching performance hurdles for each metric, 
which are determined at the outset of the year . Each metric is 
considered separately, as well as collectively, with targets set to 
ensure that the potential outcomes are affordable and aligned 
with investor returns. 
When determining measures for the long-term incentives, the 
Committee looks to align pay to (i) value-enhancing growth in the 
business and (ii) long-term shareholder value creation. The 
Committee selected TSR and Economic Profit as the PSP 
performance measures because it felt this would align executive 
incentives to these aims, and provide a good balance between 
external and internal measures of performance. Targets are set to be 
stretching but achievable, and are reviewed at the start of each cycle 
based on a number of internal and external reference points. Bonus 
targets are aligned with the annual budget agreed by the Board. PSP 
targets reflect industry context, internal and analysts’ expectations, 
and factors specific to the Company.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR OTHER EMPLOYEES
Xchanging’s approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across 
the Group, with consideration given to affordability, the level of 
experience, responsibility, individual performance and salary levels 
in comparable companies.
The majority of employees participate in short-term incentive 
schemes. Opportunities and specific performance conditions vary 
by organisational level and geography, with business area-specific 
metrics incorporated where appropriate.
All members of the Executive Board and the Executive Board Support 
Group are eligible to participate in the PSP , subject to the same 
performance conditions as the Executive Directors. A further 20 
(approximately) senior employees may also receive awards under 
the PSP , but subject to continued employment only. 
Pension and benefits provided to all employees are broadly in line with 
the policy for Executive Directors. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 64
Corporate governance report
continued
FUNCTION OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS
Fees
T o attract and retain Non-Executive 
Directors of the highest calibre with broad 
commercial and other experience relevant 
to the Company.
Fee levels are reviewed every two years, with 
any adjustments effective 1 January in the year 
following review.
In setting Non-Executive Director fees, a 
review of market practice is undertaken which 
takes into account time commitment and 
responsibilities. 
The fee policy for Non-Executive Directors 
is ratified by the Board, based both on the 
recommendations of the Executive Directors 
and the Group Chairman (and by the other 
Board Directors for the Group Chairman’s 
fee).
The fee policy is to pay an annual fee, plus 
additional fees for acting as Senior 
Independent Director or as Chairman of any 
of the Board’s Committees.
Non-Executive Director fees, including that 
of the Group Chairman, are set at levels that 
are considered appropriate in light of 
relevant market practice and the size/
complexity of each role. Fees for the year 
under review and the coming year are set 
out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Aggregate fees are limited to £600,000, 
or such larger amount as the Company may 
by ordinary resolution decide, by the 
Company’s Articles of Association.
None
Non-fee based arrangements
T o recruit the right calibre of candidate, 
within the applicable corporate governance 
guidelines.
It is the Company’s policy to pay Non-
Executive Directors and the Group Chairman 
a cash fee.
The Committee may , however , at its discretion 
enter into non-fee based arrangements to 
facilitate the recruitment of a Non-Executive 
Director in exceptional circumstances, as was 
the case when Geoff Unwin joined the Board 
in January 2012.
In agreeing such arrangements, the Board will 
satisfy itself that such arrangements do not 
threaten independence, alter the individual’s 
ability to steward the Company in a way which 
adheres to corporate governance standards.
In such exceptional circumstances, the 
Committee will consult its major shareholders 
on the proposals first, and disclose the 
arrangements fully in the relevant Annual 
Report on Remuneration.
T o be determined on a case-by-case basis. T o be determined on a case-by-case basis.
Xchanging encourages its Non-Executive Directors to own Xchanging shares to demonstrate alignment with other shareholders. The 
Company notes that Non-Executive Director share ownership is in line with good corporate governance practice, although prescriptive 
shareholding guidelines are still relatively uncommon. The Company encourages shares to be purchased within a year of appointment 
and held while serving on the Board. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 65
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
The ‘Minimum’ scenario reflects base salary, pension and benefits (i.e. fixed remuneration) from 1 January 2014, which are the only elements 
of the Executive Directors’ remuneration packages not linked to performance.
The ‘On-target’ scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus bonus payout of 60% of maximum and PSP threshold vesting 
at approximately 11% of maximum award.
The ‘Maximum’ scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full payout of all incentives.
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION
External appointment
In the cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director from outside the Company, the Remuneration Committee may make use  
of all the existing components of remuneration, as follows:
PAY FOR PERFORMANCE SCENARIOS
The charts below are reproduced from last year’s Remuneration Report and provide an illustration of the potential future reward 
opportunities for the Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration, under three different 
performance scenarios: ‘Minimum’, ‘On-target’ and ‘Maximum’.
Potential reward opportunities are based on Xchanging’s approved remuneration policy, applied to base salaries as at 1 January 2014 
(being the start of the financial year in which the policy took effect). The annual bonus and PSP are based on the maximum 
opportunities under this policy. Note that the PSP awards granted in a year do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of 
grant, and the projected value excludes the impact of any share price movement.
COMPONENT APPROACH
MAXIMUM ANNUAL 
GRANT VALUE
Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, 
experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and their current basic salary . Where new 
appointees have initial basic salaries set below the market median, any subsequent adjustment may 
be managed with phased increases over a period of two to three years subject to the individual’s 
development in the role.
Pension New appointees will receive pension contributions into a defined contribution pension arrangement 
or an equivalent cash supplement, or a combination of both. The level of pension contribution will be 
determined in the context of prevailing market norms at the time of recruitment.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the stated policy on page 61, 
and which may also include (but are not limited to) any necessary expenses relating to 
expatriation or relocation on recruitment.
Annual bonus The structure described in the Policy Table will apply to new appointees with the relevant 
maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the year employed. In the first year 
of employment, bonus measures may be tailored to the individual’s role.
150% of salary
PSP and ESOP We deliver a significant portion of the pay package as variable pay conditional on company 
performance measured by metrics which reflect long-term sustainable company value. New 
appointees may be granted awards under the PSP and/or ESOP on the same terms as other 
Executive Directors, as described in the policy table.
300% of salary
Maximum
On-target
Minimum 100%
51%
28%
41% 8%
36% 36%
561
1,081
2,022
KEN LEVER £’000
PAY FOR PERFORMANCE SCENARIOS
 PSP
 Annual bonus
 Fixed
Maximum
On-target
Minimum 100%
49%
26%
43% 8%
37% 37%
334
679
1,303
DAVID BAUERNFEIND £’000
PAY FOR PERFORMANCE SCENARIOS
 PSP
 Annual bonus
 Fixed Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 66
Corporate governance report
continued
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND EXIT PAYMENT POLICY
Executive Director Date of service contract
Ken Lever 16 September 2010
David Bauernfeind 7 June 2011
Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for early 
termination, are carefully considered by the Committee. In accordance 
with general market practice, each of the Executive Directors has a 
rolling service contract requiring 12 months’ notice of termination on 
either side. Such contracts contain no specific provision for 
compensation for loss of office, other than an obligation to pay for any 
notice period waived by the Company, where pay is defined as salary 
plus benefits only. Executive Director service contracts are available to 
view at the Company’s registered office. Non-Executive Directors do 
not have service contracts but receive letters of appointment. These 
are available to view at the Company’s registered office. There are no 
provisions for loss of office and the notice period policy is three or six 
months.
If employment is terminated by the Company, the departing Executive 
Director may have a legal entitlement (under statute or otherwise) to 
additional amounts, which would need to be met. In addition, the 
Committee retains discretion to settle any other amounts reasonably 
due to the Executive, for example to meet the legal fees incurred by 
the Executive in connection with the termination of employment, 
where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement (as 
provided for below) and the individual must seek independent legal 
advice. The Committee also has discretion to meet reasonable 
relocation costs if the Executive Director had relocated to perform 
their duties.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual 
arrangements with departing Executive Directors including (but not 
limited to) settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenants and/or 
consultancy arrangements. These will be used sparingly and only 
entered into where the Committee believes that it is in the best 
interests of the Company and its shareholders to do so.
While the service contracts for the current Executive Directors do not 
specify terms for mitigation and phasing, contracts for any new 
Executive Directors would be aligned to best market practice and 
will include provisions for mitigation and phasing.
When considering exit payments, the Committee reviews potential 
incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair to both shareholders and 
participants. The table below summarises how the awards under the 
annual bonus and PSP are typically treated in specific circumstances, 
with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committee’s 
discretion.
In determining an appropriate remuneration package, the 
Remuneration Committee will take into consideration all relevant 
factors (including quantum, nature of remuneration and the 
jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited) to ensure that 
arrangements are in the best interests of both Xchanging and its 
shareholders. In addition to the above elements of remuneration, the 
Committee may consider it appropriate to grant an award under a 
different structure in order to facilitate the recruitment of an individual, 
exercising the discretion available under the relevant Listing Rule to 
replace incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous 
employer . Such ‘buyout awards’ would have a fair value no higher than 
that of the awards forfeited. In doing so, the Committee will consider 
relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to 
these awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met and the 
proportion of the vesting period remaining. 
Internal promotion
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal 
promotion, the Remuneration Committee will set pay in a manner 
consistent with the policy for external appointments as detailed above. 
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their 
promotion to Executive Director level, the Company will continue to 
honour these commitments. The Remuneration policy for other 
employees is set out on page 63. Incentive opportunities for below 
Board employees are typically no higher than for Executive Directors, 
but measures may vary to ensure relevance.
Non-Executive Directors 
In the case of hiring or appointing a new Non-Executive Director 
(including a Group Chairman), the Committee will follow the Policy 
as set out in the table on page 63. Non-fee arrangements will only be 
considered in certain circumstances, e.g. the non-fee arrangement 
for the Chairman, which was deemed necessary at the time of his 
appointment and the Company consulted its major shareholder 
before formalising the arrangement. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 67
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
REASON FOR LEAVING TIME OF VESTING CALCULATION OF VESTING / PAYMENT
Annual bonus
‘Good’ leaver
1
Change of control
Immediately. Cash bonuses will only be paid to the extent that metrics set at 
the beginning of the plan year have been met. Any resulting 
bonus will normally be pro-rated for time served during the year 
and would be capped by the applicable maximum using the 
relevant bonus plan.
Any other reason No bonus will be paid.
PSP
‘Good’ leaver
1
Change of control
Performance will be calculated on the normal 
measurement date (date of cessation in the event 
of death) unless the Committee agrees that 
another date is appropriate.
Immediately.
The Committee determines whether and to what extent outstanding 
awards will vest at the end of the performance period based on the 
extent to which performance conditions have been achieved and the 
proportion of the performance period worked. The holding period 
continues to apply. The Committee has the discretion to waive the 
holding period on circumstances of death or disability.
The Committee has discretion to increase the size of the pro-rated 
award (but within the normal plan limits) if it deems appropriate.
In the event of a change of control, awards may alternatively be 
exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquirer where appropriate.
For any other reason during  
the performance period
Awards lapse.
For any reason during the 
holding period  
(but after the end of the 
performance period)
Awards will vest as determined at the end of the 
performance period, but will remain subject to 
malus up to the end of the holding period.
DSB
‘Good’ leaver
1
Change of control
Options shall vest on date of cessation and must 
be exercised within 30 days of date of cessation.
Options shall vest on date of cessation and must 
be exercised within 30 days of date of cessation.
The full award will vest.
The full award will vest.
For any other reason during 
the three year deferral period
Awards lapse.
ESOP
‘Good’ leaver
2
Options shall vest on date of cessation and must 
be exercised within 6 months of date of cessation 
(12 months in the event of death).
The Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, may 
determine a longer exercise window up to a 
maximum of 42 months from the date of grant.
The Committee determines whether and to what extent 
outstanding awards vest based on the extent to which any 
applicable performance conditions, if any beyond continued 
service requirements, have been achieved.
Change of control Options shall vest immediately and must be 
exercised within 1 month of such date (or such 
longer period not exceeding 6 months as the 
Committee, acting fairly and reasonably may 
permit).
The Committee determines whether and to what extent 
outstanding awards vest based on the extent to which any 
applicable performance conditions, if any beyond continued 
service requirements, have been achieved.
In the event of a change of control, awards may alternatively be 
exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquirer where appropriate.
Any other reason Awards lapse unless the Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, decides that they can be exercised. In this instance, 
options shall vest on date of cessation and must be exercised within 6 months of date of cessation. The Committee, acting 
fairly and reasonably, may determine a longer exercise window up to a maximum of 42 months from the date of grant.
Notes:
1 For the PSP, Deferred Share Bonus Plan and Group Bonus Plan, ‘Good leaver’ is defined as a death, retirement with the agreement of employer, injury/disability, redundancy or overseas 
equivalent, office or employment with a company which ceases to be a member of the Xchanging Group, or any other reason the Committee determines in its absolute discretion. 
2 For the ESOP, ‘Good leaver’ is defined as a death, retirement with the agreement of employer, injury/disability, redundancy or overseas equivalent, office or employment with a company 
which ceases to be a member of the Xchanging Group. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 68
Corporate governance report
continued
Consideration of shareholder views 
The Remuneration Committee takes into account shareholder views 
received on the remuneration policy and guidance from shareholders 
and shareholder representative bodies. The Committee considers 
shareholder feedback to be a crucial input when forming 
remuneration policy and regularly reviews Xchanging’s remuneration 
policy against the guidelines of our shareholders and their 
representative bodies.
DIRECTORS’ ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Remuneration in detail for the year ended 31 December 2014.
SINGLE FIGURE FOR TOTAL REMUNERATION (AUDITED 
INFORMATION)
The table sets out the single figure for total remuneration for Directors 
for the financial years ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 
2013.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive any other remuneration from 
Xchanging.
External appointments 
With the approval of the Board in each case, and subject to the 
overriding requirements of the Group, Executive Directors may accept 
a maximum of two external appointments to be Non-Executive 
Directors of other companies and retain any fees received. Additionally 
with Board approval they may accept Board level membership in a 
professional body of up to two organisations. Details of any external 
directorships and memberships held by Executive Directors, including 
associated fees, are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company
When making decisions on Executive Director remuneration, the 
Committee considers pay and conditions across Xchanging (see the 
remuneration policy for other employees on page 63). Prior to the 
annual salary review, the Global HR Director provides the Committee 
with a summary of the proposed level of increase for overall employee 
pay, which forms a part of the analysis by the Committee on the 
appropriateness of any salary changes. The Remuneration Committee 
however does not formally consult with employees on the executive 
remuneration policy and framework.
Salary Benefits
2
Bonus
1
PSP
3
Pension Total remuneration
Executive Directors 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Ken Lever 486,875 475,000 1,818 1,570 – 484,500 1,239,225 776,032 73,030 71,250 1,800,948 1,808,352
David Bauernfeind 322,875 315,000 1,818 1,570 – 321,300 782,669 167 ,964 11,568 10,503 1, 118,930 816,337
Fee Benefits Pension Bonus PSP Total remuneration
Non-Executive 
Directors 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Geoff Unwin 160,000 160,000 – – – – – – – – 160,000 160,000
Bill Thomas 50,000 50,000 – – – – – – – – 50,000 50,000
Stephen Wilson 50,000 50,000 – – – – – – – – 50,000 50,000
Ian Cormack 50,000 50,000 – – – – – – – – 50,000 50,000
Michel Paulin 40,000 40,000 – – – – – – – – 40,000 40,000
Saurabh Srivastava 40,000 40,000 – – – – – – – – 40,000 40,000
Notes:
1 One third of bonus payable is deferred into shares under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan. The bonus disclosed in the table above includes the face value of any deferred element. 
2 The taxable benefits in relation to the Executive Directors are family cover for health insurance and personal travel insurance (£1,756 and £62 respectively for 2014; £1,471 and £99 
respectively for 2013).
3 PSP: for 2013, reflects the value of 2011 PSP awards on the date of vesting (4 April 2014 and 23 June 2014 for awards granted to Ken Lever, and 23 June 2014 for the award granted to David 
Bauernfeind). The values of these awards (estimated in last year’s Annual Report on Remuneration based on the expected vesting outcome at, and three-month average share price to, 31 
December 2013) have been trued up to reflect the actual vesting outcome (87.1% of maximum for Basic Awards and 0% for Stretch Awards) and the share prices on vesting (163.75p and 
149.25p for awards vesting on 4 April 2014 and 23 June 2014 respectively). For 2014, the PSP value reflects the estimated value of 2012 PSP awards (the performance period for which ended 
31 December 2014, and over which Xchanging’s TSR and economic profit performance warrants 100% vesting of awards – see page 71 for further details). Because vesting of these PSP 
awards occurs on 12 March 2015 after the Directors’ Remuneration Report is finalised, the figure is based upon the average share price from 1 October – 31 December 2014 (170.88p). The 
value of the 2012 PSP will be trued-up in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration to reflect the actual share price on the date of vesting. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 69
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
David Bauernfeind received a cash allowance in lieu of pension 
contributions equivalent to 8% of the annually adjusted earnings limit 
(£145,800 for 2014). For 2013, he was a member of Xchanging’s 
pension scheme which is a defined contribution scheme. The 
percentage applied varies depending on the age of the member . He 
received 6% of the annually adjusted earnings limit (£141,000 for 2013) 
for three months of the year and 8% for nine months of the year . 
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AND TO FORMER DIRECTORS
No director left the Company during the year and therefore no 
payments for loss of office were made during the year . There were no 
payments made during the reporting year to former directors.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS AND SHARE 
INTERESTS (AUDITED INFORMATION)
Xchanging applies a 100% of salary share ownership policy to its 
Executive Directors as described in the Policy Report. Unvested 
awards do not count towards the requirement, but shares held by 
connected persons are included. For PSP grants made in 2014 
onwards, shares which have vested for performance, but remain 
subject to a holding period, will count towards the requirement. We 
have provided the current status of ownership, using the closing share 
price on 31 December 2014, 155.50p. At the end of the reporting year 
both Executive Directors have met the policy requirement.
There have been no changes in the Directors’ holding in the share 
capital of the Company, as set out in the table below, between 
31 December 2014 and 26 February 2015.
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES FOR THE SINGLE FIGURE FOR 
TOTAL REMUNERATION TABLE (AUDITED INFORMATION)
Annual bonus
The Executive Directors participate in the Group Bonus Plan (Bonus 
Plan). For 2014, as in 2013, the Bonus Plan was based on three metrics: 
adjusted operating profit (weighted 50%), net revenue (30%) and cash 
flow (20%). Stretching performance targets were set at the start of the 
financial year based on these metrics, ensuring the plan reinforces our 
short-term strategic and financial goals, and is affordable.
2014
The Company’s adjusted operating profit growth in 2014 was above 
‘threshold’, warranting a payout for this element. Net revenue and 
cash flow growth were each below ‘threshold’, warranting nil payout of 
these elements. Overall, financial performance warranted a payout of 
29% of the maximum bonus pool. However , an underpin which related 
to adjusted operating profit exceeding the 2013 outturn was not 
achieved, resulting in no bonus being payable.
2013 
As disclosed in last year’s Remuneration Report, the bonus payout 
for performance in 2013 was 68% of the maximum opportunity 
(equivalent to 102% of salary for Ken Lever and David Bauernfeind).
Pension
Ken Lever continues to receive a cash allowance of 15% of base salary 
per annum in lieu of pension contributions. From 1 February 2014, 
TABLE OF SHARE INTERESTS (AUDITED INFORMATION) 
Share interests held Share option interests held
Ordinary 
shares held at
31 December 
2013,
including 
connected
persons
With 
performance
conditions
1
Without
performance
conditions
With
performance
conditions
Without
performance
conditions
2
Vested,
unexercised
Exercised
during year
3
Shares  
held by 
connected
persons 
Ordinary 
shares held at
31 December 
2014,
including 
connected
persons
Shares held as
a % of
salary
Ken Lever  311,650 1,684,943 – – 262,355 – 481, 197 504,364 609,478 194%
David Bauernfeind 311,710 1,094,483 – – 156,901 – 316,407 197 ,385 520,959 250%
Geoff Unwin 270,908
4
 – – – – – – – 320,908 not applicable
Bill Thomas 14,289 – – – – – – – 14,289 not applicable
Stephen Wilson 34,011 – – – – – – – 34,569 not applicable
Ian Cormack 8,569 – – – – – – – 8,569 not applicable
Michel Paulin 30,000 – – – – – – – 30,000 not applicable
Saurabh Srivastava –  – – – – – – – – not applicable
Notes: 
1 Awards in this column represent the grants from the Xchanging Performance Share Plan.
2 The share interests in this column relate to the Xchanging Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSB). The table on page 70 sets out a summary of unvested awards. 
3 For Ken Lever, includes 2011 PSP awards which vested on 24 April 2014 and 23 June 2014, For David Bauernfeind, includes his 2011 PSP award (which vested on 23 June 2014), as well as the 
ESOP grant and PSP awards made to him in 2011 before he was a Director (further details of which can be found on page 72. 
4 In 2013, Geoff Unwin purchased with his own funds, 270,908 Xchanging shares which he is expected to hold for at least four years. In the event that Xchanging is acquired by a third-party for a 
price per share in excess of £1.00 before 2 December 2015, the Company will match Geoff Unwin’s purchased shares he still holds. The Committee agreed that this arrangement was 
necessary to facilitate the recruitment of an individual of Geoff Unwin’s calibre. In 2014, Geoff Unwin bought 50,000 Xchanging shares. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 70
Corporate governance report
continued
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SHARE SCHEME INTERESTS (AUDITED INFORMATION)
During the reporting year , Ken Lever and David Bauernfeind received awards under the PSP and the DSB. Our approved policy is to make annual 
grants from the PSP of 150% of salary for Executive Directors. An award of conditional PSP shares was made to Ken Lever and David Bauernfeind 
on 3 April 2014. They are subject to performance conditions as described in 2014 PSP Award Performance Conditions Table. Pursuant to our 
policy, one third of any bonus earned is deferred into nil cost options and placed into an award under the DSB. The DSB award of 3 April 2014 
relates to the 2013 bonus payout. Its value is based on the share price on the date of grant, 164.00p, and is assessed in relation to the Executive 
Director salaries for the relevant reporting year .
TABLE OF SHARE SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED 2014 (AUDITED INFORMATION)
Plan type
Number of 
conditional 
shares 
awarded
Face value of 
award
Face value of 
award (as a % 
of salary)
% of total 
award that 
would vest 
for minimum 
performance
End of 
performance 
period or date 
of vest, 
whichever 
earlier
Ken Lever PSP 445,313 730,313 150% 11% 31/12/2016
David Bauernfeind PSP 295,313 484,313 150% 11% 31/12/2016
Ken Lever DSB 98,475 161,499 33% NA 03/04/2017
David Bauernfeind DSB 65,304 107 ,099 33% NA 03/04/2017
Annualised 3-year TSR
3-year average annual  
growth in Economic Profit
2014 PSP
Performance 
level Performance
% of salary
vesting
2
Performance
% of salary
 vesting
2
‘Basic award’ Threshold
Maximum
10.0% p.a.
16.7% p.a.
16.7%
66.7%
0.0%
15.0%
0.0%
33.3%
‘Stretch award’ Threshold
Maximum
16.7% p.a.
20.0% p.a.
0%
33.3%
15.0%
25.0%
0.0%
16.7%
T otal award opportunity = 150% of salary
1
Notes 
1 Comprises a ‘basic’ award of 100% of salary and a ‘stretch’ award of 50% of salary.
2 Straight-line sliding scale vesting between these points.
TSR is measured with a three month share price average, and compound growth per annum. Economic Profit is measured as three year 
average growth per annum. 
HISTORIC AWARDS (AUDITED INFORMATION)
The DSB grants nil-cost options over shares which must be exercised between three and eight years from date of grant. The awards relate to 
the prior year’s bonus payout and represent one-third of that bonus earned. They are subject to good and bad leaver provisions, and malus 
provisions. The conditional award is not subject to performance conditions other than continued service. We set out the awards below. 
TABLE OF AWARDS FROM THE DEFERRED SHARE BONUS PLAN (AUDITED INFORMATION) 
Name Date of grant
Price on  
grant (£)
Number of 
shares under 
option
Date of 
vesting
Ken Lever 05/04/2012 0.973 51,414 05/04/2015
David Bauernfeind 05/04/2012 0.973 20,566 05/04/2015
Ken Lever 23/05/2013 1.385 112,466 23/05/2016
David Bauernfeind 23/05/2013 1.385 71,031 23/05/2016
Ken Lever 03/04/2014 1.640 98,475 03/04/2017
David Bauernfeind 03/04/2014 1.640 65,304 03/04/2017 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 71
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
HISTORIC AWARDS (AUDITED INFORMATION) CONTINUED 
The Xchanging PSP is the primary long-term incentive plan for Executive Directors of Xchanging. T otal annual award opportunity is 150% 
of base salary. The table below details interests with performance conditions awarded and not lapsed from the PSP .
Name Date of award
Total number 
of shares of 
that award
Date of 
vesting  
(three years 
after date of 
grant)
Share price 
on date of 
award (£)
Ken Lever 12/03/2012 725, 190 12/03/2015 0.983
David Bauernfeind 12/03/2012 458,015 12/03/2015 0.983
Ken Lever 23/05/2013 514,440 23/05/2016 1.385
David Bauernfeind 23/05/2013 341, 155 23/05/2016 1.385
Ken Lever 03/04/2014 445,313 03/04/17 1.640 
David Bauernfeind 03/04/2014 295,313  03/04/17 1.640
PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS FOR THE PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN 
The PSP awards are subject to performance conditions and targets which are shown below.
Annualised three-year TSR
Three-year average annual  
growth in Economic Profit
2013 PSP
Performance 
level Performance
% of salary
vesting
2
Performance
% of salary
 vesting
2
‘Basic award’ Threshold
Maximum
10.0% p.a.
16.7% p.a.
16.7%
66.7%
0.0%
15.0%
0.0%
33.3%
‘Stretch award’ Threshold
Maximum
16.7% p.a.
20.0% p.a.
0%
33.3%
15.0%
25.0%
0.0%
16.7%
T otal award opportunity = 150% of salary
1
Annualised three-year TSR
Three-year average annual 
Return on Invested Capital
2012 PSP
Performance 
level Performance
% of salary 
vesting
2
Performance
% of salary
 vesting
2
‘Basic award’ Threshold
Maximum
12.5% p.a.
22.5% p.a.
16.7%
66.7%
19.0%
25.0%
8.3%
33.3%
‘Stretch award’ Threshold
Maximum
22.5% p.a.
27 .5% p.a.
0.0%
33.3%
25.0%
27 .0%
0.0%
16.7%
T otal award opportunity = 150% of salary
1
Notes:
1 Comprises a ‘basic’ award of 100% of salary and a ‘stretch’ award of 50% of salary.
2 Straight-line sliding scale vesting between these points. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 72
Corporate governance report
continued
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN AWARDS WITHOUT PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS (AUDITED INFORMATION)
Name Date of award 
Total number 
of shares 
awarded
Date of 
vesting  
(three years 
after date of 
grant)
Share price  
on award date 
(£)
Share price  
on vesting
(£)
David Bauernfeind 11/04/2011 90,000 11/04/2014 0.819 1.637
On 11 April 2011 David Bauernfeind was granted 90,000 restricted shares from the PSP , with a three year continued service requirement. He 
was not an Executive Director at the time. This was in line with policy for senior executives below the Executive Board. This award vested on 
11 April 2014. 
SHARE OPTION INTERESTS 
The ESOP is an approved and unapproved scheme which grants market price options with no performance conditions. David was not a 
Director at the time of the ESOP award. David Bauernfeind’s remaining interests in the Xchanging Executive Share Option Plan (‘ESOP’) 
vested on 4 March 2014 and were exercised in full on 10 March 2014 when the share price was 164.5p. The ESOP interests table below 
provides the relevant details. 
ESOP INTERESTS TABLE (AUDITED INFORMATION)
Name Date of award
Total number 
of Options 
over shares 
Date of 
vesting  
(three years 
after date of 
grant)
Price on date 
of grant (£)
David Bauernfeind 04/03/2011 95,000 04/03/2014 0.773
HISTORICAL EXECUTIVE PAY AND COMPANY PERFORMANCE 
The table and graph below allow comparison of the Company’s TSR and the Chief Executive’s remuneration over the last six years.
The graph below illustrates the Company’s TSR performance compared with the performance of the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) 
and FTSE All Share indices over the six year period to 31 December 2014. 
SIX-YEAR TSR PERFORMANCE GRAPH (AUDITED INFORMATION)
 Xchanging
 FTSE 250 Index 
 FTSE All Share Index
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2008
Value of £100 invested on 31 December 2008
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding over the six years to 31 December 2014 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 73
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY IN THE GROUP 
The table below sets out the returns to shareholders by way of 
dividends and the all-employee pay spend for the years ending 
31 December 2013 and 2014.
2014 2013
Dividends
1
£6. 1m £2.4m
All-employee spend  
(including Directors)
2
£158.9m £207 .7m
Notes:
1 On 23 May 2014 the Company paid shareholders a dividend of 2.5 pence (2013: 1.0 pence) 
per ordinary share relating to the financial year 2013. In total £6.1 million (2013: 2.4 million) 
was paid to shareholders.
2 Employee spend corresponds to note 6 in the accounts on page 100.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS 
Ken is a Non-Executive Director of FM Insurance Company Limited, 
a subsidiary of FM Global, and has received fees of £28,000 during 
2014. He was also a Non-Executive Director of Catesby Property 
Group plc and received fees of £45,000 in 2014. Ken was appointed 
as an adviser to DAC Beachcroft with effect from 1 April 2014 and 
received fees of £30,000. In April he retired as member of the 
Accounting Council, a Committee of the Financial Reporting Council, 
for which he received fees of £3,000 during 2014.
David Bauernfeind currently holds no non-executive positions.
STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION IN 2015
Base salary 
Base salaries for Ken Lever and David Bauernfeind will remain 
unchanged for 2015. In line with our stated policy, this is based on 
factors such as the general pay increase for employees, and overall 
performance of the individual and company.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors
The fees will not change in 2015.
Pension
Pension arrangements for Ken Lever and David Bauernfeind 
will remain unchanged for 2015.
Annual bonus
The annual bonus plan continues to be based on: Adjusted 
Operating Profit weighted 50%, Revenue weighted 30% and Cash 
Flow weighted 20%. Targets are set for all three metrics at the start 
of each year . No bonus pool will be earned by the Executive Directors 
unless year-on-year growth in Group Adjusted Operating Profit is 
achieved. Threshold vesting starts at 2% for year-on-year 
performance in all metrics, rising to stretch targets which equate 
to the creation of robust shareholder value driven by profit. 
Performance against the three targets results in a bonus amount 
being paid. The amount earned could be increased or decreased 
based on individual performance at the discretion of the Chairman 
of the Board, ratified by the Committee. The overall design is 
unchanged from 2014. T o the extent that any bonuses are payable, 
HISTORICAL CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REMUNERATION TABLE 
(AUDITED INFORMATION)
YEAR CEO
CEO single 
figure total
(£)
Annual bonus 
payout against 
maximum 
opportunity
PSP vesting 
rates against 
maximum 
opportunity
2014 Ken Lever 1,800,948 0% 100%
1
2013 Ken Lever 1,808,352 68% 60%
2
2012 Ken Lever 990,944 66%
Not applicable
2011 Ken Lever 613,528 18%
Not applicable
2011 David Andrews
3
148,947 0% 0%
2010 David Andrews 611,483 0% 0%
2009 David Andrews 963,230 40% 0%
Notes: 
1  Performance testing against the 2012 PSP targets resulted in a 100% payout of both the 
Basic and Stretch awards, against three-year average ROIC, and a 100% pay out of both 
the Basic and Stretch awards against three-year TSR (annualised TSR to 31 December 
2014). Because vesting of these PSP awards occurs on 12 March 2015 after the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report is finalised, the figure is based upon the average share price from  
1 October – 31 December 2014. The value of the 2012 PSP – and the CEO’s single figure 
total – will be trued-up in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration to reflect the actual 
share price on the date of vesting.
2  The single figure for 2013 has been trued up to reflect the actual vesting outcome and 
shares price on vesting of Ken Lever’s 2011 PSP awards. 
3  David Andrews stepped down as Chief Executive on 9 February 2011 and Ken Lever, then 
Chief Financial Officer, assumed the role of Acting Chief Executive on that date. He was 
appointed Chief Executive by the Board on 7 June 2011.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF THE CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE COMPARED TO EMPLOYEES 
The table below shows the percentage change in Chief Executive 
remuneration from the prior year compared to the average 
percentage change in remuneration for all UK employees.
Change in 
base salary 
2013  
to 2014
Change in 
bonus 2013
 to 2014
2
Value of taxable 
benefits 2013 to
 2014
3,4
Change in  
cost of  
taxable  
benefit
2013
to 2014
4
2013 2014
Chief 
Executive
2.5% – £1,570 £1,818 15.8%
UK 
employees
1
2.3% – £1,228 £1, 193 (2.9%)
Notes: 
1 The UK permanent employee workforce was chosen as an appropriate comparator group 
because the Executive Directors are based in the UK (although the remit is global in terms 
of scope and responsibilities) and pay and conditions around the Group vary based on local 
economic, market and business context. 
2 No bonus is payable under the Group Bonus Plan for 2014.
3  For comparison purposes we have included two taxable benefits for the UK (healthcare and 
travel insurance). Healthcare premiums increased in 2014 but there was a decrease in travel 
insurance premiums. The benefits provided to Ken Lever remain the same. The values of 
benefits shown on a per capita basis for those UK employees who receive such benefits. 
4 Benefits provision for UK employees is unchanged. The slight reduction reflects 
year-on-year variation in the cost to Xchanging of providing these benefits. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 74
Corporate governance report
continued
Kepler Associates (‘Kepler’) act as advisers to the Remuneration 
Committee and the Committee is satisfied that the advice received 
is objective and Independent. Kepler and T owers Watson are  
both signatories to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration 
Consultants of UK-listed companies (which can be found at  
www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com). Kepler provides no other 
services to the Company, and is therefore considered independent. 
Kepler fees are determined on a time and materials basis. T owers 
Watson has also provided more general reward advice to the 
business. The fees paid in relation to advice for Committee matters 
for the reporting year are: 
Supplier Fee
T owers Watson 1,967
Kepler Associates 36,044
Clyde & Co 3,633
STATEMENT OF VOTING
The table below summarise the results of voting on the 
Remuneration Policy and Report from the 2014 AGM. The 
Committee was delighted with the level of Shareholder support 
received for Directors’ remuneration at the Group.
APPROVE REMUNERATION POLICY
Number of votes for
Number of  
votes against Votes cast Votes withheld
176,383,305 2,828,524 179,211,829 171,885
98.3% 1.6% – 0. 1%
APPROVE REMUNERATION REPORT
Number of votes for
Number of  
votes against Votes cast Votes withheld
177 ,512,317 1,683,485 179, 195,802 187 ,912
99.0% 0.9% – 0. 1%
At the AGM on 14 May 2015, an advisory Shareholder vote will be 
offered on the Annual Report on Remuneration.
On behalf of the Board of Xchanging plc
BILL THOMAS 
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
targets will be disclosed retrospectively at such time as they are no 
longer considered to be commercially sensitive. Any discretion used 
based on individual performance would be governed by the 
approved policy on discretion and disclosed.
Performance Share Plan
PSP awards in 2015 will be made in line with the approved Policy. 
The performance conditions attached to awards will continue to be 
absolute TSR (weighted 67%) and Economic Profit (33%). The 
performance targets governing the vesting of the PSP are reviewed 
each year to ensure the vesting table is robust and targets will pay out 
only for meeting targets which are aligned to sustainable value for 
shareholders. The Committee has determined that the performance 
ranges attached to 2014 awards continue to be relevant, robust and 
challenging and, as such, will remain unchanged for 2015 awards. 
Maximum payout would equate to significant returns to shareholders 
due to a robust share price and an efficient use of capital. The awards 
will be subject to a five year holding period starting from date 
of award. 
CONSIDERATION BY THE DIRECTORS OF MATTERS 
RELATING TO DIRECTOR REMUNERATION
The Remuneration Committee for the year was: Bill Thomas 
(Chairman), Geoff Unwin, Ian Cormack, and Michel Paulin. Detail 
on the Committee’s membership and attendance can be found 
on page 54.
Stephen Wilson, Chairman of the Audit Committee, provided ad hoc 
input to the members when requested. The Chief Executive was 
invited to all meetings but was not present when the Committee 
determined his own remuneration. Campbell Hair , the Global HR 
Director was also present at all meetings. Gary Whitaker , General 
Counsel, acted as Secretary to the Committee and was present at 
all meetings.
REMUNERATION ADVICE
During 2014 the Committee used Clyde & Co. for legal advice on 
Executive Director incentive and employment law matters. They 
provided advice which was sent to the Committee to review. They had 
been selected through the normal supply relationship processes of 
the Company. The Committee took into account the type of advice 
and the advisers’ relationship to the Company when evaluating 
independence. There were no concerns with firms’ objectiveness. 
It also has been used for employment law and incentive plan advice 
by the UK businesses. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 75
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
 Directors’ report
The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial 
statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014.
SIGNIFICANT CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS 
The Strategic report describes the most important customer 
and supplier contracts and other arrangements essential to the 
Group. We do not consider ourselves to be dependent on a single 
key supplier .
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS – CHANGE 
OF CONTROL 
Upon a change of control (as variously defined in the respective 
agreements outlined below) of Xchanging plc, a number of 
significant agreements take effect, alter or terminate as follows:
• 
Customer service agreements Xchanging Broking Services 
Limited provides claims handling and related services to Aon 
Limited, under an agreement entered into on 1 September 2006 
(as amended on 10 March 2009 and 29 October 2010). In the 
event that Xchanging plc is acquired and if the acquirer of 
Xchanging plc competes directly with Aon Limited for the provision 
of insurance services in the United Kingdom of the type being 
supported by Xchanging Broking Services Limited, Aon Limited 
may elect to continue to receive such services, or to terminate 
the contract.
• 
Revolving credit facility Under the terms of the £125 million 
revolving credit facility, entered into on 3 February 2014, and 
provided by a syndicate of banks to Xchanging plc, the lenders 
may, following such change in control, elect to continue to provide 
such facility, or alternatively cancel it and require all monies 
borrowed under such facility to be repaid.
• 
Directors and employees With the exception of an agreement 
between Geoff Unwin (the Chairman) and the Company, there are 
no other agreements between the Company and its Directors or 
employees providing for compensation for loss of office or 
employment that occurs because of a takeover bid or change 
of control.
The Directors’ report comprises pages 75 to 78 of this report, in 
addition to the sections of the Annual Report incorporated by 
reference, including the Board and Executive Committee 
biographies, the Corporate governance report, the Audit committee 
report, the Nomination committee report and the Remuneration 
committee report. In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct 
Authority’s Listing Rules (LR 9.8. 4C) the information to be included 
in the Annual Report and accounts, where applicable, is set out in this 
Directors’ report. 
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND  
STRATEGIC REPORT
Xchanging is a business technology and services provider . We 
operate with three segments: Business Processing, T echnology 
and Procurement. The Company acts as the holding company for 
the Group.
Our Strategic report on pages 4 to 43 sets out detailed information 
on the Group and its strategy, its principal activities, the operation of 
the businesses, and the results and financial position for the year 
ended 31 December 2014. Information on the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group, trends and economic factors 
impacting the business and likely future developments, can also 
be found in the Strategic report.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Xchanging continually develops and improves the design of 
its processes and systems installed in the business, which 
include business process mapping, process reorganisation 
and software development.
For details about the amount capitalised in the year in respect 
of development expenditure, refer to notes 12 and 13 on pages  
106 to 109. 
DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS
There were no changes to the Board during 2014 and up to the date 
of this report. For more details on the members of the Board, see 
page 48. The Corporate governance report on page 52 gives more 
information on how the Board functioned during the year . The 
Directors’ interests in the shares and share options of the Company 
are shown on page 69 of the Remuneration Report. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 76
Corporate governance report
continued
Non-controlling interest
Interest in Xchanging Group  
subsidiaries
Scandent Holdings Mauritius Ltd 
(11.82%)
25.0% interest in Xchanging 
Solutions Limited (formerly 
Cambridge Solutions Limited)
Aon Minet Pension Scheme 
(3.77%)
Katra Finance Limited (2.7%)
Other (public) (6.71%)
Each Xchanging Enterprise Group Partnership has a distinct 
contractual profit share mechanism, so the profits of the Xchanging 
Group Enterprise Partnerships in which non-controlling interests 
have an interest are not necessarily shared in proportion to the 
shareholding interest in that company.
POLICY ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The policy with respect to financial instruments is covered in the 
accounting policy (note 24) to the financial statements. Hedge 
accounting is discussed on page 121 (note 25 to the financial 
statements). 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
The Board is satisfied that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) 
remained independent for the purpose of the 2014 audit. During 
2014 the Company initiated a competitive tender process for the 
audit contract. A number of contending candidates were invited to 
tender for the role of auditor of the Company. After a thorough review 
of the potential candidates, the Audit Committee concluded that 
PwC was the most suitable provider . Upon the Audit Committee’s 
recommendation, the Board approved the recommendation and 
PwC was appointed as the Company’s auditors at the 2014 Annual 
General Meeting. 
PwC has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor 
and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Information about non-audit services obtained from PwC can 
be found in the Audit Committee report on page 57 . 
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES
The Group is committed to employment policies which follow best 
practice based on equal opportunities for all employees, irrespective 
of gender , race, nationality, colour , disability, marital status, sexual 
orientation, age or religion. All decisions relating to employment 
practices are objective, free from bias and based upon work criteria 
and individual merit. The Group’s policy is to offer appropriate 
training and career development to disabled persons that are,  
as far as possible, identical to other employees and in line with best 
practice. In the event of a member of staff becoming disabled, the 
Group makes every effort to continue employment, arrange 
appropriate retraining and offer opportunities for promotion.
For more information on our diversity statistics, please refer to the 
Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 40.
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT
The Group systematically provides employees with information on 
matters of concern to them, consulting them or their representatives 
regularly, so that their views can be taken into account when making 
decisions that are likely to affect their interests. Employee 
involvement in the Group is encouraged, as achieving a common 
awareness on the part of all employees of the financial and economic 
factors affecting the Group plays a major role in maintaining its 
customer focused approach. For more information on how the Group 
engages its employees, refer to page 40 of the Corporate Social 
Responsibility report.
NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS
The non-controlling interests in the Group’s subsidiaries at 
31 December 2014 are as follows: 
Non-controlling interest
Interest in Xchanging Group  
Enterprise Partnership
The Corporation of Lloyd’s 25% interest in Ins-sure  
Holdings Limited
50% interest in Xchanging  
Claims Services Limited
International Underwriting 
Association
25% interest in Ins-sure  
Holdings Limited Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 77
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS 
On 6 February 2015 the Company had been notified of the following 
material or notifiable interests in its issued share capital by persons 
other than the current Directors of the Company:
Name of shareholder Number of shares Percentage
Artemis Investment Management 36,858,001 15.09
Fidelity International Limited 24,813,203 10. 16
Legal & General Investment Mgmt Ltd 14, 165,866 5.80
J.P .Morgan Asset Management 12,868,576 5.27
T . Rowe Price International Inc 11,538,811 4.72
BlackRock Investment Management Ltd 10, 147 ,655 4.15
J O Hambro Capital Management 10,014, 148 4.10
Ameriprise Financial Inc 8,599,614 3.52
Odey Asset Management 7 ,432,305 3.04
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES 
During the course of 2014, the Company made various purchases of 
its own shares in accordance with the authority granted at the 2014 
Annual General Meeting, the details of which purchases are more 
particularly described in note 32 to the financial statements. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
A report on Xchanging’s corporate governance framework, together 
with its compliance with the principles and provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code can be found in the Corporate 
governance report on page 52.
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS 
The Group does not make political contributions.
DIVIDEND 
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 2.75 pence (2013: 
2.5 pence) per ordinary share which, if approved by shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 22 May 2015 to 
those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
24 April 2015.
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES 
The Company’s Articles of Association contain a qualifying third party 
indemnity provision (as per the Companies Act 2006) that provides, 
for the financial year ended on 31 December 2014 and as at the date 
of this document, that the Company may pay for Directors’ 
indemnities out of its own assets. The Company has obtained 
directors’ and officers’ insurance for this purpose.
SHARE CAPITAL 
At the date of this report, 244,282,949 ordinary shares (2013: 
241,831,957) of 5 pence each have been issued, are fully paid up 
and are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange. The 
Company’s Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained 
from the Company’s website, sets out the rights and obligations 
attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares, as well as the powers 
of the Company’s Directors. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 78
Corporate governance report
continued
CARBON EMISSIONS 
Details of the Group’s approach to the environment, including 
information in relation to its carbon emissions are set out in the 
section headed Environment on page 42, forming part of the 
Corporate Social Responsibility section of the Annual Report. 
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The 
Walbrook Building, 25 Walbrook, London EC4N 8AQ at 9.30am 
on Wednesday 14 May 2015. The notice convening the meeting, 
together with details of the business to be considered and 
explanatory notes for each resolution, is distributed separately 
to shareholders. It is also available on our website.
By order of the Board 
CHRIS FUSSELL 
COMP ANY SECRETARY 
26 February 2015
STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF 
INFORMATION TO AUDITORS 
Each Director of the Company confirms that, as far as each Director is 
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
auditors are unaware and that each of the Directors has taken all the 
steps they ought to have taken individually as a Director in order to 
make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. 
GOING CONCERN 
The Directors have reviewed the liquidity position of the Group for the 
eighteen month period from 31 December 2014. The cash flows of 
the Group have been assessed against the Group’s available sources 
of finance on a monthly basis to determine the minimum and 
maximum expected levels of headroom. Based on this analysis 
and an assessment of the potential cash risks, the Directors have 
a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing its consolidated financial statements. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 79
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the Company’s website (www.xchanging.com). Legislation in the 
United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and accounts, taken as 
a whole, is fair , balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess a company’s 
performance, business model and strategy. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 
48 of the Annual Report, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
• 
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the 
Group; and
• 
the Directors’ report contained on page 75 of the Annual Report 
includes a fair review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Group, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board
KENNETH LEVER 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
26 February 2015
DAVID BAUERNFEIND  
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
26 February 2015
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ 
RESPONSIBILITIES 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year . Under that law the Directors have prepared 
the Group financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European 
Union, and the parent company financial statements in accordance 
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 
(United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). In 
preparing the Group financial statements, the Directors have also 
elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (‘IASB’). Under company law the Directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In 
preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• 
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
• 
Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
• 
State whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and 
IFRSs issued by IASB and applicable UK Accounting Standards 
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the Group and parent company financial 
statements respectively.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the 
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities. 80 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014
 FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
In this section we have the audited financial statements 
and the underlying explanatory notes prepared under 
International Financial Reporting Standards.
CONTENTS:
82  Independent Auditor’s Report to 
the Members of Xchanging plc
88  Consolidated income statement
89  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
90  Consolidated cash flow statement
91  Consolidated balance sheet
92  Consolidated statement of changes 
in equity
93  Notes to the consolidated financial 
statements 
NOTES
93  1  Summar y of principal  
accounting policies
96  2  Critical acc ounting estimat es 
and judgements
97 3 Segmental analysis
99 4 Exceptional items
100 5 Expenses by nature
100 6 Employee benefits
101 7 Finance costs and income
101 8 Taxation
104 9 Earnings per share
104 10 Dividends payable 
105 11 Goodwill
106 12 Other intangible assets
108  13 Property , plant and equipment
110  14 Investments in subsidiaries
110  15  Investment in joint venture 
and associates
111  16  A vailabl e - f or -sal e 
financial assets
112  17 T rade and other receivables
113 18 T rade and other payables
114 19 Other financial liabilities
114 20 Borrowings
116 21 Cash and cash equivalents
116 22 Net cash
117  23  Cash generated from operations
117 24 Financial instruments
121  25 Financial risk management
123  2 6  Financial c ommitments and 
contingent liabilities
124 27 Provisions
125  28 Retirement benefit obligations
128 29 Acquisitions 
130 30 Related party transactions
131  31 Share-based payment plans
134 32 Shareholders’ equity
136  33  Ev ents after the balance 
sheet date
137 Company balance sheet
138  Notes to the Company financial 
statements STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
81 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014  Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 82
Independent Auditor’s Report 
to the Members of Xchanging plc
REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our opinion
In our opinion:
• 
Xchanging plc’s Group financial statements and parent company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) give a true and fair view 
of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Group’s profit and the Group’s cash flows 
for the year then ended;
• 
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) 
as adopted by the European Union;
• 
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice; and
• 
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
Xchanging plc’s financial statements comprise:
• 
the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2014;
• 
the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2014;
• 
the Consolidated income statement and the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
• 
the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended;
• 
the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and
• 
the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial 
statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129
• 
Overall Group materiality: £2.8 million (2013: £2.6 million) which represents 5% of the Group’s 
adjusted operating profit; 
• 
Audits of the complete financial information of 16 operating businesses and specific audit 
procedures on a further two where specific risks were identified;
• 
These components represented 83% of the Group’s revenue and 95% of its adjusted operating 
profit before tax; 
• 
Carrying value of goodwill, particularly in the Procurement and T echnology cash generating units;
• 
Carrying value of intangible assets;
• 
Classification and recognition of exceptional items; 
• 
Business combinations – particularly Agencyport Europe
*
 and T otal objects;
• 
Revenue recognition on new sales contracts;
• 
Defined benefit pension plan assets and liabilities; and
• 
Uncertain tax positions and recognition of deferred tax assets.
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of focus
Our audit approach
Overview
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular , 
we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved 
making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of 
management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk 
of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified 
as ‘areas of focus’ in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an 
opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. 
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.  Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 83
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Goodwill impairment assessment
Refer to page 55 (Audit Committee report), page 138 (Critical 
accounting estimates and judgements) and pages 93-137 (notes). 
The goodwill balance of £209. 4 million is subject to an annual 
impairment review for the purposes of which the Directors 
prepare cash flow forecasts calculating the value in use of the 
cash generating units (‘CGU’) in the business.
We focused in particular on the estimated values in use of the 
Procurement cash generating unit (‘CGU’), which had a net book 
amount of goodwill of £54. 1 million, and the T echnology CGU 
which had a net book amount of goodwill of £79. 1 million.
The key judgements regarding the future results of these CGUs 
included in particular the future profitability of the Procurement 
business and forecast sales of the Xuber suite of software within 
the T echnology sector .
We evaluated and challenged the Group’s future cash flow 
forecasts, and the process by which they were drawn up. We were able  
to confirm that the forecasts were consistent with the latest Board 
approved budgets and that the underlying calculations were accurate.
We challenged:
• 
the Directors’ key assumptions for growth rates in the forecasts by 
comparing them to historical results, budgets, existing contracts and 
pipeline data; and
• 
the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Group, using 
our knowledge of the Group’s businesses.
We were satisfied in particular that the following factors were 
appropriately reflected in the forecasts for the Procurement 
and T echnology CGUs: 
Procurement
• 
The impact of contracts secured in the year , contracts exited and the 
restructuring carried out in the year; and
• 
The failure to meet budget in the prior year(s) and the change in 
process and management for the current year forecasts and budgets.
T echnology
• 
Committed revenue under existing contracts; and
• 
The pipeline and correspondence with potential customers.
In addition we performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers 
of the cash flow forecasts, particularly revenue, margin and adjusted 
operating profit growth targets, and calculated the degree to which 
these assumptions would need to move before an impairment was 
triggered concluding that these changes were unlikely to occur .
Carrying value of intangible assets
Refer to page 55 (Audit Committee report), page 138 (Critical 
accounting estimates and judgements) and pages 93-137 (notes). 
We focussed on the carrying value of intangible assets (and 
software in particular) as this area involves a significant amount of 
judgement on the part of the Directors regarding future cash flow 
forecasts in respect of these assets. 
The two assets which we deemed to be at the greatest risk of 
impairment in view of the sales needed to support the 
valuations were:
• 
Xuber , the Group’s global insurance application platform,  
which had a carrying amount as at 31 December 2014 of  
£24.0 million, including £10.6 million for modules still in 
development; and
• 
Netsett, the Group’s global (re)insurance and accounting net 
settlement service, which was completed in 2014 and had a 
carrying amount as at 31 December 2014 of £4.0 million.
In respect of the Xuber intangible we evaluated the Directors’ future cash 
flow forecasts and the process by which they were prepared and confirmed 
they were consistent with the latest Board approved budgets. We also 
tested the integrity of the underlying calculations. We then challenged the 
Directors’ key assumptions for growth rates in the forecasts by comparing 
them to historical sales information, budgets, existing contracts and 
pipeline data and opportunities and were satisfied that these factors had 
been appropriately reflected in the forecasts. As stated above, we reviewed 
correspondence with customers to assess the pipeline.
We also performed sensitivity analysis over the key drivers of 
the cash flow forecasts, particularly revenue growth targets, and 
considered the extent to which planned sales would need to fall 
to cause an impairment.
We were able to obtain sufficient evidence for management’s view that 
the carrying value of Xuber could be supported by future sales and that 
no impairment was required at this stage. For Netsett we reviewed the 
status of the project and assessed the continued commercial viability 
of the software asset. We validated management’s assertion that certain 
customers had committed to the pilot and we performed work to 
understand the pricing structure and estimated volumes going forward 
both of which underpin the cash flow projections and support the 
carrying value of the asset on the balance sheet.
For all intangible assets we tested a sample of capitalised costs 
to ensure that they satisfied the recognition criteria in IAS 38. This 
included testing a sample of internal costs to supporting payroll records 
and verifying the allocation of employee costs to the correct projects. 
We also verified the existence of the software and reviewed amortisation 
profiles to ensure that all assets were being amortised appropriately.
Where projects were completed, we assessed their functionality and 
found that they were fit for purpose and operating as intended in the 
original business case. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 84
Independent Auditor’s Report 
to the Members of Xchanging plc
continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Classification and recognition of exceptional items
Refer to page 55 (Audit Committee report), page 138 (Critical 
accounting estimates and judgements) and pages 93-137 (notes). 
The Group excludes exceptional items from its underlying 
earnings measure. This involves management judgement as to 
what costs qualify as exceptional. There can also be judgement as 
to the point at which costs should be recognised and the amount 
to record. 
The exceptional items recognised in the year related to:
• 
£9.7 million representing exceptional income from the early 
surrender of the lease on the Leadenhall Street premises net 
of related expenditure.
• 
£10.3 million of restructuring costs as part of a Group-wide 
restructuring plan.
• 
£7 . 1 million of costs relating to the restructuring of the 
Australian business following the loss of the Workers’ 
Compensation contract with the State of New South Wales.
• 
Insolvency trustee distributions of £0.6 million in respect 
of Cambridge Integrated Services Group Inc. (‘CISGI’).
We tested whether exceptional items were non-recurring in nature, 
recognised and presented in accordance with the disclosed accounting 
policy and accounting standards and were treated consistently with prior 
period. In particular:
• 
We checked the final receipt for the exit of the Leadenhall premises 
and confirmed that the exceptional income had been recorded in 
accordance with the lease surrender agreement and the accounting 
principles agreed last year;
• 
We verified that where restructuring costs were provided at year-end, 
the redundancies had been communicated to the impacted 
employees during the year and tested the costs incurred for 
settlement. We agreed that it was appropriate to classify costs directly 
associated with the restructuring programme as exceptional.
• 
Our work on the Australian business included verifying that all assets 
associated with the lost contract were reviewed for impairment and 
that any associated provisions for software impairment or onerous 
leases were recognised appropriately. 
• 
We tested the recognition of the insolvency trustee distribution and 
agreed that it was appropriate to record this as an exceptional item 
to be consistent with the initial impairment of the CISGI group.
We also considered that the disclosures included within the financial 
statements provided sufficient detail to enable readers to understand 
the nature of these items.
Business combinations – Agencyport Europe
*
 and T otal Objects
Refer to page 55 (Audit Committee report), page 138 (Critical 
accounting estimates and judgements) and pages 93-137 (notes). 
During the year the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of 
all of the European operations of Agencyport Europe
*
. T otal 
consideration for the acquisition, was £64. 1 million in cash.
The purchase price allocation exercise performed by 
management resulted in identifiable intangibles of customer 
relationships of £33.2 million and software assets of  
£12.5 million being recognised. Overall, the acquisition gave rise 
to goodwill of £31.3 million, which represents the value of 
potential future sales (including the ability to cross sell 
Agencyport Europe’s
*
 products to existing customers) and the 
reduced costs of the combined Agencyport Europe
*
/Xchanging 
business. The acquisition is currently subject to a Phase 2 review 
by the Competition and Markets Authority (‘CMA’).
During the year the Group also acquired 100% of the share capital 
of T otal Objects. Initial consideration of £11.5 million was paid in 
cash on signing the acquisition agreement with a further deferred 
consideration of £1.5 million payable in 2015 and 2016. Payments 
up to the value of £8.0 million will also become payable based on 
the entity hitting future performance targets. As these payments 
are dependent on the sellers remaining with the enlarged Group 
these have been accounted for as post-acquisition remuneration. 
We focused on this area because of the judgements and estimates 
required to be made by management regarding the allocation of 
the purchase price among the net assets acquired and the fair 
value of any contingent and/or deferred consideration.
For both acquisitions we agreed the consideration paid to the Share 
Purchase Agreements, and audited management’s workings around the 
identification and measurement of intangible assets, together with 
management’s analysis of the opening balance sheets and associated 
adjustments. 
This included challenging management on the underlying assumptions 
within the models used to calculate the acquisition related balances 
and considering the appropriateness of the methodology used. For 
Agencyport Europe
*
 we looked in particular at how long customer 
relationships were forecast to last and the value of the deferred revenue 
balances acquired. We were satisfied that the methodology and 
assumptions used to derive the valuations were appropriate. 
In relation to T otal Objects we agreed the accounting for the deferred 
consideration and post-acquisition remuneration, including the 
appropriateness of including the latter in adjusted items on the basis 
that it is incremental to the underlying Group remuneration levels.
Finally, we considered the impact of the CMA referral on the decision to 
fully consolidate the results of the Agengyport Europe business for the 
period of ownership and confirmed that this was in accordance with 
accounting standards.
We also considered whether the referral had an impact on the carrying 
value of the intangibles and goodwill and the related disclosure in the 
accounts and found that it did not.
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 85
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Revenue recognition
Refer to page 55 (Audit Committee report), pages 93-137 (notes) 
and page 138 (Critical accounting estimates and judgements).
ISAs (UK & Ireland) presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue 
recognition because of the pressure management may feel to 
achieve market expectations. 
We looked in particular at the new multiple element contracts in 
the T echnology and Procurement businesses to assess whether 
the Group’s ongoing obligations were reflected appropriately.
We read a sample of the relevant contractual agreements and tested 
that revenue had been recognised in accordance with the contract and 
the Group’s accounting policies. Our work consisted of testing of internal 
controls, verification to customer acceptance of the work done, invoices 
and cash receipts and evaluation of costs to complete where relevant. 
We also evaluated any ongoing customer disputes.
We used data analysis techniques to test the flow of transactions in 
the revenue cycle and tested whether manual journal entries posted 
to revenue accounts were appropriate and in the normal course 
of business.
Our testing of multiple element contracts indicated that management 
had taken into account its ongoing obligations appropriately.
Defined benefit pension plan assets and liabilities
Refer to page 55 (Audit Committee report), page 138 (Critical 
accounting estimates and judgements) and pages 93-137 (notes). 
The Group has defined benefit pension plans with net liabilities 
of £67 . 4 million, which are significant in the context of the overall 
balance sheet of the Group.
The valuation of the pension liabilities requires significant levels 
of judgement and technical expertise in choosing appropriate 
assumptions. Changes in assumptions (including salary 
increases, inflation, discount rates and mortality) can have 
a material impact on the calculation of the liability.
We evaluated the assumptions adopted by the Directors in respect of 
calculating the pension plan liabilities. This included comparison of 
the key assumptions (discount and inflation rates, salary increases and 
mortality rates) to our own benchmarks which reflect national and 
industry averages. We challenged management where assumptions 
were not in line with our initial expectations and were provided with 
reasonable explanations which were consistent with our knowledge 
of the scheme and its members.
We have obtained third party confirmations on the ownership and 
valuation of pension assets and we tested the census data provided 
to the Group’s actuaries.
Uncertain tax positions
Refer to page 55 (Audit Committee report), page 138 (Critical 
accounting estimates and judgements) and pages 93-137 (notes). 
We focused on this area due to the judgement required in 
assessing the level of provisions needed to cover the risk of 
challenge to certain of the Group’s tax positions. 
The Group also had deferred tax assets of £35.9 million and 
deferred tax liabilities of £17 .5 million at 31 December 2014. 
During the year the Group performed a review of unrecognised 
tax losses to ensure that these were being recognised where 
future profitabily was being forecast. There is judgement in the 
assessment of whether profits will be available to utilise deferred 
tax assets in future periods and whether deferred tax assets 
should therefore be recognised.
We discussed with management the known uncertain tax positions and 
read communications from taxation authorities on open tax enquiries. 
We assessed the adequacy of the Directors’ taxation provisions by 
considering factors such as the risk profile of each matter and whether 
the provision addresses possible penalties and interest and were 
satisfied with the evidence obtained.
Where the recoverability of deferred tax assets was dependent on future 
profits, such as in Italy, we confirmed that the forecasts used were 
consistent with the projections validated as part of the work on goodwill. 
We also evaluated the Directors’ rationale for not recognising deferred 
tax assets where applicable, obtaining satisfactory explanations and 
supporting evidence of the prospects for the relevant territories.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as 
a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the 
Group operates. 
The Group is structured into three segments being Business Processing Services (Insurance Services and Financial Services), T echnology 
and Procurement. The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 39 operating businesses spread across three segments and a 
number of other holding companies.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit we determined the type of work that was required to be performed at the operating 
businesses and holding companies by us, as the Group engagement team, or by component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC 
network firms operating under our instructions.
Of the Group’s 39 operating businesses we identified 16 which in our view required an audit of their complete financial information on the 
basis of their contribution to the Group’s overall financial statements. Specific audit procedures were performed on two operating businesses 
where specific risks were identified and also on the IFRS and elimination adjustments posted by the Group in reaching the Group’s 
consolidated position. This gave us comfort over 83% of the Group’s revenue and 95% of its adjusted operating profit before tax.
For reporting units that were not in scope, we performed a high level analytic on each to understand key balances and transactions in the year 
and we performed additional procedures on any unusual balances identified. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 86
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those 
operating businesses to be able to conclude whether appropriate sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on 
the Group financial statements as a whole. As part of our year-round audit procedures the Group team visited the Italian, Indian and German 
component teams (the three most significant overseas components in the Group). These visits involved discussing our audit approach and 
any issues arising from their work, as well as meeting local management. In addition to this the Group team attended all clearance meetings 
by telephone.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together 
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and 
to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £2.8 million (2013: £2.6 million).
How we determined it 5% of adjusted operating profit before tax. Adjusted operating profit before tax excludes 
exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets recognised in a business combination, 
acquisition costs and imputed interest on put options.
Rationale for benchmark applied Adjusted operating profit before tax is the key measure of profitability used by the directors in 
the KPIs in the annual report. It also provides us with a consistent year-on-year benchmark for 
determining materiality by eliminating the impact of non-recurring and exceptional items. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £0.2 million as well 
as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement, set out on page 78, in relation to going concern. We have nothing 
to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going 
concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the Group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in 
operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our 
audit we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However , because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s and parent 
company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if , in our opinion:
• 
Information in the Annual Report is:
 –  materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 –  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge 
of the Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 –  otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility.
• 
the statement given by the Directors on page 78, in accordance with provision C. 1. 1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole 
to be fair , balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to 
assess the Group’s and parent company’s performance, business model and strategy is materially 
inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company acquired in the course of 
performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility.
• 
the section of the Annual Report on page 62, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing 
the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to 
the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility.
Independent Auditor’s Report 
to the Members of Xchanging plc
continued Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 87
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• 
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• 
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
• 
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the parent company’s 
compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 78, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of 
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error . This includes an assessment of: 
• 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 
• 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and
• 
the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable 
basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a 
combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
P AULINE CAMPBELL (SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR)
For and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
26 February 2015 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 88
Consolidated income statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Note
2014 2013
Adjusted
£m
Adjustments
1
£m
Total
£m
Adjusted
£m
Adjustments
1
£m
T otal
£m
Revenue 3 573.5 – 573.5 685.9 – 685.9
Net revenue
2
406.8 – 406.8 526.4 – 526.4
Gross profit 5 69.3 (27 .3) 42.0 71.4 (3.9) 67 .5
Administrative expenses 5 (13.5) (2.2) (15.7) (15.9) – (15.9)
Other income 4 – 10.3 10.3 – 30.3 30.3
Operating profit/(loss) 3 55.8 (19.2) 36.6 55.5 26.4 81.9
Finance costs 7 (5.6) – (5.6) (5.7) (0. 1) (5.8)
Finance income 7 0.7 0.6 1.3 1.5 0.3 1.8
Share of profit from joint venture 15 0.2 – 0.2 0.4 – 0.4
Profit/(loss) before taxation 51. 1 (18.6) 32.5 51.7 26.6 78.3
Taxation 8 (7 .6) 4.5 (3. 1) (13.9) 1.0 (12.9)
Profit/(loss) for the year 43.5 (14. 1) 29.4 37.8 27 .6 65.4
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 28.9 (12.8) 16. 1 24.8 27 .6 52.4
Non-controlling interests 32 14.6 (1.3) 13.3 13.0 – 13.0
43.5 (14. 1) 29.4 37.8 27 .6 65.4
Earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent 
(expressed in pence per share)
Basic earnings per share 9 11.86 6.62 10.30 21.76
Diluted earnings per share 9 11.69 6.52 10.01 21. 14
Notes 1 to 33 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
Note 
1 Adjustments in 2014 and 2013 are presented in note 9.
2 Net revenue excludes principal spend on procurement contracts that arise from suppliers’ costs that are passed on to the customer . Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 89
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Note
2014
£m
2013
£m
Profit for the year
29.4 65.4
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
Revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets 16 (0.8) (0. 1)
Fair value movements on hedging instrument qualifying for hedge accounting 32 – 1.2
Fair value movements on hedging instrument recycled to the income statement upon de-designation 32 (0.6) (0.4)
Currency translation differences 0.6 (13. 1)
Tax in respect of items that may be reclassified 8 – 0.2
Reserves recycled to profit on disposal of subsidiary – (1.5)
T otal items that may be reclassified to profit or loss (0.8) (13.7)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Actuarial losses arising from retirement benefit obligations 28 (19.2) (4.5)
Tax in respect of items that will not be reclassified 8 4.3 1.4
T otal items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (14.9) (3. 1)
Other comprehensive expense for the year (15.7) (16.8)
T otal comprehensive income for the year 13.7 48.6
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 1.5 39.6
Non-controlling interests 12.2 9.0
 13.7 48.6
Notes 1 to 33 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 90
Consolidated cash flow statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Note
2014
£m
2013
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 23 61.1 88.2
Income tax paid (12.4) (17 .0)
Net cash generated from operating activities 48.7 71.2
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition cost of subsidiaries net of cash acquired 29 (74.9) (6.9)
Acquisition of equity investment 15 (0.6) –
Proceeds from sale of shares in subsidiary – 22. 1
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 13 (8.3) (11.4)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 13 4.7 –
Purchase of intangible assets 12 (33.9) (14.4)
Pre-contract expenditure (1.2) (0.8)
Interest received 7 0.8 1.3
Dividends received – 0.2
Net cash used in investing activities (113.4) (9.9)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of shares 32 1.7 0.5
Purchase of own shares 32 (2.4) –
Repayment of loan from related party – (0.8)
Proceeds from/(repayment of) borrowings 20 114.3 (37 .5)
T ransaction costs of arranged borrowings 20 (2.6) –
Interest paid 7 (2.5) (4.0)
Dividends paid to owners of the parent 10/32 (6. 1) (2.4)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 32 (11.2) (8.7)
Acquisition of non-controlling interest in subsidiaries 19 (14.8) –
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities 76.4 (52.9)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 11.7 8.4
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 21 121.3 116.4
Effects of exchange adjustments (3.8) (3.5)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 21 129.2 121.3
Notes 1 to 33 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 91
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December 2014
Note
2014
£m
2013
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill 11 209.4 170.6
Other intangible assets 12 123.0 56.0
Property, plant and equipment 13 17 .9 20.6
Investment in joint venture and associates 15 1.4 0.6
Available-for-sale financial assets 16 2.6 3.4
T rade and other receivables 17 6.2 3.3
Deferred income tax assets 8 35.9 29.3
Total non-current assets 396.4 283.8
Current assets
Current income tax receivable 1.2 0.5
Borrowings 20 0.6 –
Other financial assets 24 0.5 0.9
T rade and other receivables 17 116.6 127 .2
Cash and cash equivalents 21 129.2 121.3
Total current assets 248. 1 249.9
Total assets 644.5 533.7
Liabilities
Current liabilities
T rade and other payables 18 (141.0) (146.9)
Current income tax liabilities (4.3) (9.1)
Borrowings 20 (0.2) (0.7)
Customer accounts (34.5) (35.2)
Other financial liabilities 19 (3.2) (18.0)
Provisions 27 (18.0) (14.0)
Total current liabilities (201.2) (223.9)
Non-current liabilities
T rade and other payables 18 (2.0) (0.6)
Borrowings 20 (113.8) (0.5)
Other financial liabilities 19 (0.7) (2.6)
Deferred income tax liabilities 8 (17 .5) (9.1)
Retirement benefit obligations 28 (67.4) (52.4)
Provisions 27 (1.9) (2.5)
Total non-current liabilities (203.3) (67.7)
Total liabilities (404.5) (291.6)
Net assets 240.0 242. 1
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Ordinary shares 32 12.2 12. 1
Share premium 32 111.0 110.5
Other reserves 32 49.6 67.7
Retained earnings 32 43.8 29.2
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent 216.6 219.5
Non-controlling interest in equity 32 23.4 22.6
Total equity 240.0 242. 1
Notes 1 to 33 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements on pages 88 to 92 were approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2015 and signed  
on its behalf by:
DAVID BAUERNFEIND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER KENNETH LEVER CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 92
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Note
Attributable to owners of the parent
Ordinary
shares
£m
Share
premium
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Retained
earnings
£m Total
Non-
controlling
interest in
equity
£m
T otal equity
£m
At 1 January 2013 12.0 108.6 79.8 (22.7) 177 .7 22.3 200.0
Profit for the year – – – 52.4 52.4 13.0 65.4
Other comprehensive expense – – (12.8) – (12.8) (4.0) (16.8)
T otal comprehensive income for the year – – (12.8) 52.4 39.6 9.0 48.6
Share-based payments 32 – – – 3.2 3.2 – 3.2
Deferred tax on share-based payments 8 – – – 0.9 0.9 – 0.9
Shares issued in respect of employee share-based 
payments 32 0.1 1.9 – (1.5) 0.5 – 0.5
Pension reserve recycled to retained earnings on 
disposal of subsidiary 32 – – 0.7 (0.7) – – –
Dividends paid 10/32 – – – (2.4) (2.4) (8.7) (11. 1)
T otal transactions with owners, recognised directly 
in equity 0.1 1.9 0.7
 
(0.5) 2.2 (8.7) (6.5)
At 31 December 2013 12. 1 110.5 67.7 29.2 219.5 22.6 242. 1
Profit for the year – – – 16. 1 16. 1 13.3 29.4
Other comprehensive income – – (14.6) – (14.6) (1. 1) (15.7)
T otal comprehensive (expense)/income 
for the year – – (14.6) 16. 1 1.5 12.2 13.7
Share-based payments 32 – – – 2.7 2.7 – 2.7
Deferred tax on share-based payments 8 – – – (0.2) (0.2) – (0.2)
Shares issued in respect of employee share-based 
payments 32 0.1 0.5 – 1.1 1.7 – 1.7
Purchase of own shares 32 –  – – (2.4) (2.4) – (2.4)
Subscription for shares by Employee Benefit T rust 32 – – – (0.3) (0.3) – (0.3)
T ransaction with non-controlling interest 32 – – (3.5) 3.7 0.2 (0.2) –
Dividends paid 10/32 – – – (6. 1) (6. 1) (11.2) (17 .3)
T otal transactions with owners, recognised directly 
in equity 0.1 0.5 (3.5) (1.5) (4.4) (11.4) (15.8)
At 31 December 2014 12.2 111.0 49.6 43.8 216.6 23.4 240.0
For a description of the nature and purpose of each reserve within shareholders’ equity refer to note 32. Notes 1 to 33 form an integral part of 
these consolidated financial statements. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 93
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Xchanging plc and its subsidiaries (together , ‘the Group’) provide a range of business processing services, primarily to the financial services 
and insurance industries, as well as procurement services and technology services across industries.
Xchanging plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the UK. The address of its registered office is The Walbrook 
Building, 25 Walbrook, London EC4N 8AQ. The Company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
1 SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out either below (and have been applied 
throughout the financial statements) or in the relevant note to the financial statements. These policies have been consistently applied to 
both years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
(i) Basis of preparation of the financial statements
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) and 
IFRS Interpretations Committee as endorsed by the European Union (‘EU’), and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to 
companies reporting under IFRS. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention unless 
otherwise stated. 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires 
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. Disclosed in note 2 are the areas 
involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated 
financial statements.
(ii) Going concern
The Directors have reviewed the liquidity position of the Group for the period to 30 June 2016. The cash flows of the Group have been 
assessed against the Group’s available sources of finance on a quarterly basis to determine the level of headroom against committed bank 
facilities. Based on this analysis, and an assessment of the potential cash risks, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The Group therefore continues to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
(iii) Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the Group is 
exposed to, or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power 
over the entity. T ransactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
In terms of subsidiaries the Group:
• 
Consolidates subsidiaries from the date on which control passes to the Group and deconsolidates from the date control ceases;
• 
Changes the accounting policies of subsidiaries, where necessary, to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group; 
• 
Eliminates intercompany transactions and balances in the Group results; 
• 
Recognises any non-controlling interest in the income statement, balance sheet and other comprehensive income based on the non-
controlling interest’s proportionate share, except where there are specific contractual arrangements where this is not applicable, for 
example, where guaranteed dividends payable to non-controlling interests exist instead of proportionate profit-sharing arrangements.
(iv) Foreign currencies
Functional and presentation currency 
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the subsidiaries operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, 
which is the Company’s functional currency. 
T ransactions and balances 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in other 
comprehensive income as qualifying hedges. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are presented in the income statement within 
‘finance income or cost’. All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the income statement within ‘foreign exchange (loss)/
gain’ in gross profit or administrative expenses.
T ranslation differences on non-monetary financial assets such as equities classified as available-for-sale are included in the revaluation 
reserve in equity through other comprehensive income. 
T ranslation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss are recognised 
in profit or loss as part of the fair value gain or loss. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 94
1 SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Group companies 
The results and financial position of all the Group subsidiaries that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are 
translated into the presentation currency as follows: 
• 
All assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet; 
• 
Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at monthly average exchange rates (unless this average is not a 
reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses 
are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions);
• 
All resulting currency translation differences are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
On consolidation, currency translation differences arising from the translation of long-term monetary items designated as part of the 
net investment in foreign operation are recognised in shareholders’ equity. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing rate.
Cumulative currency translation differences recognised in equity in respect of a subsidiary disposed of are recycled to the income statement 
in the same period that the disposal is recognised. The effect of the cumulative currency translation differences is taken into account in 
determining the gain or loss on disposal.
(v) Revenue recognition
For the financial year ended 31 December 2013, net revenue became a new financial indicator used by management. T o provide greater 
disclosure and understanding, net revenue has been separately disclosed on the face of the income statement and in the segment analysis, 
note 3. Net revenue is total revenue less supplier costs on procurement contracts (where the Group acts as principal) that are incurred by the 
Group and recharged to the customer . Net revenue better reflects the Group’s revenue performance, it removes those revenue transactions 
where the Group makes no margin and has no control over the volume of supplier costs to be recharged.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, excluding value added tax, rebates and discounts. The 
Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to 
the Group and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities described below.
Business processing services
Insurance services
Processing of premiums
Annual subscriptions for processing premiums are recognised over the period to which they relate. T ransaction fees are recognised on the 
basis of volumes processed. Revenue for work performed on the platform used to process premiums is recognised as the work is performed, 
based on time and materials. 
Claims adjusting and broking services
Revenue from adjusting and processing of broking services is recognised as the work is performed, based on time and materials.
Workers’ compensation services
Fixed fees are recognised over the period to which they relate. Performance based fees are recognised over the period to which the service 
relates, based on expectations of the amount that is reasonably certain to be received.
Financial services
Investment account and funds administration services
Account fees per investment account are recognised in the income statement according to the period to which they relate. Management 
fees are recognised monthly and are measured based on the value of assets in the investment account for the month. Revenue from the 
processing of investment accounts and funds administration services is recognised according to the period to which the services relate.
Securities processing
Revenue from the provision of securities processing services is recognised according to the period to which the service relates. 
Other business processing services
Revenue from business processing services relating to non-financial or insurance clients are predominately fixed fee based,  
with the fee being recognised over the period to which the service relates.
T echnology
Sales of software licences
Perpetual licences are sold both with and without implementation services. When a perpetual licence is sold separate to a contract for 
implementation services revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership are considered to have passed to the 
buyer and all obligations have been fulfilled; usually considered to occur on delivery of the licences for completed modules to the buyer .
When a perpetual licence is sold as a part of a contract for implementation services an assessment is made as to whether the services sold 
with the licence are essential to the functionality of the software combined with whether there is significant development of the underlying 
software. If the services are essential the licence fee is recognised based on a percentage completion basis over the implementation period.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 95
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Software implementation services
Revenue from software implementation services under a fixed price contract is recognised on a percentage completion basis (based 
on cost). Full provision is made for all known anticipated losses on each contract immediately as such losses are identified.
Maintenance contracts and hosting services 
Revenue in respect of the maintenance of computer software programs, hosting and other services is recognised on a straight-line basis 
over the term of the maintenance contract. 
T echnology services
T echnology services such as consultancy or project work is recognised as the work is performed, based on time and materials.
Procurement 
Revenue from the provision of procurement services is recognised on a gross basis where the Group is responsible for the whole supply 
chain process and associated business process from end-to-end. Where the Group acts as an agent, revenue is recognised on a net basis. 
Revenue from procurement management services is recognised, net of guaranteed rebates to customers, according to the period to which 
the service relates and only when all obligations are fulfilled.
Performance based revenue, where fees are received based on the resulting cost reduction (gainshare) is recognised once the service 
resulting in a cost saving has been agreed with the customer .
Other revenue
Within any sector project work can occur . Project work is recognised as the work is performed, based on time and materials.
(vi) Changes in accounting policy and disclosure
(a) New and amended standards adopted by the Group
The Group adopted the following standards for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2014:
• 
Amendment to IAS 32, ‘Financial instruments: Presentation’ on offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities. This amendment clarifies 
that the right of set-off must not be contingent on a future event. It must also be legally enforceable for all counterparties in the normal 
course of business, as well as in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy. The amendment also considers settlement mechanisms. 
The amendment did not have a significant effect on the Group financial statements.
• 
Amendment to IAS 39, ‘Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement’ on the novation of derivatives and the continuation of 
hedge accounting. This amendment considers legislative changes to ‘over-the-counter’ derivatives and the establishment of central 
counterparties. Under IAS 39 novation of derivatives to central counterparties would result in discontinuance of hedge accounting. The 
amendment provides relief from discontinuing hedge accounting when novation of a hedging instrument meets specified criteria. The 
amendment did not have a significant effect on the Group financial statements.
• 
IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated financial statements’, builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in 
whether an entity should be included within the consolidated financial statements of the parent company. The standard provides additional 
guidance to assist in the determination of control where this is difficult to assess. The amendment did not have a significant effect on the 
Group financial statements.
• 
IFRS 11, ‘Joint arrangements’ focuses on the rights and obligations of the parties to the arrangement rather than its legal form. There are 
two types of joint arrangements: joint operations and joint ventures. Joint operations arise where the investors have rights to the assets and 
obligations for the liabilities of an arrangement. A joint operator accounts for its share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Joint 
ventures arise where the investors have rights to the net assets of the arrangement; joint ventures are accounted for under the equity 
method. Proportional consolidation of joint arrangements is no longer permitted. The amendment did not have a significant effect on the 
Group financial statements.
• 
IFRS 12, ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’, includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including 
joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles. The amendment did not have a significant 
effect on the Group financial statements.
• 
IFRIC 21, ‘Levies’, sets out the accounting for an obligation to pay a levy that is not income tax. The interpretation addresses what the 
obligating event is that gives rise to pay a levy and when should a liability be recognised. The amendment did not have a significant effect 
on the Group financial statements.
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 
2014, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. Effects noted as follows:
• 
The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014. It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification and measurement of 
financial instruments. IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for 
financial assets: amortised cost, fair value through OCI and fair value through P&L. The basis of classification depends on the entity’s business model 
and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured at fair value 
through profit or loss with the irrevocable option at inception to present changes in fair value in OCI not recycling. There is now a new expected credit 
losses model that replaces the incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39. For financial liabilities there were no changes to classification and 
measurement except for the recognition of changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities designated at fair value through 
profit or loss. IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for hedge effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge effectiveness tests. It requires an economic 
relationship between the hedged item and hedging instrument and for the ‘hedged ratio’ to be the same as the one management actually use for risk 
management purposes. Contemporaneous documentation is still required but is different to that currently prepared under IAS 39. The standard is 
effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The group is yet to assess IFRS 9’s full impact.  Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 96
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
1 SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
• 
IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful 
information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an 
entity’s contracts with customers. Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability to 
direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or service. The standard replaces IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ and IAS 11 ‘Construction contracts’ 
and related interpretations. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and earlier application is 
permitted. The Group is assessing the impact of IFRS 15 including reviewing items such as licences, the unbundling of products and 
services and the allocation of fair value and discounts between products and services.
2 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
Management is required to exercise judgement and make use of estimates and assumptions in the application of accounting standards.
Those areas that require significant judgement and estimates are:
(i) Estimated impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment. The recoverable amounts of cash generating units have been 
determined based on value in use calculations. The Group also tests intangible assets for indicators of impairment and performs value in use 
calculations to determine the recoverable amount. These calculations require the use of estimates and judgements. See note 11 for further 
information on the estimates and judgements applied. 
(ii)  Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those items that in the Directors’ view are required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence or have 
been separately disclosed in order to improve a reader’s understanding of the financial statements. Consideration of what should be labelled 
as ‘exceptional’ requires judgement to be applied as to whether they are one-off or significant in nature. Note 4 presents and explains those 
items judged to be exceptional, including why they were deemed exceptional.
(iii) Revenue recognition including deferred and accrued income
The Group applies judgement in the following areas of revenue recognition and estimates in determining the revenue amount to be 
recognised in a financial period, as follows: 
• 
Where applicable, revenue is calculated using a percentage of completion basis. This method involves estimating future costs, margins 
and the deliverability of the project;
• 
For contracts, judgement is applied to determine whether revenue should be recognised on a gross or net basis, based on whether the 
Group is acting as principal in the contract or as an agent. This judgement frequently occurs for procurement contracts;
• 
Unbundling licence and maintenance agreements and attributing fair values and discounts between products and services;
• 
Judgement is also applied to estimate the amount of revenue due under performance based fees; and 
• 
Whether up-front fees can be recognised as revenue, based on when the up-front fee has been earned.
(iv) Valuation of provisions
Due to the nature of provisions, an element of their determination is based on estimates and judgements, including assumptions regarding 
the future anticipated cash outflows required to settle obligations, and the period over which these outflows will arise. The actual outcome 
of these uncertain factors may differ from these estimations, giving rise to differences with the estimated provisions. Any such differences 
between actual outcomes and the provisions recorded may impact the Group’s results over the periods involved. The timing of the outflow 
of resources required to settle these obligations is subject to similar uncertain factors. See note 27 for a discussion of critical estimates and 
judgements on specific provisions.
(v) Income taxes
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Judgement is required in determining the Group-wide provision for income 
taxes. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Group recognises liabilities 
based on estimates of whether taxes will be due. When the final tax outcome of these matters results in a difference to the amounts that 
were initially recognised, such differences will impact the current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities in the period in which such 
determination is made.
Deferred tax assets are not recognised when it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realised in the future. This evaluation requires 
judgements to be made, including the forecast of future taxable income. See note 8 for further information.
(vi) Business combinations
When acquiring a business, the Group has to make judgements and best estimates about the fair value allocation of the purchase price and 
the fair value of any contingent deferred consideration. Judgement is applied in determining what part of a business transaction relates to the 
acquisition of that business. Parts of a business transaction that do not relate to the acquisition (for example, employee costs) are accounted 
for in accordance with the relevant accounting standard. See note 29 for further information about judgements and estimates applied to the 
current year acquisitions. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 97
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
(vii) Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates a number of defined benefit plans. The retirement benefit obligations recorded are based on actuarial assumptions, 
including discount rates, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, inflation and mortality rates. These assumptions are based on 
current market conditions, historical information and consultation with, and input from, actuaries. Management review these assumptions 
annually. If they change, or if actual experience is different from the assumptions, the funding status of the plan will change and the 
retirement benefit obligation will be adjusted accordingly. The assumptions used are detailed in note 28.
3 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS
Management has determined the operating segments based on the internal reporting and information presented to and reviewed by the 
Board (the chief operating decision-maker for the year) on which strategic decisions are based, resources are allocated and performance is 
assessed. 
The Board considers the business as follows:
• 
Business Processing Services that has two distinct components, Insurance and Financial Services. Insurance Services provides technology 
infrastructure and managed services for processing policies and premiums as well as handling claims, to the insurance market. It includes 
the workers’ compensation claims processing services business in Australia. Financial Services provides securities processing, investment 
account administration and fund administration in Germany, Italy and India for financial institutions.
• 
T echnology provides technology infrastructure management services, insurance software and application services to a range of customers.
• 
Procurement provides procurement and human resources services to a range of customers.
Corporate provides the infrastructure, resources and investment to sustain and grow the Group, including performance management, and 
business management functions. Corporate is not considered an operating segment but its numbers are presented in order to reconcile 
reportable segment numbers back to the consolidated financial statements.
Management uses net revenue and adjusted operating profit as measures of segment performance. Interest income and expenses are not 
allocated to sectors, as this type of activity is driven by the Group treasury function, which manages the cash position of the whole Group. 
Corporate costs reallocated to operating segments include depreciation and amortisation of centrally recognised other intangible assets, 
lease payments and other costs incurred centrally on behalf of other operating segments.
The Group’s reportable segments account for inter segment sales, and transfers, as if the sales or transfers were to third parties, i.e. at current 
market prices.
The segment information for the year ended 31 December 2014 is as follows:
Y ear ended 31 December 2014
 Insurance
Services
£m 
 Financial
Services
£m 
Subtotal
Business
Processing
Services
£m
Technology 
 £m 
Procurement 
 £m 
 Corporate 
 £m 
Total
£m
Revenue 182.7 99.7 282.4 93. 1 198.0 – 573.5
Net revenue 182.7 99.7 282.4 93. 1 31.3 – 406.8
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 53.3 10.8 64. 1 6.8 (2.5) (12.6) 55.8
Adjusted operating profit margin 29.2% 10.8% 22.7% 7 .3% (8.0%) – 13.7%
The segment information for the year ended 31 December 2013 is as follows:
Y ear ended 31 December 2013
 Insurance
Services
£m 
 Financial
Services
£m 
Subtotal
Business
Processing
Services
£m
T echnology 
 £m 
Procurement 
 £m 
 Corporate 
 £m 
T otal
£m
Revenue 199.8 170.2 370.0 102.3 213.6 – 685.9
Net revenue 199.8 170.2 370.0 102.3 54.1 – 526.4
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 43.5 16.2 59.7 9.2 1.8 (15.2) 55.5
Adjusted operating profit margin 21.8% 9.5% 16. 1% 9.0% 3.3% – 10.5%
The depreciation and amortisation included in adjusted operating profit is as follows:
Y ear ended 31 December 2014
 Insurance
Services
£m 
 Financial
Services
£m 
Subtotal
Business
Processing
Services
£m
Technology 
 £m 
Procurement 
 £m 
 Corporate 
 £m 
Total
£m
Depreciation and amortisation 2014 2.8 5.1 7.9 8.2 2.8 1.5 20.4 
Depreciation and amortisation 2013 1.8 6.5 8.3 6.3 2.7 1.2 18.5 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 98
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
3 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS CONTINUED
Reconciliation of non-GAAP adjusted operating profit to IFRS statutory operating profit:
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Adjusted operating profit 55.8 55.5
Adjusting items:
– Amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised by an acquired entity (all recognised in gross profit) (6. 1) (3.2)
– Acquisition-related expenses
1
(6.0) (0.3)
– Exceptional items (7 .1) 29.9
Operating profit 36.6 81.9
Net finance costs (4.3) (4.0)
Share of profit from joint venture 0.2 0.4
Taxation (3. 1) (12.9)
Profit for the year 29.4 65.4
1 Acquisition-related expenses include: 
 £2.7 million expensed as part of the total amount payable to the sellers of MM4 in respect of the acquisition earn-out mechanism recognised in gross profit.
 £2.4 million of professional fees for the acquisition of Agencyport Europe
*
 and T otal Objects, of which £2.2 million is recognised in administrative expenses and £0.2 million is recognised in gross profit.
 £0.5 million of post-acquisition performance-related incentive costs relating to the acquisition of Agencyport Europe
* 
recognised in gross profit.
 £0.4 million of post-acquisition integration costs relating to the acquisition of Agencyport Europe
* 
recognised in gross profit.
The tables below present revenue from continuing operations by the geographical location of customers and by category:
Revenue by geographical location
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
United Kingdom 387 .6 430.5
Germany 53.7 124.5
Australia 37.6 42.2
United States of America 32. 1 29.9
Italy 23.4 23.0
Other Continental Europe 20.7 19.1
South East Asia 8.0 6.8
Rest of world 7.7 7.3
India 2.7 2.6
Revenue 573.5 685.9
Analysis of revenue by category
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Revenue from services 547 . 1 656.4
Sale of goods 18.2 27 .3
Revenue from sale of software licences 8.2 2.2
Revenue 573.5 685.9
Material customers
One customer accounted for greater than ten per cent of the Group’s gross revenues. Revenues of £168.3 million, attributable to the 
Procurement segment, have been derived from this customer for the year ended 31 December 2014 (2013: £181.2 million). 
No customers accounted for greater than ten per cent of the Group’s net revenues. 
Information about product/service
The information to report revenue by individual product/service is not available, as the cost to develop it would be excessive.
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page129. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 99
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
4 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
 Note 
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Exceptional (cost)/income items comprise the following:
Lease surrender receipt and related items 9.7 13.3
Profit on disposal of subsidiary – 12.5
Restructuring costs 27 (10.3) (6.2)
New South Wales Workers’ Compensation contract (7 .1) –
Fair value adjustment to the deferred consideration 19 – 5.0
Insolvency trustee distribution 0.6 4.5
Onerous contract provision release 27 – 2.2
Pension curtailment 28 – (2.0)
Employee related provision release 27 – 0.6
Total exceptional items (7 .1) 29.9
Included within:
– Gross profit (17.4) (0.4)
– Other income 10.3 30.3
(7 .1) 29.9
Exceptional items are those items that in the Directors’ view are required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence and in 
order to improve a reader’s understanding of the financial statements. These may include items relating to the restructuring of a significant 
part of the Group, impairment charges, items relating to acquisitions and disposals, and other one-off events or transactions. The tax impact 
of the total exceptional cost is a credit of £2.6 million (2013: £nil).
For 2014, exceptional items are:
• 
£9.7 million lease surrender receipt, net of related items. This includes the final receipt for the early surrender of the lease on the 
Leadenhall Street premises, net of the associated costs of moving. This is considered exceptional as it is a significant amount and  
is outside the normal course of business.
• 
Restructuring costs of £10.3 million incurred across the Group. These are considered exceptional as they were incurred as part of 
a significant Group-wide restructuring plan taking place over 2013 and 2014.
• 
Expense of £7 . 1 million for the exit of the Workers’ Compensation contract with the State of New South Wales that was announced in 
November 2014. This includes £4. 1 million for the impairment of the Xuber Insurance Software module developed specifically for the 
contract, and other restructuring related costs of £3.0 million. This is considered exceptional as it is a significant amount.
• 
The Cambridge Integrated Services Group Inc. (‘CISGI’) insolvency trustee distributions of £0.6 million to the Group have been recognised 
as exceptional other income to be consistent with the initial impairment of the CISGI group being presented as exceptional. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 100
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
5 EXPENSES BY NATURE
 Note 
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Cost of goods and services directly related to sales 211.6 217 .5
Direct staff costs 6 186.6 243.8
Other staff related costs 38. 1 44.4
T echnology and communications 38.5 55.4
Professional fees 16. 1 16.3
Other property costs 11.3 16.0
Operating lease expenses 10.9 10.9
Acquisition-related expenses 29 6.0 0.3
Other costs 1.6 8.0
Depreciation and Amortisation:
 – Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 5.9 6.5
 – Amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised by an acquired entity 12 6.1 3.2
 – Amortisation of other intangible assets 12 13. 1 10.4
 – Amortisation of pre-contract costs 1.4 1.6
Total expenses 547 .2 634.3
Included within:
– Gross profit 531.5 618.4
– Administrative expenses 15.7 15.9
547 .2 634.3
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors in the year were as follows:
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the annual audit of the Company and Consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.2 
Audit of Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.7 0.9
0.9 1.1
Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.2
Tax advisory services 0.1 0.3
All other services 0.5 0.8
Total fees payable to the Company’s auditors 1.6 2.4
6 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
 Note 
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Wages and salaries (including Directors) 158.4 207 .8
Social security costs 16.8 22. 1
Share-based payments 31 2.7 3.2
Pension costs – defined contribution schemes 28 6.8 5.2
Pension costs – defined benefit schemes 28 4.0 7.7
  188.7 246.0
Included within:
– Gross profit 175.2 237 .3
– Administrative expenses 5 11.4 6.5
186.6 243.8
– Net finance costs – pension costs 7 2.1 2.2
188.7 246.0
During 2014, £10.6 million of staff costs were capitalised (2013: £6.3 million). 
Included in acquisition expenses but not included in the table above is £2.7 million expensed as part of the total amount payable to the 
sellers of MM4 in respect of the acquisition earn-out mechanism. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 101
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
 2014
Number
 2013
Number 
Average monthly number of persons (including Executive Directors) employed by segment
Insurance services 3,095 2,941
Financial services 2,002 2,621
Business processing services subtotal 5,097 5,562
T echnology 1,774 1,604
Procurement 393 700
Corporate 39 63
 7 ,303 7,929
7 FINANCE COSTS AND INCOME 
 Note 
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Finance costs 
Bank and other interest (2.9) (3. 1)
Amortisation of loan fees (0.5) –
Interest cost on defined benefit pension schemes 28 (2. 1) (2.2)
Imputed interest on put option to acquire minority interest – (0. 1)
Imputed interest on deferred consideration (0. 1) (0.4)
Total finance costs  (5.6) (5.8)
Finance income 
Bank and other interest 0.7 1.3
Gain on translation of put option to acquire minority interest 24 0.6 0.3
Dividends received on AFS assets – 0.2
Total finance income 1.3 1.8
Net finance costs (4.3) (4.0)
8 TAXATION
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it 
relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the associated tax is also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the 
countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. It is also recognised on temporary differences arising in subsidiaries. 
However , deferred tax is not recognised when:
• 
It relates to the initial recognition of goodwill.
• 
It relates to the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction 
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. 
• 
It relates to a deferred income tax liability where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is 
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
• 
It is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date 
and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the 
same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 102
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
8 TAXATION CONTINUED
Income tax
The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013:
Consolidated income statement
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Current tax:
– Current tax on profits for the year 7.5 19.7
– Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.7) (3.8)
Total current tax 6.8 15.9
Deferred tax:
– Origination and reversal of temporary differences for the year (3.5) (5.6)
– Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.2) –
– Impact of the change in the UK tax rate – 2.6
Total deferred tax (3.7) (3.0)
Tax charge for the year 3.1 12.9
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Current tax movement in relation to actuarial losses on defined benefit plans 0.3 0.4
Deferred tax movement in relation to actuarial losses on defined benefit plans 4.0 1.0
Deferred tax movement in relation to available-for-sale financial asset – 0.2
4.3 1.6
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Deferred tax movement in relation to share-based payments (0.2) 0.9
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
The statutory tax charge for the year is lower (2013: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. The standard rate of corporation 
tax in the UK changed from 23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014. Accordingly, the Group’s profits for this accounting period are taxed at a 
blended rate of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%). The differences are explained below: 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Profit before taxation 32.5 78.3
Profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) 7.0 18.2
Changes in tax rates – 2.6
Items not deductible for tax purposes 1.5 0.3
Unutilised tax losses in current year 0.1 0.6
T emporary differences not previously recognised (0.7) –
Adjustments for tax in respect of prior years (0.9) (3.8)
Non-taxable income (1. 1) (5.6)
Brought forward losses not previously recognised (3.0) (0.9)
Difference on foreign tax rates 0.2 1.5
Tax charge for the year reported in the income statement 3.1 12.9 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 103
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 20% (2013: 20.0%) for differences 
arising in the UK, and at the relevant local statutory rates for differences arising in other countries.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following items:
Consolidated
balance sheet
Consolidated
income statement
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Deferred tax assets
Retirement benefit obligation 13.3 9.6 (0.4) (1.8)
Tax losses 7.3 3.8 2.7 2.1
Decelerated tax depreciation 4.2 4.0 – (0.2)
Share-based payments 1.6 1.7 0.1 0.3
Put option – – – –
Other 9.5 10.2 1.3 2.6
Total deferred tax assets 35.9 29.3
Recoverable within 1 year 9.2 9.8
Recoverable after more than 1 year 26.7 19.5
 35.9 29.3
Deferred tax liabilities
Retirement benefit asset – (0. 1)
Accelerated tax depreciation (0. 1) (0. 1)
Other
1
(17.4) (8.9)
Total deferred tax liabilities (17 .5) (9.1)
Arising within 1 year (7 .4) (4.7)
Arising after more than 1 year (10. 1) (4.4)
(17 .5) (9.1)
Net deferred tax asset 18.4 20.2
Net credit to tax expense 3.7 3.0
1 Included within other is deferred tax on amortisation of intangible assets and other miscellaneous items.
Tax losses arising in the current and previous years from continuing operations, total an estimated carried forward amount of £46.8 million 
in the US (2013: £44.3 million), £15.0 million in Italy (2013: £17 .6 million), £0.9 million in the UK (2013: £nil) and £5.0 million in other tax 
jurisdictions (2013: £5. 4 million). US losses expire 20 years from the year in which they arise. Losses arising in Italy and the UK can be carried 
forward indefinitely. 
The principal deferred tax assets recognised for losses are £3.0 million (2013: £2.9 million) in respect of the US, £4. 1 million (2013: £0.9 
million) in respect of Italy and £0.2 million (2013: nil) in respect of the UK. The additional Italian losses have been recognised as we can now 
forecast profits in the Italian business for the foreseeable future.
The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of £14.7 million (2013: £18.2 million) that principally arise on losses in certain businesses 
in the US. The utilisation of these losses will be reviewed in line with future tax planning opportunities on an ongoing basis.
The Finance Act 2013, that was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013, reduced the main rate of corporation tax in the UK to 21% from 1 April 
2014 and to 20% from 1 April 2015. The change to 20% has been reflected in the closing UK deferred tax balances recognised in these 
financial statements.  Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 104
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
9 EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares of the Company. 
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in existence is adjusted to include all potential dilutive 
ordinary shares. The Group has three types of potential dilutive ordinary shares: share options, share awards under the Performance Share 
Plan and other share awards.
Weighted
average
number of
shares
thousands
Adjusted
earnings
£m
Adjusted
earnings
per share
pence
Statutory
earnings
£m
Statutory
earnings
per share
pence
Basic earnings per share:
– 31 December 2014 243,482 28.9 11.86 16. 1 6.62
– 31 December 2013 240,799 24.8 10.30 52.4 21.76
Diluted earnings per share:
– 31 December 2014 247 , 155 28.9 11.69 16. 1 6.52
– 31 December 2013 247 ,873 24.8 10.01 52.4 21. 14
The following reflects the share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations:
 2014
thousands 
 2013
thousands 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 243,482 240,799
Dilutive potential ordinary shares:
– Employee share options 304 723
– Awards under the Performance Share Plan 3,336 6,325
– Share awards 33 26
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 247 , 155 247 ,873
Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share values are disclosed to provide a better understanding of the underlying trading performance of the Group. 
The adjusted value is in line with the KPIs as used to measure the Group’s performance in 2014. 
The adjusted earnings per share figures are calculated based on the Company’s share of adjusted profit for the year , divided by the basic 
and diluted weighted average number of shares as stated above.
The owners of the parent’s share of adjusted profit for the year is calculated as follows:
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Profit for the year net of tax attributable to owners of the parent 16. 1 52.4
Exceptional items 7 .1 (29.9)
Acquisition-related expenses 6.0 0.3
Amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised by an acquired entity 6.1 3.2
Imputed interest and fair value adjustments on put options (0.6) (0.2)
Non-controlling interests’ share of adjustments (1.3) –
Tax on adjusting items (4.5) (1.0)
Adjusted profit for the year net of tax attributable to owners of the parent 28.9 24.8
10 DIVIDENDS PAYABLE
Dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which 
the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
A dividend of 2.75 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014, amounting to a total dividend of £6,717 ,781 is to be 
proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2015. If approved, this dividend will be paid on 22 May 2015 to shareholders on the 
register as at the close of business on 24 April 2015. These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
A dividend of 2.5 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013, amounting to a total dividend of £6,094, 190, was paid 
on 23 May 2014 and is recorded in these financial statements. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 105
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
11 GOODWILL
Goodwill arises from the purchase of subsidiary undertakings and represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid over the 
fair value of the Group’s interest in net identifiable assets of the acquiree and the fair value of the non-controlling interest in the acquiree. 
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash generating units (‘CGUs’) being the lowest level at which assets generate separately identifiable 
cash inflows independent of the cash inflows of other assets or groups of assets.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or , more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential 
impairment. The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value-in-use and the fair value less 
costs to sell. Any impairment would be recognised immediately as an expense and would not be subsequently reversed.
 Note 
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Cost
At 1 January 269.2 281.2
Business combination 29 38.4 2.5
Disposal of subsidiary 29 – (0.3)
Exchange adjustments 2.6 (14.2)
At 31 December  310.2 269.2
Aggregate impairment
At 1 January (98.6) (105.9)
Exchange adjustments (2.2) 7.3
At 31 December (100.8) (98.6)
Net book amount
At 31 December 209.4 170.6
An analysis of goodwill and adjusted operating profit by operating segment is as follows:
Goodwill Adjusted operating profit
2013
£m
Business
combination
£m
Disposal
£m
Foreign
currency
movements
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Insurance Services 35.7 – – 0.4 36. 1 53.3 43.5
Financial Services 41.7 – – (1.6) 40. 1 10.8 16.2
Business Processing Services 77.4 – – (1.2) 76.2 64. 1 59.7
T echnology 39.3 38.4 – 1.4 79.1 6.8 9.2
Procurement 53.9 – – 0.2 54. 1 (2.5) 1.8
170.6 38.4 – 0.4 209.4 68.4 70.7
Impairment testing of goodwill
The key assumptions applied in the impairment testing of goodwill as at 31 December 2014 are set out in the table below. All margins are 
calculated using net revenue and adjusted operating profit.
Operating
margin
range
Weighted
average
margin
Operating
margin
growth rate
Weighted
average
growth rate
Pre-tax
discount
rate
Insurance Services 31%-32% 31% 2% 4% 13%
Financial Services 9%-10% 10% 3% 4% 15%
T echnology 13%-14% 14% 6% 19% 13%
Procurement 8%-15% 13% 18% 38% 15%
The recoverable amounts of all CGUs have been determined based on value-in-use calculations using pre-tax cash flow projections based 
on budgets approved by the management of the CGU and the Board. The budgets cover a two year period, as well as cash flows for years 
three and four using management’s expectations of sales growth, operating costs, adjusted operating profit and margin based on past 
experience, and expectations regarding future performance and profitability for each individual CGU. 
A terminal value has been calculated using a nil growth rate assumption for all CGUs. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 106
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
11 GOODWILL CONTINUED
Sensitivity analysis
The carrying value of goodwill is most sensitive to changes in average growth rates as described below:
Insurance Services
This sector is consistently profitable and cash generative. It is considered unlikely that there could be reasonable changes to key assumptions 
sufficient to give rise to an impairment at an individual CGU level.
Financial Services
The acquisition of AGI’s holding in Fondsdepot Bank during 2014 combined with the restructuring of the investment account administration 
contract has reduced the risk within FdB. 
The performance of Xchanging Italy has improved in 2014, following the successful merger of Kedrios and AR Enterprise S.r .l. in 2013, 
and the realisation of synergies within the combined business. A significant loss of customers could give rise to an impairment. 
Technology
The acquisition of Agencyport Europe
*
 and T otal Objects Ltd during the year has increased the customer base and product offering of the 
insurance software business, and reduced the dependency on securing large new Xuber contracts. An adverse outcome from the CMA Phase 
2 review in 2015 or a failure to integrate the two acquisitions or to win new business, including conversion of the Xuber pipeline, could result in 
an impairment. The weighted average growth rate of 19% would have to fall to 9% in order for the recoverable amount of the T echnology 
CGU to equal its carrying value.
Procurement
The underlying business performance has improved in 2014, after adjusting for the loss of the HR business in 2013. The business plan for the 
Procurement sector reflects targeted cost reductions, growth and synergies associated with the MM4 acquisition and a growth in revenue 
reflecting the improved sales pipeline and win rate experienced in the business in 2014. Failure to deliver the improved efficiencies and 
sufficient growth in the medium term could result in an impairment of goodwill. The weighted average growth rate of 38% would have to 
fall to 19% in order for the recoverable amount of the Procurement CGU to equal its carrying value.
12 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Research and development
Research expenditure is expensed as incurred. Development expenditure is capitalised when it can be reliably measured, technically 
feasible, the resources are available to complete the project, there is an ability to use or sell the asset and the future economic benefits 
are expected. 
Assets in the course of development are not amortised until they are ready to be used or sold. These assets relate to software being 
developed by the Group.
Development costs represent the cost of process and system designs that substantially improved the business. Once capitalised these 
assets are amortised and assessed for impairment in accordance with IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’.
Software costs and contractual customer relationships
Software assets acquired as part of a business combination are fair valued on acquisition in accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ 
then subsequently amortised in accordance with IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’. Contractual customer relationships are capitalised on acquisition 
where they meet the criteria for recognition under IFRS 3, ‘Business Combinations’, and IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’. 
Amortisation is calculated so as to write off the cost of the assets, less their estimated residual values, on a straight-line basis over the 
expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned. Amortisation is calculated over the following periods:   
Software 3 to 7 years
Development costs 5 years or over the life of the related contract
Customer contractual relationships 5 to 10 years
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 107
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Software
£m
Customer
contractual
relationships
£m
Software
assets in the
course of
development
£m
Development
costs
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2013 79.7 33.9 2.4 17 .8 133.8 
Business combination (note 29) 2.6 4.2 – – 6.8
Additions – internal 9.6 – 3.4 0.5 13.5
Additions – external 1.5 – 0.9 – 2.4
T ransfer from assets in the course of development 4.9 – (4.9) – –
Disposals/write-offs (38.7) – (0.2) (4.0) (42.9)
Exchange adjustments 1.5 (1.0) (0. 1) – 0.4
At 31 December 2013 61.1 37 .1 1.5 14.3 114.0
Business combination (note 29) 15.6 37.0 – – 52.6
Additions – internal 6.8 – 14.3 – 21. 1
Additions – external 8.9 – 6.8 – 15.7
T ransfers from property, plant and equipment – – 2.1 2.1
T ransfer to/(from) assets in the course of development 1.5 – (1.5) – –
Disposals/write-offs (3.3) – (4. 1) – (7.4)
Exchange adjustments (1.8) (1.0) (0. 1) – (2.9)
At 31 December 2014 88.8 73. 1 19.0 14.3 195.2
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2013 45.9 17 .8 – 16.7 80.4 
Charge for the year 9.6 3.2 – 0.8 13.6
Disposals/write-offs (32.3) – – (3.9) (36.2)
Exchange adjustments 1.1 (1.0) – 0.1 0.2
At 31 December 2013 24.3 20.0 – 13.7 58.0
Charge for the year 12.9 6.1 – 0.2 19.2
Disposals/write-offs (3. 1) – – – (3. 1)
Exchange adjustments (1.4) (0.5) – – (1.9)
At 31 December 2014 32.7 25.6 – 13.9 72.2
Net book amount
At 1 January 2013 33.8 16. 1 2.4 1.1 53.4 
At 31 December 2013 36.8 17 .1 1.5 0.6 56.0
At 31 December 2014 56. 1 47 .5 19.0 0.4 123.0
Amortisation expense of £19.2 million (2013: £12.8 million) has been charged through gross profit and £nil (2013: £0.8 million) through 
administrative expenses.
In 2014, all of the customer contractual relationship amortisation charge of £6. 1 million (2013: £3.2 million) relates to assets previously 
unrecognised by an acquired entity. 
Significant individual assets, which are included in the balances above, are as follows:
Software
• 
Xuber is the Group’s global insurance application platform, and provides support for the full insurance cycle including quotation, claim 
notification as well as payment and settlement. The asset has a carrying amount as at 31 December 2014 of £24.0 million (2013: £16.8 
million) and is made up of several components. Components are amortised over five years after they are complete.
• 
Insurance software acquired with Agencyport Europe
*
 relating to the ‘OPENSuite’ of products. The asset has a carrying amount as at 
31 December 2014 of £12. 1 million, and is being amortised to 2020.
• 
Insurance software acquired with T otal Objects which provides services to Insurance brokers, Reinsurers and managing general agents. 
The asset has a carrying amount as at 31 December 2014 of £2.5 million, and is being amortised to 2021.
• 
Funds administration processing platforms, including costs of migration of new customers on to the platform. The asset has a carrying 
amount as at 31 December 2014 of £1.3 million (2013: £2.0 million), and is made up of several components being amortised up to 2019.
• 
IT platform and software acquired with AR relates to a comprehensive information technology (IT) solution for the securities brokerage 
and asset management industry in Italy. The asset has a carrying amount as at 31 December 2014 of £2.0 million (2013: £3.6 million), 
and is being amortised to 2017 .
• 
IT platform and software acquired with MM4 relates to e-Procurement solutions. The asset has a carrying value as at 31 December 2014 
of £2.0 million (2013: £2. 4 million), and is being amortised to 2018.
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 108
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
12 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED
• 
Netsett is the Group’s internally generated, global (re)insurance and accounting net settlement service. It is a netting and settlement 
solution designed to deliver operational efficiency, transparency, and capital efficiency benefits to participants through the implementation 
of a centralised, multi-lateral, multi-currency engine platform for premium and claims flows within and between global cedents, brokers 
and carriers. The asset was completed in 2014 and has a carrying amount as at 31 December 2014 of £4.0 million (2013: £4. 1 million). It will 
be amortised until 2019.
• 
Workday is the Group’s new HR system that supports HR services including payroll processes, talent and performance management, and 
organisational changes. The asset has a carrying value as at 31 December 2014 of £3.9 million (2013: £0.3 million) and is being amortised 
to 2019.
Customer contractual relationships
• 
Contractual relationships acquired as part of the acquisition of Agencyport Europe
*
 during the year . These assets have a carrying amount 
at 31 December 2014 of £30.5 million (2013: £nil) and are being amortised to 2023.
• 
Contractual relationships acquired as part of the acquisition of T otal Objects during the year . These assets have a carrying amount at 
31 December 2014 of £3.8 million (2013: £nil) and are being amortised to 2024.
• 
Open architecture customer contracts relating to investment fund administration. The asset has a carrying amount as at 31 December 2014 
of £4.8 million (2013: £5.9 million) and are being amortised to 2019.
• 
Brokerage and Asset management customers acquired as part of the acquisition of AR in 2012. These assets have a carrying amount 
of £5. 1 million as at 31 December 2014 (2013: £6. 1 million) and are being amortised to 2022.
• 
Contractual relationships acquired as part of the acquisition of MM4 in 2013. These assets have a carrying amount at 31 December 2014 
of £3.2 million (2013: £3.9 million) and are being amortised to 2018.
13 PROPERTY , PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, except for assets in the 
course of development and land. Assets in the course of development are carried at cost less any recognised impairment. Depreciation 
commences when the assets are ready for their intended use. Land is carried at cost less any recognised impairment. No depreciation is 
charged on land.
The cost of property, plant and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any incidental costs of acquisition.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within the 
income statement.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of the assets, less their estimated residual values, on a straight-line basis over the 
expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned. Depreciation is calculated over the following periods:
Buildings 20 years
Leasehold improvements over the period of the lease
Computer equipment 3 to 5 years 
Fixtures and fittings 3 to 10 years
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 109
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Leasehold
improvements
£m
Land and
buildings
£m
Computer
equipment
£m
Fixtures
and fittings
£m
Assets in the
course of
development
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2013 11.7 2.8 28.0 6.8 0.8 50. 1 
Additions – internal costs – – – – 2.7 2.7
Additions – external costs 3.2 (0. 1) 4.8 1.3 0.1 9.3
T ransfers from assets in the course of development 0.1 – 0.2 – (0.3) –
Other disposals/write-offs (1.8) – (10.8) (2.9) (0. 1) (15.6)
Exchange adjustments (0.5) (0.4) (0.6) (0.8) 0.1 (2.2)
At 31 December 2013 12.7 2.3 21.6 4.4 3.3 44.3
From Business Combinations 0.2 0.4 0.3 0.1 – 1.0
Additions – external costs 3.7 0.2 2.9 1.7 0.1 8.6
T ransfers (to)/from other intangible assets – – 0.5 – (2.6) –
T ransfers (to)/from assets in the course of development – – 0.1 0.1 (0.2) (2. 1)
Disposals/write offs (6.9) – (3.5) (1.6) – (12.0)
Exchange adjustments (0. 1) 0.1 (0.2) – – (0.2)
Cost At 31 December 2014 9.6 3.0 21.7 4.7 0.6 39.6
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2013 7.4 0.1 20.2 4.9 – 32.6 
Charge for the year 0.9 0.1 4.0 1.5 – 6.5
Other disposals/write-offs (1.5) – (9.9) (2.6) – (14.0)
Exchange adjustments (0.4) – (0.5) (0.5) – (1.4)
At 31 December 2013 6.4 0.2 13.8 3.3 – 23.7
Charge for the year 0.9 0.1 3.7 1.2 – 5.9
Disposals/write-offs (2.7) – (3.6) (1.5) – (7 .8)
Exchange adjustments (0. 1) – – – – (0. 1)
At 31 December 2014 4.5 0.3 13.9 3.0 – 21.7
Net book value
At 1 January 2013 4.3 2.7 7.8 1.9 0.8 17 .5
At 31 December 2013 6.3 2.1 7.8 1.1 3.3 20.6
At 31 December 2014 5.1 2.7 7.8 1.7 0.6 17 .9
Depreciation expense of £5.9 million (2013: £6.2 million) has been charged through gross profit, and £nil million (2013: £0.3 million) 
through administrative expenses.
Included in property, plant and equipment are computer equipment and fixtures and fittings assets held under finance leases with a net book 
value of £0.5 million (2013: £1.2 million). Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 110
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
14 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
A list of significant subsidiaries of the Group is provided in note 4 of the Company financial statements.
The table below includes the summarised financial information for each subsidiary that has non-controlling interests that are material  
to the Group. The amounts shown are before intercompany eliminations.
Xchanging 
Claims Services Ltd
Xchanging 
Ins-sure Services Ltd
Xchanging 
Solutions Ltd
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Current assets 13.6 17 .6 35.9 30.3 26.8 18.3
Non-current assets 1.9 2.2 20.8 18.0 17 .8 18.5
Current liabilities (8.9) (13.4) (22.3) (18. 1) (12.6) (7 .3)
Non-current liabilities (0.5) (0.2) (4.3) (0.4) (0. 1) (0.4)
Net assets 6.1 6.2 30. 1 29.8 31.9 29.1
Revenues 39.2 42.0 90.0 88.3 28.9 27.7
Profit after tax 5.0 5.2 21.0 17.4 1.5 3.4
Other comprehensive (loss)/income (0.2) (0.2) (2.8) (2. 1) 1.7 (7 .6)
15 INVESTMENT IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES
Joint venture
The Group has a 50% interest in a joint venture, Xchanging Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. (‘XMSB’), which provides mobile internet and cloud-based 
hosting offerings in the Malaysian market. 
The investment is equity accounted and therefore:
• 
The investment is initially recognised at cost in the balance, adjusted for any post-acquisition movements in the Group share of the 
balance sheet. 
• 
The Group’s share of its joint venture’s post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
• 
The Group’s share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. 
The joint venture has a financial year end of 30 June as the Group’s joint venture partner’s financial year end is 30 June and they are 
responsible for drawing up the annual financial statements. The investment is not quoted and hence there is no market price available for its 
shares. In respect of each year ending 31 December , the Group’s share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income or expense for 
the year is included based on the audited financial statements and 6 months of unaudited actuals based on the management accounts.
A reconciliation of the Group’s carrying amount of the investment in XMSB is as follows:
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
At 1 January 0.6 0.2
Investment in joint venture – –
Share of profit 0.3 0.4
Exchange adjustments (0. 1) –
At 31 December 0.8 0.6
Summarised financial information relating to the joint venture is as follows (these amounts reflect the amounts presented in the financial 
statements of the joint venture adjusted for differences in accounting policies between the Group and the joint venture):
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Current assets 2.3 2.2
Non-current assets 0.1 –
Current liabilities 0.7 1.0
Revenues 7.6 10.6
Profit after tax 0.5 0.8
A reconciliation of the net assets of XMSB is as follows:
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
At 1 January 1.2 0.6
Profit for the year after tax 0.5 0.5
Exchange adjustments (0. 1) 0.1
At 31 December 1.6 1.2
There are no contingent liabilities and commitments relating to the Group’s interest in the joint venture. There is no other comprehensive 
income relating to the Group’s interest in the joint venture. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 111
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Associate
During the year the Group purchased an 8.3% interest MachineShop Inc. (‘MachineShop’), a next generation enterprise middleware provider 
based in Boston, USA. The investment is not quoted and hence there is no market price available for its shares.
The Group has significant influence over MachineShop, due to its voting power on the Board. Hence, the investment is equity accounted 
and therefore:
• 
The investment is initially recognised at cost in the balance, adjusted for any post-acquisition movements in the Group share of the 
balance sheet. 
• 
The Group’s share of MachineShop’s post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
• 
The Group’s share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in the statement of 
comprehensive income. 
A reconciliation of the investment in MachineShop is as follows:
 2014
£m 
At 1 January –
Acquisition of equity investment 0.6
Share of profit (0. 1)
Exchange adjustments 0.1
At 31 December 0.6
Summarised financial information relating to the associate is as follows (these amounts reflect the amounts presented in the financial 
statements of the associate adjusted for differences in accounting policies between the Group and the associate):
 2014
£m 
Current assets 0.6
Non-current assets –
Current liabilities 0.3
Revenues 0.4
Loss after tax (1.0)
A reconciliation of the net assets of MachineShop is as follows:
 2014
£m 
At 1 January 1.3
Loss for the year after tax (1.0)
Dividends –
At 31 December 0.3
16 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
At 1 January 3.4 23.4
Disposed of as part of disposal of subsidiary – (20.8)
Net (losses)/gains transferred to other comprehensive income (0.8) (0. 1)
Exchange adjustments – 0.9
At 31 December 2.6 3.4
Available-for-sale financial assets include the following:
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Listed equity securities – Eurozone 2.6 3.4
Total available-for-sale financial assets 2.6 3.4
Listed securities are held at fair value, based on the listed price of the securities at the year-end date. 
As at 31 December 2014 the listed equity security relates to an investment in a technology company listed on the Italian stock exchange. 
The underlying currency of the investment is the Euro. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 112
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
17 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
T rade and other receivables are recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for impairment. 
If collection is expected in one year or less then trade and other receivables are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented 
as non-current assets. The carrying values of all financial assets within trade and other receivables are considered to approximate to their 
fair values. 
Pre-contract costs comprise legal and other professional expenses and other directly attributable staff costs incurred in order to obtain 
specific customer contracts. Costs that are directly attributable to a contract are deferred when they are separately identifiable, can be reliably 
measured and it is probable that the contract will be awarded and the contract will result in future net cash inflows with a present value at 
least equal to all amounts recognised as an asset. Pre-contract costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, 
starting from the date when the contract commences.
 Note 
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Current trade and other receivables
T rade receivables – non-related parties 46.4 55.3
T rade receivables – related parties 30 0.6 0.1
T rade receivables 47 .0 55.4
Less provision for impairment of trade receivables (2.6) (3.6)
Net trade receivables 44.4 51.8
Prepayments – non-related parties 12.9 13. 1
Prepayments – related parties 30 – 0.5
Accrued income – non-related parties 50.2 52.8
Held-for-trading equity securities 1.0 1.0
Pre-contract costs 1.1 0.8
Other receivables – non-related parties 7.0 6.9
Other receivables – related parties 30 – 0.3
Total current trade and other receivables 116.6 127 .2
Non-current trade and other receivables
Prepayments 0.5 0.8
Pre-contract costs 2.6 1.5
Other receivables 3.1 1.0
Total non-current trade and other receivables 6.2 3.3
As at 31 December 2014, trade receivables of £18. 4 million (2013: £17 .6 million) were past due, but not impaired. These relate to a number 
of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default. All trade receivables, whether current or past due, are reviewed for 
impairment on a case-by-case basis to identify impairment taking into account the ageing of the debt, the likelihood of recoverability and 
other external factors. The ageing analysis of the trade receivables is as follows:
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Neither past due nor impaired 26.0 34.2
Past due:
1 – 30 days 9.2 8.1
31 – 60 days 4.1 4.3
61 – 90 days 1.9 1.8
Over 90 days 3.2 3.4
Net trade receivables 44.4 51.8
Movements on the Group’s provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
At 1 January 3.6 3.9
Business combination
 
– 0.1
Disposal – (0. 1)
Charged/(credited) to gross profit in the income statement:
– Provided in the year 1.6 1.3
– Released in the year (1.0) (0.9)
Used in the year (1.6) (0.5)
Exchange adjustments – (0.2)
At 31 December 2.6 3.6 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 113
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Sterling 62.6 70. 1
Euros 24.7 30.7
US Dollars 17 .0 13.2
Indian Rupees 9.4 7.8
Australian Dollars 6.0 6.4
Other 3.1 2.3
At 31 December 122.8 130.5
18 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current 
liabilities. T rade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
 Note 
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Current trade and other payables
T rade payables – non-related parties 33.0 30.0
T rade payables – related parties – 0.2
T rade payables 33.0 30.2
Social security and other taxes 30 8.4 10. 1
Other payables – non related parties 15.7 18.8
Other payables – related parties 0.6 0.5
Accruals – non related parties 58.5 68.3
Deferred income – non related parties 24.8 19.0
Total current trade and other payables 141.0 146.9
Non-current trade and other payables
Deferred income – non-related parties 1.3 –
Social security and other taxes 0.7 0.6
Total non-current trade and other payables 2.0 0.6
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other payables are denominated in the following currencies:
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Sterling 100.2 105.5
Euros 20.9 23.2
US Dollars 7.2 5.2
Indian Rupees 6.3 7.0
Australian Dollars 5.7 4.9
Other 2.7 1.7
At 31 December 143.0 147 .5 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 114
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
19 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Current other financial liabilities
Put options to acquire non-controlling interests – 15.3
Deferred consideration 3.2 2.7
Total current other financial liabilities 3.2 18.0
Non-current other financial liabilities
Deferred consideration 0.7 2.6
Total non-current other financial liabilities 0.7 2.6
The carrying amounts of the Group’s other financial liabilities are denominated in the following currencies:
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Sterling 1.5 –
Euros 2.4 20.6
3.9 20.6
Put options
At the start of the year the non-controlling shareholders of Fondsdepot Bank and Xchanging Italy S.p.A. held put options enabling them to 
sell their entire shareholding in these entities to the Group. The put option held by SIA to sell their remaining 1.3% shareholding in Xchanging 
Italy S.p.A. was exercised on 23 January 2014 for £4.0 million (€4.8 million). The put option held by Allianz Global Investors to sell their 
shareholding in Fondsdepot Bank was exercised on 30 July 2014 for £10.8 million (€13.6 million).
Deferred consideration
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Current deferred consideration 
T otal Objects Ltd 0.8 –
AR Enterprises S.r .l. 2.4 2.7
Total current deferred consideration 3.2 2.7
Non-current deferred consideration 
T otal Objects Ltd 0.7 –
AR Enterprises S.r .l. – 2.6
Total non-current deferred consideration 0.7 2.6
In February 2014 the Group paid £2.6 million (€3.2 million) of deferred consideration to the shareholders of AR Enterprise S.r .l.
20 BORROWINGS
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Current borrowings
Presented in current assets:
– Unamortised loan fees (0.6) –
Presented in current liabilities:
– Finance lease liabilities 0.2 0.7
Total current borrowings (0.4) 0.7
Non-current borrowings
Bank loans and revolving credit facilities 115.0 –
Unamortised loan fees (1.5) –
Finance lease liabilities 0.3 0.5
Total non-current borrowings 113.8 0.5 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 115
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Sterling 113. 1 0.9
Indian Rupees 0.3 0.3
113.4 1.2
Bank loans and revolving credit facilities
The Group maintains committed credit facilities to ensure that it has sufficient liquidity to maintain its ongoing operations. 
In February 2014 the Group signed a new £125.0 million four and a half year revolving credit facility with four of its existing lenders that is 
committed until June 2018. Following the announcement of the acquisition of Agencyport Europe
*
 in July, the Group agreed with its lenders 
to increase the size of its revolving facility by a further £40.0 million to £165.0 million. The margin on this facility is between 200 and 300 
basis points depending on the prevailing leverage ratio. Security is provided in the form of a subsidiary cross guarantee arrangement and the 
facility is subject to leverage and interest cover financial covenants. It also contains representations and warranties commonly associated with 
corporate bank debt.
£115.0 million was drawn as cash under the facility as at 31 December 2014 (2013: £nil) and a further £0.8 million (2013: £16.7 million) was 
utilised through guarantees. The Group had £49.2 million (2013: £58. 4 million) of committed headroom available.
In addition to this facility, a working capital facility of INR330.0 million (£3.3 million) is provided to Xchanging T echnology Services India 
Private Limited (‘XTSI’), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group. The facility is secured by way of a charge on the current assets of XTSI and 
is subject to a corporate guarantee. The working capital facility is uncommitted and renewed on an annual basis. As at 31 December 2014, 
the cash amount drawn under the facility was £nil (2013: £nil). 
The Group has a £10.0 million (2013: £10.0 million) uncommitted overdraft facility linked to its UK notional cash pool. 
The Group has the following undrawn committed and uncommitted borrowing facilities available: 
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Expiring within one year 13. 1 13. 1
Expiring later than two years but not more than five years 51. 1 58.4
64.2 71.5
The fair values of the bank loans and revolving credit facilities are assumed to equal their carrying value as these are recent arm’s length 
transactions, and are subject to floating rate interest rates determined by movements in LIBOR.
Finance leases
The finance leases held by the Group relate to leased assets including computer equipment and other items classified as fixtures and fittings.
The gross finance lease obligation and present value of finance lease liabilities are as follows:
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Expiring within one year 0.2 0.7
Expiring later than one year but not more than five years 0.3 0.5
Gross finance lease obligation 0.5 1.2
Present value of future finance leases 0.5 1.2
 
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 116
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
21 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, demand deposits, short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to cash 
and are subject to minimal risk of changes in value.
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Cash at bank and in hand – held in Enterprise Partnerships 23.5 78.2
Cash at bank and in hand – held in Xchanging Solutions 2.8 4.6
Cash at bank and in hand – held in wholly owned subsidiaries 89.8 25.6
Cash at bank and in hand 116. 1 108.4
Short-term deposits – held in Enterprise Partnerships 5.1 5.1
Short-term deposits – held in Xchanging Solutions 5.0 3.0
Short-term deposits – held in wholly owned subsidiaries 3.0 4.8
Cash and cash equivalents 129.2 121.3
Xchanging receives cash from Enterprise Partnerships through contractual licence fees and dividends. At 31 December 2014 a total of £6.5 
million (2013: £6. 1 million) was due from Enterprise Partnerships to Xchanging as accrued but unpaid licence fees. Enterprise Partnerships 
operate a 100% profit distribution policy and £13.2 million (2013: £11.8 million) of profit earned in 2014 will be distributed to Xchanging in 
2015. Payments for both the licence fees and dividends are expected to be paid in the first half of 2015.
Included in the cash balance held by wholly owned subsidiaries are £34.5 million (2013: £35.2 million) of customer cash deposits held 
at Fondsdepot Bank. An equal customer cash accounts liability is recognised on the balance sheet.
£0.3 million (2013: £0.2 million) of the Group’s cash is held as collateral against various bank guarantees. 
The fair values of short-term loan deposits with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their book values.
22 NET CASH
The consolidated movement in net cash for the year is:
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year 11.7 8.4
Movement in bank loans and revolving credit facilities (115.0) 37.6
Movement on finance lease liabilities and other debt 0.7 (0. 1)
Loan from related party – 0.8
Change in net cash resulting from cash flows (102.6) 46.7
Exchange movements (3.8) (3.4)
Movement in net cash in the year (106.4) 43.3
Net cash at the beginning of the year 120. 1 76.8
Net cash at the end of the year 13.7 120. 1
Movement in net cash
Cash and
cash
equivalents
£m
Bank
loans and
revolving
credit
facilities
£m
Loan from
related
party
£m
Finance
lease
liabilities
£m
Total
£m
1 January 2013 116.4 (37 .9) (0.8) (0.9) 76.8
Cash flow 13.8 37.6 0.8 (0. 1) 52. 1
Cash disposed (5.4) – – – (5.4)
Exchange movements (3.5) 0.3 – (0.2) (3.4)
31 December 2013 121.3 – – (1.2) 120. 1
Cash flow 8.4 (115.0) – 0.7 (105.9)
Cash acquired 3.3 – – – 3.3
Exchange movements (3.8) – – – (3.8)
31 December 2014 129.2 (115.0) – (0.5) 13.7 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 117
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
23 CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
 Note 
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Profit before tax 32.5 78.3
Net finance income 7 4.3 4.0
Profit from joint venture (0.2) (0.4)
Operating profit 36.6 81.9
Adjustment for non-cash items:
– profit on disposal of subsidiary or subsidiary assets 4 – (12.5)
– employee share-based payment 6 2.7 3.2
– depreciation on PP&E 5 5.9 6.5
– amortisation of other intangibles 5 19.2 13.6
– amortisation of pre-contract costs 5 1.4 1.6
– (profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.5) 0.8
– fair value adjustment to deferred consideration 4 – (5.0)
– New South Wales Workers’ Compensation contract 7 .1 –
–  expense relating to the total amount payable to the sellers of MM4 in respect of the acquisition 
earn-out mechanism 3 2.7 –
– unrealised foreign exchange – (0.8)
– pension curtailment – 2.0
– non-cash exceptional income on lease surrender – (4.5)
75. 1 86.8
Changes in working capital (excluding the effects of business combinations):
– decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 18.8 (17 .8)
– (decrease)/increase in trade and other payables
1
 (27.4) 26.0
– decrease in retirement benefit obligations (6.2) (2.4)
– increase/(decrease) in provisions 0.8 (4.4)
Cash generated from operations 61.1 88.2
1 £0.7 million of the decrease in trade and other payables (2013: £14.5 million increase) relates to a decrease in the cash placed in customer deposit accounts held by Fondsdepot Bank.
24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(i) Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets into one of the following categories: loans and receivables, available-for-sale and at fair value through 
profit or loss. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. The Group determines the classification 
of its financial assets at initial recognition: 
• 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classified as 
non-current assets. Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs, and subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
• 
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other 
categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the 
balance sheet date. These are subsequently recognised at fair value, with any movements recognised in other comprehensive income. 
When these are sold or impaired the accumulated fair value adjustment recognised in other comprehensive income is included in the 
income statement.
• 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss includes residual equities purchased as part of a requisitioned trade on behalf of a client 
of the Financial Services sector and are held at their fair value until the opportunity arises to sell the equity as part of a new requisitioned 
trade by a client. They are classified as held-for-trading assets within trade and other receivables on the balance sheet. Financial assets 
carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement. 
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the 
Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. 
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset 
the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The 
legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event 
of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is 
impaired. Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.  Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 118
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Financial assets as per the balance sheet Note
Loans and
receivables
£m
Fair value
through
profit and
loss
£m
Available-
for-sale 
£m
Total
£m
31 December 2014
Available-for-sale financial assets 16 – – 2.6 2.6
Held-for-trading equity securities 17 – 1.0 – 1.0
Derivative cash flow hedge – 0.5 – 0.5
T rade and other receivables
1
 17 54.5 – – 54.5
Cash and cash equivalents 21 129.2 – – 129.2
Total 183.7 1.5 2.6 187 .8
31 December 2013
Available-for-sale financial assets 16 – – 3.4 3.4
Held-for-trading equity securities 17 – 1.0 – 1.0
Derivative cash flow hedge – 0.9 – 0.9
T rade and other receivables
1
 17 60.0 – – 60.0
Cash and cash equivalents 21 121.3 – – 121.3
T otal 181.3 1.9 3.4 186.6
1 T rade and other receivables includes current and non-current net trade receivables and other receivables.
Credit quality of financial assets
The credit quality of financial assets that are not impaired can be assessed by reference to external credit ratings (if available) or to historical 
information about counterparty default rates:
 2014  2013 
Trade receivables 
Counterparties with external credit rating (S&P)
A+ – –
A 0.8 6.9
BBB+ – –
0.8 6.9
Counterparties without external credit rating:
Group 1 8.0 12.8
Group 2 34.6 31.3
Group 3 3.6 4.4
46.2 48.5
T otal unimpaired trade receivables 47 .0 55.4
Cash at bank and short-term deposits 
AAA 4.9 26.1
AA- 17 .9 27.7
A+ 39.1 3.8
A 15.0 25.6
A- 20.4 6.1
BBB+ 26.0 28. 1
BBB 0.1 2.6
BBB- 4.0 1.3
None 1.8 –
 129.2 121.3
Group 1 – new customers/related parties (less than six months).
Group 2 – existing customers/related parties (more than six months) with no defaults in the past.
Group 3 – existing customers/related parties (more than six months) with some defaults in the past. All defaults were fully recovered.
None of the loans to related parties is past due but not impaired. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 119
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
(ii) Financial liabilities
The Group classifies its financial liabilities into either loans and payables held at amortised cost or at fair value through profit or loss. 
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial liabilities were acquired. The Group determines the classification of 
its financial liabilities at initial recognition: 
• 
Loans and payables held at amortised cost are non-derivative financial liabilities with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted 
in an active market. They are included in current liabilities, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date, 
which are classified as non-current liabilities. Loans and payables are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs, and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
• 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are revalued at the balance sheet date and any revaluation taken to the 
income statement.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation to pay cash has either been settled or has expired. 
Financial liabilities as per the balance sheet Note
Fair value
through
profit
and loss
£m
Amortised
cost 
£m
Total
£m
31 December 2014
T rade and other payables 18 – 49.3 49.3
Finance lease liabilities 20 – 0.5 0.5
Customer accounts – 34.5 34.5
Deferred consideration 19 – 3.9 3.9
Bank loans and revolving credit facility 20 – 115.0 115.0
Total – 203.2 203.2
31 December 2013
T rade and other payables 18 – 53.8 53.8
Finance lease liabilities 20 – 1.2 1.2
Customer accounts – 35.2 35.2
Deferred consideration 19 5.3 – 5.3
Put options to acquire non-controlling interests 19 15.3 – 15.3
T otal 20.6 90.2 110.8
(iii) Financial instruments at fair value
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined as follows:
• 
Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).
• 
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or 
indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2).
• 
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2014:
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
Assets
Held-for-trading equity securities 1.0 – – 1.0
Available-for-sale financial assets 2.6 – – 2.6
Derivative cash flow hedge – 0.5 – 0.5
T otal assets 3.6 0.5 – 4.1 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 120
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2013: 
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
Assets
Held-for-trading equity securities 1.0 – – 1.0
Available-for-sale financial assets 3.4 – – 3.4
Derivative cash flow hedge – 0.9 – 0.9
T otal assets 4.4 0.9 – 5.3
Liabilities
Put options to acquire non-controlling interests – – 15.3 15.3
Deferred consideration – – 5.3 5.3
Total liabilities – – 20.6 20.6
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. A market is 
regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer , broker , industry group, pricing service, or 
regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. The quoted 
market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price. These instruments are included in level 1.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. These valuation 
techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all 
significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2. If one or more of the significant 
inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. 
Level 3 financial instruments
Deferred consideration and put options are valued using an income approach based on expected future cash flows. The fair value of the 
deferred consideration could change based on the expected future performance of the business to which it relates.
The following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments for the year ended 31 December 2014:
Deferred consideration
 £m 
Put options to acquire
the non-controlling
interest in Enterprise
Partnerships
£m 
At 1 January 2014 5.3 15.3
Imputed Interest and fair value changes recognised in profit or loss 0.1 (0.6)
Exercise of put option in Xchanging Italy S.p.A by SIA – (4.0)
Exercise of put option in Fondsdepot Bank GmbH by Allianz Global Investors – (10.8)
Payment of deferred consideration (2.6) –
Reclassified and remeasured to amortised cost as the deferred contingent consideration 
became a fixed amount
(2.4) –
Exchange adjustments (0.4) 0.1
At 31 December 2014 – –
The following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments for the year ended 31 December 2013:
Deferred consideration
 £m 
Put options to acquire
the non-controlling
interest in Enterprise
Partnerships
£m 
At 1 January 2013 9.9 14.8
Change in fair value recognised in profit or loss (5.0) –
Imputed Interest and fair value changes recognised in profit or loss 0.4 (0.2)
Exchange adjustments recognised in other comprehensive income – 0.7
At 31 December 2013 5.3 15.3
Of the gain of £0.5 million (2013: loss of £0.2 million) recognised in profit or loss for the year , a gain of £0.6 million (2013: £0.2 million) 
is disclosed as imputed interest on put options to acquire non-controlling interest within finance costs (note 7).
See note 29 for disclosure of the measurement of the deferred consideration. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 121
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
25 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The international nature of the Group’s operations and their financing exposes it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign 
exchange risk, interest rate risk, and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the 
unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group may 
use derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures but the Group does not undertake any speculative trading in financial 
instruments.
The Group’s treasury function acts as a service centre and all treasury activity takes place within a formal control framework under policies 
that are approved by the Board. Compliance with key policies and exposure limits is monitored through regular reporting of treasury activities 
and reviews by internal audit. 
Market risk
Foreign exchange risk
The Group does not hedge foreign currency profit and loss translation exposures and the reported results may therefore be affected by 
currency fluctuations.
The Group is not generally subject to foreign exchange transaction exposure except in its Indian operations where revenues are generated in 
Sterling, US Dollars and Euros and the cost base is primarily in Indian Rupees. Under the Group’s foreign exchange risk management policy, 
exposures may be hedged with forward foreign exchange contracts when the underlying cash flows are deemed to be highly probable. At 
31 December 2014 the Group had forward FX contracts of £15.5 million, €3.2 million and US$11.7 million (2013: £13.3 million, €3.2 million 
and US$10.0 million) in place to mitigate foreign exchange volatility relative to the Indian Rupee on cash flows expected to arise during the 
period January 2015 to November 2015. 
Of these, £14. 1 million, €2.8 million and US$8.5 million (2013: £12.0 million, €2.8 million and US$7 .2 million) were designated as cash flow 
hedges of highly probable Sterling, Euro and US Dollar revenue. The cash flow hedges were assessed to be highly effective as at the 
year-end date and a net unrealised loss of £0.2 million (2013: £0.7 million net unrealised gain) was recognised in equity. 
The Group has assessed the impact resulting from a reasonably possible change of 10.0% in non-functional currency foreign exchange rate 
on non-functional currency financial instruments held within each Group entity. Such a movement does not present a material exposure to 
the Group’s balance sheet and income statement. Foreign exchange sensitivity on the Group’s assets other than financial instruments is not 
included in this assessment.
Interest rate risk
The Group reviews its interest rate exposure against acceptable risk profiles on a periodic basis and may enter into interest rate swap 
agreements in order to achieve an acceptable balance of fixed and floating rate interest exposure. At 31 December 2014 the Group did not 
hold any interest rate derivatives and all financial liabilities are subject to floating rate interest. 
The Group has used a sensitivity analysis technique that measures the estimated impact on the income statement and equity of a reasonably 
possible change in market interest rates of 25bps to 100bps for each class of financial instruments. With all other variables held constant, the 
Group has assessed that this reasonably possible change in market interest rates does not present a material exposure to the Group’s 
balance sheet and income statement.
Price risk
The Group holds a listed investment, classified as available-for-sale financial assets, which exposes the Group to equity price risk. A 5.0% 
increase or decrease in the market value of the Group’s available-for-sale financial asset would have a £0. 1 million impact on equity (2013: 
£0.2 million) and no impact on the income statement.
Credit risk
Credit risks arise from the possibility that customers may not be able to settle their obligations as agreed. T o manage this risk, the Group 
periodically assesses the financial reliability of customers, taking into account their financial position, past experience and other factors. 
Individual risk limits are set accordingly. Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s exposure 
to bad debts is not material. An analysis of all debts, which are past due, is included in note 17 . 
The Group’s treasury function only transacts with financial counterparties that have a strong investment grade rating from internationally 
recognised credit rating agencies and ensures that exposures do not exceed the Board approved limits for individual institutions.
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk is the fair value of any financial assets recognised on the balance sheet.
Liquidity risk
The Group holds cash and undrawn committed facilities at a level sufficient to ensure that the Group has available funds to meet its medium-
term capital and funding obligations. 
As at 31 December 2014, the Group had available cash of £128.6 million (2013: £121.3 million), after adjusting for £0.3 million of cash that is 
used to secure bank guarantees, and undrawn committed debt facilities of £49.2 million (2013: £58.3 million). Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 122
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
25 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractually agreed undiscounted cash flows:
Expiring
within
one year
£m
Expiring
later than
one year but
not more
than two
years
£m
Expiring
later than
two years
but not
more than
five years 
£m
Total
contractual
amount
£m
At 31 December 2014
T rade and other payables, excluding taxes, accruals and deferred income 49.3 – – 49.3
Finance lease liabilities including related finance cost 0.2 0.3 – 0.5
Customer accounts 34.5 – – 34.5
Deferred consideration 3.2 0.7 – 3.9
Bank loans and revolving credit facilities – – 115.0 115.0
Total financial liabilities 87.2 1.0 115.0 203.2
At 31 December 2013
T rade and other payables, excluding taxes, accruals and deferred income 53.8 – – 53.8
Finance lease liabilities including related finance cost 0.7 0.4 0.1 1.2
Customer accounts 35.2 – – 35.2
Deferred consideration 2.7 2.7 – 5.4
Put options to acquire non-controlling interest 15.3 – – 15.3
Total financial liabilities 107.7 3.1 0.1 110.9
Capital management 
The Group manages its capital so as to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to optimise returns to our shareholders. 
The following components of the Group’s balance sheet are considered to be managed capital;
• 
Shareholders’ funds attributable to owners of the parent
• 
Bank borrowings
• 
Cash in hand and at bank
The amount of debt in the Group’s capital structure is managed to ensure that the ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation, and amortisation remains below 2.5 times. 
The Group operates in a number of regulatory regimes. The retail investment account management business in Germany, Fondsdepot Bank, 
maintains a full banking licence and is regulated under the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (‘BaFin’). The holding of a full 
banking licence requires Fondsdepot Bank to maintain Risk and Compliance departments that ensure the German business comply with 
German banking laws, is appropriately capitalised, and maintain liquid assets in a pre-planned and controlled manner . Fondsdepot Bank was 
compliant with the regulatory capital requirements stipulated by BaFin during the year .
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair 
value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if 
so, the nature of the item being hedged. 
Cash flow hedge
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other 
comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss (for 
example, when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of forward contracts hedging 
foreign currency revenues is recognised in the income statement within ‘revenue’. 
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or 
loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income 
statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur , the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately 
transferred to the income statement. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 123
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
26 FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Leases
Rent costs and lease incentives are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
At 31 December , future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: 
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Within one year 6.8 8.4
Later than one year but not more than five years 18.0 19.0
Later than five years 24.1 23.3
48.9 50.7
The Group’s most significant leases are those of the premises in Basildon, London, Chatham, Melbourne, Chennai, Milan, Chicago, Paris, 
Gurgaon, Bangalore, Sydney and Hof. 
The lease expiry dates for the above locations are:
Basildon October 2029
London November 2028
Chatham October 2024
Gurgaon B November 2022
Melbourne June 2021
Chennai July 2020
Gurgaon A March 2019
Milan February 2019
Chicago August 2018
Paris August 2017
Bangalore August 2016
Sydney February 2016
Hof December 2015
Contingent liabilities
In the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to legal proceedings, claims, and litigation, and is currently a defendant in a claim 
alleging a breach of warranties in the US. In 2009, the Group acquired 75% of the Indian Company, Cambridge Solutions Limited (‘CSL ’) (now 
called Xchanging Solutions Limited). The claim in question relates to a contract that was awarded to an American subsidiary of CSL in 2006 
and was subsequently sold by that American subsidiary, prior to the acquisition of CSL by the Group. Based on the facts available to date and 
legal advice thereon, the Company believes it is not probable that the claim will be successful or that there will be a material adverse impact 
on the Group. Fact discovery and proceedings are ongoing in this matter .
The Group has given certain indemnities and warranties in the course of disposing and acquiring of businesses and has given guarantees for 
operational performance of its subsidiaries for contracts entered into in the ordinary course of trading. The Group does not believe that any 
liability in respect of these guarantees is likely to have a material effect on the Group’s financial position.
Bank guarantees
The Group has provided £2.7 million (2013: £19.2 million) of bank guarantees in respect of non-performance of obligations under contracts 
entered into in the ordinary course of business and leased property deposits. The guarantees are issued under separate guarantee facilities 
of which £0.3 million (2013: £0.2 million) are collateralised with cash from the operating business for which they are issued. 
In July the Group terminated a €20.0 million guarantee that had been issued in favour of Allianz Global Investors following the exercise of 
a put option.
Corporate guarantees
The Group has put in place guarantees covering contributions and deficit recovery payments to two of its pension schemes as part of 
agreements reached with each scheme’s trustees. The guarantee provided by Xchanging plc to the trustees of the Rebus pension scheme 
was increased from £15.0 million to £30.0 million following the valuation exercise that concluded in February 2014. 
The guarantee provided to the LPC scheme trustees decreases in line with deficit contributions paid to the scheme under the agreed 
Schedule of Contributions. The value of the LPC scheme guarantee was £6. 1 million as at 31 December 2014 (2013: £5.0 million). Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 124
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
27 PROVISIONS
Provisions are recognised when a present legal or constructive obligation exists as the result of a past event, it is probable that this will result 
in an outflow of resources and the amount of which can be reliably estimated. 
 Onerous
leases and
contracts
£m 
 Restructuring
£m 
 Litigation
provision
£m 
 Employee
related
provisions
£m 
 Other
£m 
Total
£m 
At 1 January 2014 1.5 4.2 4.6 4.2 2.0 16.5
Charged/(credited) to the income statement:
– Provided in the year 1.2 12.8 – 1.1 0.3 15.4
– Released in the year (0.3) (0.3) – – (0.7) (1.3)
Used in the year (0.8) (7.7) – (0.8) (0.8) (10. 1)
Exchange adjustments – (0. 1) (0.2) (0. 1) (0.2) (0.6)
At 31 December 2014 1.6 8.9 4.4 4.4 0.6 19.9
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: 
 2014
£m 
 2013
£m 
Current 18.0 14.0
Non-current 1.9 2.5
19.9 16.5
Onerous leases and contracts
The outstanding balance of £1.6 million relates to various contracts across the Group, and includes £0.6 million relating to the New South 
Wales Workers’ Compensation contract.
Restructuring
The Group continues to seek cost efficiencies and the Group restructuring programme that was undertaken in 2013 has continued in 2014, 
resulting in exceptional expenses of £10.3 million (2013: £6.2 million). An additional £2. 4 million was provided for restructuring costs 
relating to the New South Wales Workers’ Compensation contract. The majority of this is likely to be paid out in 2015. 
Litigation provision
The litigation provision relates to a number of on-going claims and potential exposures. The utilisation of the provision is dependent on the 
timing of the settlement of the underlying cases. The settlement is, to an extent, outside the Group’s control, and there is therefore an 
element of uncertainty regarding the timing of the provision’s utilisation. Estimates have been made of the expected cash outflows in relation 
to future and current litigation. This provision includes £3.0 million (2013: £3.0 million) relating to potential claims following the sale of the 
US BPO operations in 2011. For further details refer to note 26.
Employee-related provisions
The employee-related provision includes gratuity provisions (required by Indian law), long service provisions (required in Australia) and 
compensated absences. Long service awards and compensated absences are based on actuarial valuations, which are updated at each 
reporting date. The gratuity provisions as well as the early and part-time retirement provision both have an element of uncertainty 
surrounding their amount and timing of utilisation. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 125
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
28 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
The Group operates a number of pension plans for its qualifying employees. The principal plans are three defined benefit schemes in the 
UK and, presented together under the heading ‘Continental Europe’, one defined benefit scheme in Germany and one long-service 
obligation in Italy. The Group also participates in a number of multi-employer defined benefit schemes and operates a number of 
defined contribution schemes. 
UK schemes
In the UK, the defined benefit schemes are HMRC registered pension plans and subject to standard UK pensions and tax law. This means 
that the payment of contributions and benefits are subject to the appropriate tax treatments and restrictions and the plans are subject to the 
scheme funding requirements outlined in section 224 of the Pensions Act 2004. 
In accordance with UK trust and pensions law, the pension plans have appointed trustees who are independent of the Group. The trustees 
of these pension schemes are required by law to act in the best interests of the plans’ participants and are responsible for setting certain 
policies (e.g. investment, contribution and indexation policies) of the plans. The assets of each pension plan are held separately from those 
of the Group.
The Rebus Scheme
The Rebus Insurance Services Limited Final Salary Pension Scheme (2003) (the ‘Rebus Scheme’) provides benefits based on members’ 
average and final salaries. It was closed to future accrual, effective from 31 December 2013. The weighted average duration of the defined 
benefit obligation for the Rebus Scheme is approximately 24 years.
The most recent full triennial actuarial valuation of the Rebus Scheme was carried out as at 1 April 2013 by Capita, the scheme actuary, 
using the defined accrued benefit method. The final terms were agreed with the scheme’s trustees in February 2014. This resulted in an 
assessed funding deficit of £44.5 million, which was agreed to be recovered via payments of £3.0 million per annum for the period 1 April 
2014 to 30 November 2026, with payments increasing at 3% per annum.
The LPC Scheme
The London Processing Centre Ltd Retirement & Death Benefits Scheme (the ‘LPC Scheme’) provides benefits based on members’ final 
salaries. It was closed to future accural effective from 28 February 2015.
The most recent full triennial actuarial valuation of the LPC Scheme was carried out as at 1 July 2013 by LPC, the scheme actuary using 
the attained age method. This resulted in an assessed funding deficit of £7 .6 million, which was agreed to be recovered via payments of 
£0.6 million per annum for the period 1 October 2014 to 31 March 2022, with payments increasing at 3% per annum each 30 June.
Continental Europe
The Continental Europe schemes have historically been unfunded and as a result, pension liabilities were fully recognised on the balance 
sheet as a retirement benefit obligation with pension assets being integrated with the business assets. During 2014, a decision was made to 
explicitly fund for the German obligations and a contribution of £3.2 million was paid by Fondsdepot Bank. As a result, going forward, there 
will be a pension asset in respect of these obligations, with the net balance sheet asset/(liability) position being recognised.
Risks
The pension plans expose the Group to several key risks. The most significant of these include:
• 
Investment risk – the funded plans invest a proportion of assets in return-seeking assets. There is a risk that the higher returns targeted 
through such a strategy are not achieved in practice, therefore increasing the deficit and potentially requiring further contributions from the 
Group at the next funding valuations. There is also a risk that the investment strategy does not match the cashflows and liabilities of the 
scheme, or the risk of not being able to reinvest the assets at the assumed rates. These risks are managed by investing in assets which are 
expected to perform in excess of the liabilities over the long term, and also by investing in a suitably diversified portfolio of assets with the 
aim of minimising (as far as possible) volatility relative to the liabilities. The trustees of the plans review the investment strategy on a regular 
basis to minimise these risks.
• 
Yield risk – a fall in government bond yields will increase both the assets and liabilities of the funded plans, although this is likely to have a 
greater impact on the liabilities. Therefore a fall in government bond yields would be expected to increase the funding deficit in the plans, 
potentially requiring further contributions from the Group at the next funding valuations.
• 
Mortality risk – the assumptions adopted by the Group make allowance for future improvements in life expectancy. However , if life 
expectancy improves at a faster rate than assumed, this would result in greater payments from the plans and consequently increases in the 
liabilities. The Group and trustees of each plan review the mortality assumptions on a regular basis to minimise the risk of using an 
inappropriate assumption.
(i) Defined benefit schemes
The valuations used for the IAS 19 disclosures are based on the most recent actuarial valuations undertaken by independent qualified 
actuaries, updated to take account of the requirements of IAS19 in order to assess the funding position of the plans at 31 December each year . 
Plan assets are shown at the market value at 31 December each year . Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 126
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
28 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED
Financial assumptions
The assumptions used by the actuaries are chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the long-term nature of the 
schemes, may not necessarily be borne out in practice. These assumptions are as follows:
2014 2013
UK
%
Continental
Europe
%
UK
%
Continental
Europe
%
Discount rate 3.6 1.7 – 2.4 4.4 3.5
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.9 2.3 4.3 2.5
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.1 – 2.5 2.0
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.9 1.8 3.2 2.0
Mortality assumptions
The post-retirement mortality tables used for the schemes are based on country specific mortality tables which are summarised in the 
table below.
2014 2013
UK (Rebus and XDBS) S1PXA tables, CMI 2014 future projections with 
a 1% p.a. long-term trend rate
110% of the PNXA00 tables, CMI 2013 future 
projections with a 1% p.a. long-term trend rate
UK (LPC Scheme) S1NXA light tables +1 year , CMI 2014 future 
projections with a 1% p.a. long-term trend rate 
S1NXA tables +1 year , CMI 2013 future 
projections with a 1% p.a. long-term trend rate 
Continental Europe Heubeck Richtaffeln 2005G Richtaffeln 2005 G, Heubeck-Richtaffeln GmbH, 
Koln 2005 table
The table below illustrates life expectancy assumptions used:
2014 2013
UK (Rebus
and XDBS
schemes)
years
 UK (LPC
scheme)
years 
 Continental
Europe
years 
UK (Rebus
and XDBS
schemes)
years
 UK (LPC
scheme)
years 
 Continental
Europe
years 
Male 22. 1-23.3 22.7-23.9 23.0-33.0 22.2-23.6 22.7-24.0 18.9-21.6
Female 24.3-25.8 23.9-25.4 23.0-35.0 24.2-25.6 23.9-25.4 23.0-25.5
Sensitivity analysis
Impact on defined benefit obligation
Change in assumption UK Continental Europe
Discount rate +/- 0.5% -/+ £23.0m -/+ £1m
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries +/- 0.5% +/- £1.0m –
Rate of increase in deferred pensions +/- 0.5% +/- £2.5m –
Rate of increase in pensions in payment +/- 0.5% +/- £3.5m +/- £0.5m
Mortality (life expectancy) + 1 year + £6.0m + £0. 1m
These sensitivities are based on a change in one assumption while holding all other assumptions constant, so that interdependencies 
between the assumptions are excluded. In practice, this is not likely to occur , and changes in some of the assumptions may be linked. 
The methodology applied in order to calculate these sensitivities is consistent to that used to determine the recognised pension liability. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 127
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Amounts recognised in the financial statements in respect of the defined benefit pension schemes
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet is:
2014 2013
UK
£m
 Continental
Europe
£m
Total
£m
UK
£m
Continental 
Europe
£m
T otal
£m
Equities 45.7 – 45.7 41.2 – 41.2
Government bonds 29.6 – 29.6 24.2 – 24.2
Corporate bonds 35.3 – 35.3 29.8 – 29.8
Property 6.9 – 6.9 6.0 – 6.0
Cash 0.7 3.3 4.0 0.6 – 0.6
Absolute Return 12.9 – 12.9 11.0 – 11.0
Diversified Growth Funds 6.5 – 6.5 6.6 – 6.6
Derivative instruments – – – – – –
Insured assets 4.1 – 4.1 4.2 – 4.2
Fair value of plan assets 141.7 3.3 145.0 123.6 – 123.6
Present value of funded obligations (205. 1) (7 .3) (212.4) (169.4) (6.6) (176.0)
Net deficit recognised in the balance sheet (63.4) (4.0) (67.4) (45.8) (6.6) (52.4)
The fair value of plan assets at 31 December 2014 do not include any amounts in respect of a) Xchanging’s own financial instruments or 
b) any property occupied by, or other assets used by Xchanging. 
The assets and liabilities at 31 December 2014 for the UK include unquoted assets of £4. 1 million (2013: £4.2 million) in relation to pensioner 
members of the LPC Scheme who have insurance policies held in respect of their benefits. There are no further unquoted assets.
The primary reason for the year-on-year increase in the net pension deficit is the decrease in the discount rates used, in line with  
macro-economic trends. 
Analysis of the movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet is:
2014 2013
UK
£m
 Continental
Europe
£m
Total
£m
UK
£m
Continental 
Europe
£m
T otal
£m
Opening defined benefit obligation (169.4) (6.6) (176.0) (151.6) (80.4) (232.0)
Current service cost (1.4) (0. 1) (1.5) (2.2) (0.9) (3. 1)
Past service cost – – – (2.0) - (2.0)
Interest cost (7 .4) (0.2) (7 .6) (6.6) (1.9) (8.5)
Actuarial gains/(losses) arising from:
 changes in demographic assumptions 3.1 – 3.1 (1.6) – (1.6)
 changes in financial assumptions (28.9) (1. 1) (30.0) (8.3) 2.2 (6. 1)
 experience gains/(losses) (3.6) 0.3 (3.3) 0.4 0.6 1.0
Benefits paid 2.5 0.3 2.8 2.5 2.6 5.1
Acquisitions and disposals – – – – 73.2 73.2
Exchange adjustments – 0.1 0.1 – (2.0) (2.0)
Closing defined benefit obligation (205. 1) (7 .3) (212.4) (169.4) (6.6) (176.0) Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 128
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
28 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED
Analysis of the movement in the fair value of the plan assets
2014 2013
UK
£m
 Continental
Europe
£m
Total
£m
UK
£m
Continental
Europe
£m
T otal
£m
Opening fair value of assets 123.6 – 123.6 110.0 60.0 170.0
Interest income 5.5 – 5.5 4.9 1.4 6.3
Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 11.0 – 11.0 6.0 (3.9) 2.1
Administrative expenses (0.4) – (0.4) (0.4) – (0.4)
Employer contributions 4.5 3.3 7.8 5.6 1.8 7.4
Benefits paid (2.5) – (2.5) (2.5) – (2.5)
Acquisitions and disposals – – – – (60.8) (60.8)
Exchange adjustments – – – – 1.5 1.5
Present value at 31 December 141.7 3.3 145.0 123.6 – 123.6
Components of pension expense in the income statement
2014 2013
UK
£m
 Continental
Europe
£m
Total
£m
UK
£m
Continental 
Europe
£m
T otal
£m
Current service cost 1.4 0.1 1.5 2.2 0.9 3.1
Past service cost – – – 2.0 – 2.0
Administration expenses 0.4 – 0.4 0.4 – 0.4
Net interest on net defined benefit obligation 1.9 0.2 2.1 1.7 0.5 2.2
Acquisitions and disposals – – – – (12.4) (12.4)
T otal 3.7 0.3 4.0 6.3 (11.0) (4.7)
Included within:
– cost of sales (staff costs) 1.8 0.1 1.9 4.6 0.9 5.5
– other income (profit on sale of XTB) – – – – (12.4) (12.4)
– net finance costs 1.9 0.2 2.1 1.7 0.5 2.2
3.7 0.3 4.0 6.3 (11.0) (4.7)
Remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income
2014 2013
UK
£m
 Continental
Europe
£m
Total
£m
UK
£m
Continental 
Europe
£m
T otal
£m
Actuarial gain/(loss) arising from changes in demographic assumptions 3.1 – 3.1 (1.6) – (1.6)
Actuarial gain/(loss) arising from changes in financial assumptions (28.9) (1. 1) (30.0) (8. 1) 2.1 (6.0)
Actuarial gain/(loss) arising from experience on the scheme’s liabilities (3.6) 0.3 (3.3) 0.4 0.6 1.0
Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 11.0 – 11.0 6.0 (3.9) 2.1
T otal remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income (18.4) (0.8) (19.2) (3.3) (1.2) (4.5)
(ii) Xchanging Group defined contribution schemes
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution schemes for the employees of various subsidiary companies of Xchanging plc. 
Pension costs for the Group that were charged to the income statement for the year relating to current year contributions were £6.9 million 
(2013: £5.2 million).
29 ACQUISITIONS 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition accounting method, from the date at which control passes to the Group. The 
consideration transferred for the acquisition of a business is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owner 
of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability 
resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration are recognised 
in profit and loss for the year . Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are 
measured initially at their fair values at acquisition date.  Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 129
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
(i) Agencyport Europe
*
On 4 July 2014 Xchanging Holdings UK Ltd and Xchanging Inc, wholly-owned subsidiaries, acquired 100% of the share capital of all of the 
European operations of Agencyport Europe. Agencyport Europe provides software to the property & casualty and health insurance markets. 
It is complementary to Xuber’s insurance software, a core product for Xchanging, extending its product range, notably with risk exposure 
modelling, and providing access to the fast growing health insurance sector .
The total consideration for the acquisition was £64. 1 million in cash. Agencyport Europe contributed revenue of £10.5 million and statutory profit 
before tax of £0.2 million to the Group for the period from acquisition to 31 December 2014. If the acquisition date had been 1 January 2014, 
Agencyport Europe would have contributed revenue of £20.5 million and profit before tax of £5.9 million to the Group if it had continued to be 
accounted for under UK GAAP . The results of Agencyport Europe have been consolidated by the Group from the point of acquisition.
The fair values of significant assets and liabilities acquired are set out below:
Fair value
£m
Intangible asset – customer contracts and brand 33.2
Intangible asset – software 12.5
T rade and other receivables 7 .1
Cash and cash equivalents 1.0
T rade and other payables (12.4)
Deferred income tax assets 1.0
Deferred income tax liabilities (9.6)
Net assets acquired 32.8
Estimates and judgement were applied in determining the fair values of customer contracts and brand of £33.2 million, and software assets 
of £12.5 million. The fair values were estimated by applying the income approach to estimates of future cash flows. The adjustment to 
deferred tax liabilities relates to the fair value adjustments for intangible assets. Goodwill represents the value of potential future sales, 
(including the ability to cross sell Agencyport Europe’s products to existing customers), and the reduced costs of the combined Agencyport 
Europe/Xchanging Business.
Details of net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows:
£m
Fair value of purchase consideration 64.1
– Cash on acquisition (1.0)
T otal fair value of purchase consideration 63. 1
Less: Fair value of net assets acquired (excluding cash and cash equivalents) (31.8)
Goodwill 31.3
On 30 September 2014 the Competition and Markets Authority (‘CMA’) announced that it was to conduct a review process of the acquisition 
of Agencyport Europe to confirm that there had been no substantial lessening of competition in the market. On 8 December 2014 the CMA 
announced that it had decided to refer the acquisition of Agencyport Europe for a Phase 2 review. The process is expected to take up to 24 
weeks, with an announcement to be made by 24 May 2015 at the latest. In accordance with IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated financial statements’, 
Agencyport Europe has been consolidated within the Group’s results since the acquisition date, on the basis that the Group continues to own 
Agencyport Europe and has the potential to receive variable returns at the end of the CMA process, although the Group is restricted in 
integrating the business. There has been no change in the accounting treatment since the CMA announcement.
(ii) T otal Objects
On 18 December 2014 Xchanging Holdings UK Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary, acquired 100% of the share capital of T otal Objects Ltd (‘T otal 
Objects’). T otal Objects provides the London and global markets with (re)insurance software that fully automates the insurance life-cycle. The 
acquisition will enable Xchanging to realise product development synergies in the Binder market by combining its Binder360 offering with 
the T otal Objects BinderCloud software offering. These synergies are represented in the value of goodwill recognised.
The total maximum consideration payable for the acquisition is £21.0 million. Of this, £11.5 million was paid on signing the agreement. 
A further undiscounted amount of £9.5 million is payable, of which £1.5 million is deferred and £8.0 million is payable based on the entity 
hitting performance targets such as EBITDA and recurring revenue percentages in 2015 and 2016. IFRS 3 Business Combinations requires 
contingent payment to be recognised as post-acquisition related expenses if they are conditional on the employee staying with the business, 
and therefore are not included in the purchase price. Instead they will be recognised in the income statement over the service period as 
post-acquisition expenses.
The results of T otal Objects have not been consolidated for the period from acquisition to 31 December 2014, due to materiality. If the 
acquisition date had been 1 January 2014, T otal Objects would have contributed revenue of £8. 1 million and profit before tax of £0.8 million to 
the Group if it had continued to be accounted for under UK GAAP .
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 above Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 130
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
29 ACQUISITIONS CONTINUED
The fair values of significant assets and liabilities acquired are set out below: 
Fair value
£m
Intangible asset – customer contracts 3.8
Intangible asset – software 2.5
T rade and other receivables 2.0
Cash and cash equivalents 2.3
T rade and other payables (3.4)
Deferred income tax liabilities (1.3)
Net assets acquired 5.9
Estimates and judgement were applied in determining the fair values of customer contracts of £3.8 million and software assets of £2.5 
million. The fair values were estimated by applying the income approach to estimates of future cash flows. The adjustment to deferred tax 
liabilities relates to the fair value adjustments for intangible assets. 
Details of net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows:
£m
Fair value of purchase consideration 13.0
– Cash on acquisition (2.3)
T otal fair value of purchase consideration 10.7
Less: Fair value of net assets acquired (excluding cash and cash equivalents) (3.6)
Goodwill 7 .1
(iii) MM4
No changes were made to the prior year accounting for the acquisition of MM4. During the year the amount payable to the sellers of MM4 
in respect of the acquisition earn-out mechanism was renegotiated as a result of the integration of MM4 into the Procurement business. 
The changes were to the timing of payments and the performance targets. There was no change in the total contingent amount payable. 
The amount accrued for in trade and other payables as at 31 December 2014 is £2.7 million.
(iv) Acquisition-related expenses
The Group incurred the following acquisition-related expenses during the year:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Legal fees
1
1.7 0.2
Stamp duty 0.4 –
Other professional and advisers’ fees 0.3 0.1
Agencyport Europe
*
 integration costs
2
0.4 –
Agencyport Europe
*
 Management Payout 0.5 –
Expensed as part of the total amount payable to the sellers of MM4 in respect of the acquisition earn-out mechanism 2.7 –
Total acquisition-related expenses 6.0 0.3
Included within:
– Gross profit 3.8 –
– Administrative expenses 2.2 0.3
6.0 0.3
1 Legal fees include expenses incurred in relation to the CMA review process in relation to the acquisition of Agencyport Europe
*
 and T otal Objects.
2 Agencyport Europe
*
 integration costs only include those costs incurred up to 29 September 2014. No integration activity occurred after the CMA announcement of its review process into the acquisition 
of Agencyport Europe. 
30 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The following companies are considered to be related parties of the Group as they hold non-controlling shareholdings in a number of the 
subsidiaries of the Group or is a joint venture of the Group:
• 
The Corporation of Lloyd’s hold a 25.0% interest in Ins-sure Holdings Limited and a 50.0% interest in Xchanging Claims Services Limited 
for the full year ended 31 December 2014. Some of the directors of Xchanging Claims Services Limited are employees of the Corporation 
of Lloyd’s. The emoluments of these directors were borne by the Corporation of Lloyd’s; 
• 
The International Underwriting Association held a 25.0% interest in Ins-sure Holdings Limited for the full year ended 31 December 2014;
• 
Xchanging Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. is the Group’s joint venture with YTL Communications.
Allianz Global Investors Europe GmbH (‘AllianzGI’) held a 49.0% interest in Fondsdepot Bank at the start of the year . On 30 July 2014 
AllianzGI exercised their put option over the 49% interest, and is from that day no longer considered a related party. T otal sales in the period 
ending 30 July 2014 were £3.8 million (31 December 2013: £10.0 million). T otal purchases in the period ending 30 July 2014 were £nil 
(31 December 2013: £0. 1 million). All purchases and sales with AllianzGI were for securities processing services.
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 131
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
A description of the nature of the services provided to/from these companies by/to the Group and the amount receivable/(payable) in 
respect of each at 31 December , are set out in the table below:
Sales/(purchases)
Y ear end receivables/
(payables)
Services provided by/to the Group
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Securities processing services
1
3.8 67 .9 – –
Processing, expert and data services 1.9 3.0 0.2 0.5
IT costs, premises, divisional corporate charges and other services in support of operating activities
1
0.2 (12.9) 0.2 0.1
Operating systems, development, premises and other services in support of operating activities (0. 1) – – –
Consortium relief – 0.1 – –
Other – 0.1 (0.4) (0.4)
1 The decrease in sales and purchases from 2013 to 2014 is driven by the sale of the Group’s shareholding in Xchanging etb GmbH (‘Xetb’) and its wholly owned subsidiary, Xchanging T ransaction Bank GmbH, 
on 1 September 2013. 
No provisions (2013: £nil) have been recognised against receivables from companies that are related parties. 
T ransactions with Directors and key management
The compensation disclosure below relates to the Company Directors and key senior managers within the Group, who constitute the people 
having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the Group’s activities. For the years ended 31 December 2013 and 
2014, the key senior managers within the Group are deemed to be the Executive Board members.
Key management compensation (including Directors)
2014
£m
2013
£m
Short-term employee benefits 4.6 4.5
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1
Share-based payments 1.7 1.6
T ermination benefits 0.1 0.6
T otal 6.5 6.8
Further information regarding Company Directors’ remuneration is disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 74. 
The total gain made by Directors during the year from the exercise of share options was £0.2 million (2013: £0.2 million).
No balances are outstanding from current Directors and key management personnel.
During the year two key management personnel received compensation for loss of office. 
31 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT PLANS
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in 
exchange for the grant of an equity-settled transaction, for example options, is recognised as an expense over the periods in which the 
performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the vesting date of the award. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is 
determined by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted. Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions 
about the number of options that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options 
that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding 
adjustment to equity.
Awards, where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is 
satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
When the options are exercised, the Company issues new shares. However , for deferred bonus share plans, the awards must be satisfied by 
purchasing shares on the open market. The proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital 
(nominal value) and share premium when the options are exercised.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a 
capital contribution. The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised in the 
Company financial statements over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit 
to equity.
(i) Share options
Share options have not been granted since March 2011. Options were granted with an exercise price that was fixed at the date of grant. The 
contractual life of an option is 10 years. Awards were granted to Directors and employees on a merit basis, and were subject to continuous 
employment. Options granted become exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of grant, and were valued using the Black-Scholes 
pricing model. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the options in cash. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 132
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
31 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT PLANS CONTINUED
The number of shares subject to options, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be exercised are outlined 
in the table below.
Balance at
1 January
2014
Exercised
in year
Lapsed/
forfeited
in year
No. of options
outstanding at 
31 December
2014
Exercise 
price per 
share Exercise period
2004 Approved* 37 ,950 (37 ,950) – – £0.94 Apr-07 – Apr-14
2006 Approved* 32,000 – – 32,000 £0.93 Apr-09 – Apr-16
2006 Unapproved* 168,000 – – 168,000 £0.93 Apr-09 – Apr-16
2007 Approved* 96, 188 (57 ,416) – 38,772 £1.33 Feb-10 – Feb-17
2007 Unapproved* 431,812 (337 ,092) – 94,720 £1.33 Feb-10 – Feb-17
2007 Unapproved* – – – – £2.77 Dec-10 – Dec-17
2008 Unapproved* – – – – £2.77 Mar-11 – Mar-18
2011 Approved* 586,404 (403,860) (147 ,544) 35,000 £0.77 Mar-14 – Mar-21
2011 Unapproved* 908,596 (873,596) – 35,000 £0.77 Mar-14 – Mar-21
Total 2014 2,260,950 (1,709,914) (147 ,544) 403,492
WAEP ** 0.86 0.85 0.77 1.02
WAEP *** 0.95 0.93 – 1.22
T otal 2013 3,320,950 (600,000) (460,000) 2,260,950
WAEP ** 0.86 – – 0.86
WAEP*** 1.05 0.83 1.65 0.95
* These options have fully vested
** Approved shares weighted average exercise price (£)
*** Unapproved shares weighted average exercise price (£)
At the end of the year , 403, 492 options were exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of £1.22 (2013: £1.21). During the year , 1,709,914 
share options (2013: 600,000) were exercised. 
The options outstanding at 31 December 2014 have an exercise price in the range of £0.77 to £1.33 and a weighted average contractual life 
of 2.50 years. At 31 December 2014, the Company’s share price was £1.56 (2013: £1.53).
No share options were granted during the year . 
The total income statement impact for the year relating to employee share-based payments under the share option plans, excluding 
social security charges, was an expense of £0. 1 million (2013: expense of £0.2 million), all of which related to equity-settled share-based 
payment transactions. 
(ii) Performance Share Plan 
Awards have been granted under the Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) to Executive Directors and certain members of the Group’s 
management group. Under the terms of the scheme, two types of awards are granted: conditional awards, which will vest at the end of a 
three year performance period; and non-conditional awards. In both cases, awards are granted to Directors and employees on a merit basis, 
and are subject to continuous employment over the length of the vesting period. Awards granted vest three years from the date of the award. 
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the awards in cash.
The awards are split into a basic award and stretch award. Vesting of each award is dependent upon the performance of the Company’s 
absolute total shareholder return (‘TSR’) and either return on invested capital (‘ROIC’) or economic profit (‘EP’).
Award Metric
Performance 
Period
% of
award
Basic award
target
Stretch award
targets
2012 Average ROIC 1 January 2012 – 33% 19%-25% 25%-27%
Absolute TSR 31 December 2014 67% 12.5%-22.5% 22.5%-27 .5%
2013 Average annual growth in EP 1 January 2013 – 33% 0%-15% 15%-25%
Absolute TSR 31 December 2015 67% 10%-16.7% 16.7%-20%
2014 Average annual growth in EP 1 January 2014 – 33% 0%-15% 15%-25%
Absolute TSR 31 December 2016 67% 10%-16.7% 16.7%-20%
Conditional awards are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The three year historical volatility for each company in the comparator 
group at grant date has been analysed and this historical volatility has been used in the model to project TSR for each company. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 133
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
The share awards granted and the assumptions used as inputs into the fair valuation model are as follows:
PSP 2014 2013
Expected dividends expressed as dividend yield (%) 1.67 0.72
Possibility of ceasing employment before vesting (%) 10 10
Risk free interest rate (%) 0.73 0.46
Weighted average share price at grant date (£) 1.66 1.39
Weighted average fair value at grant date (£) 0.56-1.81 0.55-1.39
Expected volatility 30%-31% 49%
Grant
Balance at 
1 January 2014 Granted in year Vested in year Lapsed in year
No. of PSP 
awards 
outstanding at 
31 December 
2014 
2011 April 2, 119,037 – (1,702,280) (416,757) –
2011 June 424,035 – (194,805) (229,230) –
2012 March 3,389,878 – – (498,571) 2,891,307
2012 April 526,315 – – (80, 173) 446, 142
2012 August 489,918 – – (64,436) 425,482
2013 May 3,235,590 – (14,089) (469,863) 2,751,638
2014 May – 2,402,577 – (199,922) 2,202,655
2014 August – 361,466 – – 361,466
Total 2014 10, 184,773 2,764,043  (1,911, 174) (1,958,952) 9,078,690
Total 2013 10,017 ,886 3,235,590 (921,038) (2, 147 ,665) 10, 184,773
Of the 9,078,690 PSP awards outstanding at 31 December 2014 (2013: 10, 184,773), 917 ,808 (2013: 1,625, 154) are non-conditional 
awards, which will vest only upon continuous employment over the length of the vesting period. These awards do not have a TSR 
performance condition.
The total charge for the year relating to the PSP was £2. 1 million (2013: £2.6 million).
(iii) Share awards
In December 2012, two share awards of 42,643 ordinary shares each in the Company, vesting in December 2013 and 2014 respectively, were 
granted to the newly appointed Executive Director for Insurance Services. The awards are subject to continuous employment within the 
Company, up to December 2013 for the first award, and December 2014 for the second award. At 31 December 2014 all share awards had 
vested and been exercised. There are no share awards outstanding.
The total charge for the year relating to the share awards, excluding social security charges on the awards, was £nil million (2013: 
£0. 1 million).
(iv) Deferred Share Bonus Plan
Options were granted to the Executive Directors and certain employees within the Group’s management under the 2012 Deferred Bonus 
Share Plan and 2013 Deferred Bonus Share Plan as part of their performance bonus. Under the plan, a third of the performance bonus was 
granted as options. These have a three year vesting period, in which they are required to continue their employment within the Group. The 
remainder of the bonus (two thirds) was paid out in cash. At the end of the three year period, options vest and can be exercised for £nil 
consideration. The Company has the choice to settle the options in cash or purchase shares on the open market. The contractual life of the 
options is eight years from grant date.
Grant
Balance at 
1 January 2014 Granted in year Vested in year Lapsed in year
No. of PSP 
awards 
outstanding at 
31 December 
2014 
2012 April 71,980 – – – 71,980
2013 May 812,058 – (145,931) (59,753) 606,374
2014 April – 548,615 (4,682) (6,860) 537 ,073
Total 2014 884,038 548,615 (150,613) (66,613) 1,215,427
Total 2013 71,980 866,281 – (54,223) 884,038
For 2014, a charge of £0.5 million (2013: £0.3 million) was included in the share-based payment charge. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 134
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
32 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Ordinary shares and share premium
Number of
shares
Ordinary
 shares
£m
Share
 premium
£m
Allotted and fully paid  
At 1 January 2013 240,310,919 12.0 108.6
Exercise of share options and share awards 1,521,038 0.1 1.9
At 31 December 2013 241,831,957 12. 1 110.5
Exercise of PSP awards, share options and share awards 2,450,992 0.1 0.5
At 31 December 2014 244,282,949 12.2 111.0
The balance classed as ordinary shares is the nominal proceeds on issue of the Company’s equity share capital, comprising 5 pence ordinary 
shares. The company has 350,000,000 authorised ordinary shares as at 31 December 2014 (2013: 350,000,000). All Company ordinary 
shares carry equal share rights.
During the year , 1,911, 174 PSP awards, 1,709,914 share options and 193,257 share awards were exercised (2013: 921,038 PSP awards, 600,000 
share options and nil share awards).
During the year the Company acquired 133,394 of its own shares through purchases on the London Stock Exchange. The shares were 
immediately used to satisfy share awards. The Company also repurchased 1,265,000 newly issued shares from employees exercising share 
options. The shares were later used to satisfy share awards. 
Share capital comprises the nominal value of all issued shares and classified as equity. On subscribing for shares, any excess consideration 
over the nominal value of the shares issued less any issue costs is credited to the share premium account.
Where the employee benefit trust purchases the company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any 
directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from equity attributable to the company’s equity holders.
Share premium
The amount paid to the Company by shareholders over and above the nominal value of the shares issued to them, less the direct costs of 
issuing the shares, is classified as share premium.
Other reserves
Merger 
reserve
£m
Reverse
acquisition
reserve
£m
Available-
for-sale
reserve
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 409.7 (312.2) 2.5 13.0 (0.5) (32.7) 79.8
Revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets  
(net of non-controlling interest share)
– – 0.1 – – – 0.1
Tax on revaluation of available-for-sale financial asset  
(net of non-controlling interest share)
– – 0.1 – – – 0.1
Fair value movements on hedging instruments – – – – 1.2 – 1.2
Fair value movements on hedging instruments recycled  
to the profit and loss 
– – – – (0.4) – (0.4)
Currency translation differences  
(net of non-controlling interest share)
– – – (9.3) – – (9.3)
Items recycled to profit on disposal of subsidiary – – (0.6) (0.2) – – (0.8)
Items recycled to retained earnings on disposal of subsidiary – – – – – 0.7 0.7
Actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations  
(net of non-controlling interest share)
– – – – – (5.2) (5.2)
Tax on retirement benefit obligations  
(net of non-controlling interest share)
– – – – – 1.5 1.5
At 31 December 2013 409.7 (312.2) 2.1 3.5 0.3 (35.7) 67.7
Revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets  
(net of non-controlling interest share)
– – (0.8) – – – (0.8)
Fair value movements on hedging instruments recycled  
to the profit and loss 
– – – – (0.6) – (0.6)
Currency translation differences  
(net of non-controlling interest share)
– – – 0.4 – – 0.4
T ransaction with non-controlling interest – – – – – (3.5) (3.5)
Actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations  
(net of non-controlling interest share)
– – – – – (17 .5) (17 .5)
Tax on retirement benefit obligations  
(net of non-controlling interest share)
– – – – – 3.9 3.9
At 31 December 2014 409.7 (312.2) 1.3 3.9 (0.3) (52.8) 49.6 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 135
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Merger reserve and reverse acquisition reserve
The merger and reverse acquisition reserves arise because of the share for share exchange undertaken in advance of the initial public 
offering. The merger reserve comprises the excess of the market value of the Company shares issued to the Xchanging BV shareholders over 
the nominal value of those shares and arises because of the application of merger relief under Section 131 of the Companies Act 2006. 
The reverse acquisition reserve consists of the difference between the market value of the Company shares issued to the Xchanging BV 
shareholders and the total share capital and share premium of the Xchanging BV shares.
Available-for-sale reserve
The available-for-sale reserve comprises the fair value adjustments and related tax on the available-for-sale financial assets held by 
the Group.
T ranslation reserve
The translation reserve comprises the exchange adjustments arising from translating the results of foreign operations into the Group’s 
presentation currency of Sterling. 
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises amounts recognised in equity in respect of cash flow hedges in place to mitigate foreign exchange volatility 
in the Group’s Indian operations.
Other reserves
The other reserves comprise the amounts recognised in equity in respect of retirement benefit obligations, transactions with non-controlling 
interests and differences in share price between the date of issue, and the date of control passing in respect of acquisitions.
Retained earnings
These represent the accumulation of the Group’s net profits retained within the business, after the payment of any dividends.
£m
At 1 January 2013 (22.7)
Profit for the year 52.4
Dividends paid relating to 2012 (2.4)
Employee share-based payments charges including tax 4.1
Shares issued in respect of share-based payments (1.5)
Pension reserve recycled on disposal of subsidiary (0.7)
At 31 December 2013 29.2
Profit for the year 16. 1
Dividends paid relating to 2013 (6. 1)
Employee share-based payments charges including movement in deferred tax 2.5
Shares issued in respect of share-based payments 1.1
Purchase of own shares (2.4)
Subscription for shares by Employee Benefit T rust (0.3)
T ransaction with non-controlling interest 3.7
At 31 December 2014 43.8 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 136
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
32 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY CONTINUED
Non-controlling interest in equity
These represent the non-controlling interests’ share in the assets and liabilities of the Enterprise Partnerships and Xchanging Solutions 
Limited (‘XSL ’) in which the Group had a 75.0% (2013: 75.0%) interest as at 31 December 2014. Non-controlling interest calculations for the 
Group’s Enterprise Partnerships are dependent upon the individual contractual terms. Some define adjustments in relation to certain items 
prior to calculating profit share based on the percentage share ownerships. These may include, for example, adjustments for differences 
between local and international accounting standards, adjustments for any discounts or fees payable between parties. Changes in ownership 
that do not result in a change of control are account for as equity transactions and do not effect goodwill.
2014
£m
2013
£m
At 1 January 22.6 22.3
Non-controlling interest’s share of adjusted profit for the year 14.6 13.0
Non-controlling interest’s share of adjustments to adjusted (1.3) –
Non-controlling interest’s share of profit for the year 13.3 13.0
Non-controlling interest’s share of revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets – (0.2)
Non-controlling interest’s share of tax on items that will be reclassified – 0.1
Non-controlling interest’s share of currency translation differences 0.4 (3.8)
Non-controlling interest’s share of actuarial gains and losses (1.9) 0.7
Non-controlling interest’s share of deferred tax on retirement benefit obligations movements 0.4 (0. 1)
Recycled to profit on disposal of subsidiary – (0.7)
Non-controlling interest’s share of other comprehensive income (1. 1) (4.0)
T ransaction with non-controlling interest (0.2) –
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (11.2) (8.7)
Non-controlling interest’s share of items recognised directly to equity (11.4) (8.7)
At 31 December 23.4 22.6
Xchanging Italy
On 24 January 2014 SIA S.p.A. exercised their put option over their 1.3% holding in Xchanging Italy S.p.A., with the Group now owning 100% 
of the share capital of Xchanging Italy S.p.A. The total consideration paid was £4.0 million (€4.8 million). There is no change in the 
accounting treatment, as Xchanging Italy S.p.A. was already fully consolidated within the results of the Group.
Fondsdepot Bank
On 30 July 2014 Allianz Global Investors Europe GmbH (‘AllianzGI’) exercised their put option on their 49% holding in Fondsdepot Bank 
GmbH (‘FdB’), with the result the Group now owning 100% of the share capital of FdB. The total consideration paid was £10.8 million 
(€13.6 million). There is no change in the accounting treatment, as FdB was already fully consolidated within the results of the Group.
33 EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE
On 10 February 2015 Xchanging announced that it had agreed to acquire 100% of the spend analytics company Spikes Cavell Analytic 
Limited (‘Spikes Cavell’), a company that provides spend analytics technology and services to public sector institutions in the UK and higher 
education authorities in the USA. The total potential cash consideration is US$11.5 million (£7 . 4 million), comprising US$6.8 million (£4.3 
million) of cash consideration paid on completion and US$4.7 million (£3. 1 million) of deferred contingent consideration payable in 2016 and 
2017 , subject to performance against certain operating targets. The Acquisition is subject to certain customary closing conditions and is 
expected to complete by the end of February 2015. The most recent unaudited financial statements of Spikes Cavell, which were prepared 
under UK GAAP , are for the year ending 31 March 2014. Spikes Cavell earned revenue of £1. 1 million in the year ending 31 March 2014, and 
had net assets of £0.7 million. In accordance with IFRS 3, ‘Business combinations’, the required disclosures have not been made as there has 
been insufficient time to prepare the disclosures between the completion date and the financial statements being authorised for issue.
On 10 February 2015 the London Processing Centre Ltd Retirement & Death Benefits Scheme (the ‘LPC Scheme’), that provides benefits 
based on members’ final salaries, was closed to future accrual, effective from 28 February 2015. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 137
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Company Number: 05819018
Note
2014
£m
2013
£m
Fixed assets
Investments 4 82.0 80. 1
82.0 80. 1
Current assets
Debtors 5 266. 1 265.0
266. 1 265.0
Current liabilities
Bank overdraft (14.5) (14.4)
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 (61.7) (55.9)
Net current assets 189.9 194.7
Total assets less current liabilities 271.9 274.8
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 9 (0.3) (0.2)
Net assets 271.6 274.6
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 10 12.2 12. 1
Share premium account 11 111.0 110.5
Other reserves 11 5.7 7.8
Profit and loss account 11 142.7 144.2
Total shareholders’ funds 12 271.6 274.6
This financial statement on page 137 was approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
DAVID BAUERNFEIND  KENNETH LEVER 
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Company balance sheet  
as at 31 December 2014 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 138
Notes to the Company financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2014
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and 
applicable Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom. A summary of the more important Company accounting policies, which have 
been applied consistently, is set out below.
No profit and loss account has been presented by the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. 
(i) Going concern
The Directors believe that preparing the financial statements on the going concern basis is appropriate based on projections for the 
foreseeable future, being a period of at least 12 months from the date of the approval of these financial statements.
(ii) Fixed asset investments
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment. Impairment reviews are conducted at the end of the first full 
year following acquisition and thereafter where indicators of impairment are present. As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, cost is the 
aggregate of the nominal value of the relevant number of the Company’s shares and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire 
the share capital of the subsidiary undertakings.
(iii) Financial assets and liabilities
The accounting policy for the Company for financial instruments is the same as that shown in the Group accounting policies. This policy is in 
accordance with IFRS 26, ‘Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement’.
(iv) Dividends
Dividends receivable from the Company’s investments in subsidiary undertakings are recognised when the Company’s right to receive 
payment is established.
Dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in 
which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
(v) Share-based payments
The Company operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in 
exchange for the grant of an equity-settled transaction is recognised as an expense over the periods in which the performance conditions are 
fulfilled, ending on the vesting date of the award. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the 
fair value of the equity instruments granted. Non-market vesting conditions are reflected in assumptions about the number of options that 
are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest. It 
recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the profit and loss account, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. 
Awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is 
satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied. 
Equity-settled share-based compensation plans that are made available to employees of the Company’s subsidiaries are treated as increases 
in equity over the vesting period of the award, with a corresponding increase in the Company’s investments in subsidiaries, based on an 
estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium 
when the options are exercised. 
(vi) Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available in FRS 8, ‘Related party disclosures’, not to disclose transactions with its 
wholly owned subsidiary undertakings. There are no other external related parties. 
(vii) Cash flow statement
The Company is included in the consolidated financial statements of Xchanging plc, which are publicly available. Consequently, the 
Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of the Financial Reporting Standard 1 
(revised 1996).
2 DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS
Disclosure of the Directors’ remuneration is contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 74 and in note 30 of the Group financial 
statements.
3 AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
The audit fees payable in relation to the audit of the financial statements of the Company are £0.2 million (2013: £0.2 million). Fees paid to 
the auditors and their associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the individual financial statements of the 
Company, because Group financial statements are prepared, which disclose such fees on a consolidated basis. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 139
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
4 INVESTMENTS
2014
£m
At 1 January 2013 77 .5
Increase in investments in subsidiaries – share-based payments 2.6
At 31 December 2013 80. 1
Increase in investments in subsidiaries – share-based payments 1.9
At 31 December 2014 82.0
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
Name
Country of incorporation/
Principal place of business Principal activity
Effective interest
and proportion
of equity held
Ins-sure Services Limited England and Wales Business Processing Services 50%
London Processing Centre Limited England and Wales Business Processing Services 50%
LPSO Limited England and Wales Business Processing Services 50%
Xchanging Claims Services Limited England and Wales Business Processing Services 50%
LCO Non-Marine and Aviation Limited England and Wales Business Processing Services 50%
LCO Marine Limited England and Wales Business Processing Services 50%
Xchanging Broking Services Limited England and Wales Business Processing Services 100%
Xchanging Integrated Services Victoria Pty Limited Australia Business Processing Services 100%
Xchanging Integrated Services Australia Pty Limited Australia Business Processing Services 100%
Fondsdepot Bank GmbH Germany Business Processing Services 100%
Xchanging Italy S.p.A. Italy Business Processing Services 100%
Xchanging Global Insurance Solutions Limited England and Wales T echnology 100%
Data Integration Limited England and Wales T echnology 100%
Xchanging Asia Pacific Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia T echnology 100%
Xchanging T echnology Services India Private Limited India T echnology 100%
Xchanging Systems & Services Inc. USA T echnology 100%
Xchanging Solutions Limited India T echnology 75%
Xchanging Solutions (USA), Inc. USA T echnology 75%
Xchanging Solutions (Europe) Limited England and Wales T echnology 75%
Xchanging Solutions (Singapore) Pte Limited Singapore T echnology 75%
Agencyport Software Europe Limited
*
England and Wales T echnology 100%
T otal Objects Limited England and Wales T echnology 100%
Xchanging Procurement Services Limited England and Wales Procurement 100%
Xchanging Services Inc. USA Procurement 100%
SBB Services Inc. (trading as MM4) USA Procurement 100%
Ferguson Snell and Associates Limited England and Wales Procurement 93.9%
Xchanging Procurement Services Europe SAS France Procurement 100%
Xchanging Holdings Limited
1
England and Wales Holding company 100%
Xchanging BV The Netherlands Holding company 100%
Xchanging UK Limited England and Wales Management services to Group companies 100%
Xchanging US Funding Limited England and Wales Financing company 100%
Xchanging Finance (Luxembourg) SARL Luxembourg Financing company 100%
1
 Held directly
A full list of subsidiaries will be annexed to the Company’s next annual return filed with the Registrar of Companies.
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 140
Notes to the Company financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
5 DEBTORS 
2014
£m
2013
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 265.9 261.9
Corporation tax 0.2 2.9
Prepayments – 0.2
Total debtors 266. 1 265.0
Included within amounts owed by Group undertakings above, is an unsecured loan to Xchanging Holdings Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary, 
of £58.2 million. This bears interest at 3.25% above LIBOR, repayable in 2022. All other amounts are unsecured, interest-free and have no 
fixed date of repayment. 
6 CASH AND BANK
Xchanging plc’s current account forms part of the UK cash pooling arrangement. The cash balances within this pool are offset on a notional 
basis to optimise liquidity management. There is a £10.0 million (2013: £10.0 million) net overdraft facility attached to the cash pool. 
7 RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING PROFIT TO NET CASH OUTFLOW
2014
£m
2013
£m
Operating (loss)/profit (before tax and interest) (1.3) 1.6
Non-cash expenses 0.8 0.9
Increase in debtors (1.6) (6.7)
Increase/(decrease) in creditors 8.8 (0. 1)
Payment of dividends (6. 1) (2.4)
Cash (paid)/received for shares (0.7) 0.5
Net cash outflow (0. 1) (6.2)
8 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
2014
£m
2013
£m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 61.7 55.9
Total creditors falling due within one year 61.7 55.9
Included within amounts owed to Group undertakings above, is an unsecured loan to Xchanging UK Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary, of £5.0 
million. This bears interest at 2.75% above LIBOR, repayable on demand. All other amounts are unsecured, interest-free and have no fixed 
date of repayment.
9 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR
An amount of £0.3 million has been included in long-term creditors (2013: £0.2 million) relating to taxation and social security balances due 
after more than one year .
10 CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL
2014
£m
2013
£m
Allotted and fully paid
 244,282,949 (2013: 241,831,957) ordinary shares of 5 pence each 12.2 12. 1
Issued share capital – ordinary shares
During the year , 1,911, 174 PSP awards, 1,709,914 share options and 193,257 share awards were exercised (2013: 921,038 PSP awards, 600,000 
share options and nil share awards).
Share rights
All Xchanging plc ordinary shares carry equal share rights. 
Share-based payments
A charge of £0.8 million (2013: £0.6 million) has been incurred in the year in respect of the Performance Share Plan. Further details on this 
scheme are included within note 31 of the Group financial statements. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 141
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
11 RESERVES
Share
 premium
account
£m
Other
 reserves
£m
Profit and 
loss account
£m
At 1 January 2014 110.5 7.8 144.2
Profit after tax for the year – – 0.5
Net movement in share-based payment reserve due to exercise of options/awards – – 2.2
Net movement in share-based payment reserve due to share options/awards granted to employees of subsidiaries – – 1.9
Dividends paid – – (6. 1)
Issue of shares in respect of share options and share awards issued in the year 0.5 –
Purchase of own shares – (2. 1) –
At 31 December 2014 111.0 5.7 142.7
Other reserves comprise:
• 
The differences in share price between the date of issue and the date of control passing in respect of acquisitions. This reserve relates 
to the 2009 Cambridge Solutions Limited acquisition.
• 
The repurchase of the Company’s own shares.
The Company’s profit for the year was £0.5 million (2013: £1.0 million profit). Refer to note 10 in the Group financial statements for 
information on the dividend.
12 RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS
2014
£m
2013
£m
Opening shareholders’ funds 274.6 271.4
Issue of shares 0.5 1.9
Purchase of own shares (2. 1) –
Profit for the year 0.5 1.0
Net movement in share-based payment reserve due to exercise of options/awards 2.2 –
Net movement in share-based payment reserve due to share options/awards granted to employees of subsidiaries 1.9 2.6
Dividends paid (6. 1) (2.4)
Movement in share capital 0.1 0.1
Closing shareholders’ funds 271.6 274.6
13 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The Company acts as a guarantor for the Xchanging Group’s £165.0 million multicurrency revolving credit facility. As at 31 December 2014, 
cash borrowings of £115.0 million were drawn against this facility (2013: £nil) and £nil of the facility has been utilised for issuing a letter of 
credit (2013: €20.0 million). The revolving credit facility matures in June 2018. The Company guarantees a further £2.0 million of bank 
guarantees (2013: £1.9 million) that have been issued under separate facilities.
The Company has given certain indemnities and warranties in the course of disposing of Group businesses and has given guarantees for the 
operational performance of its subsidiaries for contracts entered into in the ordinary course of trading. The Company does not believe that 
any liability in respect of these guarantees is likely to have a material effect on the Company’s financial position.
The Company guarantees the contributions and deficit recovery payments to the Rebus pension scheme. Following the recent valuation 
agreement with the Rebus trustees, the £15.0 million guarantee previously provided to them was increased to £30.0 million during 2014. Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 142
Shareholder information
The Company’s share price can be found on the Company’s 
corporate website at www.xchanging.com within the Investor 
Relations section.
SHARES ONLINE
Equiniti Limited provides a range of shareholder information online. 
Shareholders can access their shareholdings and find advice on 
transferring shares and updating their details on www.shareview.co.uk
SHAREGIFT
Shareholders who only have a small number of shares whose value 
makes it uneconomic to sell them may wish to consider donating 
them to charity through ShareGift, the independent charity share 
donation scheme (registered charity no. 1052686). Further 
information about ShareGift on +44 (0)20 7337 0501 or at  
www.sharegift.org. There are no implications for capital gains tax 
purposes (no gain or loss) on gifts of shares to charity and it is also 
possible to claim income tax relief. 
SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES
For queries concerning shareholdings, contact Xchanging’s 
registrars, Equiniti Limited, whose details are below.
Shareholders who have any questions about the Group’s business 
should contact Xchanging’s Investor Relations team on +44 (0)20 
3604 6999 or email investor .relations@xchanging.com.
SHAREHOLDER FRAUD
Fraud is on the increase and many shareholders are targeted every 
year . If you have any reason to believe that you may or may not have 
been the target of a fraud, or attempted fraud in relation to your 
shareholding, please contact Equiniti Limited immediately.
COMPANY REGISTRATION NUMBER
5819018
COMPANY’S REGISTERED OFFICE
Xchanging plc
The Walbrook Building  
25 Walbrook  
London  
EC4N 8AQ  
United Kingdom
REGISTRARS
Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom
T elephone: +44 (0)871 384 2030
Overseas tel: +44 (0)121 415 7047
The helpline is open from 8.30am Monday to Friday.
UK calls to 0871 numbers are charged at 8 pence per minute from 
a BT landline and other telephone providers’ costs may vary. 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1 Embankment Place  
London  
WC2N 6RH  
United Kingdom
T el: +44 (0)20 7583 5000
BANKERS
Lloyds Bank plc
City Office  
Bailey Drive  
Gillingham Business Park
Kent  
ME8 0LS  
United Kingdom
SOLICITORS
Ashurt LLP
Broadwalk House
5 Appold Street
London  
EC2A 2HA
United Kingdom
CORPORATE BROKERS
Investec Bank plc
2 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7QP
T el: +44 (0)20 7597 4000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7597 4070
Liberum Capital Ltd
Ropemaker Place, Level 12
25 Ropemaker Street
London
EC2Y 9L Y
T el: +44 (0)20 3100 2000
Fax: +44 (0)20 3100 2299
FINANCIAL PUBLIC RELATIONS
The Maitland Consultancy Limited
Orion House
5 Upper St. Martin’s Lane
London
WC2H 9EA
T el: +44 (0)20 7379 5151
Fax: +44 (0)20 7379 6161
FINANCIAL CALENDAR
14 May 2015 Annual General Meeting
30 June 2015 Half year end
30 July 2015 Announcement of half-year results
31 December 2015 Financial year end Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 143
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
A
Adjusted earnings per share – Xchanging’s share of adjusted profit for 
the year divided by the weighted average basic number of Xchanging 
plc shares in issue for the year ended 31 December
Adjusted Operating Profit – excludes exceptional items, amortisation 
of intangible assets previously unrecognised by an acquired entity, 
acquisition costs, and non-recurring operational items that the 
Directors believe will aid the reader’s understanding of the accounts
Agencyport Europe
*
 – the European operations acquired by 
Xchanging in July 2014 from US-headquartered insurance software 
company Agencyport Software. All Agencyport Europe companies 
acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging 
Software – see Xchanging Software
AGI – Allianz Global Investors Europe Gmbh
AGM – Annual General Meeting
AMS – Alexander Mann Solutions
Analytics – the discovery and communication of meaningful patterns 
in data
Aon – Aon Limited
Application Services – Xchanging’s technology business providing 
development, testing and support services
Articles or Articles of Association – the Articles of Association of 
Xchanging plc
Australian Workers’ Compensation – Xchanging currently offers 
workers’ compensation services in Australia and personal injury 
administration services in Australia and the UK
B
B2B – Business-to-Business
BaFin – German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority overseeing 
banking, insurance, securities and asset management
Big data – large data sets that may be analysed computationally to 
reveal patterns, trends, and associations
Binder management solution – A software package that enables 
businesses in the binder market to administer their business more 
effectively. The solution may additionally include managed business 
services in support of the software.
Binders market – the Binders market is a business segment where 
insurers delegate the authority to write insurance contracts to third 
party organisations, often known as Coverholders or Managing General 
Agents; this business is written using terms and conditions specified by 
the insurers and allows them to access business they would not 
otherwise see
Board of Directors – the Board of Directors of Xchanging plc, 
comprising Geoff Unwin, Ken Lever , David Bauernfeind, Michel Paulin, 
Bill Thomas, Stephen Wilson, Saurabh Srivastava and Ian Cormack
Bordereaux – A list of insurance contracts, typically provided on a 
monthly basis, containing certain information about new risks (under)
written, premiums received or claims paid
BPaaS – Business Processing as a Service
BPO – Business Process Outsourcing
BPS – Business Processing Services
C
CAF – Claims Adjusted for Followers
CAGR – Compound Annual Growth Rate
Cash conversion – calculated as operating cash flow divided by 
adjusted operating profit
Cedent – A party to an insurance contract who passes financial 
obligation for certain potential losses to the insurer
Central Services Refresh – The London Market modernisation 
programme
CEO – Chief Executive Officer
CFO – Chief Financial Officer
CMA – Competition and Markets Authority
CO
2
e – equivalent carbon dioxide
CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme – Mandatory scheme aimed at cutting 
emissions in large UK organisations
CSR – Corporate Social Responsibility
D
Dassault Systèmes – a French software provider that Xchanging has 
partnered with for product life-cycle management solutions
DCS – Data Capture Service
DI – Data Integration Limited, a networking, security and communication 
technology provider , acquired by Xchanging in June 2010
Directors – the Xchanging Board of Directors are on  
www.xchanging.com/management-team
Disclosure and T ransparency Rules – the disclosure and transparency 
rules of the UK Listing Authority
E
eAuction – online auction
EBIT – see adjusted operating profit
EBITDA – adjusted operating profit before depreciation and 
amortisation
Economic profit – Adjusted operating profit less a charge for tax and a 
charge for cost of invested capital
Employee Engagement Survey – an annual opportunity for employees 
to give their feedback to management. Conducted in late 2014
EP – Enterprise Partnership, a corporate partnership between 
Xchanging and a customer
EPS – Earnings per share
ESOP – Executive Share Option Plan
eSourcing – the use of secure web-based tools by suppliers and 
procurement professionals which support procurement activity
EU – European Union
Executive Board – the Executive Board of Xchanging are on 
www.xchanging.com/investor-relations/board-directors
F
FdB – Fondsdepot Bank GmbH, an EP between Xchanging and  
AGI in Germany
FRC – Financial Reporting Council
FRS – Financial Reporting Standards
FTSE4Good Index Series – Designed to measure the performance of 
the CSR of Listed companies
FX – foreign exchange
G
Group – Xchanging plc. and its subsidiaries and subsidiary 
undertakings
H
H2 – Second half of the financial year 
HR – Human resources
I
IAS – International Accounting Standards
IFRS – International Financial Reporting Standards
IMR – Insurers’ Market Repository
IoT – Internet of Things. Data is collected from real world objects, 
stored and analysed to provide valuable information
IP – Intellectual Property
IPO – Initial Public Offering
ISO14001 – the criteria for an environmental management  
system that can be certified to
IT – Information T echnology
ITO – Information T echnology Outsourcing
IUA – International Underwriting Association of London is the world’s 
largest representative organisation for international and wholesale 
insurance and reinsurance companies
J
JV – Joint venture
K
KLIA2 – Kuala Lumpur International Airport 2
KPI – Key Performance Indicator
Glossary of terms
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 144
L
Lloyd’s – Lloyd’s of London. The world’s specialist insurance market 
providing insurance services in over 200 countries and territories
Lloyd’s market modernisation programme – see Central Services 
Refresh
LME – London Metal Exchange
London insurance market – comprises insurance and reinsurance 
companies, Lloyd’s syndicates, P&I clubs, and brokers with the core of 
its activity being the conduct of internationally traded insurance and 
reinsurance business
M
McKinsey – an American global management consulting firm that 
focusses on solving issues of concern to senior management
Middleware – the software that connects software components or 
enterprise applications
MM4 – the MarketMaker4 business acquired in 2013
Moore Stephens Consulting – Moore Stephens Consulting Ltd, an IT 
consultancy
N
Nearshore – near to the customer’s premises, typically in a cheaper 
region of the same country
Net revenue – Net revenue excludes principal spend on procurement 
contracts that arises from supplier costs that are passed on to the 
customer
Netsett – global net settlement platform launched in September 2012
Non-Executive Directors – the Non-Executive Directors of Xchanging 
are listed on www.xchanging.com/investor-relations/board-directors
O
Offshore – another country or region where costs are lower
One Xchanging – We have enhanced our competitive edge by 
establishing shared services, optimising cost of delivery through 
standardisation and simplification, and enhancing provision of 
management information
On-site – where Xchanging operations are located at the  
customer’s site
Operating cash flow – is calculated as operating profit (EBIT) plus 
non-cash items and working capital movement less capital expenditure 
and dividends to non-controlling interests
P
PaaS – Platform as a Service
P&C – Property and Casualty (insurance)
P&L – Profit and Loss
PLM – Product Life-cycle Management
PO – Procurement Outsourcing 
PPE – Property, Plant and Equipment
PSP – Performance Share Plan
Put option – a type of option which grants a right (but not an 
obligation) for a potential seller to sell an asset to a buyer either at a 
pre-agreed price or at a price to be determined in accordance with a 
pre-agreed formula. The option is generally exercisable by the seller 
during an agreed period
PwC – PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Q
Q2 – Quarter two, second quarter of the financial year
R
R&D – Research and Development
ROIC – Return on Invested Capital – A calculation used to assess a 
company's efficiency at allocating the capital under its control to 
profitable investment
S
SAP – SAP SE, a multinational software and solutions provider
SIA S.p.A. – A European financial and payment services systems 
provider which held a 1.3% non-controlling interest in Xchanging Italy 
S.p.A. On 24 January 2014 SIA sold its stake in Xchanging Italy 
meaning Xchanging holds 100% of Xchanging Italy
SMEs – Small and Medium-sized Enterprises
SMMT – Society of Motor Manufacturers and T raders
Spikes Cavell – Spikes Cavell Analytics Limited, a company acquired 
by Xchanging in February 2015
T
T echnology platform – an underlying computer system on which 
application programs can run
T otal Objects – T otal Objects Limited, a (re)insurance software 
provider , acquired by Xchanging in December 2014
TSM – Tail-end Spend Management
TSR – T otal shareholder return
U
UK Corporate Governance Code – the UK Corporate Governance 
Code published in June 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council
UK GAAP – UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice
W
Workday – HR self-service system launched in February 2014
X
Xchanging – Xchanging plc. and its subsidiaries and subsidiary 
undertakings
Xchanging Italy S.p.A. – An Xchanging company comprised of 
Kedrios S.p.A. and Enterprise S.r .l. formed on 1 February 2013
Xchanging Software – comprises the companies previously acquired 
from Agencyport Software in July 2014 now re-branded as: Xchanging 
Software Bermuda Limited, Xchanging Software Europe (Regional 
Hub) Limited, Xchanging Software Europe Limited, and Xchanging 
Software Services, Inc. collectively known as Xchanging Software
XCS – Xchanging Claims Services
XIS – Ins-sure Holdings Limited, an EP between Xchanging, Lloyd’s of 
London and the International Underwriting Association in the UK
Xoom – winner of Ken’s Den 2012. Web-based mobile app for 
WorkCover (Australian Workers’ Compensation Scheme)
Xpresso – mobile app repository for the insurance market
XTB – Xchanging T ransaction Bank GmbH, an EP between Xchanging, 
Deutsche Bank and Sal Oppenheim in Germany. Sold to Deutsche 
Bank on 1 September 2013
Xuber – Xchanging’s Insurance Software business
Y
YTL – YTL Communications Sdn. Bhd. of Malaysia, a subsidiary of YTL 
Power International Berhad, and joint venture partner with Xchanging 
in Xchanging Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.
Glossary of terms
continued Designed and produced by MerchantCantos  
www.merchantcantos.com
Printed by Pureprint Group using their  
environmental print technology, a guaranteed,  
low carbon, low waste, independently audited process that 
reduces the environmental impact of the printing process. 
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral
®
 company and is 
certified to Environmental Management System, ISO 
14001 and registered to EMAS, the Eco Management  
and Audit Scheme.
This report is printed utilising vegetable based inks on 
Claro Silk, which is sourced from well managed forests 
independently certified according to the rules of the 
Forest Stewardship Council. TECHNOLOGY AT OUR CORE      Xchanging Annual Report 2014
Xchanging
The Walbrook Building 
25 Walbrook 
London 
EC4N 8AQ 
UK
T : +44 (0)20 3604 6999
F: +44 (0)20 3604 6998
Registered in England and Wales  
Company number 5819018
