 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Contents
Section 1
Overview 1-6
 2 YouGov at a Glance
 5 Chairman’s Statement
Section 2
Business Review 7-21
 7 Chief Executive’s Review
10 Innovations
11 BrandIndex
12  Investment Sector Products: HEAT
13 SixthSense
14 Our Hubs
20 Chief Financial Officer’s Report
Section 3
Management and Governance 22-32
22 Board of Directors
24 Directors’ Report
27 Remuneration Report
29 Corporate Governance Report
32  Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
Section 4
Financial Statements 33-82
33  Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the Members of YouGov plc on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
34 Consolidated Income Statement
35  Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
36  Consolidated Statement of 
Financial Position
37   Consolidated Statement of Changes  
in Equity
38  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
39   Principal Accounting Policies of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
51   Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
74   Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of YouGov plc on the Parent 
Company Financial Statements
75  Company Balance Sheet
76  Principal Accounting Policies of the 
Company Financial Statements
78   Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements
Section 5
Additional Information 83-84
83  Notice of Annual General Meeting Section 1  Overview YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     1
YouGov is the authoritative measure of 
public opinion and consumer behaviour.  
It is YouGov’s ambition to supply a live stream 
of continuous, accurate data and insight  
into what people are thinking and doing  
all over the world, all of the time, so that 
companies, governments and institutions can 
better serve the people that sustain them. Section 1  Overview YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     2
476
420
431
402
76
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
56.1
44.2
44.3
40.4
14.3
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
5.3
3.8
3.1
8.7
5.6
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
YouGov at a Glance
Operational Highlights Key Performance Indicators
Turnover (£m)
Average Headcount
Adjusted Operating Profit (£m)
Revenue per Head (£000)
Adjusted Earnings per Share (p)
118
105
103
100
188
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
4.7
2.5
2.7
9.1
6.4
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
1  Adjusted operating profit is defined as Group operating profit before 
amortisation of intangibles, impairment charge and exceptional items. 
2  Adjusted profit before tax is defined as adjusted operating profit plus 
share-based payments, imputed interest, net finance income and share 
of loss of joint ventures. 
3  Adjusted earnings per share is calculated based on the post-tax result 
derived from the adjusted operating profits. 
•	 Turnover up 27%
•	 Adjusted operating profit up 40%
•	 Organic revenue growth of 9% – outperforming the 
research market
•	 US now the largest market – revenue up 231% and 
acquisitions performing well
•	 UK revenue up 13% with Omnibus and SixthSense 
performing well
•	 In the Middle East, regionally generated business 
continues to grow, partly offsetting the expected scaling 
down of historic contract
•	 Good growth in the Nordics with full year profitability 
re-established
•	 In Germany, online products delivered an excellent 
performance but custom research performance  
remains challenging
•	 BrandIndex global revenue increased by 35%
Key Financials
Turnover £56.1m
(2010: £44.2m)
Adjusted operating profit¹ £5.3m
(2010: £3.8m)
Operating cash generation £5.6m
(2010: £4.9m)
Reported operating profit £0.4m
(2010: loss of £10.6m)
after:  
– amortisation of intangibles £3.8m (2010: £3.7m) 
– exceptional items of £1.1m (2010: £2.8m)
Adjusted profit before tax² £5.8m
(2010: £4.0m)
Reported profit before tax £0.4m
(2010: loss of £10.6m)
Adjusted earnings per share³ 4.7p
(2010: 2.5p)
Net cash balance  £9.4m
(2010: £15.6m) Section 1  Overview YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     3
■ Planned Geographic Presence 
■ Current Geographic Presence
Ofﬁces
Key
 
Geographic Presence
YouGov America
Offices Palo Alto, New York,  
 Waterbury, Los Angeles, Portland,  
 Lawrenceville, Washington
Revenue £15.9m
Panel size 1,768,200
Number of employees 87
YouGov UK
Offices London
Revenue £13.7m
Panel size 405,800
Number of employees 122
YouGov Nordic 
Offices Copenhagen, Helsinki,  
 Kolding, Malmö, Oslo, Stockholm
Revenue £8.3m
Panel size 162,800
Number of employees 65
YouGov Germany
Offices Cologne, Berlin
Revenue £11.4m
Panel size 152,800
Number of employees 125
YouGov Middle East
Offices Dubai, Dammam,  
 Jeddah, Riyadh
Revenue £7.5m
Panel size 351,700
Number of employees 45
YouGov France
Offices Paris (office opening 
  November 2011)
Panel size 25,800 
   
Note: Panel and employee numbers as at 31 July 2011. Section 1  Overview YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     4
YouGov at a Glance
Our Clients
Performance by Territory
Revenue
 2011 2010  Organic  
 Revenue Revenue Change Change 
 £m £m % %
America 15.9 4.8 231 32
UK 13.7 12.1 13 N/A
Middle East 7.5 7.2 4 N/A
Germany 11.4 13.8 (17) (9)
Nordic 8.3 7.0 19 N/A
Corporate Costs and Consolidated Adjustments (0.7) (0.7) – N/A
Group 56.1 44.2 27 9
Operating Profit
 2011 2011 2010 2010  
 Operating Profit Margin Operating Profit Margin 
 £m % £m %
America 1.9 12 0.5 10
UK 3.5 24 3.4 27
Middle East 1.9 25 1.4 19
Germany 0.3 2 0.4 3
Nordic 0.6 7 0.1 1
Corporate Costs and Consolidated Adjustments (2.9) – (2.0) –
Group 5.3 9 3.8 9
We serve over 2,500 clients across 50 countries Section 1  Overview YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     5
In the year ended 31 July 2011, YouGov has recorded  
a high level of growth and significantly increased profits. 
These results were very much in line with the budget set out 
at the beginning of the year. They reflect the management’s 
success in achieving our Group targets and delivering better 
than expected results from the US acquisitions made during 
the year.
Results
This year’s revenue of £56.1m represents an increase  
of 27% over the prior year. Organic growth (excluding the 
effect of acquisitions and disposals) of 9% was well ahead 
of the research market, particularly in the UK and US. 
Adjusted operating profits increased by £1.5m (40%) to 
£5.3m. Cash generated from operations was £5.6m. Our 
cash balance at the end of the year was £9.4m compared 
to £15.6m at 31 July 2010. This was after expenditure in the 
year of £8.1m on acquisitions and investments.
The Board does not propose the payment of a dividend  
at this time but this policy is kept under review.
Strategy
While this year’s performance has benefited from US 
acquisitions, it has also reaffirmed the strength of our core 
business model of online market research. This core model 
delivers accurate information rapidly using our highly 
responsive online panel supported by our own technology 
and strong analytics capability. This includes proprietary 
research data and reports as well as custom research 
conducted by our specialist teams using the common 
operating platform which is tailored to the needs of 
individual clients and sectors.
As identified previously, we are achieving success with  
our core products and services even in markets such as 
Germany where there is greater resistance to change. With 
the evidence of client demand for our rich panel-derived 
data and a stronger delivery platform we are planning to 
expand our core model further into new territories, new 
markets, and also to launch more new products. Some of 
these, such as business intelligence and products tailored 
for the investment community, have already been 
successfully trialled this year. 
Effective execution is clearly vital to the delivery of our 
strategy, especially when we expand geographically. The 
Board was pleased with progress in America which is now 
our largest operation. Our first acquisition, Polimetrix, was 
made there in 2006 and has proved to be an excellent basis 
for expansion. In August 2010, we purchased Harrison Group 
in Connecticut and in April 2011, Definitive Insights in 
Oregon. We believe YouGov is now demonstrating its ability 
to make good acquisitions and integrate them successfully. 
Board and Management
To continue to deliver our plans for future expansion and 
roll-out of our main products across all our businesses, we 
have announced a number of management changes since 
the year end. 
In August 2011, Doug Rivers joined the board as Chief 
Innovations Officer to lead the development of YouGov’s 
key data products and their exploitation across the Group. 
Doug was the founder of Polimetrix, which is the core of 
YouGov’s American business, and has been CEO YouGov 
America since 2007. Doss Struse, currently Managing Partner 
of Definitive Insights, has been appointed as President of 
YouGov America, responsible for its operational management 
including the continued integration of the recently acquired 
businesses. Doss brings extensive experience in managing 
international research businesses which will help to maintain 
the rapid growth of our US business. 
In parallel with these changes, we have promoted Tim Britton, 
CEO YouGov UK, to the new role of Chief Operating Officer, 
Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA). He will be 
responsible for directing YouGov’s operations and 
Chairman’s Statement for the year ended 31 July 2011
Roger Parry
Chairman Section 1  Overview YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     6
implementing the business and management strategy 
across the region. Phil Rance, formerly Managing Director, 
EMEA at Research Now, has succeeded Tim in the role of 
Managing Director, YouGov UK. 
In Germany, we have appointed Andreas Sperling as the 
new CEO, completing the management reorganisation 
undertaken earlier in the year. Andreas has held senior 
management roles in the research sector in Europe and 
Asia, notably as CEO, Africa, Asia Pacific and Managing 
Director, Germany of Millward Brown. We look forward to 
Andreas bringing his skills and experience to bear in driving 
the changes that are still needed to bring the performance 
of our German business into line with the rest of the Group. 
Growth
Our focus in the coming year is on growing the core business 
as well as extending the model to new markets and new 
customers through organic start-ups and joint ventures.  
We remain open to adding “tuck-in” acquisitions if the right 
opportunities arise. We have the internal resources to fund 
these. The Board has approved selective investments  
in new products, such as SixthSense, which are intended  
to create new long-term sources of profitable revenue.
Prospects
We face economic volatility and uncertainty across all the 
markets in which we operate and our clients are likely to be 
conservative in their spending plans. While we will maintain 
good control over operating costs to reflect this, we are in  
a rapidly changing industry and will keep investing in new 
products and services with good potential so as to deliver 
long-term profit growth. Trading in the first couple of 
months has been satisfactory and in line with the Board’s 
expectations.
Roger Parry 
Chairman 
10 October 2011
Chairman’s Statement for the year ended 31 July 2011 continued
“We will keep investing in new products and 
services with good potential so as to deliver 
long-term profit growth.” Section 2  Business Review YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     7
Chief Executive’s Review for the year ended 31 July 2011
We are pleased to report another year of significant revenue 
and profit growth, building on the progress made last year. 
As expected, our performance in the second half of this 
financial year followed a similar trend to that in the first half. 
Our Group’s full-year revenue increased by 27% and adjusted 
operating profit by 40% compared to the prior year. While 
the recent US acquisitions of Harrison Group and Definitive 
Insights contributed to this performance, we also achieved  
healthy organic growth. Our UK, US and Nordic operations 
have all reported double-digit organic growth and gained 
market share.
The US is now our largest region in terms of revenue, with 
the newly acquired businesses performing ahead of original 
expectations and contributing significantly to Group profits. 
As importantly, they are fulfilling our objective of expanding 
YouGov’s US reach into the corporate research market and 
have added a number of US-based global brands to our client 
base. Our UK business continued to grow well and generate 
good margins as well as initiating the development of 
SixthSense, our new reports business. The Nordics completed 
its turnaround to profitability on a full-year basis, while the 
Middle East succeeded in delivering higher profits year-on-
year despite the expected reduction in revenue from a major 
long-term Iraqi contract. This demonstrates our ability to 
exploit new opportunities in the Middle East building on  
the strong relationships, reputation and panel that we have 
developed in the region. 
Overall, we have delivered in line with expectations. This was 
despite a disappointing performance in Germany where the 
benefits of the reorganisation of operations and management 
that we began this year have been slower to materialise than 
we hoped. However, since the new CEO took up his position 
shortly after the year end, the pace of improvement  
is accelerating.
During the last year we have expanded our philanthropic and 
educational reach by collaborating on projects with major 
UK Universities. At the beginning of 2011, YouGov entered 
into an academic partnership with the Department of Politics 
and International Studies at Cambridge University, to establish 
a think-tank and centre of excellence for public opinion 
research. The not-for-profit partnership was formally launched 
in September 2011. Earlier in the year, YouGov collaborated 
with Imperial College and University College London in a pilot 
of StartUp Summer, a development programme for student 
entrepreneurs, which was supported by StartUp Britain, a 
Government initiative to accelerate enterprise in the UK.
Looking Ahead
We continue to pursue our strategy of strengthening the 
foundations of our business while developing new products 
and markets – building on our core strengths and 
innovating for the future.
We will also continue to manage our cost base tightly and 
to ensure that we make best use of the engine we have 
built. That engine (the combination of high-response panel, 
technological platform for data collection and panel 
management, and our profile data library) cost-effectively 
delivers quality data and insight through a scalable model. 
There is additional potential for driving more value from that 
model and in the coming year we will further advance our 
products and our productised methodologies. We will also 
continue to harmonise our marketing and sales systems 
across the Group in particular to increase cross-border 
work. This will be one of the key priorities for the new senior 
management in EMEA and America. 
We will also be expanding into new geographies to meet 
growing demand for our core suite of online products.  
We have already established a new panel of over 50,000 
members in France which began to run its first commercial 
surveys in September 2011 and plan to open a sales office 
in Paris in November 2011. We are also actively evaluating 
entry strategies for other key markets.
BrandIndex, our flagship brand intelligence service, 
maintained its high growth, continuing to win new customers 
in all our markets resulting in revenue up by 35%. We have 
now developed a new version of the product, with major 
enhancements that will make it even easier for clients to 
integrate BrandIndex with their day-to-day management 
information. The new BrandIndex version is now being 
successfully trialled with two clients and will be rolled out 
across the US and UK over the course of the year.
SixthSense, our business intelligence service that 
combines primary research data with that from other 
sources as well as informed commentary, launched in the 
UK in 2010 and grew well in its first full financial year of 
operation. Its product list now comprises some 140 
reports whose scope ranges from a whole sector (such 
as Food and Drink) down to an in-depth study of a 
category (such as Baby Foods). In October 2010, we also 
developed (with Bloomberg) the first of a series of 
macro-data products: HEAT (Household Economic 
Activity Tracker) which measures consumer economic 
Stephan Shakespeare
Chief Executive Officer Section 2  Business Review YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     8
Chief Executive’s Review for the year ended 31 July 2011 continued
covering 400 topic areas. Our sector-based custom research 
teams grew revenue by 7% and continued to add new 
clients such as Argos, the Penguin Group and Lawn Tennis 
Association while renewing major contracts with clients such 
as Asda, Costa Coffee and News International. Operating 
profits grew marginally to £3.5m due to a combination of 
lower gross margins which reflected a change of product 
mix, more international work and the investment of 
approximately £0.4m in SixthSense and in our sales and 
business delivery teams to support further growth.
USA
 Year to Year to 
 31 July 31 July  % 
 2011 2010 % Organic  
 £m £m Change Change
Revenue 15.9 4.8 231% 32%
Operating Profit 1.9 0.5 280% 58%
Operating Profit  
Margin (%) 12% 10%  
Our US revenue has more than tripled this year compared  
to last due to strong organic growth (32%) in the original 
business as well as the acquisitions of Harrison Group in 
August 2010 and Definitive Insights in April 2011 which 
contributed combined revenue of some £9.6m.
As well as performing ahead of expectations, these 
acquisitions have, as intended, created a much more 
significant presence for YouGov in the US corporate research 
market alongside our historic political and academic 
strengths. Corporate clients now account for some 80%  
of our US revenue, with the acquired businesses bringing 
major clients such as GTECH, Microsoft and Panasonic.  
As they largely undertake their research using online methods, 
this has helped the integration process and offers further 
synergy benefits through migration of work to the YouGov 
panel. We have also drawn on the management resources 
they brought in with the appointment of Doss Struse, 
Managing Partner of Definitive Insights, as President in 
charge of operations of our entire US business, which was 
announced in August 2011. One of his initial tasks will be  
to complete the rebranding of our US custom research 
units under a single YouGov brand.
Within our original US business, BrandIndex continued  
to grow well, with revenue increasing by 55% over last year 
and new clients including Skechers and Kaplan Thaler. 
Marketing Insights (acquired in April 2009), which 
specialises in customer segmentation, also performed well 
with revenue up by 33% and met the targets for the current 
year of its earn-out. Its clients this year included Bloomberg 
and Panasonic. Political research remains important to the 
US business, and represented 10% of revenue this year due 
to the 2010 mid-term elections. It is pleasing to report the 
growing acceptance of online methods for political polling 
in the US, which is beginning to catch up with commercial 
research where it has been the norm for a number of years.
activity and confidence and now covers the UK, US and 
China. This will form part of the new reports business 
aimed at the investment community to be launched during 
the current financial year.
We will also be bringing to market a new data product that 
brings together existing YouGov methods with new data 
sources to provide clients with faster and more holistic 
information direct to their desktops. Given the ever- 
increasing consumer connectivity and empowerment, 
which creates rising uncertainty and volatility in markets, 
we believe that there will be a demand for the kind of 
continuous-flow primary data that YouGov can provide.
Finally, we are creating a new web presence with a greater 
emphasis on interactivity and experimentation to make being 
a member of the YouGov panel a more distinctive and 
worthwhile experience. The new website, which goes live  
in November, will support innovative tools for social media 
analysis and marketing. We believe that constantly 
improving the quality, size and responsiveness of the panel 
will become an increasingly important asset for our business 
which we believe is unique to the research industry.
Current Trading
We expect good revenue growth to continue this year despite 
the anticipated ending of the historic contract in Iraq by the 
end of 2011. YouGov remains committed to making additional 
investments in new products and geographical expansion 
which will support further growth. The current year will see 
further benefits from our US acquisitions and continued gains 
in other markets. We are also more confident of improving 
the German results with the new management in place.
Current trading is in line with the Board’s expectations and 
with our strong balance sheet we remain confident of our 
ability to meet our clients’ changing research needs despite 
increasing uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment.
Review of Operations
UK
 Year to Year to 
 31 July 31 July 
 2011 2010 % 
 £m £m  Change
Revenue 13.7 12.1 13%
Operating Profit 3.5 3.4 3%
Operating Profit Margin (%) 24% 27% 
Our UK business has continued to perform well, with 
revenues 13% higher than the prior year. This strong 
growth, well ahead of the market, was largely due to our 
products business which grew by 22% overall. This area 
includes BrandIndex, which grew revenue by 29% and our 
market leading Omnibus service which grew by 16% as it 
continued to expand its international coverage. It also 
includes the first full-year contribution from SixthSense, our 
new business intelligence service. This provides in-depth 
reports on a range of sectors drawing on YouGov’s primary 
research data as well as other specialist data sources and 
expert views. Some 140 report titles are now available  Section 2  Business Review YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     9
Our German business is a substantial company in a major 
world market but is still only part way through the transition 
towards becoming an operation that fits with YouGov’s core 
model and its results clearly reflect this. Overall revenue 
declined by 9% on a like-for-like basis (after excluding the 
Great Place to Work business disposed of in December 
2010). However, the new online products business which 
started up two years ago and includes our flagship 
Omnibus and BrandIndex products continued its excellent 
performance, growing revenue by 90% to £1.3m. Its offer, 
which is new to the German market, has attracted many 
new clients to YouGov and it also has higher margins than 
the traditional business. As reported at the half year, revenue 
in the custom research business has been declining due to 
the financial services sector which was a traditional strength, 
although there has been progress in winning new clients  
in the automotive and technology sectors such as Masda, 
Fujitsu and Nokia Siemens. Some cost reductions have 
been achieved through the closure of one unprofitable 
custom team which will save £0.5m annually and the 
ongoing re-engineering of the core business processes. 
Following the appointment of Andreas Sperling, a former 
regional CEO of Millward Brown, as CEO, we believe that 
we now have the leadership in place to take the significant 
actions necessary to complete the transformation and 
enable YouGov to exploit the opportunities available  
in the German market.
Nordic
 Year to Year to 
 31 July 31 July 
 2011 2010 % 
 £m £m  Change
Revenue 8.3 7.0 19%
Operating Profit 0.6 0.1 500%
Operating Profit Margin (%) 7% 1% 
In the full year, our Nordic business maintained the good 
performance reported at the half year and achieved 
revenue growth of 19% as well as a significant increase  
in profitability following the improvement measures taken 
last year. It gained market share with revenue growth of  
19% overall and 33% in Sweden, the region’s largest market 
where new business development was very successful. In 
February 2011, we launched a new Swedish political opinion 
service led by Lars Björkman, a recognised expert in the 
field. Our annual syndicated study, the Nordic Food and 
Health Survey has also attracted a number of new clients. 
The business’s major clients in the period included Nordisk 
Film Egmont, SonyEricsson and VisitSweden.
Stephan Shakespeare  
Chief Executive Officer 
10 October 2011
Middle East
 Year to Year to 
 31 July 31 July 
 2011 2010 % 
 £m £m  Change
Revenue 7.5 7.2 4%
Operating Profit 1.9 1.4 36%
Operating Profit Margin (%) 25% 19% 
We have been successful this year in our strategy of growing 
the size and profitability of the regionally generated business 
so as to offset the expected scaling down of a long-term 
contract in Iraq. This is reflected in a small overall revenue 
growth of 4% (6% in local currency terms) and a significant 
increase in annual operating profits helped by the full-year 
benefit of the cost reductions undertaken early in 2010. 
Locally generated revenue increased by 34% and now 
represents nearly 60% of the total. This reflected the planned 
expansion in online data services which more than tripled 
their revenue due to more aggressive marketing of our panel 
which now covers 21 countries in the Middle East and North 
Africa and continued growth in the client base for BrandIndex 
and Omnibus products. Our local custom research which 
focuses mainly on clients in the UAE and Saudi Arabia grew 
revenue by 21%. Major clients include Pepsico, Saudi Telecom 
and Johnson & Johnson. We have also established a 
collaboration with Al-Aan TV to provide surveys for their 
pan-regional Arab language channels in line with YouGov’s 
policy of gaining a higher profile through media engagement. 
While the political developments in the region during the year 
clearly create uncertainty, we believe that they will provide 
more opportunities for YouGov to generate value through our 
ability to provide up-to-date information on the views and 
attitudes of people across the Middle East. We have already 
demonstrated this through opinion polls we published on 
Egyptian and Pakistani views during the last year.
The revenue from our Iraq contract fell by 16% in the year as 
the client’s requirements for research continued to be scaled 
back. This will reduce further in the current year and we 
expect the contract to end by December 2011. We will build 
on the success of our regionally generated business which 
we expect will continue to grow significantly.
During the year we purchased the 22% minority interest in 
the Middle East business from the local shareholders. Full 
control of the business will help us to achieve our plans for 
further development.
Germany
 Year to Year to  % 
 31 July 31 July  Change 
 2011 2010 % excluding  
 £m £m Change GPW
Revenue 11.4 13.8 (17)% (9)%
Operating Profit 0.3 0.4 (33)% 
Operating Profit  
Margin (%) 2% 3%   Section 2  Business Review YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     10
The market research industry is undergoing a period of 
rapid technological change. YouGov was a pioneer in the 
use of the internet for online data collection, but online surveys 
still tend to use the same question formats and procedures 
of an earlier era. Most market and opinion surveys – both 
online and offline – are composed of “closed-ended” or 
“multiple choice” questions. The researcher writes a 
question, such as “How likely are you to buy a new car in 
the next six months?” and also supplies a set of possible 
answers (“Definitely will buy”, “Probably will buy”, etc.). Most 
people are able to answer this type of question quickly and 
the responses are standardised and easy for the researcher 
to analyse. This format, however, limits individual expression. 
The only answers available are those selected in advance 
by the researcher, which may not include the answer 
someone would like to give. 
An alternative is to use “open-ended” questions, which 
allow free-form responses, ranging from a single word to 
multiple paragraphs. Responses are read and categorised 
by human coders. The downside of this approach is its 
slowness and unreliability. Unlike closed-ended responses, 
which can be processed automatically, different human 
coders may classify the same response into different 
categories. However, advances in text analytics are now 
enabling YouGov to process open-ended text responses 
much faster than is possible with conventional human 
coding, without any sacrifice in accuracy. 
YouGov conducts large tracking surveys in multiple different 
languages that often include open-ended questions. For 
example, a key metric in many of our tracking studies is 
consumer awareness of different brands. “Awareness”  
can be asked in two different formats. In the “aided” format, 
respondents are asked which brands they have heard of 
from a pre-selected list. In the “unaided” format, respondents 
are asked to list those brands that come to mind when they 
think of a particular product category. The unaided format  
is usually more effective in achieving accurate data, but 
has been traditionally avoided due to the time, expense 
and unreliability of human coding of typed responses. 
With software developed by YouGov in the last year, we 
can now process open-ended awareness questions quickly 
and reliably. We use a fuzzy matching algorithm that finds 
the best match from a large list of brands. In spite of poor 
spelling or odd variations, our algorithm has no difficulty 
making the correct classification. For a project in which  
we run surveys in 20 different languages, coding previously 
required nearly three weeks to complete. Today, the open- 
ended responses are entirely machine coded by our 
bespoke software and the results are available almost 
immediately. This is an important milestone in achieving 
YouGov’s goal of providing its clients with a constant flow  
of real-time research.
We believe that the next frontier in research will apply text 
analytics to data not only from online surveys, but also from 
social networks. Everyday, millions of people around the 
world are posting to social networking sites. The wealth  
of opinions out there are difficult to process and interpret. 
At YouGov, we are developing practical methods for 
processing the large quantities of data from these sources 
and interpreting what they mean.
Innovations
Doug Rivers
Chief Innovations Officer
“An important function of the future market 
research industry will be to distinguish 
unrepresentative online chatter from widely 
held views.” Section 2  Business Review YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     11
Case Study: Public Perception
electricity” providers show significant improvement in 
“Buzz” scores while the largest national and regional 
companies declined.
In June 2011, YouGov published a report detailing these 
BrandIndex findings. It quickly became a “must have” 
purchase for key players in the German energy sector, as 
they worked through how to best respond to the rapidly 
changing public attitudes. Were customers more likely to 
turn towards the “green” suppliers? Was greater investment 
in “green” technologies warranted? BrandIndex helped to 
provide clarity and direction during these turbulent times.
Today, more than six months after the Japanese 
earthquake, the aftershocks and ripple effects from 
Japan, are still being felt in Germany. The “green” 
energy providers still maintain an elevated “Buzz” score 
among German consumers, and perceptions of 
traditional energy market have yet to recover.
Can an incident that happened nearly 10,000km away 
have an effect on the perception of regional energy 
brands in Germany?
The March 2011 earthquake off the coast of Japan and the 
resulting tsunami which crippled the Fukushima nuclear 
power plant generated massive debate within Germany 
about the future of its energy market. Shortly after the 
earthquake, the German government proposed to accelerate 
its planned phase-out of its nuclear power plants, and 
hasten the shift to a low-carbon, non-nuclear future. The 
impact on the German energy brands was immediate. 
The BrandIndex indicator “Attention” shows that since 
the reactor disaster, discussions about power plants 
among the German public have increased and, as 
expected, the “Buzz” indicator shows that these 
discussions have primarily been negative. However, not 
all brands have been impacted in the same way. “Green 
BrandIndex, YouGov’s flagship brand intelligence service, 
tells our clients exactly what the world thinks of their brands 
at any given moment. BrandIndex uses YouGov’s proven 
methodology to gather the most accurate measures of public 
opinion and delivers the results through a unique online 
reporting tool, making it easy for decision-makers to keep  
a watchful eye on brand health. Our data is updated daily 
and, unlike other brand intelligence services, BrandIndex 
measures public perception of thousands of brands across 
multiple sectors simultaneously, so that subscribers not only 
get a real-time picture of their own brand’s health, but also 
that of competitors.
This year, YouGov is making two critical enhancements to 
BrandIndex. Firstly, we will include an expanded set of key 
performance metrics that will make the offering even more 
powerful for monitoring brand performance on a common 
basis across industry categories and across countries. 
This will be the BrandIndex Market View service.
Secondly, we will be introducing the Category BrandIndex 
service which will enable clients to dive more deeply into 
category-specific product purchase intentions and actions, 
as well as brand attributes.
BrandIndex clients include international brands as well as 
advertising and media agencies and we are proud to have 
welcomed Skechers, Mazda, Kaplan Thaler, Commerzbank 
and Boots as clients in the past year. 
BrandIndex has multiple uses including measuring the 
effectiveness of an advertising campaign or product launch, 
keeping a careful eye on competitors, or, as the following 
case study explains, assessing the impact of a major crisis.
BrandIndex
Public Perception Indicator Buzz Indicator
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
40%
-80
-70
-60
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Increased public perception of German energy companies following 
the Tsunami in Japan
German public more positive about “Green” power, and less positive
about traditional energy providers, following the Tsunami in Japan
Source: YouGov BrandIndex Deutschland, 01.01.2011 – 31.05.2011
%  Baseline scores April/May 2010
 Energy Companies: e.on, EnBW, RWE, Vattenfall; 
 Green Electricity Providers: Lichtblick, Naturenergie, Secura; 
 Regional Suppliers: Entega, EnviaM, EWE, Mainova, N-Ergie, Rheinenergie, Stadtwerke Düsseldorf, swb, Thüga;
 Discount Providers:  Bonusstrom, E wie einfach, Eprimo, FlexStrom, lekker Energie, TelDaFax Energy, Yello Strom
2011
20%
10%
7%
5%
+27
-2
-23
-35
Tsunami in Japan
JanuaryFebruary MarchApril May
2011
JanuaryFebruary MarchApril May
Tsunami in Japan Section 2  Business Review YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     12
with UK residents worried about their jobs, home prices, 
and the government’s handling of the economy. While 
the US consumer started 2011 with a positive outlook on  
the future, expectations fell significantly over the year.  
By August, significantly more US consumers believed 
their financial situation would “get worse” over the next 
12 months, than believed it would “get better”.
The HEAT results during the first eight months of 2011 
tell a different story in China, than in the US and UK.  
In China, consumer sentiment was very positive overall, 
reflecting China’s growing worldwide economic 
influence. Among US and UK consumers, however, the 
story was far more negative. During 2011, the UK HEAT 
index fell to its lowest levels since we began measuring 
it in 2009. This was consistent across multiple measures, 
Case Study: Comparison of Economic Confidence in the UK, US and China, January – August 2011
Investment Sector Products:
HEAT (Household Economic Activity Tracker)
In January, an internet user in Beijing was being asked at the 
end of his day about his outlook on his household’s 
finances. An hour later, a man in London sat in his office 
and answered questions about changes in business activity 
at his employer. Shortly after, a woman in Washington, D.C. 
answered a question about her confidence in the government’s 
management of the economy. All three of these people were 
taking part in YouGov’s first multinational tracker, the 
Household Economic Activity Tracker (HEAT). 
HEAT is part of a broader YouGov effort to leverage its 
panel for new data products in multiple sectors, including 
retail, technology and financial services. This new set of 
products, preliminarily designed in FY2011, will provide 
investors and financial analysts, corporate strategists, and 
product marketers with insight on trends in consumer 
behaviour to help them make more informed decisions.
HEAT is an early warning system for changes in key 
economic indicators before consumer behaviour feeds 
through to official economic measures. HEAT is a unique, 
first-to-market, monthly report produced by expert economic 
analysts who review the findings within the context of the 
wider economy and key political and economic events, 
providing analysis not only of current conditions but also  
of future outlook. Unlike other trackers and indices with 
significant processing time or quarterly or annual results, 
HEAT can deliver you data within days of month-end. The 
tracker measures a number of factors including change  
in household income, household spending, savings, debt 
and borrowing, workplace activity levels, government 
confidence, and inflation perceptions and expectations. 
Additional findings are drawn from the US HEAT report 
which can provide early indications of changes to the 
global macroeconomic environment. 
YouGov plans to build on what has been learned from 
HEAT in 2011 by expanding its scope into other territories. 
Likely candidates which we are evaluating include the 
Eurozone, notably Germany and France.
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
-10
-20
-30
-40
-50
Net %
Source: YouGov Household Economic Activity Tracker, 01.01.11 – 31.08.11
 China
 US
 UK
Net HEAT Score Section 2  Business Review YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     13
YouGov SixthSense – more than just a reports service, it is an “information stream”
SixthSense
SixthSense provides comprehensive market reports  
packed with original consumer research data and analysis 
supplemented by information on market sizes, brand analysis, 
competitive benchmarking and market forecasts. Our ethos 
is that the story does not end when we pack our primary 
research into the “wrapper” of a market report. Following the 
publication of a report, our analysts continue to develop their 
research by listening to our clients, watching the market, and 
updating our data; and we give our clients immediate 
access to our latest findings.
At the heart of SixthSense reports is constantly updated 
primary research – revolutionising the standard approach 
of other players who update infrequently and tend to rely on 
market commentary and secondary data for their updates. 
By leveraging the YouGov proprietary panel, SixthSense 
can respond to changes in the markets we cover rapidly. 
We provide our clients with real-time insight into changing 
consumer behaviour and attitudes in sectors ranging from 
food, drink and retail through to health and beauty, finance, 
technology and many more.
A key innovation, and one that supports the SixthSense ethos, 
is the way in which our reports are delivered. As soon as the 
research behind a new report is completed, we make the 
data available via the SixthSense online portal, allowing our 
clients to access the research ahead of a report’s publication. 
We also produce supplements to existing reports and add 
these to the portal throughout the year. By doing this we 
have made SixthSense more than just a reports service – it 
is an “information stream”. We believe that this is crucial to 
helping our clients stay ahead of the curve.
A key benefit of SixthSense is that we are open to 
accommodating client requests for specific information in 
future updates of our reports. Being a full-service market 
research agency, YouGov also has at its disposal a number 
of sector-based research and consulting teams who can 
produce in-depth bespoke quantitative and qualitative 
research for clients upon request.
In short, we have created a market intelligence report 
business for the digital age. The fact that our competitors 
are following our lead suggests that our model is the right 
one. The increase in our client roster over the past financial 
year also supports this view; we have signed up over 250 
new clients in the past 12 months, including Unilever, 3663, 
Lloyds TSB, Cable & Wireless, Honda and Sony.
The SixthSense library currently contains over 140 individual 
titles covering over 400 topic areas. During the next 
financial year our reports portfolio will grow significantly 
both by the addition of more specialist reports within the 
sectors already covered and by the extension of our 
coverage to new international geographies.
When something changes in a sector, our 
research methodology enables us to have  
the latest consumer insight, and deliver  
it to our clients immediately via the 
SixthSense online platform.
“YouGov SixthSense reports are in-depth, 
relevant and provide us with the actionable 
insight needed in a challenging environment.”
Market and Retail Trends Manager 
Sony UK Section 2  Business Review YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     14
The Panasonic Corporation is one of the largest electronic 
product manufacturers in the world, comprised of over 680 
companies, US$100 billion in net sales, with a workforce of 
over 360,000 employees. The Company provides a wide 
range of products for the consumer, business-to-business 
and industrial marketplaces. As one of the largest electronic 
companies in the world today, Panasonic aims to become 
the number one “Green Innovation Company”.
The US is Panasonic’s single biggest market and to continue 
that expansion, they turned to YouGov’s Marketing Insights 
unit for help regarding two broad challenges for the Group:
•	 How can Panasonic better define its home-based 
“Green Offering” for the consumer?
•	 How can Panasonic play to win in the “Cloud” 
services and storage spaces? 
For its “Green Offering,” YouGov Marketing Insights 
recruited a range of consumers who identified themselves 
as “green” and used its skilled moderators and Kano 
analysis to forecast opportunities in the “Green” market 
space that other manufacturers have not anticipated. 
These insights are being used to drive Panasonic’s product 
development, product roadmap, and marketing efforts.
The “Cloud Service” initiative also helped Panasonic get 
quick traction in the space. The Marketing Insights team 
leveraged YouGov’s 1.7m panellists in the United States to 
test the value proposition of Panasonic’s two initial offerings. 
YouGov uncovered product enhancements, positioning 
opportunities, and incremental pricing opportunities that 
made strong business propositions even more compelling. 
While these new products and services are still under 
development, YouGov gave Panasonic the data needed  
to take the services to market in 2012
Business Overview 
Through a combination of targeted acquisitions and organic 
growth, YouGov America has become one of the leading 
marketing research firms in the USA – while remaining  
the leading online political polling firm. Using our panel  
of over 1.5 million members and the YouGov Group’s  
global capabilities, we provide corporate, academic and 
government clients with a unique combination of reliable 
data, sophisticated analytics and experienced experts 
resulting in powerful insights that inform strategic and 
operating decisions.
Review of 2010/11
The acquisition of The Harrison Group, followed by that  
of Definitive Insights, significantly increased YouGov 
America’s coverage of several high growth industry sectors, 
such as information technology, telecommunications, 
financial services and entertainment. They also extended 
YouGov’s physical presence on both the East and West 
Coasts as well as bringing in a roster of blue chip corporate 
clients. New clients, such as Service Master, Computer 
Associates, Visa, Reckett Benckiser, Union Bank, GTECH 
and Izzy were also attracted by our expanded capabilities. 
Throughout the year, YouGov continued to be an innovator 
in the North American market with the recent launch of  
an enhanced BrandIndex providing a deeper look at the 
dynamics within key industries, the development of a next 
generation market segmentation tool and the Harrison 
Group’s study examining affluent consumers (see page 15).
Acquisition: The Harrison Group
The Harrison Group, based in Westbury, Connecticut,  
was founded in 1996 by Doug Harrison, previously a  
senior executive with Yankelovich Partners, who remains 
the Chief Executive Officer. It now serves some 60 leading 
corporate clients across many sectors including technology, 
financial services, interactive entertainment, real estate 
development and consumer goods. Harrison Group has 
Ca s e	Stu d y: 	Pa n a son ic
Doss Struse
President 
YouGov America
Our Hubs
“We are in the ‘futures’ business, that is, we 
help our clients understand how consumers 
will respond or react to alternative actions our 
clients might take, allowing these clients to 
optimise the return from their marketing and 
new product development investments.” Section 2  Business Review YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     15
to create targeted advertising; to impact forward product 
design and purchase prices; and as input to the training  
of salespeople around the United States.
Acquisition: Definitive Insights
Definitive Insights, though less than two years old when 
acquired in April 2011, brought to YouGov an experienced 
cadre of researchers. Definitive Insights has focused on 
building strong relationships with the market leader in 
strategic industry sectors including information technology, 
medical devices, energy and financial services. Its 
presence in Oregon close to YouGov’s existing Palo Alto 
base has increased YouGov’s resources serving West 
Coast clients.
Plans for 2011/12 
North American clients competing in the information 
technology, healthcare, financial services, media and 
telecommunications sectors are experiencing rapid  
growth and disruptive change, and this makes “better 
understanding the consumer” a high value proposition.  
We intend to capitalise on this to enhance our position  
as thought leaders in these key industry sectors. A major 
effort in the coming year will be to exploit our superior 
panel and sampling capabilities though new methods, 
unique research designs and information products. We  
will also continue to integrate the operations, marketing  
and sales activities of our enlarged US business to 
increase efficiency and support further growth.
also been successful in developing syndicated, continuing 
studies for strategic industries. These include the annual 
Survey of Affluence and Wealth in America, produced  
in collaboration with American Express Publishing, which 
has become one of the most valued resources for the 
luxury goods market and the American Pantry Study, 
created with Deloitte to reveal how the recession has 
shaped American consumers’ attitudes and behaviours.
The American Express Publishing and Harrison Group 
Survey of Affluence and Wealth in America
This proprietary Harrison Group study is used by companies 
to track the lifestyles, purchasing behaviour, decision-making 
and brand biases of the 11 million families that make up the 
top 10 per cent of the American household income spectrum. 
Because the sample represents true purchasing power 
with disproportionate numbers of wealthy and nearly wealthy 
respondents, clients can assemble sample groups that 
represent their specific marketing targets. For example,  
we were able to supply data to an automotive client who 
wanted to understand a target group who could easily afford 
automobiles in the US$100,000 product range. The data 
was used by the client to evaluate the strength of their 
brand against competitors at that price point in order  
“I love working with YouGov. They get it,  
their work helps us learn things about our  
own customers that we didn’t know, and they 
function as if they were part of our own internal 
team. We use lots of primary and secondary 
data when building our plans, I couldn’t 
imagine launching a new product or service 
without YouGov Marketing Insights custom 
research and help.”
Bill Taylor 
Panasonic System Networks President (US)
YouGov America Offices
Palo Alto, California 
Lawrenceville, New Jersey 
Los Angeles, California 
New York, New York 
Portland, Oregon 
Waterbury, Connecticut 
Washington, Washington, D.C. Section 2  Business Review YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     16
Business Overview
YouGov UK provides a full quantitative and qualitative 
market research service to clients. Our offer is rooted  
in the high degree of engagement and responsiveness  
of our panel. The products division provides BrandIndex, 
the daily brand perception tracker, and the fast turnaround 
Omnibus service which is the market leader in the UK, and 
SixthSense industry reports. Our sector specialist custom 
research teams serve financial, media, technology and 
telecoms, FMCG and public sector markets.
Review of 2010/11
Consistent growth was seen across all areas of the business 
with Omnibus expanding internationally and good new 
business wins for our custom research teams as well as 
expansion of major tracking projects with existing clients. 
The most significant new development was the establishment 
and growth of SixthSense, our industry reports arm, which 
was launched in March 2010. It now offers a wide range of 
reports covering many sectors including financial services, 
food and drink and business services. See page 13 for a 
detailed description of SixthSense.
Plans for 2011/12
We are the most highly quoted market researcher in the UK 
media but still have a relatively small market share, especially 
in custom research. We will continue to exploit the awareness 
of our brand to increase our market share further, both by 
growing revenue from our products, especially SixthSense, 
and by winning new custom research business in each  
of the sectors in which we currently operate. We are also 
developing new, specialist Omnibus services to ensure  
we maintain our leadership in this marketplace.
YouGov UK recently undertook a large-
scale multi-country project for the 
Penguin Group. The study was a global 
brand evaluation which sought to 
understand how the Penguin brand is 
perceived, locally and globally, amongst 
core audience groups which included 
employees, consumers and academics.
The research was conducted in the UK, USA, Canada, 
Australia and India, and a combined qualitative and 
quantitative approach was employed. This approach 
comprised of an online workshop with international 
stakeholders, online in-depth interviews with Penguin 
employees and academics, online focus groups with 
consumers, and an online survey with 5,000 consumers 
and academics across the markets. 
The results from the research are being used to inform 
the framework for the Penguin brand strategy and future 
initiatives on both local and global levels. 
“Penguin recently partnered with YouGov on a complicated 
multi-market research study which needed to engage a 
number of key stakeholders around the world. We hadn’t 
conducted anything on this scale before so we had high 
expectations. I am pleased to say that YouGov succeeded 
in delivering a set of findings that were insightful, illuminating 
and robust and which were extremely helpful in setting  
a framework for our brand strategy. The team at YouGov 
were a delight to work with. They were incredibly hard 
working, flexible, efficient and never lost enthusiasm for 
the project. In many ways, it felt more like a partnership 
than a traditional agency relationship.”
Rebecca Sinclair 
Communications Director 
Penguin Group 
Ca s e	Stu d y: 	P e n g uin	G r ou p
Phil Rance
Managing Director 
YouGov UK
Our Hubs continued
“I am delighted to be joining a business which 
is already performing well across all its product 
lines, and has a strong well-established team. 
I am excited by the opportunity to deliver even 
more value for clients by using our excellent 
custom research and analytical capabilities  
to build on the BrandIndex, SixthSense and 
Omnibus products.” Section 2  Business Review YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     17
Business Overview
YouGov is the Middle East region’s most quoted research 
company and our brand is trusted for its impartiality and 
accuracy. Our online panel continues to grow and at over 
350,000 members, across 21 countries in the Middle East and 
North Africa, is undoubtedly the strongest in the region. As the 
pioneers of online research in the Middle East, our reputation 
continues to grow and by combining experienced researchers 
who understand local markets with the YouGov engine and 
expertise, we are able to offer unparalleled service and 
access across the Arab world.
Review of 2010/11
This has been a successful year for the local United Arab 
Emirates (UAE) business; we have restructured the teams 
and managed to deliver a strong performance. The most 
pleasing aspect of 2010/11 was the continuing shift from 
offline to online in our quantitative output and the 
subsequent improvement in our margins. We also saw strong 
growth in our products division, particularly driven by 
international clients. Our panel continues to grow, particularly 
across the Maghreb countries and Egypt, and we recently 
established the very first online panel in Pakistan. The 
increased bandwidth allowed us to publish, within 24 hours, 
the first opinion poll in Egypt following the removal of Hosni 
Mubarak, as well as the first opinion poll in Pakistan 
following the death of Osama Bin Laden.
Plans for 2011/12
Over the coming year, we will continue the shift towards the 
YouGov UK model, with strong sales teams, a high-volume 
products division and an ever-present media profile. With 
the recruitment of senior Arab resources strengthening  
our team, we are well placed to capitalise on local and 
government contracts and the increased speed and value 
that online research offers. We expect to continue to grow 
revenue in our products division and we will focus on 
operations and business development resource for this 
division. Our media profile is already strong, and through 
leveraging existing relationships with local and regional 
media we will continue to ensure we are well placed to 
attract both new panellists and clients.
Keeping our innovations flag flying  
high, YouGov has been instrumental  
in developing a People’s Savings Index 
for National Bonds Corporation PJSC,  
in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
National Bonds Corporation PJSC is the Middle East’s 
leading Shariah compliant saving schemes provider.  
It was established in 2006 with the remit of nurturing  
a savings culture by encouraging responsible financial 
management through innovative saving initiatives. Taking 
into account the global financial crisis and the need for 
people to re-assess their financial health, National Bonds 
Corporation sought the services of YouGov to help develop 
a “first of its kind” People’s Savings Index for the UAE 
and other Gulf Corporation Council (GCC) markets. 
“The National Bonds Savings Index” is in its second year 
now since inception in September 2010. The exercise is 
conducted half-yearly using online methodology targeting 
more than 1,500 banking customers. The index is calculated 
individually for the UAE, KSA and other GCC countries 
and is comprised of three key components: the Savings 
Environment; Savings Potential; and Financial Stability.
YouGov’s index has enjoyed wide coverage in local and 
Pan-Arab media and insights from the study have been 
instrumental in helping financial institutions develop 
products aimed at encouraging adoption of a savings 
culture across the GCC.
“Our strategic alliance with YouGov has been instrumental 
in sending the necessary wake up calls to both the public 
at large and the decision makers in the UAE and the 
GCC. Hopefully with YouGov’s support, National Bonds 
will continue its journey of enabling people to reach to their 
financial health through proper education and adequate 
tools offered by our unique scheme.”
Mohamed Qasim 
CEO 
National Bonds Corporation PJSC
Ca s e	Stu d y: 	N a t ion a l 	Bon d s 	C or p or a t ion 	PJSC	
Sundip Chahal
CEO 
YouGov Middle East
“Most potential clients in the region now 
accept the benefits of online research. We are 
increasingly recognised as the premier regional 
supplier at a time when demand is growing for 
rapid and accurate data on people’s attitudes.” Section 2  Business Review YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     18
Our Hubs continued
Business Overview
In Germany, YouGov provides a full range of quantitative 
and qualitative market research services as well as being  
a specialist in organisational and employee research. 
YouGov has also pioneered the use of online research  
in the German market. We cover a wide range of vertical 
markets and have built a strong reputation as a leader  
in the retail banking and insurance sectors for which we 
undertake authoritative annual customer behaviour and 
satisfaction studies; we also cover the automotive, FMCG 
and telecommunications sectors. Through our subsidiary, 
ServiceRating, we also provide businesses with an 
assessment of their customer service quality.
Review of 2010/11
Our online products business which was established in 2009, 
delivered an excellent performance, almost doubling its 
revenue. YouGov’s flagship online products, BrandIndex 
and Omnibus, are now firmly established in the German 
market and are bringing new clients into the business, such 
as Mazda and Nokia Siemens. However, the custom research 
area has continued to be challenging, particularly in the 
financial services sector. We are part of the way through the 
process of restructuring the business and re-engineering 
our processes so as to improve profitability of the business. 
In 2010/11, the actions taken included the closure of the 
custom healthcare unit in May 2011 and the disposal of 
Great Place to Work Germany (GPW) in December 2010.
Plans for 2011/12
The focus this year is on maintaining the growth in 
YouGov’s online products in Germany while improving the 
financial performance of the overall business through 
greater efficiency and targeting of sales in sectors and 
products where we have competitive strengths. The new 
CEO, Andreas Sperling, who assumed the role on  
1 September 2011, has begun to implement the detailed 
action plan to achieve this.
The ARAG Group is the largest family 
enterprise in the German insurance 
industry and the second-largest legal 
insurer in the world. This year, ARAG 
engaged YouGov to conduct a 
representative online-based advertising 
tracking survey across Germany.
Our research for ARAG examined the awareness and 
impact of a combined TV and internet campaign aimed 
at repositioning the insurer’s brand in the German market. 
YouGov studied the effects of the campaign through 
bespoke analytics as well as via our weekly “Insurance 
Market” advertising tracker product, which has been 
running since the beginning of 2010. The historical  
data from the tracker provided us with a wide range  
of benchmarks against which to assess the impact  
of the ARAG campaign, allowing us to offer additional 
insights to the client.
The insurer is a long-running client for whom we 
traditionally conducted Computer Assisted Telephone 
Interview (CATI) projects. The fact that the majority  
of our research for ARAG is now conducted online,  
points towards the cost-effectiveness, speed and 
accuracy of our online methodology, and its growing 
acceptance in the German market.
“With their own huge online panel in Germany, YouGov 
can offer a flexible and valid advertisement measurement 
service. This, in combination with their special expertise  
in the financial services sector, allowed us to benefit 
greatly from this project.”
Dagmar Klaff 
Head of Market Research and Customer Management 
Allgemeine Rechtsschutz-Versicherungs-AG (ARAG)
Ca s e	Stu d y: 	A l lg e m ei ne 	Re ch t ss chu t z - V e rs i ch e r u n g s - A G 	(A R A G)
Andreas Sperling
CEO 
YouGov Germany
“The successful introduction of YouGov’s  
core online products and services has helped 
to build awareness of the YouGov brand in 
the German research market and to establish 
a firm base for future profitable growth.” Section 2  Business Review YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     19
video games. Lastly, we also undertook an attitude-based 
segmentation study. Through the use of a k-means cluster 
analysis, we grouped consumers with similar attitudes into 
clusters and then cross-referenced with various known 
consumption and background variables. This process 
allowed us to identify explanatory variables and thereby 
advise NFE about the reasons behind certain changes 
in behaviour.
YouGov’s market study is currently being used by NFE in 
a series of internal workshops to define the company’s 
future strategy and market approach.
“YouGov was the obvious choice when we were faced 
with a complex research project that required 36,000 
interviews across the Nordic region. As expected, we 
were very satisfied with the manner in which YouGov 
conducted the project.”
Rie Vesterbæk Mørck 
Client Relations and Program Manager, Nordisk Film Egmont
  As Scandinavia’s leading developer,  
  manufacturer and distributor of creative  
  content in games and movies, it is   
  crucial for Nordisk Film Egmont (NFE)  
  to closely monitor changes in the 
market and consumer behaviour, in order to maintain 
their leading edge.
In the spring of 2011, NFE wanted to better understand 
the current behaviour of Nordic media consumers. They 
turned to YouGov to conduct a large market survey of 
consumption habits and attitudes toward movies and 
games across the Nordic region. 
As the backbone of the study, we utilised our online market 
research platform to ask 20,000 people for a detailed 
description of their media consumption throughout one 
whole day. To flesh out the captured data, we also tested 
consumer attitudes to movies and games through 8,000 
focussed online interviews with cinema-goers and home- 
cinema viewers, and 8,000 interviews with people who use 
Business Overview
YouGov Nordic serves Denmark, Sweden, Norway and 
Finland through an online panel of over 150,000 members 
and is one of the most quoted market research companies 
in the region. Our regional head office is in Copenhagen, 
with sales offices in Stockholm, Malmö and Oslo. Our 
clients range across numerous sectors, with FMCG, media 
and healthcare representing the largest share of revenue.
Review of 2010/11
We achieved strong growth and solid profits in 20101/11 
and not only continued but accelerated the improved 
performance of the final six months of 2009/10. We 
succeeded in attracting over 100 new clients over the  
year, driven by our new focused sales approach as well  
as building on existing relationships and increasing 
revenue from our Top 20 clients. Especially promising  
was the launch of several new products including Launch 
Monitor, and trackers focused on Video on Demand and 
Health Online Search Behavior, and also the significant 
growth of our qualitative online business. The efficiency 
gains from the roll-out last year of YouGov group 
technology also began to benefit our margins.
We have also continued the journey of building the  
YouGov brand in the region. In Sweden, we gained  
multiple headlines in the national media and launched 
YouGov Opinion, our new political polling service, which 
has since conducted several political studies (including  
the most accurate exit poll at the Swedish General 
Election). In Denmark, the YouGov brand achieved a 25% 
growth in press quotes. We have also strengthened our 
dialogue and relationship with our Nordic panel members 
through intensified direct communications and an improved 
incentive scheme. 
Plans for 2011/12
We will build on this year’s strong performance and further 
strengthen our position in the Nordics by leveraging the 
YouGov Group’s suite of innovative tools. We will also 
continue expanding each of our Nordic panels and retain  
a high degree of engagement with our panel.
Ca s e	Stu d y: 	No r d i sk	Fi l m	Eg m o n t
Ole Haghfelt
CEO 
YouGov Nordic
“The headline for this year will be to keep 
growth momentum.”
  
  
  
   Section 2  Business Review YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     20
Alan Newman
Chief Financial Officer
Income Statement Review
Group turnover for the year to 31 July 2011 of £56.1m was 
27% higher than the prior year and 9% on a like-for-like basis, 
excluding the effect of acquisitions and disposals. In constant 
currency terms revenue grew by 29%. As expected, the 
highest growth was in the US at 32% organically and 230% 
in total following the two acquisitions made during the year. 
UK, Middle East and Nordic also grew their revenue but 
Germany’s fell by 9% organically (excluding Great Place  
to Work (GPW) disposed of during the year). 
The Group’s gross profit (after deducting costs of panel 
incentives and external data collection) increased by £7.9m 
to £42.2m, although the gross margin fell by 3% points to 
75% from 78% due largely to the higher proportion of 
external data collection undertaken by the American 
acquired businesses.
Operating expenses (excluding amortisation and exceptional 
items) of £37.0m were £6.4m higher than last year, a total 
increase of 21% but only 13% in organic terms (excluding  
the businesses acquired and disposed of in the year). The 
operating expense ratio fell to 66% compared to 69% in the 
prior year reflecting the effect of savings measures taken in 
the previous 18 months although investments in staff were 
made during the year to support new business initiatives (such 
as SixthSense) and continued growth in existing areas. 
The average number of staff (full-time equivalents) employed 
during the year increased to 476 from 420 in the previous 
year. The net growth of 56 staff reflected the addition  
of 58 in Harrison and Definitive Insights and a reduction  
of 26 due to the sale of GPW Germany. This represents  
an underlying increase of 24. Average revenue per head 
increased to £118k from £105k in the previous year.
Adjusted group operating profit increased by 40% to £5.3m 
compared to £3.8m in the previous year. Adjusted profit 
before taxation, which includes net interest income, rose  
by £1.8m to £5.8m. Adjusted earnings per share
1
 for  
the year rose by 88% to 4.7p (2010: 2.5p), reflecting the 
improved profitability of the business. The reported result 
before taxation (after charging amortisation, impairment and 
exceptional items) showed a profit of £0.4m compared to  
a restated loss of £10.6m in the year ended 31 July 2010.
Amortisation of Intangible Assets and Impairment
Amortisation charges for intangible assets totalled £3.8m 
(2010: £3.7m) in the year of which £3.0m (2010: £2.6m) 
related to acquired assets and £0.8m (2010: £1.1m) to 
those created through the Group’s own internal 
development activities.
Exceptional Items 
Exceptional costs of £1.1m (2010 restated: £2.8m) were 
incurred in the year. £0.8m related to costs incurred in 
respect of the US acquisitions made in the year and £0.3m 
to restructuring costs in Germany including the disposal  
of the GPW business in Germany and Austria.
Analysis of Operating Profit and Earnings per Share: 
  31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
  £000 £000
Group operating profit before  
amortisation of intangibles,  
impairment and exceptional costs  5,269 3,776
Share based payments 337 148
Imputed interest 202 48
Net finance income 58 5
Share of post-tax (loss)/profit  
in joint venture (32) (8)
Adjusted profit before tax 5,834 3,969
Adjusted profit after tax 4,459 2,432
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 4.7 2.5
Cash Flow
The Group generated £5.6m in cash from operations (before 
paying interest and tax) (2010: £4.9m) and paid out £11.0m 
in investing and financing activities (2010: £3.0m). £2.7m  
of this (2010: £2.3m) related to capital expenditure on 
tangible and intangible assets and £8.1m (2010: £0.6m)  
to acquisitions including deferred consideration.
Taxation 
The Group had a tax credit of £nil (2010: £2.6m) on a 
reported basis. The current tax charge of £0.2m (2010: £0.2m) 
was offset by a deferred tax credit of £0.2m (2010: £2.8m). 
On an adjusted basis, the tax charge was £1.4m (2010: £1.5m) 
which represents an implied tax rate of 24% on the 
adjusted profit before tax (2010: 39%).
Balance Sheet
Total shareholders’ funds rose to £55.8m from £55.2m  
at 31 July 2010. However, net assets fell to £55.9m 
compared to £59.2m at 31 July 2010 as the purchase  
of non-controlling interests in the Middle East and 
1. Adjusted earnings per share is calculated based on the post-tax result derived 
from the adjusted profit before tax.
Chief Financial Officer’s Report for the year ended 31 July 2011 Section 2  Business Review YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     21
On 31 October 2010, the Group purchased the 22% 
shareholding that we did not already own in our Middle 
East business (YouGov ME FZ LLC) from the minority 
shareholders. The consideration for this purchase was 
£1.9m which represented a discount of £1.9m (£1.7m net of 
associated costs) compared to the book value of minority 
interests of £3.8m. This purchase will improve the ability  
of the Group to develop our Middle Eastern business  
as well as enhancing the earnings attributable to  
YouGov’s shareholders.
As part of our strategy of focusing our attention in Germany 
on our core and strategic market research business, YouGov 
disposed of Great Place to Work Deutschland GmbH (“GPW 
Germany”), a wholly owned unit within YouGovPsychonomics 
AG, our German subsidiary, through a management buy-out 
led by the CEO of YouGovPsychonomics and the CEO of 
GPW Germany. The sale was completed on 31 December 
2010 and proceeds of the disposal amounted to £0.5m.
On 24 November 2010, the Group invested £0.5m in return 
for a shareholding of 25% in CoEditor Limited, of which 
Doughty Media 2 Limited, a company controlled by Stephan 
Shakespeare, owns 75%. CoEditor has developed software 
and expertise in the field of news and content aggregation 
which will be provided exclusively to YouGov for the purpose 
of providing dedicated content and activities for members 
of YouGov’s online panels. CoEditor’s main business 
objective is to exploit its intellectual property rights in 
markets and activities outside market research. YouGov 
also has options to acquire additional shares which will 
enable it to benefit from increases in CoEditor’s equity 
value resulting from its business development.
On 6 June 2011, the Group purchased the 49% shareholding 
that we did not already own in YouGovStone Limited from 
Carole Stone, the CEO and founder of the business. This 
was undertaken pursuant to the shareholders’ agreement 
entered into when the joint venture business was established 
in April 2007. The total consideration for the purchase was 
£0.8m which was satisfied as to £0.7m in cash and as to 
£0.1m by the issue to Carole Stone of 228,833 ordinary 
shares in YouGov plc. These shares may not be sold for a 
period of 12 months from the date of issue. Carole Stone 
has become Executive Chairman of YouGovStone following 
the transaction. The prior year financial statements have 
been restated to reflect the liability at 31 July 2010 in 
respect of the put-option held by Carole Stone which was 
exercised in the year under review.
Alan Newman 
Chief Financial Officer 
10 October 2011
YouGovStone led to non-controlling interests falling by 
£3.9m, almost to nil. Cash balances fell by £6.2m to £9.4m 
from £15.6m as at 31 July 2010 due largely to the cash 
expenditure on the US acquisitions and non-controlling 
interests. This contributed to a reduction of £7.5m in net 
current assets to £10.0m from £17.5m. Debtor days were 
constant at 61. Current liabilities increased by £2.3m to 
£15.2m from £12.9m. Creditor days fell slightly to 32 days 
from 34 days in 2010.
Panel Development
As at 31 July 2011, the Group’s online panels comprised a 
total of 2,867,100 panellists (defined as the number of panel 
registrations), an increase of 14% over the total of 2,510,500 
as at 31 July 2010. The panel sizes by region were:
  Panel size Panel size 
Region at 31 July 2011 at 31 July 2010
UK  405,800 338,300
Middle East & North Africa 351,700 214,000
Germany  152,800 81,600
Nordic 162,800 129,600
USA 1,768,200 1,747,000
France 25,800 –
Total  2,867,100 2,510,500
Panel numbers have grown across all hubs in the current 
financial year. This is both due to the continually increasing 
levels of online survey activity and also an active commitment 
to panel growth being pursued by our global panel team.  
In the US the year-on-year increase was marginal due to  
a periodical review of participants leading to those with  
low or no activity being taken off the panel.
Corporate Development Activities
On 16 August 2010, the Group acquired 100% of Harrison 
Group, a leading US market research agency for a basic 
purchase consideration of six times the EBITDA achieved 
by Harrison in the year ended 31 December 2010 of 
US$2.4m (£1.5m) which amounts to a total of US$14.3m 
(£9.1m). US$6.0m (£3.8m) of this was paid on completion 
and US$3.0m (£1.8m) was paid in April 2011. The balance 
will be payable in instalments in 2012 and 2013, contingent 
upon the results achieved in 2010 and 2011. An additional 
payment of up to US$1.2m (£0.8m) will be payable in 2013 
contingent upon strong EBITDA growth targets being 
achieved in the calendar years 2011 and 2012.
On 1 April 2011, the Group acquired 100% of Definitive 
Insights (DI), a custom research company based in Oregon, 
USA. The basic purchase consideration payable is 4.5 times 
the average EBITDA of DI for the two financial years ending 
31 January 2013 plus an additional incentive of up to 20% 
contingent upon EBITDA growth between 2012 and 2013 
exceeding 30%. If the full incentive is paid, this would bring 
the total multiple up to 5 times EBITDA for the year ended 
31 January 2013. If DI achieves its business plan targets  
for the two years to January 2013, the earn-out payment  
will be US$4.7m (£2.9m), which together with the initial 
investment gives a total price of US$5.7m (£3.5m).  Section 3  Management and Governance YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     22
Roger Parry 
Non-Executive Chairman
Roger is also Non-Executive Chairman of Media Square plc and Mobile Streams 
plc, and Chairman of Shakespeare’s Globe Trust. He is a Visiting Fellow of Oxford 
University. Roger was previously a journalist with the BBC and ITV and a 
consultant with McKinsey & Co. He was also previously CEO of More Group plc 
and Chairman and CEO of Clear Channel International. He was Chairman of 
Johnston Press plc from 2001 to 2009 and Future plc from 2001 to 2011. Roger 
was educated at the universities of Oxford (M.Litt Economics) and Bristol  
(BSc Geology). He is the author of four books: People Businesses; Enterprise; 
Making Cities Work; and The Ascent of Media.
Stephan Shakespeare  
Chief Executive Officer  
and Co-Founder
Stephan co-founded YouGov in 2000 (a collaboration with Nadhim Zahawi).  
One of the pioneers of internet research, Stephan has been the driving force 
behind YouGov’s innovation-led strategy. He is also Chairman of PoliticsHome.
com. Before founding YouGov, Stephan was a schoolteacher and founding 
Principal of Landmark West Preparatory School in Los Angeles. Stephan has  
an MA in English Language and Literature from Oxford University.
Alan Newman 
Chief Financial Officer
Alan has been CFO of YouGov since 2008. He was previously a Partner with  
Ernst & Young LLP and KPMG LLP where he led the TMT sector financial management 
consulting practice. Alan’s previous corporate management roles include 
International Finance Director of Longman and Group Development Manager  
of MAI plc (now United Business Media). He is a Trustee of the Freud Museum 
London and a Director of the Quoted Companies Alliance. Alan is a Fellow of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants and also has an MA in Modern Languages 
(French and Spanish) from Cambridge University.
 
Doug Rivers 
Chief Innovations Officer
Doug was CEO of YouGov’s American business from 2007 to 2011, following 
YouGov’s acquisition of Polimetrix which Doug founded in 2004. Prior to this he 
was CEO of Knowledge Networks from 1998 to 2002. He has also been Professor 
of Political Science at Stanford University in California since 1989, and is a Senior 
Fellow at the Hoover Institution. Doug holds a PhD from Harvard University and a 
BA from Columbia University.
Board of Directors Section 3  Management and Governance YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     23
Peter Bazalgette  
Non-Executive Director and Chair of Remuneration Committee
Peter Bazalgette is a media consultant and digital media investor. He is Chairman 
of MirriAd and a non-executive director of MyVideoRights, Nutopia, YouGov and 
DCMS. He advises two of Sony’s UK television divisions and is also a member of 
BBH’s Advisory Board. From 2004-2007 he was Chief Creative Officer of Endemol. 
He has personally devised several internationally successful TV formats and brought 
Big Brother to the UK. Peter is a former board member of Channel 4. He also serves 
as Deputy Chairman of the English National Opera, President of the Royal Television 
Society and is a Trustee of Debate Mate.
Nick Jones  
Non-Executive Director and Chair of Audit Committee
Nick Jones is currently Chief Financial Officer of Achilles Group, the global 
provider of professional procurement services. Prior to this, Nick was Global Head 
of Finance for Reuters plc where he also led the integration of Thomson and 
Reuters. Nick has held senior financial roles in technology and media businesses 
in the UK, the US and Europe including Virgin Media, Phillips Electronics and RR 
Donnelley. He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants 
and holds a BA (Hons) in Accounting and Finance.
Ben Elliot  
Non-Executive Director
Ben Elliot is Co-Chairman of Quintessentially which he co-founded in 2000. The 
Quintessentially Group operates in 60 cities globally and has 32 sister businesses 
in the luxury lifestyle market. Ben is Executive Producer of the award-winning 
feature documentary Fire in Babylon. He graduated from the University of Bristol 
with a degree in Economics and Politics. Section 3  Management and Governance YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     24
Directors’ Report for the year ended 31 July 2011
The Directors present their report and the audited 
consolidated financial statements for the year ended  
31 July 2011.
Principal Activities
YouGov carries out online research using proprietary 
software to produce accurate market research, political 
and media opinion polling and stakeholder consultation. 
The use of internet-based research enables YouGov to 
produce accurate research using larger sample sizes while 
keeping costs lower than traditional research companies 
that use telephone and face-to-face interview techniques.
Business Review
The business review is discussed on pages 7 to 21.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
The principal risks and uncertainties are discussed in the 
corporate governance report on pages 29 to 31.
Financial Summary
The financial summary is discussed on pages 20 to 21  
of the Chief Financial Officer’s report.
Dividends
No dividends were declared in the year (2010: £nil).
Future Developments
Future developments are discussed in more detail in the 
Chairman’s statement on pages 5 and 6.
Events After the Reporting Date
Events after the reporting date are discussed in more detail 
in note 27 on page 73.
Directors
Directors at any point during the year and at any point up 
to the date of signing this report were:
Roger Parry (Chairman) 
Stephan Shakespeare 
Alan Newman 
Doug Rivers (appointed 11 August 2011) 
Peter Bazalgette 
Nick Jones 
Ben Elliot (appointed 2 August 2010)
New Directors
Ben Elliot joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director  
on 2 August 2010. Ben is Co-Chairman of Quintessentially, 
which he co-founded in 2000. Prior to this Ben co-founded 
several other companies including K-Bar and members 
clubs Rock and Kabaret. He graduated from the University 
of Bristol with a degree in Economics and Politics.
Doug Rivers joined the Board as Chief Innovations Officer 
and an Executive Director on 11 August 2011. Doug was 
CEO of YouGov’s American business from 2007 to 2011, 
following YouGov’s acquisition of Polimetrix which Doug 
founded in 2004. He is also a Professor of Political Science 
at Stanford University and holds a PhD from Harvard 
University and a BA from Columbia University.
Directors’ Interests in Shares
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company 
on 31 July 2011 and 31 July 2010 were as follows:
   31 July 2011  31 July 2010 
  Number of shares Number of shares
Stephan Shakespeare¹ 10,939,110 10,939,110
Alan Newman 25,000 25,000
Roger Parry 52,000 25,000
Peter Bazalgette 263,976 200,945
Nick Jones – –
Ben Elliot – –
1  Includes five Ordinary Shares held by Stephan’s wife, Rosamund Shakespeare.
The Directors’ interests in share options are detailed in the 
remuneration report on pages 27 and 28.
No Director had either, during or at the end of the year,  
a material interest in any contract which was significant  
in relation to the Group’s business.
Employee Involvement and Communication
The Company has continued its practice of keeping 
employees informed of matters affecting them as 
employees and the financial and economic factors 
affecting the performance of the Company.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are  
given full and fair consideration for all vacancies in 
accordance with their particular aptitudes and abilities.  
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort 
is made to retrain them in order that their employment with 
the Company may continue.
It is the policy of the Company that training, career 
development and promotion opportunities should be 
available to all employees.
Employees are encouraged to own shares in the Company, 
and many employees are shareholders and/or hold options 
under the Company’s share option schemes including  
the newly launched LTIP scheme. Information about the 
Company’s affairs is communicated to employees through 
regular management meetings, our newsletter, intranet and 
social events. Section 3  Management and Governance YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     25
Social Responsibility
The Group recognises the importance of respecting and 
supporting the communities in which it operates and, thus, 
improving the positive impact of business in society.
Ethical Behaviour
YouGov expects its employees to exercise high ethical  
and moral standards at all times whilst representing 
the Company.
The Environment
The Group recognises that the wise use of resources 
delivers both environmental and financial benefits. As  
part of our overall approach to Corporate Responsibility  
we aim to promote the maintenance of a healthy 
environment through responsible and sustainable 
consumption and production.
Our operations are predominately office based, and here 
we try to minimise our impacts where practicable. As part 
of this policy we:
•	 ensure that all waste is stored and disposed of 
responsibly, and recycle where possible;
•	 ensure that paper used comes from reputable managed 
forests; and
•	 comply, where required, with the Packaging (Essential 
Requirements) Regulations and the Packaging Waste 
Regulations.
Health and Safety
The Group takes all reasonable and practicable steps to 
safeguard the health, safety and welfare of its employees 
and recognises its responsibilities for the health and safety 
of others who may be affected by its activities.
Diversity in the Workplace
The Group is committed to providing a working 
environment in which its employees are able to realise their 
potential and to contribute to business success irrespective 
of gender, marital status, ethnic origin, nationality, religion, 
disability, sexual orientation or age.
Policy on Supplier Payments
The Company aims to pay all its suppliers within a 
reasonable period of their invoices being received and 
approved, provided that the supplier has performed  
in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.  
At 31 July 2011 the number of days credit taken for 
purchases by the Group was 32 days (2010: 34 days).  
The number of days’ credit taken for purchases by the 
Company was 33 days (2010: 28 days).
Substantial Shareholders
At 31 July 2011 the following had notified the Company of 
disclosable interests in 3% or more of the nominal value  
of the Company’s shares:
Name  Shareholding
JO Hambro Capital Management 11,200,000 11.53%
Stephan Shakespeare¹  10,939,110 11.26%
Balshore Investments  10,029,100 10.33%
Kabouter Management 5,987,000 6.16%
T Rowe Price Global Investments 5,861,948 6.03%
BlackRock  5,415,311 5.58%
Close Asset Management  4,597,601 4.73%
Invesco Perpetual  4,182,362 4.31%
Baillie Gifford  3,907,571 4.02%
Standard Life Investments  3,168,885 3.26%
1  Includes five Ordinary Shares held by Stephan’s wife, Rosamund Shakespeare.
Key Performance Indicators
Key performance indicators are discussed in more detail  
in the Chief Financial Officer’s Report on page 20.
Financial Risks
The financial risks facing the Group are discussed in more 
detail in note 21 on pages 68 to 69.
Research and Development
The Group’s research and development activities centre on 
the development of bespoke software solutions to support 
and advance our online capabilities. No research and 
development was charged to the consolidated income 
statement in either 2011 or 2010 and £1.6m (2010: £1.0m) 
was capitalised and included within intangible fixed assets. Section 3  Management and Governance YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     26
Directors’ Report for the year ended 31 July 2011 continued
Independent Auditors
In accordance with section 418(2) of the Companies Act 
2006, each of the Company’s Directors in office as at the 
date of this report confirms that:
•	 so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant  
audit information of which the Company’s auditors 
are unaware;
•	 all steps have been taken as a Director to make himself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
The Group auditors are PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  
A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held 
on 7 December 2011 at our offices at 50 Featherstone 
Street, London EC1Y 8RT.
Alan Newman 
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary
On behalf of the Board 
10 October 2011
Charitable and Political Contributions
Donations to charitable organisations amounted to  
£46,430 (2010: £1,000). This included an annual 
subscription of £45,000 in respect of the “YouGov-
Cambridge” programme, an academic partnership 
established with Cambridge University’s Department of 
Politics and International Studies. No political donations 
were made in the year or in the previous year. 
Insurance of Company Officers
The Company has maintained during the financial year, 
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance which gives 
appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its 
Directors. In accordance with section 236 of the 
Companies Act 2006, qualifying third-party indemnity 
provisions are in place for the Directors and Company 
Secretary in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their 
office, to the extent permitted by law. This insurance was in 
force at the date of signing of the financial statements.
Going Concern
Having made enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company has sufficient resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the accounts. Section 3  Management and Governance YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     27
Remuneration Report (partially audited) for the year ended 31 July 2011
The Remuneration Committee comprised at 31 July 2011 
two Non-Executive Directors, Peter Bazalgette and 
Nick Jones.
Remuneration Report
A resolution will be put to the shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting to be held on 7 December 2011 inviting 
them to consider and approve this report. The remuneration 
report is unaudited, except where stated.
Compliance
The constitution and operation of the Committee is in 
compliance with the principles and best practice provisions 
as set out in the Combined Code as if it were followed  
and full consideration was given to these in determining  
the remuneration packages for the Executive Directors 
for 2010/11.
This is not a remuneration report as defined by 
Company law.
Policy on Remuneration of Executive Directors
The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of 
Executive Directors and sets the scale and structure of 
their remuneration and the basis of their service 
agreements with due regard to the interests of 
shareholders. In determining that remuneration the 
Remuneration Committee seeks to offer a competitive 
remuneration structure to maintain the high calibre of its 
Executive Board. The Committee believes that maintaining 
the Company’s business growth and profit record requires 
an overall compensation policy with a strong performance-
related element.
The main components of the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration are:
1 Basic Salary
Basic salary for each Director is determined by the 
Remuneration Committee taking into account the 
performance of the individual and external market data.  
The Committee’s policy is to review salaries annually.
2 Annual Bonus 
The Executive Directors are eligible for an annual bonus 
which is focused on the achievement of the Group’s 
short-term objectives. The Remuneration Committee sets 
targets linked to the Group’s stated strategy and tailored  
to each Director’s individual role. These include financial 
and non-financial measures. It assesses their overall 
performance against those indicators and generally in 
determining the level of bonus payable.
3 Share Options
The Company believes that share ownership by non-
business owner Executive Directors strengthens the  
link between their personal interests and those of the 
shareholders in respect of shareholder value.
Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)
The Long Term Incentive Plan was established in 2009  
in which Executive Directors and senior managers of the 
Company and its subsidiaries are eligible to participate.
Under the rules of the LTIP, participants are conditionally 
awarded nil cost options to acquire shares. Awards are 
usually made annually. The number of such shares will 
normally be calculated by reference to a percentage of the 
participant’s salary and the Company’s closing share price 
on the date of the Preliminary Announcement of the Group’s 
annual results. The shares subject to the LTIP awards will  
be released to the recipients at the end of a holding period, 
normally three years, subject to their continued employment 
(with exceptions in certain circumstances) and to the 
Group’s achievement of certain targets for earnings  
per share growth and Total Shareholder Return.
The total number of LTIP shares awarded conditionally  
in the year ended 31 July 2011 to participants in the 
Scheme was approximately 2.3 million and in the year 
ended 31 July 2010 was approximately 1.9 million.  
These include conditional awards to the Executive 
Directors of the Company as set out below.
Deferred Stock Scheme
The Deferred Stock Scheme was established in  
December 2010 with the aim of encouraging the retention 
of key employees including Executive Directors and  
senior managers of the Company. A participant must 
remain employed for a fixed period determined by the 
Remuneration Committee at the date of grant, before the 
shares can be issued to them. This period will usually be 
three years and the Committee may at its discretion vary 
these terms or impose other conditions.
Awards which vest under this scheme will primarily be 
satisfied by the allocation of shares already held by the 
Company’s Employee Benefit Trust. A total of 1.5 million 
deferred share awards were made in the year ended 
31 July 2011.
Directors’ Service Contracts
The table below summarises key details in respect of each 
Director’s contract.
Executive Directors Contract date Notice period
Stephan Shakespeare 18 April 2005 12 months
Alan Newman 5 June 2009 6 months
Non-Executive Directors Date of initial appointment Notice period
Roger Parry 6 February 2007 30 days
Peter Bazalgette 2 March 2005 30 days
Nick Jones 2 June 2009 30 days
Ben Elliot 2 August 2010 30 days
  Section 3  Management and Governance YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     28
The benefits in kind received was private health insurance.
In the year ended 31 July 2010, no bonus was paid to any 
director. The remuneration paid to Nadhim Zahawi included 
salary of £131,000 and compensation for termination of 
employment of £248,980.
Directors’ Share Options (audited)
The following unexercised nil cost options over shares were  
held by Directors under the Long Term Incentive Scheme:
  Number  
  outstanding at  Date of 
Name 31 July 2011 potential vesting
Stephan Shakespeare 359,447 October 2011
Stephan Shakespeare 384,060 October 2012
Stephan Shakespeare 426,563 October 2013
Alan Newman 267,281 October 2011
Alan Newman 288,557 October 2012
Alan Newman 354,167 October 2013
 
Directors’ Share Scheme (audited)
The following deferred shares were issued to Directors  
during the year under the Deferred Stock Scheme. 
  Number  
  outstanding at  Date of 
Name 31 July 2011 potential vesting
Stephan Shakespeare 162,500 December 2013
Alan Newman 162,500 December 2013
No directors exercised any share options in either of the 
years ended 31 July 2011 or 2010.
Save as set out above, there are no existing or proposed 
service contracts between any of the Directors serving  
at 31 July 2011 and the Company or any member of 
the Company.
The total aggregate remuneration (including benefits in  
kind and pension contributions) paid to the Directors by  
all members of the Group for the year ended 31 July 2011 
amounted to £793,000 (2010: £861,000).
No Director has or has had any interest in any transaction  
which is or was unusual in its nature or conditions or which  
is or was significant in relation to the business of the  
Company and which was effected by the Company either:  
(i) during the current or immediately preceding financial  
year; or (ii) during any earlier financial year and which  
remains in any aspect outstanding or unperformed.
Policy on Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is set by  
the Board as a whole.
Remuneration Report (unaudited) for the year ended 31 July 2011 continued
Directors’ Remuneration (audited)
Directors’ remuneration in aggregate for the year ended  
31 July 2011 was as follows: 
  Annual Benefits Total Total 
 Salary bonus in kind 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
Name £ £ £ £ £
Executive Directors
Stephan Shakespeare 203,125 142,188 1,255 346,568 195,200
Alan Newman 165,788 116,083 – 281,871 145,000
Nadhim Zahawi – – – – 379,980
Non-Executive Directors
Roger Parry 80,000 – – 80,000 80,000
Peter Bazalgette 30,000 – – 30,000 30,000
Nick Jones 30,000 – – 30,000  30,000
Ben Elliot 25,000 – – 25,000  –
Totals 533,913 258,271 1,255 793,439 861,180 Section 3  Management and Governance YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     29
Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 31 July 2011
Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code
YouGov is not required to comply with the Corporate 
Governance Code 2010 as it is listed on the AIM Index but 
the Board considers that the Group should work towards 
compliance with it. Full compliance has not yet been 
achieved and the Board and Audit Committee monitor the 
Company’s compliance on a regular basis. A copy of the 
Code is publicly available at www.frc.org.uk.
The Board
At 31 July 2011, the Board consisted of two Executive 
Directors and four Non-Executive Directors, including  
the Chairman and the senior Non-Executive Director. The 
names of the Directors and their respective responsibilities 
are shown on pages 22 and 23.
The Board operates both formally, through Board and 
Committee meetings, and informally, through regular 
contact amongst Directors. High-level decisions on such 
matters as strategy, financial performance and reporting, 
dividends, risk management, major capital expenditure, 
acquisitions and disposals are reserved for the Board or 
Board Committees. For its regular formal meetings, the 
Board receives appropriate information in advance from 
management.
The Directors can obtain independent professional advice 
at the Company’s own expense in the performance of their 
duties as Directors.
The Board formally approves the appointment of all new 
Directors. All Directors are required to submit themselves 
for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following 
their appointment and subsequent to this at the Annual 
General Meeting on a rotational basis, which ensures that 
each Director is submitted for re-election approximately 
every three years. Proposals to re-elect Directors are set out 
in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting on page 83.
Board Committees
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee was established at the  
time of flotation. The composition of the Remuneration 
Committee is shown below and the statement of the 
remuneration policy developed by the Committee and 
details of each Director’s remuneration are given within the 
Directors’ remuneration report set out on pages 27 and 28.
Audit Committee
The composition of the Audit Committee is shown below. 
The Audit Committee operates under terms of reference 
agreed by the whole Board and meets with the auditors to 
consider the Company’s financial reporting in advance of 
its publication.
Board and Committee Attendance
The following table sets out the attendance of Directors  
at Board and Committee meetings during 2010/11.
  Remuneration 
 Board Committee Audit Committee 
 meetings meetings meetings 
Director Maximum 8 Maximum 2 Maximum 2
Stephan Shakespeare 8 – –
Alan Newman 8 – 2
Roger Parry 8 – –
Peter Bazalgette 8 2 2
Nick Jones 8 2 2
Ben Elliot 7 – –
Shareholder Communications
The Board’s assessment of the Company’s position and 
prospects are set out in the Chairman’s Statement on 
pages 5 and 6 and the Chief Financial Officer’s Report  
on pages 20 and 21.
The Executive Directors meet regularly with institutional 
shareholders to discuss the Company’s performance and 
future prospects. At these meetings the views of institutional 
shareholders are canvassed and subsequently reported 
back to the Board. The Annual General Meeting is used as 
a forum for communication with private shareholders.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the two Non-Executive 
Directors, Nick Jones (its Chairman) and Peter Bazalgette. 
Nick Jones has recent relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on any matters  
in respect of which it considers that action or improvement 
is needed, and makes recommendations as to the steps  
to be taken. In particular the Committee is responsible for:
•	 ensuring that the financial performance of the Group  
is properly monitored and reported;
•	 monitoring the formal announcements relating to 
financial performance;
•	 meeting the auditors and agreeing audit strategy;
•	 reviewing reports from the auditors and management 
relating to accounts and internal control systems; and
•	 making recommendations to the Board in respect of 
external auditor appointment and remuneration. Section 3  Management and Governance YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     30
Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 31 July 2011 continued
•	 reporting to, and review by, the Board of changes in 
legislation and practices within the sector and accounting 
and legal developments pertinent to the Company;
•	 appointing experienced and suitably qualified staff  
to take responsibility for key business functions to ensure 
maintenance of high standards of performance; and
•	 appraisal and approval of proposed acquisitions by 
the Board.
Auditor Independence
The Audit Committee also undertakes a formal assessment 
of the auditors’ independence each year which includes:
•	 confirmation of the auditors’ objectivity and independence  
in the provision of non-audit services to the Company by 
the use of separate teams to provide such services  
where appropriate;
•	 discussion with the auditors of a written report detailing 
relationships with the Company and any other parties  
that could affect independence or the perception 
of independence;
•	 a review of the auditors’ own procedures for ensuring 
independence of the audit firm and partners and staff 
involved in the audit, including the regular rotation of  
the audit partner; and
•	 obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that,  
in their professional judgement, they are independent.
Any analysis of the fees payable to the external audit firm  
in respect of both audit and non-audit services during the 
year is set out in note 2 to the accounts.
Risk Management
The Board reviews risks facing the business on a regular 
basis. The following paragraphs describe the principal 
risks and uncertainties identified.
Early Stage of Development
Although the Company has grown substantially since  
it was formed ten years ago, it remains a relatively small 
company in an early stage of development. The Company 
faces competition from both large established international 
companies as well as small local businesses operating  
in the same sector.
The effectiveness of the internal control systems is under 
constant review and a formal assessment of internal 
controls has been conducted. The Audit Committee will 
monitor the implementation of a series of detailed steps  
to improve the control environment. Although there was  
no formal internal audit during the year, the accounting 
functions were subject to periodic internal review. As the 
business continues to grow we keep the Group’s need  
for an internal audit function under constant review.
Key Controls and Procedures
The Board maintains full control and direction over 
appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and 
compliance issues, and has put in place an organisational 
structure with defined lines of responsibility and delegation 
of authority.
The annual budget and forecasts are reviewed by the 
Board prior to approval being given. This includes the 
identification and assessment of the business risks inherent 
in the Group and the media sector as a whole along with 
associated financial risks.
The system of internal control is designed to manage  
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives in addition to providing reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
These procedures have been in place during the financial 
year up to the date of approval of the annual report.  
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and  
is in accordance with the Turnbull guidance. The key 
procedures include:
•	 detailed budgeting programme with an annual budget 
approved by the Board;
•	 regular review by the Board of actual results compared 
with budget and forecasts;
•	 regular reviews by the Board of year end forecasts;
•	 establishment of procedures for acquisitions, capital 
expenditure and expenditure incurred in the ordinary 
course of business;
•	 detailed budgeting and monitoring of costs incurred  
on the development of new products; Section 3  Management and Governance YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     31
Acquisitions
The Directors plan to expand and develop the business 
through a strategy of targeted acquisitions. The risk  
exists that integration of any acquired business will be 
unsuccessful or that key employees or clients of the 
acquired business will be lost. Directors will attempt  
to mitigate this risk by careful due diligence and 
communication with the clients of target companies.  
The Directors will also seek to communicate YouGov’s 
strategy to staff and ensure that levels of remuneration  
and benefits are appropriate to retain key employees.
Technology
A strong software platform is essential for carrying out online 
research. This software must be reviewed and updated  
on a regular basis to ensure that it does not become 
superseded by newer technologies in other companies. 
YouGov has sought to remain competitive in this area  
by recruiting an experienced team of software specialists 
with responsibility for developing the proprietary software 
systems. Employees in this area must provide three months’ 
notice on departure and YouGov has developed a 
succession planning document with sufficient detail on the 
structure of proprietary software applications and the IT 
infrastructure to assist in an orderly transition period in the 
event of staff leaving. A disaster recovery plan is in place 
and is reviewed by the Audit Committee annually.
Currency Fluctuations
The Group is exposed to currency risk as the Group operates 
in multiple geographic regions. This manifests itself in 
different forms. We seek to reduce this risk by invoicing in 
local currency thus reducing exposure in normal trading. 
The Group is exposed to currency translation risk in the 
consolidation of accounting records. The main reporting 
currencies of Group subsidiaries are Sterling, US Dollar, 
Euro, Danish Kroner and Arab Emirate Dirham.
Projected Growth
The Company’s plans incorporate continued growth in  
the coming years. This growth will be in part dependent  
on the marketing and research budgets of target clients 
over which YouGov has little control. This is mitigated 
through effective key client relationship management and 
continually reviewing order pipelines and sales targets.
Competition
YouGov has developed an internet-based research strategy 
which other large and established research organisations 
are also beginning to adopt. Some of these more established 
research organisations have well-developed brands and 
substantial resources and may be able to use these to 
compete very effectively in developing online panels and 
competing software. This is achieved by the use of patents 
and trademarks where appropriate and also by managing 
our Technology risk as detailed below.
Staff
The success of YouGov will be influenced by the recruitment 
and retention of high-calibre staff. Senior staff that manage 
key client relationships and those with software expertise 
are particularly important to the continuing development 
and smooth running of the Company. To mitigate this risk, 
YouGov has built account and project management teams 
for key clients and larger research projects. In this way  
the client relationships and project related knowledge  
are shared among a number of individuals rather than 
concentrated with one person. We also incentivise key 
personnel through participation in long-term incentive 
programmes such as the LTIP share option scheme.
Internationalisation
YouGov now has wide geographical spread. Monitoring 
and reporting these businesses’ performance relies upon 
the operation of key controls. There is a risk that these 
controls may not operate effectively in each jurisdiction. Section 3  Management and Governance YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     32
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual 
report, the Directors’ remuneration report and the  
financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have prepared the Group financial statements  
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union,  
and the parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards and applicable law). Under company law the 
Directors must not approve the financial statements unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the 
profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period.  
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
•	 make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
•	 state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union  
and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the Group and parent Company 
financial statements respectively;
•	 prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
Comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the 
United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
On behalf of the Board
Alan Newman  
10 October 2011
Directors’ Responsibilities Statement YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     33 Section 4  Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of YouGov plc  
on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2011
Opinion on Financial Statements 
In our opinion the Group financial statements: 
•	 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s 
affairs as at 31 July 2011 and of its profit and cash flows 
for the year then ended;
•	 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union; and 
•	 have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on Other Matter Prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’  
Report for the financial year for which the Group financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the Group 
financial statements.
Matters on which we are Required to Report by Exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following 
matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to 
report to you if, in our opinion: 
•	 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made; or 
•	 we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit. 
Other Matter
We have reported separately on the parent company 
financial statements of YouGov plc for the year ended 
31 July 2011.
David A Snell
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
10 October 2011
We have audited the Group financial statements of YouGov 
plc for the year ended 31 July 2011 which comprise the 
consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of 
financial position, the consolidated statement of changes in 
equity, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the principal 
accounting policies and the related notes. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation 
is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities 
statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that  
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit 
and express an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared  
for and only for the Company’s members as a body in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these 
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other 
purpose or to any other person to whom this report  
is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to  
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements  
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether  
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the 
overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, 
we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
Directors’ report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements. If we become aware of any 
apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     34 Section 4  Financial Statements
Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 July 2011
   31 July 2011  31 July 2010* 
 Note £000 £000
Revenue 1 56,142 44,234
Cost of sales**  (13,918) (9,877)
Gross profit  42,224 34,357
Operating expenses***  (36,955) (30,581)
Adjusted operating profit before impairment and amortisation of intangible assets  
and exceptional costs  1 5,269 3,776
Impairment of goodwill and intangibles 10, 11 – (7,861)
Amortisation of intangibles  (3,755) (3,689)
Exceptional costs 4 (1,129) (2,799)
Operating profit/(loss)   385 (10,573)
Finance income 5 277 205
Finance costs 5  (219)  (201)
Share of post-tax loss in joint ventures and associates   (32) (8)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 1 411 (10,577)
Tax (charge)/credit 6 (8) 2,572
Profit/(loss) after taxation 1 403 (8,005)
Attributable to:
 Owners of the parent   286 (8,499)
 Non-controlling interests  117 494
   403 (8,005)
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings/(loss) per share attributable to owners of the parent 8 0.3p (8.8p)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share attributable to owners of the parent 8 0.3p (8.8p)
* All comparative information including the relevant notes has been restated to reflect a prior year adjustment, see notes 4 and 19 for full details.
**  Total 2010 cost of sales including change of accounting estimate of panel provision detailed in note 4 is £10.477m.
***  Total 2011 operating expenses including impairment of goodwill and intangibles, amortisation and the remaining items detailed in note 4 are £41.839m 
(2010: £44.330m).
The profit/(loss) is from continuing operations.
The notes and accounting policies on pages 39 to 73 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     35 Section 4  Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 July 2011
   2011  2010* 
 Note £000 £000
Profit/(loss) for the year  403 (8,005)
Other comprehensive income:
Currency translation differences   (1,237) 298
Purchase of non-controlling interest in subsidiary 9 1,691 (163)
   454 135
Other comprehensive income for the year net of tax  454 135
Total comprehensive income for the year  857 (7,870)
Attributable to:
– Equity holders of the parent company  940 (8,645)
– Non-controlling interests  (83) 775
Total comprehensive income for the year  857 (7,870)
* All comparative information including the relevant notes has been restated to reflect a prior year adjustment, see notes 4 and 19 for full details.
The components of this period’s other comprehensive income do not have an impact on tax.
The notes and accounting policies on pages 39 to 73 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     36 Section 4  Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 31 July 2011
   31 July 2011  31 July 2010* 
 Note £000 £000
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill 10 37,795 31,203
Other intangible assets 11 11,427 10,545
Property, plant and equipment 12 2,338 2,382
Investments in joint ventures and associates 13 468 23
Deferred tax assets 20 1,939 2,606
Total non-current assets  53,967 46,759
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 14 16,933 14,561
Other short-term financial assets 15 – 165
Cash and cash equivalents 16 9,400 15,634
Total current assets   26,333 30,360
Total assets  80,300 77,119
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 17 11,602 10,146
Provisions 19 1,437 2,243
Borrowings  – 4
Current tax liabilities  487 164
Contingent consideration 18 2,838 304
Total current liabilities  16,364 12,861
Net current assets  9,969 17,499
Non-current liabilities
Provisions 19 1,605 1,398
Contingent consideration 18 2,826 360
Deferred tax liabilities 20 3,611 3,298
Total non-current liabilities  8,042 5,056
Total liabilities  24,406 17,917
Net assets  55,894 59,202
Equity
Issued share capital 22 195 194
Share premium  30,947 30,822
Merger reserve  9,239 9,239
Foreign exchange reserve  8,760 9,797
Retained earnings  6,658 5,151
Total shareholders’ funds   55,799 55,203
Non-controlling interests in equity  95 3,999
Total equity  55,894 59,202
* All comparative information including the relevant notes has been restated to reflect a prior year adjustment, see notes 4 and 19 for full details.
The notes and accounting policies on pages 39 to 73 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 10 October 2011 and signed on its behalf by:
Alan Newman
Chief Financial Officer
YouGov plc 
Registered as 03607311 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     37 Section 4  Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity as at 31 July 2011
 Attributable to equity holders of the Company
 
   Share  Foreign   Non- 
  Share premium Merger  exchange Retained  controlling Total 
  capital account reserve reserve earnings Total interest equity 
 Note £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 August 2009  193 30,811 9,239 9,780 13,665 63,688 3,408 67,096
Changes in equity for 2010*
Exchange differences on  
translating foreign operations  – – – 17 – 17 281 298
Purchase of non-controlling  
interest in subsidiary 9 – – – – (163) (163) – (163)
Net (loss)/income recognised  
directly in equity  – – – 17 (163) (146) 281 135
(Loss)/profit for the year  – – – – (8,499) (8,499) 494 (8,005)
Total comprehensive  
(loss)/income for the year  – – – 17 (8,662) (8,645) 775 (7,870)
Issue of share capital through  
exercise of share options 22 1 11 – – – 12 – 12
Purchase of non-controlling  
interest in subsidiary 9 – – – – – – (128) (128)
Share-based payments 3 – – – – 148 148 – 148
Dividends 7 – – – – – – (56) (56)
Balance at 31 July 2010*  194 30,822 9,239 9,797 5,151 55,203 3,999 59,202
Changes in equity for 2011
Exchange differences on  
translating foreign operations  – – – (1,037) – (1,037) (200) (1,237)
Purchase of non-controlling  
interest in subsidiary 9 – – – – 1,691 1,691 – 1,691
Net income/(loss) recognised  
directly in equity  – – – (1,037) 1,691 654 (200) 454
Profit for the year  – – – – 286 286 117 403
Total comprehensive  
income/(loss) for the year  – – – (1,037) 1,977 940 (83) 857
Purchase of treasury shares  – – – – (807) (807) – (807)
Issue of share capital through  
exercise of share options  
and allotment of shares  
in satisfaction of purchase  
of non-controlling interest 9, 22 1 125 – – – 126 – 126
Purchase of non-controlling  
interest in subsidiary 9 – – – – – – (3,821) (3,821)
Share-based payments 3 – – – – 337 337 – 337
Balance at 31 July 2011  195 30,947 9,239 8,760 6,658 55,799 95 55,894
*All comparative information including the relevant notes has been restated to reflect a prior year adjustment, see notes 4 and 19 for full details.
The notes and accounting policies on pages 39 to 73 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     38 Section 4  Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 July 2011
   2011  2010* 
 Note £000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities
Operating profit/(loss)  385 (10,573)
Adjustments for:   
 Impairment charge 10, 11 – 7,861
 Amortisation 1 3,755 3,689
 Depreciation 1 745 658
 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets  74 –
 Loss on disposal of goodwill and other investments  159 –
 Share-based payments 1 337 148
 Increase in trade and other receivables  (1,855) (97)
 Increase in trade and other payables  2,626 1,610
 (Decrease)/increase in provisions  (599) 1,903
Cash generated from operations  5,627 4,851
Interest paid   (17) (201)
Income taxes (paid)/recovered  (639) 947
Net cash generated from operating activities  4,971 5,597
Cash flow from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired)  (2,973) (291)
Acquisition of non-controlling interest shareholdings  (2,570) –
Acquisition of non-controlling interest in related party  (500) –
Settlement of contingent considerations 18 (2,075) (304)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  9 –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 12 (574) (282)
Purchase of intangible assets 11 (2,107) (2,037)
Proceeds from sale of interest in subsidiary  486 –
Interest received   133 205
Net cash used in investing activities  (10,171) (2,709)
Cash flows from financing activities
Purchase of own shares  (807) –
Proceeds from issue of share capital  – 5
Loan repayments   (4) (237)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  – (56)
Net cash used in financing activities  (811) (288)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents  (6,011) 2,600
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  15,634 12,718
Exchange (loss)/gain on cash and cash equivalents  (223) 316
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 16 9,400 15,634
*All comparative information including the relevant notes has been restated to reflect a prior year adjustment, see notes 4 and 19 for full details.
The notes and accounting policies on pages 39 to 73 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     39 Section 4  Financial Statements
Nature of Operations
YouGov plc and subsidiaries’ (“the Group”) principal activity is the provision of market research.
YouGov plc is the Group’s ultimate parent company. It is incorporated and domiciled in Great Britain. The address of 
YouGov plc’s registered office is 50 Featherstone Street, London EC1Y 8RT United Kingdom. YouGov plc’s shares are 
listed on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange.
YouGov plc’s annual consolidated financial statements are presented in UK Sterling, which is also the functional currency 
of the parent company.
These annual consolidated financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 10 October 2011.
Basis of Preparation
The consolidated financial statements of YouGov plc are for the year ended 31 July 2011. They have been prepared  
under the historical cost convention. These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance  
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU), 
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006  
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
A prior year adjustment has been made to recognise a liability for a put option held by non-controlling interest in 
accordance with IAS 39, as discussed in note 8. The Group has not presented a statement of financial position as at 
31 July 2009 as there has been no change to previously reported figures.
The policies set out below have been consistently applied to all years presented unless otherwise stated.
The parent company financial statements are prepared under UK GAAP and are detailed on pages 74 to 82.
The following new standards and amendments to existing standards are now effective but have no significant impact  
on the Group: 
•	 Annual improvements 2009 (effective 1 January 2010) 
•	 Amendment to IFRS 2, “Share-based payments – Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions”  
(effective 1 January 2010) 
•	 Amendments to IFRS 1 for additional exemptions (effective 1 January 2010)
•	 Amendments to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation on classification of rights issues (effective 1 February 2010) 
•	 Amendment to IFRS 1, First time adoption on financial instrument disclosures (effective 1 July 2010) 
•	 IFRIC 15, “Arrangements for construction of real estates” (effective 1 January 2009 but EU endorsed for 1 January 2010) 
•	 IFRIC 19, “Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments” (effective 1 July 2010). 
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements  
for the year ended 31 July 2011 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     40 Section 4  Financial Statements
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements  
for the year ended 31 July 2011
Basis of Consolidation
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings (see note 13) 
drawn up to 31 July 2011. Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control is achieved where the Group has the 
power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. The Group 
obtains and exercises control through voting rights.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation. Amounts reported in 
the financial statements of subsidiaries have been adjusted where necessary to ensure consistency with the accounting 
policies adopted by the Group.
Acquisitions of subsidiaries are dealt with by the acquisition method. The acquisition method involves the recognition at  
fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities, including contingent liabilities of the subsidiary, at the acquisition date, 
regardless of whether or not they were recorded in the financial statements of the subsidiary prior to acquisition. On initial 
recognition, the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary are included in the consolidated statement of financial position at 
their fair values, which are also used as the bases for subsequent measurement in accordance with the Group accounting 
policies. Goodwill is stated after separating out identifiable intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of 
acquisition cost over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date 
of acquisition. Acquisition related costs are charged to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with parties external  
to the Group. Disposals to non-controlling interests result in gains and losses for the Group that are recorded in the 
Statement of Changes in Equity. Purchases of non-controlling interests are recognised directly in reserves, being the 
difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of 
the subsidiary.
Associates and Joint Ventures 
Entities whose economic activities are controlled jointly by the Group and by other venturers independent of the Group  
are accounted for using the equity method. Associates are those entities over which the Group has significant influence 
(defined as the power to participate in the financial and operating decisions of the investee but not control or joint control 
over those policies) but which are neither subsidiaries nor interests in joint ventures. The results and assets and liabilities  
of associates and joint ventures are incorporated in these consolidated financial statements using the equity method  
of accounting, under which investments in associates and investments in joint ventures are carried in the consolidated 
statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the 
associate or joint venture less any impairment in the value of individual investments. The Group’s share of its associates’ 
post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in 
other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income.
However, when the Group’s share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate  
or joint venture, including any unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred 
obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture. If the associate or joint venture subsequently 
reports profits, the Group resumes recognising its share of those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share 
of losses not recognised.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates or joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the 
Group’s interests in the associates or joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides 
evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Amounts reported in the financial statements of associates and joint 
ventures have been adjusted where necessary to ensure consistency with the accounting policies adopted by the Group.
Segmental Analysis
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating 
decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing 
performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the operations board that makes strategic decisions. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     41 Section 4  Financial Statements
Revenue
Revenue is measured by reference to the fair value of consideration received or receivable by the Group for services 
provided, excluding Value Added Tax and trade discounts.
Market Research
Revenue arises from the provision of market research services. Within this revenue stream are syndicated and 
non-syndicated services.
Syndicated Services
Syndicated services are the consistent provision of data over a specified period of time. Revenue is recognised from  
the point in time at which access passwords have been made available to the customer. Revenue is recognised in equal 
monthly instalments over the life of the contract.
Non-Syndicated Services 
Non-syndicated services vary in size and complexity. Revenue is recognised on each contract in proportion to the level  
of services performed by reference to the project manager’s estimates and time records against budgeted and assigned 
resource. Revenue is recognised on long-term contracts, if the outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty, by 
including in the income statement revenue and related costs as contract activity progresses.
Non-Cash Transactions
The Group enters into contracts for the provision of market research services in exchange for advertising rather than  
for cash or other consideration. When barter transactions are agreed the value of the work provided to the counterparty  
is equal in value to that which would be provided in an ordinary cash transaction. As required by IAS 18 the value of 
advertising receivable in all significant barter transactions is ensured to be reliably measurable by referencing to the 
counterparty’s rate card.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position when a Group company has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event; it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying 
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present 
obligation at the reporting date.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. 
Staff Gratuity Costs
The staff gratuity provision is a statutory obligation under UAE labour law, whereby each employee on termination of their 
contract is due a payment dependent upon their number of years’ service and nature of the termination. The liability is 
weighted against historical rates of resignation and redundancy. 
Panel Incentive Costs
The Group invites consumer panel members to fill out surveys for a cash or points-based incentive. Although these 
amounts are not paid until a predetermined target value has accrued on a panellist’s account, an assessment of 
incentives likely to be paid (present obligation) is made taking into account past panellist behaviour and is recognised  
as a cost of sale in the period in which the service is provided. This assessment takes into account the expected savings 
from the lottery offered in various territories.
Interest
The Group receives interest income for cash funds that are held on short-term instant access deposit. Where interest 
receipts are received after the balance sheet date the interest due is accrued for the requisite period at the prevailing  
rate on the deposit.
Interest is recognised using the effective interest method which calculates the amortised cost of a financial liability and 
allocates the interest income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to the net carrying amount of the financial asset. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     42 Section 4  Financial Statements
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements  
for the year ended 31 July 2011
Exceptional Items
Items are highlighted as exceptional in the consolidated income statement when they are material in their nature or  
amount and when separate disclosure is considered helpful in understanding the underlying performance of the 
business. Examples include acquisition costs, restructuring costs and any other costs that are not incurred as part  
of normal operating activities.
Taxation
Current tax is the tax currently payable/recoverable based on taxable profit/loss for the year.
Deferred income taxes are calculated using the liability method on temporary differences. Deferred tax is generally 
provided on the difference between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases. However, deferred 
tax is not provided on the initial recognition of goodwill, nor on the initial recognition of an asset or liability unless the related 
transaction is a business combination or affects tax or accounting profit. Deferred tax on temporary differences associated 
with shares in subsidiaries and joint ventures is not provided if reversal of these temporary differences can be controlled 
by the Group and it is probable that reversal will not occur in the foreseeable future. In addition, tax losses available to be 
carried forward as well as other income tax credits to the Group are assessed for recognition as deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are provided in full, with no discounting. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the  
extent that it is probable that the underlying deductible temporary differences will be able to be offset against future 
taxable income. Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at tax rates that are expected to apply  
to their respective period of realisation, provided they are enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends  
to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Changes in deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised as a component of tax expense in the consolidated income 
statement, except where they relate to items that are charged or credited directly to equity in which case the related 
deferred tax is also charged or credited directly to equity.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised when the shareholders’ right to receive payment is established.
Goodwill
Goodwill representing the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable  
net assets acquired is capitalised and reviewed annually for impairment. Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses. If the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities  
of the acquired entity exceeds the cost of the business combination, this value is recognised immediately in the 
consolidated income statement.
Goodwill written off to reserves prior to the date of transition to IFRS remains in reserves. There is no re-instatement of 
goodwill that was amortised prior to transition to IFRS. Goodwill previously written off to reserves is not written back to  
profit or loss on subsequent disposal.
On disposal of a business, goodwill is allocated based on calculated fair value of assets disposed and included in the 
calculation of the profit or loss on disposal. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     43 Section 4  Financial Statements
Intangible Assets
Intangible assets represent identifiable non-monetary assets without physical substance. Intangible assets are valued  
at either their directly attributable costs or using valuation methods such as discounted cash flows and replacement cost  
in the case of acquired intangible assets.
The Directors estimate the useful economic life of each asset and use these estimates in applying amortisation rates.  
The Directors periodically review economic useful life estimates.
Intangible assets are stated at cost net of amortisation and any provision for impairment.
Directors conduct an annual impairment review of intangible assets where necessary for assets with an indefinite life. 
Where impairment arises, losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Amortisation of intangible assets is shown on the face of the consolidated income statement.
Intangible Assets Acquired as Part of a Business Combination
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, an intangible asset acquired in a business combination is deemed  
to have a cost to the Group of its fair value at the acquisition date. The fair value of the intangible asset reflects market 
expectations about the probability that the future economic benefits embodied in the asset will flow to the Group.  
Where an intangible asset might be separable, but only together with a related tangible or intangible asset, the group of 
assets is recognised as a single asset separately from goodwill where the individual fair values of the assets in the Group 
are not reliably measurable. Where the individual fair value of the complementary assets is reliably measurable, the Group 
recognises them as a single asset provided the individual assets have similar useful lives. Intangible assets acquired as 
part of a business combination are typically amortised using the straight-line method over the following periods:
Intangible asset Amortisation period
Consumer panel 5 years
Software and software development 5 years
Customer contracts and lists 10–11 years
Patents and trademarks 5–15 years
Order backlog 3 months–1 year
 
Intangible Assets Generated Internally
Internally generated intangible assets are only capitalised where they meet all of the following criteria stipulated  
by IAS 38:
•	 Completion of the intangible asset is technically feasible so that it will be available for use or sale.
•	 The Group intends to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it.
•	 The Group has the ability to use or sell the intangible asset.
•	 The intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits. Among other things, this requires that there is a 
market for the output from the intangible asset or for the intangible asset itself, or, if it is to be used internally, the asset 
will be used in generating such benefits.
•	 There are adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the 
intangible asset.
•	 The expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development can be measured reliably.
Internally generated intangible assets are capitalised at their directly attributable cost. Development costs not meeting the 
criteria for capitalisation are expensed as incurred.
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised from the moment at which they become available for use. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     44 Section 4  Financial Statements
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements  
for the year ended 31 July 2011
Amortisation rates applicable to internally generated intangible assets are typically:
Intangible asset Amortisation period
Software and software development 3 years
Patents and trademarks Not amortised
Development costs Project by project basis
 
Consumer Panel
The consumer panel is the core asset from which our online revenues are generated.
Where a consumer panel or list is acquired as part of a business combination the cost of the asset is recognised at its  
fair value to the Group at the date of acquisition. The fair value is calculated by management using a discounted cash flow 
model. Amortisation is charged to write off the panel acquisition costs over a five-year period, this being the Directors’ 
estimate of the average active life of a panellist.
Consumer panel costs reflect the direct cost of recruiting new panel members. Only third-party costs are considered for 
capitalisation. Consumer panel costs are split between enhancement and maintenance of the asset. Enhancement costs 
are capitalised whilst maintenance costs are expensed. The split is based on management estimates derived from current 
levels of panel churn. Amortisation is charged to write off the panel acquisition costs over a three-year period, this being 
the Directors’ estimate of the average active life of a panellist.
Software and Software Development
Capitalised software includes our survey and panel management software and our BrandIndex platform which are key 
tools of our business. Software and software development also includes purchased off-the-shelf software.
Where software is acquired as part of a business combination the cost of the asset is recognised at its fair value to the 
Group at the date of acquisition. The fair value is calculated by management using a discounted cash flow model. 
Amortisation is charged to write off the software over a five-year period, this being the Directors’ estimate of the useful  
life of the software.
Where software is developed internally, directly attributable costs including employee costs are capitalised as software 
development. Amortisation commences upon completion of the asset. Amortisation is charged to write off the software 
over a three-year period, this being the Directors’ estimate of the useful life of software.
Customer Contract and Lists
Where a customer contract or list is acquired as part of a business combination the cost of the asset is recognised at  
its fair value to the Group at the date of acquisition. The fair value is calculated by management using a discounted cash 
flow model. Customer contracts and lists are amortised over a useful economic life based on Directors’ estimates.
Patents and Trademarks
Where a patent or trademark is acquired as part of a business combination the cost of the asset is recognised at its  
fair value to the Group at the date of acquisition. The fair value is calculated by management using a discounted  
cash flow model.
Patents acquired as part of a business combination are amortised over a useful economic life based on Directors’ estimates.
Patents and trademarks acquired on an ongoing basis to protect the YouGov brand and its products are included at cost 
and are not amortised, as the trademarks are indefinite in their longevity through legal rights. The patents and trademarks 
are subject to an annual impairment review.
Development Costs
Expenditure on research (or the research phase of an internal project) is recognised as an expense in the period in which 
it is incurred.
The cost of an internally generated intangible asset comprises all directly attributable costs necessary to create, produce, 
and prepare the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     45 Section 4  Financial Statements
Impairment Testing of Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets and Property, Plant and Equipment
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately 
identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). As a result, some assets are tested individually for impairment and some 
are tested at cash-generating unit level. Goodwill is allocated to those cash-generating units that are expected to benefit 
from synergies of the related business combination and represent the lowest level within the Group at which management 
monitors the related cash flows.
Goodwill, other individual assets or cash-generating units that include goodwill, other intangible assets with an indefinite 
useful life, and those intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually. All other 
individual assets or cash-generating units are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s or cash-generating unit’s carrying amount  
exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is calculated as value in use based on an internal discounted 
cash flow evaluation.
Impairment losses recognised for cash-generating units, to which goodwill has been allocated, are credited initially to the 
carrying amount of goodwill. Any remaining impairment loss is charged pro rata to the other assets in the cash-generating 
unit. With the exception of goodwill, all assets are subsequently reassessed for indications that an impairment loss 
previously recognised may no longer exist.
Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. Cost includes the 
original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended 
use. No depreciation is charged during the period of construction. Leasehold property is included in property, plant  
and equipment only where it is held under a finance lease. Borrowing costs on property, plant and equipment under 
construction are capitalised during the period of construction based on specific funds borrowed. Depreciation is 
calculated to write down the cost less estimated residual value of all property, plant and machinery over their estimated 
useful economic lives.
Asset Depreciation rate
Freehold property Straight line over 25 years
Leasehold property improvements Straight line over the life of the lease
Fixtures and fittings 25% on a reducing balance
Computer equipment 33% per annum straight line
Motor vehicles 25% or the life of the lease
The residual values and useful lives of all assets are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. 
Leased Assets
In accordance with IAS 17, the economic ownership of a leased asset is transferred to the lessee if the lessee bears 
substantially all the risks and rewards related to the ownership of the leased asset. The related asset is recognised at  
the time of inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease 
payments plus incidental payments, if any, to be borne by the lessee. A corresponding amount is recognised as a finance 
leasing liability. 
The interest element of leasing payments represents a constant proportion of the capital balance outstanding and  
is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease.
All other leases are regarded as operating leases and the payments made under them are charged to the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives are spread over the term of the lease. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     46 Section 4  Financial Statements
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements  
for the year ended 31 July 2011
Financial Assets 
Financial assets are divided into the following categories: loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets. 
Financial assets are assigned to the different categories by management on initial recognition, depending on the purpose 
for which they were acquired. 
All financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there  
is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the 
receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial 
reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments (more than 30 days overdue) are considered indicators that the 
trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the 
present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the 
asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the consolidated 
income statement within operating expenses. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the 
allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against 
operating expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an 
active market. Trade receivables and other financial assets are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and 
receivables are measured subsequent to initial recognition at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less 
provision for impairment. Any change in their value through impairment or reversal of impairment is recognised in the 
consolidated income statement.
Provision against trade receivables is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all 
amounts due to it in accordance with the original terms of those receivables. The amount of the write-down is determined 
as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows. 
An assessment for impairment is undertaken at least at each reporting date.
A financial asset is derecognised only where the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or the financial 
asset is transferred and that transfer qualifies for derecognition. A financial asset is transferred if the contractual rights to 
receive the cash flows of the asset have been transferred or the Group retains the contractual rights to receive the cash 
flows of the asset but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients. A financial asset 
that is transferred qualifies for derecognition if the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of 
the asset, or if the Group neither retains nor transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership but does transfer 
control of that asset.
Financial Liabilities 
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Financial liabilities are assigned  
to the different categories by management on initial recognition, depending on the purpose for which they were acquired. 
Financial liabilities are obligations to pay cash or other financial assets and are recognised when the Group becomes a 
party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Trade and other payables are stated at their nominal value.
Borrowings and lease liabilities are recorded at the proceeds received, net of any issue costs. Finance charges are 
accounted for on an effective interest method and are added to the carrying value of the instrument to the extent that they 
are not settled in the period in which they arise. 
A financial liability is derecognised only when the obligation is extinguished, that is, when the obligation is discharged or 
cancelled or expires. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     47 Section 4  Financial Statements
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, together with other short-term, highly liquid 
investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value with maturities no longer than three months. In addition, bank overdrafts which are repayable on 
demand are included for the purposes of the statement of cash flows.
Equity
Equity comprises the following: 
•	 Share capital represents the nominal value of equity shares. 
•	 Share premium represents the excess over nominal value of the fair value of consideration received for equity shares, 
net of expenses of the share issue. 
•	 Merger reserve represents the excess over nominal value of the fair value of consideration received for equity shares 
issued/allotted directly to acquire another entity meeting the specific requirements of section 131 of the Companies 
Act 2006. The conditions of the relief include:
 
• Securing at least 90% of the nominal value of equity of another company.
 
• The arrangement provides for allotment of equity shares in the issuing company.
•	 Foreign exchange reserve represents the differences arising from translation of investments in overseas subsidiaries. 
•	 Retained earnings represent retained profits.
Foreign Currencies 
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements are 
presented in UK pounds sterling, which is the Company’s functional and the Group’s presentation currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the reporting date. 
Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate at the 
date of the transaction. Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the 
exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
Any exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items or on translating monetary items at rates different 
from those at which they were initially recorded are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period in 
which they arise.
Exchange differences on non-monetary items are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income  
to the extent that they relate to a gain or loss on that non-monetary item taken to the statement of changes in equity, 
otherwise such gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The assets and liabilities in the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries and associates and related goodwill are 
translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date. Income and expenses are translated at the actual rate.  
The exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the opening net investment in subsidiaries and joint ventures  
are taken directly to the “Foreign exchange reserve” in equity. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     48 Section 4  Financial Statements
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements  
for the year ended 31 July 2011
Employee Benefits
Equity Settled Share-Based Payment
This fair value is appraised at the grant date and excludes the impact of non-market vesting conditions.
All equity-settled share-based payments are ultimately recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement 
with a corresponding credit to retained earnings.
If vesting periods or other non-market vesting conditions apply, the expense is allocated over the vesting period, based 
on the best available estimate of the number of share options expected to vest. Estimates are subsequently revised if 
there is any indication that the number of share options expected to vest differs from previous estimates. 
No adjustment is made to any expense recognised in prior periods if share options ultimately exercised are different to 
that estimated on vesting.
Upon exercise of share options the proceeds received net of attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital, 
and, where appropriate, share premium.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group 
is treated as a capital contribution. The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date 
fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a 
corresponding credit to equity.
Contingent Consideration
Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of earn-outs are based on the Directors’ best estimates of future 
obligations, which are dependent on the future performance of the interests acquired and assume the operating 
companies improve profits in line with Directors’ estimates. When consideration payable is deferred, the fair value of the 
consideration is obtained by discounting to present value the amounts expected to be payable in the future at a rate 
equivalent to a UK ten-year treasury gilt (or foreign equivalent), this being, in the Directors’ opinion the most appropriate 
barometer for a risk-free rate. 
Imputed Interest
When the outflow of cash or cash equivalents is deferred, and the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction,  
the fair value of the consideration is the present value of all future payments determined using an imputed rate of interest. 
The imputed rate of interest used is the weighted average cost of capital, this being, in the Directors’ opinion the most 
appropriate barometer for underlying risk. The difference between the present value of all future payments and the 
nominal amount of the consideration is recognised as an interest charge. Imputed interest is shown within finance costs  
in the consolidated income statement.
Accounting Estimates and Judgements
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies the Directors are required to make estimates and adjustments 
that may affect the financial statements. The Directors believe that the estimates and judgements applied in the financial 
statements are reasonable. 
Estimates and judgements are evaluated on a regular basis and are based on historical experience (where applicable)  
and other factors, such as expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. These estimates, by definition, will rarely equal  
the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment  
to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below. Where estimates  
and judgements have been made, the key factors taken into consideration are disclosed in the appropriate note in these 
consolidated financial statements.
Revenue Recognition
The Group is required to make an estimate of project completion levels on long-term contracts for revenue recognition 
purposes. This is based upon the project manager’s estimates and available time records against budgeted and 
assigned resource for the initial project scope. This involves an element of judgement, and therefore differences may 
arise between the actual and estimated result. Where differences do arise, they are recognised in the consolidated 
income statement for the following reporting period.  YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     49 Section 4  Financial Statements
Share-Based Payments
The Group is required to make estimates regarding the assumptions that are used to calculate the income statement 
charge for share-based payments. Inputs to the calculations include (but are not limited to) expected volatility, expected 
life, risk-free rate, expected dividend yield and redemption rates. Variances in any of the inputs could lead to the charge 
being higher or lower than appropriate. 
Income Taxes
The Group is subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. Judgement is required in determining the worldwide 
provision for income taxes. There are many transactions/calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain 
during the ordinary course of business. Where the final tax outcome is different to what is initially recorded, such 
differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions. Income taxes are disclosed fully in note 6.
Goodwill
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy.  
The recoverable amount is based on value in use calculations. The use of this method requires the estimation of future 
cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present values of these cash flows.  
The estimates used in the impairment review are fully disclosed in note 10.
IFRS 3 (revised 2010), “Business combinations” was adopted and applied prospectively by the Group in 2011. The 
revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, with some significant changes. For 
example, all payments to purchase a business are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments 
classified as debt subsequently re-measured through the consolidated income statement. There is a choice on an 
acquisition-by-acquisition basis to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the 
non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. All acquisition-related costs are expensed.
Other Intangible Assets
The Group is required to identify and assess the useful life of intangible assets and determine if there is a finite or  
indefinite life. Judgement is required in determining if an intangible asset has a finite life and the extent of this finite life in 
order to calculate the amortisation charge on the asset. The Group tests at each reporting date whether intangible assets 
have suffered any indicators of impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy. The recoverable amount of cash-
generating units has been determined based on discounted future cash flows. These calculations require estimates to be 
made. Where there is no method of valuation for an intangible asset, management will make use of a valuation technique  
to determine the value of an intangible if there is no evidence of a market value. In doing so certain assumptions and 
estimates will be made. Intangible assets are fully disclosed in note 11.
Panel Incentive Provision
The Group is required to assess the likelihood that panel incentives earned by consumer panel members will be 
redeemed and maintain a provision to cover this potential liability. Factors taken into consideration include the absolute 
liability, redemption rates and panel activity rates. Whilst historical data can indicate trends and behaviours it is not an 
indication of the future. In arriving at the carrying value of the provision certain assumptions and estimates have to be 
made. The estimates used in calculating the panel incentive provision are fully disclosed in note 19. 
Deferred Taxation
Judgement is required by management in determining whether the Group should recognise a deferred tax asset. 
Management consider whether there is sufficient certainty that its tax losses available to carry forward will ultimately  
be offset against future earnings. This judgement impacts on the degree to which deferred tax assets are recognised. 
Deferred taxation is disclosed fully in note 20.
Contingent Consideration
As part of the acquisitions, contingent consideration is payable to selling shareholders based on the future performance  
of the businesses. Judgement is required in estimating the magnitude of contingent consideration and the likelihood of 
payment. Contingent consideration is disclosed fully in note 18. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     50 Section 4  Financial Statements
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements  
for the year ended 31 July 2011
Standard and Interpretations in Issue but Not Yet Effective
The following new standards and amendments to existing standards are not yet effective.
•	 IAS 34, “Interim financial reporting”, has been amended by the 2010 Improvements to require the following disclosures 
in interim financial reports in respect of financial instruments, if they are significant: Impairments recognised on 
financial assets and the reversal of previous impairments; Changes in the business or economic circumstances  
that affect the fair value of the entity’s financial assets and financial liabilities, whether those assets or liabilities are 
recognised at fair value or amortised cost; Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy used in measuring  
the fair value of financial instruments; Changes in the classification of financial assets as a result of a change in the 
purpose or use of those assets. The disclosures apply for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011. 
•	 IFRS 9, “Financial instruments”, issued in December 2009. This addresses the classification and measurement of 
financial assets and is likely to affect the Group’s accounting for its financial assets. The standard is not applicable  
until 1 January 2013 but is available for early adoption. 
•	 Revised IAS 24, “Related party disclosures”, issued in November 2009. It supersedes IAS 24, “Related party 
disclosures”, issued in 2003. The revised IAS 24 is required to be applied from 1 January 2011. Earlier application,  
in whole or in part, is permitted. 
•	 “Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement” (Amendments to IFRIC 14), issued in November 2009.  
The amendments correct an unintended consequence of IFRIC 14, “IAS 19 – The limit on a defined benefit asset, 
minimum funding requirements and their interaction”. Without the amendments, entities are not permitted to recognise 
as an asset some voluntary prepayments for minimum funding contributions. The amendments are effective for annual 
periods beginning 1 July 2011. Earlier application is permitted.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the standards on its results, financial position and cash flows. The Group 
continues to monitor the potential impact of other new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed by the 
European Union and require adoption by the Group in future accounting periods. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     51 Section 4  Financial Statements
1 Revenue and Profit Before Taxation
Segmental Analysis
For internal reporting purposes the Group is organised into five operating divisions based on geographic lines – UK, 
Middle East and North Africa, Germany, Nordic and North America. These divisions are the basis on which the Group 
reports its segmental information. The Group only undertakes one class of business, that of market research. 
  Middle East   
  and North   North Consolidation 
 UK Africa Germany Nordic America and unallocated Consolidated 
2011 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue
External sales 13,348 7,423 11,348 8,213 15,810 – 56,142
Inter-segment sales 342 111 – 75 100 (628) –
Total revenue 13,690 7,534 11,348 8,288 15,910 (628) 56,142
Inter-segment sales are priced on an arm’s-length basis that would be available to unrelated third parties.
Segment result
Gross profit 10,343 4,993 8,504 6,453 11,737 194 42,224
Adjusted operating profit 3,458 1,891 281 625 1,906 (2,892) 5,269
Amortisation of intangibles (218) (114) (121) (111) (652) (2,539) (3,755)
Exceptional costs (421) – 303 – (74) (937) (1,129)
Finance income       277
Finance costs       (219)
Share of results of joint ventures 
and associates       (32)
Profit before taxation       411
Tax charge       (8)
Profit after taxation       403
Other segment information
Depreciation  111 173 175 36 50 200 745
Share-based payments – – – – 104 233 337
Assets
Segment assets 8,890 9,276 16,240 14,198 35,630 (4,402) 79,832
Investments in joint ventures 
and associates       468
Total assets       80,300
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2011 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     52 Section 4  Financial Statements
1 Revenue and Profit Before Taxation continued
  Middle East   
  and North   North Consolidation 
 UK Africa Germany Nordic America and unallocated Consolidated 
2010 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue
External sales 11,681 7,210 13,687 6,953 4,703 – 44,234
Inter-segment sales 458 10 92 30 115 (705) –
Total revenue 12,139 7,220 13,779 6,983 4,818 (705) 44,234
Inter-segment sales are priced on an arm’s-length basis that would be available to unrelated third parties.
Segment result
Gross profit 9,633 4,632 10,616 5,271 4,180 25 34,357
Adjusted operating profit 3,359 1,429 418 52 527 (2,009) 3,776
Amortisation of intangibles (523) (185) (175) (108) (150) (2,548) (3,689)
Impairment of goodwill and  
intangible assets       (7,861)
Exceptional costs* (1,038) (155) (169) (360) (112) (965) (2,799)
Finance income       205
Finance costs       (201)
Share of results of joint ventures 
and associates       (8)
Loss before taxation       (10,577)
Tax credit       2,572
Loss after taxation       (8,005)
Other segment information
Depreciation  197 143 241 30 47 – 658
Share-based payments 23 – – – 125 – 148
Assets
Segment assets 17,481 17,843 18,418 12,671 19,996 (9,313) 77,096
Investments in joint ventures 
and associates       23
Total assets       77,119
 
* All comparative information including the relevant notes has been restated to reflect a prior year adjustment, see notes 4 and 19 for full details.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2011 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     53 Section 4  Financial Statements
1 Revenue and Profit Before Taxation continued
Differences between the origin and destination of revenue are material to the Group. Revenue by destination is 
presented below.
  Middle East   
  and North   North Consolidation 
 UK Africa Germany Nordic America and unallocated Consolidated 
2011 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue by destination
External sales 16,418 3,178 12,171 8,224 16,151 – 56,142
Inter-segment sales 517 422 333 154 137 (1,563) –
Total revenue 16,935 3,600 12,504 8,378 16,288 (1,563) 56,142
Inter-segment sales are priced on an arm’s-length basis that would be available to unrelated third parties.
  Middle East   
  and North   North Consolidation 
 UK Africa Germany Nordic America and unallocated Consolidated 
2010 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue by destination
External sales 15,498 2,282 14,470 7,065 4,919 – 44,234
Inter-segment sales 210 407 74 – 14 (705) –
Total revenue 15,708 2,689 14,544 7,065 4,933 (705) 44,234
Inter-segment sales are priced on an arm’s-length basis that would be available to unrelated third parties.
2 Operating Expenditure
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
The profit before taxation is stated after charging:
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit of the Group’s annual report and accounts 144 121
Audit of subsidiaries  38 41
Other assurance services 28 2
Taxation 93 14
Due diligence – 120
Other advisory services – 9
Disposals, depreciation and amortisation:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 745 658
Amortisation of intangible assets 3,755 3,689
Loss on disposal of other intangible assets (31) –
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (43) –
Loss on disposal of goodwill and other investments (159) –
Other operating lease rentals:
Plant and machinery 105 119
Land and buildings 1,458 1,435
Other expenses:
Exchange differences 261 (348)
Share-based payment expenses 337 148
Charitable donations 46 1
  YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     54 Section 4  Financial Statements
3 Staff Numbers And Costs
Staff costs (including Directors) charged to operating expenses during the year were as follows:
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
Wages and salaries 22,900 18,693
Social security costs 2,322 2,323
Share-based payments 337 148
Pension costs 259 329
Other benefits  1,572 1,269
Acquisition cost deemed as staff compensation* 348 –
  27,738 22,762
Pension costs arise only in our Nordic business. Contributions are made on behalf of employees to defined contribution 
schemes at statutory rates for the respective country.
*  Part of the acquisition cost relating to Definitive Insights is deemed as staff compensation and treated as an exceptional cost, as disclosed in note 4, 
rather than charged to administration expenses.
The average number of employees of the Group during the year was as follows:
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 Number Number
Key management personnel 28 23
Administration and operations 448 397
  476 420
Specific disclosures in relation to compensation for key management personnel (defined as Entity Directors and/or  
Chief Executive Officers) who held office during the year was as follows:
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
Short-term employee benefits 2,959 2,700
Post-employment benefits 71 44
Share-based payments 266 5
Acquisition cost deemed as staff compensation 348 –
  3,644 2,749
Disclosure of Directors’ remuneration including share options are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 27 and 28.
4 Exceptional Costs
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010* 
 £000 £000
Restructuring costs 338 683
Acquisition costs 544 271
Investment write-offs 168 –
Loss on disposal of subsidiary  200 –
Provision for YouGovStone put option (121) 965
Change in accounting estimation – panel incentives provision – 600
Employment termination  – 280
  1,129 2,799
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2011 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     55 Section 4  Financial Statements
4 Exceptional Costs continued
Restructuring costs arose due to the termination of operations of certain divisions within the German business. 
Acquisition costs comprise professional fees incurred relating to the acquisition of Harrison Group and Definitive Insights, 
which were completed during the year ended 31 July 2011. IFRS 3 (revised) requires these to be expensed at the time that 
they are incurred. This includes £348,000 of contingent consideration, deemed under IFRS 3, to be staff compensation costs.
A number of investments in joint ventures were written off during the year, as they no longer traded or the Group no longer  
had an equity interest in them.
On 30 December 2010, YouGov disposed, through a management buy-out, of Great Place to Work Deutschland GmbH,  
a wholly owned subsidiary of YouGovPsychonomics AG. The net sale consideration for the shares in GPW Germany was 
approximately £530,000 payable in cash. At the date of disposal, GPW’s net assets were £30,000. Management have 
apportioned £700,000 of the goodwill pertaining to the acquisition of the Psychonomics group in 2007 to GPW. As such  
a loss of £200,000 has been recognised within exceptional items line of the income statement to reflect this disposal.
According to the terms of the shareholders’ agreement for YouGovStone Limited, Carole Stone was entitled to require 
YouGov plc to purchase some or all of her shareholding of the 49 “B” class shares. The results for 2010 have been 
restated to reflect a provision for this option whose value as at 31 July 2010 was estimated to be £965,000. During the 
year ended 31 July 2011 an agreement was reached for the purchase of the “B” shares which resulted in a credit being 
taken in the current financial year.
5 Finance Income and Costs
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
Interest receivable from bank deposits 111 148
Other interest receivable 22 88
Foreign exchange gains/(losses) on cash held in foreign currency denominated accounts 144 (31)
Total finance income 277 205
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 14 32
Interest on obligations under hire purchase and finance leases 3 2
Foreign exchange losses on intra-Group loan positions – 119
  17 153
Imputed interest on contingent consideration 202 48
Total finance costs 219 201
  YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     56 Section 4  Financial Statements
6 Income Taxes
The taxation charge represents:
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
Current tax 297 199
Adjustments in respect of prior years (58) (10)
Total current tax charge 239 189
Deferred tax:
Current year (231) (3,270)
Adjustments in respect of prior years  – 509
Total deferred tax credit (231) (2,761)
Total income statement tax charge/(credit) 8 (2,572)
The tax assessed for the year is lower (2010: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK.
The differences are explained below:
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
Profit/(loss) before tax 411 (10,577)
Tax (charge)/credit calculated at Group’s standard rate of 27.3% (2010: 28%) (112) 2,962
Variance in overseas tax  354 501
Impact of tax rate change in current year (62) (67)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes (247) (643)
Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised – (192)
Adjustment in respect of prior years 58 10
Share of tax loss of joint venture 1 1
Total income statement tax (charge)/credit for the year (8) 2,572
In addition to the changes in rates of corporation tax disclosed above a number of further changes to the UK corporation 
tax system were announced in the March 2011 UK Budget Statement. Legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation 
tax from 26% to 25% from 1 April 2012 is expected to be included in the Finance Act 2011. Further reductions to the main 
rate are proposed to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014. These further changes had not been 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, are not included in these financial statements.
The effect of the expected reduction of 1% in the corporation tax rate from 1 April 2012 to be enacted in the Finance Act 
2011 would be to reduce the deferred tax asset provided at the balance sheet date by £68,000 and the liability by £6,000. 
The net effect would be a £68,000 decrease in the deferred tax asset, a £6,000 reduction in the liability and a net 
decrease in profit and other comprehensive income of £62,000. 
The proposed reductions of the main rate of corporation tax by 1% per year to 23% by 1 April 2014 are expected to be 
enacted separately each year. The overall effect of the further changes from 25% to 23%, if these were applied to the 
deferred tax asset at the balance sheet date, would be to reduce the deferred tax asset by £136,000 (being £68,000 
recognised in 2013 and £68,000 recognised in 2014). If these were applied to the deferred tax liability at the balance 
sheet date, would be to reduce the deferred tax liability by £12,000 (being £6,000 recognised in 2013 and £6,000 
recognised in 2014).
7 Dividend
No dividend was paid or proposed during the year (2010: £nil).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2011 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     57 Section 4  Financial Statements
8 Earnings Per Share
The calculation of the basic earnings per share is based on the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders divided  
by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. Shares held in employee share trusts are treated as 
cancelled for the purposes of this calculation.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on the basic earnings per share, adjusted to allow for the issue  
of shares and the post-tax effect of dividends and/or interest, on the assumed conversion of all dilutive options and other 
dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The adjusted earnings per share has been calculated to reflect the underlying profitability of the business by excluding 
the amortisation of intangible assets, share-based payments, imputed interest, impairment charges, exceptional items 
and any related tax effects.
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
Group profit/(loss) after taxation attributable to equity holders of the parent company 286 (8,499)
Add: amortisation of intangible assets 3,755 3,689
Add: share-based payments 337 148
Add: imputed interest 202 48
Add: impairment charge  – 7,861
Add: exceptional costs 1,129 2,799
Tax effect of the above adjustments (1,250) (3,624)
Adjusted profit after taxation 4,459 2,422
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below.
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010
Number of shares
Weighted average number of shares during the period: (’000 shares)
– Basic 95,114 96,777
– Dilutive effect of share options 3,319 –
– Diluted 98,433 96,777
The adjustments have the following effect:
Basic profit/(loss) per share (in pence) 0.3 (8.8)
Amortisation of intangible assets (in pence) 4.0 3.8
Share-based payments (in pence) 0.3 0.2
Imputed interest (in pence) 0.2 0.0
Exceptional costs and impairments (in pence) 1.2 11.0
Tax effect of the above adjustments (in pence) (1.3) (3.7)
Adjusted earnings per share (in pence) 4.7 2.5
Diluted profit/(loss) per share (in pence) 0.3  (8.8)
Amortisation of intangible assets (in pence) 3.8  3.8
Share-based payments (in pence) 0.3  0.2
Imputed interest (in pence) 0.2  0.0
Exceptional costs and impairment (in pence) 1.2  11.0
Tax effect of the above adjustments (in pence) (1.3)  (3.7)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (in pence) 4.5 2.5
  YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     58 Section 4  Financial Statements
9 Business Combinations and Disposals
a) Acquisition of Harrison Group
The acquisition of Harrison Group, one of the USA’s leading market and strategic research firms was completed on 
16 August 2010. The basic purchase consideration payable is six times the EBITDA achieved by Harrison in the year 
ended 31 December 2010 of $2.4m (£1.5m) amounting to $14.3m (£9.1m). $6.0m (£3.8m) of this was paid on completion 
and a further $3.0m (£1.8m) was paid in April 2011. The remaining balance will be payable in instalments in 2012 and 2013, 
contingent upon the results achieved in the 2010 and 2011 calendar years. An additional payment of up to $1.2m (£0.8m), 
which is currently anticipated to be $0.8m (£0.5m), will be payable in 2013 contingent upon EBITDA growth targets being 
achieved in the calendar years 2011 and 2012.
The instalments due between 2011 and 2013 (including the incentive payment) have been discounted to a net present value 
of $8.6m (£5.5m) resulting in a finance charge of $0.5m (£0.3m) taken to the income statement over the earn-out period.
Professional fees of £0.4m have been incurred to date relating to the Harrison acquisition. In accordance with IFRS 3 
(revised) all professional fees have been expensed in the period that they have been incurred. £0.3m was recognised  
in financial year 2009/10 and £0.1m in the year ended 31 July 2011. 
The amount recognised for each class of Harrison’s assets recognised at the acquisition date are as follows:
Net assets acquired:
 Acquiree’s carrying   
 amount before Fair value   
 combination adjustments Fair value 
  £000 £000 £000
Net assets at completion date
 Cash 1,413 – 1,413
 Tangible and intangible fixed assets 345 – 345
 Net working capital (157) – (157)
Intangible assets
 Trademarks and patents – 710 710
 Customer relationships – 2,232 2,232
 Order Backlog – 82 82
Deferred tax liability – (1,270) (1,270)
Net assets 1,601 1,754 3,355
Goodwill arising on acquisition – – 5,960
Total consideration     9,315
Total consideration analysed as:
 £000
Cash 3,811
Contingent consideration 5,504
Total consideration 9,315
Ownership and control passed to YouGov on 16 August 2010 and Harrison has been consolidated within the Group 
financial statements from that date. The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Harrison is attributable to the anticipated 
synergies expected to be derived from the combination and value of the workforce of Harrison, which cannot be 
recognised as an intangible asset under IAS 38 “Intangible Assets”.
Since the acquisition, Harrison has contributed £8.3m ($13.2m) to Group revenue and £1.4m ($2.2m) to the Group 
operating profit for the year ended 31 July 2011.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2011 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     59 Section 4  Financial Statements
9 Business Combinations and Disposals continued
b) Disposal of Great Place to Work Deutschland GmbH (“GPW Germany”)
On 30 December 2010, YouGov disposed, through a management buy-out, of Great Place to Work Deutschland GmbH,  
a wholly owned subsidiary of YouGovPsychonomics AG. During the year, it contributed revenue of £1.3m (2010: £2.7m) 
and operating profit of £0.2m (2010: £nil) to the Group.
The net purchase consideration for the shares in GPW Germany was £0.5m payable in cash, in two tranches, £0.3m  
at 30 December 2010 and the remainder on 30 June 2011. At the date of disposal, GPW’s net assets were not material. 
Management have apportioned £0.7m of the goodwill pertaining to the acquisition of the Psychonomics group in 2007  
to GPW. A net loss of £0.2m has been recognised as an exceptional cost to reflect this disposal.
c) Purchase of Minority Shareholding in YouGov ME FZ LLC 
On 31 October 2010, YouGov plc purchased the remaining 22% shareholding in its subsidiary YouGov ME FZ LLC from  
the minority shareholders.
The cash consideration for this purchase was £1.9m. The book value of non-controlling interests at the transaction date 
was £3.8m. The difference of £1.9m (£1.7m net of associated costs) has been reflected directly in reserves in accordance 
with IAS 27 (revised).
d) Acquisition of Definitive Insights
The acquisition of Definitive Insights (“DI”), a custom research company based in Oregon USA, was completed  
on 1 April 2011. The basic purchase consideration payable is 4.5 times the average EBITDA of DI for the two years  
ending 31 January 2013 plus an additional incentive of up to 20% contingent upon EBITDA growth in the year ending  
31 January 2013. If the full incentive is paid, this would bring the total multiple up to 5 times EBITDA for the year ended  
31 January 2013. An initial payment of $1.0m (£0.6m) was paid upon completion and the balance will be payable in  
four instalments between 2012 and 2015. 
The instalments due between 2012 and 2015 (including the incentive payment) have been discounted to a net present 
value of $4.3m (£2.6m) resulting in a finance charge of $0.3m (£0.2m) taken to the income statement over the earn-out 
period. Half of this contingent consideration is being treated as staff compensation. The treatment of this is discussed  
in more detail in notes 3 and 4. 
Professional fees of £0.1m have been incurred during the year ended 31 July 2011 relating to the acquisition.  
In accordance with IFRS 3 (revised) all professional fees have been expensed to the period that they have been incurred.
Provisional fair value adjustments have been made to align Definitive Insights’ accounting policies with those of YouGov 
and to account for the intangible assets and attributable deferred taxation of the business which are recognised upon 
acquisition. Management are currently finalising the fair value calculations and this will be completed in the six months 
ended 31 January 2012.
The amount recognised for each class of Definitive Insights’ assets recognised at the acquisition date are as follows:
Net assets acquired:
 Acquiree’s carrying Provisional   
 amount before fair value  Provisional 
 combination adjustments fair value 
  £000 £000 £000
Net assets at completion date 12 – 12
Intangible assets   
 Trademarks and patents – 135 135
 Customer relationships – 1,137 1,137
 Order Backlog – 8 8
Deferred tax liability – (538) (538)
Net assets 12 742 754
Goodwill arising on acquisition – – 1,168
Total consideration     1,922
  YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     60 Section 4  Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2011
9 Business Combinations and Disposals continued
Total consideration analysed as:
 £000
Cash 612
Contingent consideration 1,310
Total consideration 1,922
Ownership and control passed to YouGov on 1 April 2011 and Definitive Insights has been consolidated within the Group 
financial statements from that date. The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Definitive Insights is attributable to the 
anticipated synergies expected to be derived from the combination and value of the workforce, which cannot be 
recognised as an intangible asset under IAS 38 “Intangible Assets”.
Since the acquisition, Definitive Insights has contributed £1.3m ($2.1m) to Group revenue and £0.1m ($0.2m) to the Group 
operating profit for the year ended 31 July 2011. If Definitive Insights had been consolidated for a full 12 months they 
would have contributed £3.3m ($5.3m) to Group revenue and £0.2m ($0.3m) to the Group operating profit.
e) Purchase of Minority Shareholding in YouGovStone Limited
On 6 June 2011, YouGov plc purchased the remaining 49% shareholding in its subsidiary YouGovStone Limited from the 
minority shareholder Carole Stone.
The consideration for this purchase was part cash of £0.7m and part issue of new ordinary shares in YouGov plc of £0.1m. 
The book value of non-controlling interests in assets and liabilities at the transaction date was not material. 
f) Purchase of Minority Stake in CoEditor Limited
During the period, YouGov plc invested £0.5m for a 25% stake in CoEditor Limited, a company owned by Doughty 
Media 2 (owned by Stephan Shakespeare). CoEditor has developed software in the field of news and content aggregation 
which will be provided exclusively to YouGov for the purpose of providing dedicated content and activities for members  
of YouGov’s online panels. YouGov also has options to acquire additional shares which will enable it to benefit from 
increases in CoEditor’s equity value resulting from its business development.
10 Goodwill
  North    
 Middle East America Nordic Germany UK Total 
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Carrying amount at 1 August 2009 1,319 9,437 8,420 14,226 80 33,482
Movements:
Impairment charge – – – (2,399) – (2,399)
Net exchange differences 86 615 (217) (364) – 120
Carrying amount at 31 July 2010 1,405 10,052 8,203  11,463 80  31,203 
Movements:
Acquired through  
business combinations – 7,128 – – – 7,128
Disposal of subsidiary – – – (700) (80) (780)
Net exchange differences (63) (745) 439 613 – 244
Carrying amount at 31 July 2011 1,342 16,435 8,642 11,376 – 37,795
  YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     61 Section 4  Financial Statements
10 Goodwill continued
In accordance with the Group’s accounting policy, the carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets are 
reviewed annually for impairment. The cash-generating units (CGUs) are consistent with those segments shown in note 1. 
The 2011 impairment review was undertaken as at 31 July 2011. This review assessed whether the carrying value of 
goodwill was supported by the net present value of future cash flows derived from assets using an initial projection period 
of three years for each CGU based on approved budget numbers. Beyond that, EBITDA growth was assumed to be 5% 
for years four and five which is conservative both in comparison with their historical performance and annual growth  
rates in the internet-based market research sector. Annual growth rates of 3% have been assumed in perpetuity beyond 
year five. The weighted average cost of capital used to discount the future cash flows to their present value is 11.7% 
(2010: 14.1%).
All CGUs, when subjected to sensitivity analyses had sufficient headroom to support their carrying value.
At 31 July 2010, the assessment of the carrying value of the German CGU resulted in an impairment charge of £7.9m being 
made of which £5.5m was against the intangible assets (customer contracts and lists, patents and trademarks) and £2.4m 
was against goodwill. At 31 July 2011, the sensitivity analysis carried out on the goodwill attributable to the German CGU 
indicated that a 6% reduction in the projected EBITDA for the year ending 31 July 2012 compared to the base case 
assumptions or a 7% reduction in the projected EBITDA for either of the two following years would reduce the headroom 
to zero.
11 Other Intangible Assets
  Software Customer 
 Consumer and software contracts Patents and Order Development  
 panel development and lists trademarks backlog costs Total 
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Net carrying amount  
at 1 August 2009 4,559 2,009 5,317 5,761 – 294 17,940
Additions:
 Separately acquired 285 387 – 47 – 320 1,039
 Internally developed – 801 – – – 197 998
Amortisation (1,653) (1,035) (443) (456) – (102) (3,689)
Impairment – – (2,479) (2,983) – – (5,462)
Net exchange  
differences (56) (37) (84) (92) – (12) (281)
Net carrying amount  
at 31 July 2010 3,135 2,125 2,311 2,277 – 697 10,545
Additions:
 Separately acquired 329 68 – 8 – 79 484
  Through business  
combinations – 171 3,369 845 90 – 4,475
 Internally developed – 1,539 – – – 84 1,623
Disposals – (31) – – – – (31)
Amortisation (1,512) (1,624) (181) (270) (85) (83) (3,755)
Net exchange  
differences (434) (234) (575) (684) – 13 (1,914)
Net carrying amount  
at 31 July 2011 1,518 2,014 4,924 2,176 5 790 11,427
The details of the 2010 impairment charge of £5.5m are disclosed in note 10.  YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     62 Section 4  Financial Statements
12 Property, Plant And Equipment
  Leasehold 
 Freehold property Computer Fixtures Motor 
 property improvements equipment and fittings vehicles Total 
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Carrying amount at 1 August 2009 1,147 160 565 725 32 2,629
Additions:
 Separately acquired – 42 185 55 – 282
Disposals – – – – – –
Depreciation (54) (68) (272) (232) (32) (658)
Net exchange differences 64 8 26 31 – 129
Carrying amount at 31 July 2010 1,157 142 504 579 – 2,382
Additions:
 Separately acquired – 4 547 23 – 574
 Through business combinations 177 – 39 3 14 233
Disposals – (13) (9) (30) – (52)
Depreciation (80) (77) (431) (155) (2) (745)
Net exchange differences (52) 3 (9) 4 – (54)
Carrying amount at 31 July 2011 1,202 59 641 424 12 2,338
All property, plant and equipment disclosed above, with the exception of those items held under lease purchase 
agreement, are free from restrictions on title. No property, plant and equipment either in 2011 or 2010 has been pledged  
as security against the liabilities of the Group. 
13 Investments
a) Interests in Subsidiaries
As at 31 July 2011 the Group’s principal trading subsidiaries were:
   Proportion Proportion 
  Class held by held 
 Country of of share parent by the Nature 
 incorporation capital held company Group of the business
YouGovM.E. FZ LLC United Arab  Ordinary 100% 100% Market research 
  Emirates
YouGovPsychonomics AG  Germany Ordinary 100% 100% Market research
Service Rating GmbH Germany Ordinary 0% 100% Rating agency
Psychonomics Field GmbH Germany Ordinary 0% 70% CATI supplier  
      company
YouGov Nordics and Baltic A/S Denmark Ordinary 100% 100% Market research
YouGov Sweden AB Sweden  Ordinary 100% 100% Market research
YouGov Norway AS Norway  Ordinary 100% 100% Market research
YouGov Finland OY Finland  Ordinary 100% 100% Market research
HG Acquisition LLC USA Ordinary 0% 100% Market research
Definitive Insights Inc USA Ordinary 0% 100% Market research
YouGov France SASU France Ordinary 100% 100% Market research
YouGovStone Limited England Ordinary 100% 100% Market research
All subsidiaries have coterminous year ends and are included in the consolidated financial statements.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2011 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     63 Section 4  Financial Statements
13 Investments continued
b) Interest in Joint Ventures and Associates
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
Total fixed asset investments comprise £’000 £’000
Carrying amount at 1 August 2010 23 23
Acquisition of associate 500 –
Disposal of joint venture (23) –
Share of loss in associate (32) –
Interest in joint ventures and associates 468 23
The Group has not recognised losses amounting to £6,000 (2010: £4,000) for YouGov Centaur LLP.
At 31 July 2011 the Group had interests in the following:
    Proportion Proportion 
  Country of Class of share held by parent held by the Nature of Financial 
 Investment incorporation capital held company Group the business year end
YouGovCentaur LLP Joint  England Ordinary 50% 50% Specialist 30 June 
  Venture     business to  
       business  
       research
CoEditor Limited Associate England Ordinary 25% 25% Website  31 July 
       developer
The Group’s share of the revenue and operating loss and assets and liabilities of joint ventures and associates are:
 CoEditor Limited YouGovCentaur LLP
  
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue – – – –
Operating loss (32) – (6) (4)
Non-current assets 1 – 2 3
Current assets 96 – 43 18
Current liabilities (4) – (150) (59)
Non-current liabilities – – – (39)
Net assets/(liabilities) 93 – (105) (77)
14 Trade and Other Receivables
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
Trade receivables 9,810 7,749
Amounts owed by related parties 292 123
Other receivables 1,048 967
Prepayments and accrued income 5,945 5,916
  17,095 14,755
Provision for trade receivables (162) (194)
  16,933 14,561
  YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     64 Section 4  Financial Statements
14 Trade and Other Receivables continued
The ageing of the current trade receivables and amounts owed by related parties is as follows:
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
Within payment terms 5,017 2,966
Not more than three months overdue 3,349 3,156
More than three months but not more than six months overdue 917 911
More than six months but not more than one year overdue 509 327
More than one year overdue 310 512
  10,102 7,872
The Group’s trade receivables are stated before provisions for impaired receivables. This provision is determined by 
considering all past due balances and by reference to past default experience.
Movement on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows:
 2011 2010 
 £000 £000
Provision for receivables impairment at 1 August 194 132
Provision created in the year 112 166
Provision utilised in the year (144) (104)
Provision for receivables impairment at 31 July 162 194
The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables has been included in the consolidated income 
statement. The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. The maximum exposure  
to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does not 
hold any collateral as security.
The average length of time taken by customers to settle receivables is 61 days (2010: 61 days). The Directors consider 
that the carrying value of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value. Concentrations of credit risk do exist 
with certain clients with which we have trading relationships but none has a history of default and all command a certain 
stature within the marketplace which minimises any potential risk of default. Material balances (defined as >£250,000 
(2010: >£250,000)) represent 12% of trade receivables (2010: 23%). 
At 31 July 2011 £435,000 (DKK 3.7m) (2010: £290,000 (DKK 2.6m)) of the trade and other receivables of YouGov Nordics  
& Baltic A/S was used as security against a loan and revolving overdraft facility held by YouGov Nordics & Baltic A/S.
YouGovPsychonomics AG has secured a value of up to €144,000 (£126,000) (2010: €144,000 (£120,000)) in the event of 
default on rental payments against its trade and other receivables.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2011 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     65 Section 4  Financial Statements
15 Other Short-Term Financial Assets
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
Available-for-sale financial assets –  165
Other short-term financial assets represented corporate bonds that present the Group with opportunity for returns through 
interest income and trading gains. They had a fixed maturity of less than three months. The investment was held at cost. 
Fair value of the asset was not materially different from its historical cost.
16 Cash and Cash Equivalents
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 9,400 15,634
Cash and cash equivalents are held at either variable rates or at rates fixed for periods of no longer than three months.
17 Trade and Other Payables
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
Trade payables 1,941 1,416
Accruals and deferred income 7,585 7,040
Other payables 2,076 1,690
  11,602 10,146
The average length of time taken by the Group to settle payables is 32 days (2010: 34 days). The Directors consider that 
the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
18 Contingent Consideration
 Clear  Definitive 
 Horizons Harrison Insights Total 
 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 August 2009 929 – – 929
Settled during the year (278) – – (278)
Discount unwinding 13 – – 13
Balance at 31 July 2010 664 – – 664
Included within current liabilities 304 – – 304
Included within non-current liabilities 360 – – 360
Settled in the period (266) (1,809) – (2,075)
Provided during the year – 5,504 1,658 7,162
Discount unwinding 21 156 2 189
Net foreign exchange differences 6 (265) (17) (276)
Balance at 31 July 2011 425 3,586 1,653 5,664
Included within current liabilities 425 2,116 297 2,838
Included within non-current liabilities – 1,470 1,356 2,826
 
Details of the terms of the acquisitions of Harrison Group and Definitive Insights are given in note 9. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     66 Section 4  Financial Statements
19 Provisions
 Panel Staff 
 incentives gratuity Other* Total 
 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 August 2009 1,630 108 – 1,738
Provided during the year 3,835 127 965 4,927
Utilised during the year (2,625) (116) – (2,741)
Released during the year (279) (36) – (315)
Net foreign exchange differences 25 7 – 32
Balance at 31 July 2010* 2,586 90 965 3,641
Included within current liabilities 1,278 – 965 2,243
Included within non-current liabilities 1,308 90 – 1,398
Provided during the year 4,542 81 – 4,623
Utilised during the year (3,490) (29) (844) (4,363)
Released during the year (722) (6) (121) (849)
Net foreign exchange differences (6) (4) – (10)
Balance at 31 July 2011 2,910 132 – 3,042
Included within current liabilities 1,437 – – 1,437
Included within non-current liabilities 1,473 132 – 1,605
*  Other provision relates to the provision in respect of the put-option held by Carole Stone as at 31 July 2010 which was re-stated as explained in note 4. 
The panel incentive provision represents the Directors’ best estimate of the future liability in relation to the value of panel 
incentives that have accrued in the panellists’ virtual accounts up to 31 July 2011. The provision of £2.9m represents  
33% of the maximum potential liability of £8.9m (2010: £2.6m representing 30% of the total liability of £8.6m). The factors 
considered in estimating the appropriate percentage of the total liability to be provided against at each reporting date 
include: panel churn rates, panel activity rates, current redemption patterns and the time value of money. 
The staff gratuity provision is a statutory obligation under UAE labour law, whereby each employee on termination of  
their contract is due a payment dependent upon their number of years’ service and nature of the termination. The liability  
of £0.1m at 31 July 2011 (2010: £0.1m) represents the liability that the Group is obliged to pay as at the reporting date 
weighted against historical rates of resignation and redundancy. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2011 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     67 Section 4  Financial Statements
20 Deferred Taxation Assets and Liabilities
  Property, plant    
  and equipment  Tax losses Total 
Non-current deferred tax asset  £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 August 2009  27 2,483 2,510
Recognised in consolidated income statement  33 90 123
Net foreign exchange differences  – 52 52
Tax rate adjustment  – (79) (79)
Balance at 31 July 2010  60 2,546 2,606
Recognised in consolidated income statement  (6) (639) (645)
Net foreign exchange differences  (9) (13) (22)
Balance at 31 July 2011  45 1,894 1,939
The deferred taxation asset in respect of income tax losses are broken down by jurisdiction as follows:
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
UK 592 626
Nordic 767 780
North America 535 1,140
  1,894 2,546
Where tax losses are acquired as in our North American business a restriction is placed upon the use of those 
pre-acquisition losses. The restriction is calculated by multiplying the long-term rate of interest (currently 4.58%) against 
the consideration paid. On this basis the current value of loss that can be used annually is £0.7m. No such restrictions  
exist in relation to any of our other tax losses.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised only to the extent where management budgets and forecasts show sufficient 
profits being generated to discharge these in the short term. Utilisation of tax losses is dependable upon future profits 
being generated.
 Intangible Property, plant  Other timing 
 assets and equipment  differences Total 
Non-current deferred tax liabilities £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 August 2009 5,521 386 198 6,105
Recognised in consolidated income statement (2,675) (226) 196 (2,705)
Tax rate adjustment (4) (1) (7) (12)
Net foreign exchange differences (124) 36 (2) (90)
Balance at 31 July 2010 2,718 195 385 3,298
Recognised in consolidated income statement (837) (36) (3) (876)
Acquired on acquisition 1,808 – – 1,808
Net foreign exchange differences (577) 9 (51) (613)
Balance at 31 July 2011 3,112 168 331 3,611
  YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     68 Section 4  Financial Statements
21 Risk Management Objectives and Policies
The Group is exposed to foreign currency and liquidity risk, which result from both its operating and investing activities.  
The Group’s risk management is co-ordinated in close co-operation with the Board of Directors, and focuses on actively 
securing the Group’s short- to medium-term cash flows by minimising the exposure to financial markets. The most 
significant financial risks to which the Group is exposed to are described below. Also refer to the accounting policies.
Foreign Currency Risk
The Group is exposed to translation and transaction foreign exchange risk. The currencies where the Group is most 
exposed to volatility are US Dollars, Euro, UAE Dirham and Danish Kroner.
Currently, the Group aims to align assets and liabilities in a particular market. The Group will continue to review its 
currency risk position as the overall business profile changes.
The presentational and transactional currency of the Group is considered to be UK Sterling.
Foreign currency denominated financial assets and liabilities, translated into UK Sterling at the closing rate are as follows:
 2011 2010 
 £000 £000
 
 US Euro Dirham Kroner US Euro Dirham Kroner 
Nominal amounts $ € AED DKK $ € AED DKK
Financial assets 4,478 2,445 6,112 1,693 5,166 2,268 7,916 777
Financial liabilities (4,069) (1,004) (135) (1,380) (133) (1,009) (74) (1,177)
Short-term exposure 409 1,441 5,977 313 5,033 1,259 7,842 (400)
Financial assets  –   –   –   –   –   –   –   – 
Financial liabilities  –   –   –   –   –   –   –   – 
Long-term exposure  –   –   –   –   –   –   –   – 
The effect of UK Sterling strengthening by 1% against our subsidiaries’ functional currencies (US Dollar, Euro, UAE 
Dirham and Danish Kroner) would have had the following impact upon translation:
 2011 2010 
 £000 £000
 
 US Euro Dirham Kroner US Euro Dirham Kroner 
 $ € AED DKK $ € AED DKK
Net result for the year (4) (1) (22) (4) (1) 1 (15) 5
Equity (44) (12) (187) (3) (41) (10) (174) 1
If the UK Sterling had weakened by 1% against the US Dollar, Euro, UAE Dirham and Danish Kroner the inverse of the 
impact above would be true. 
The Group manages currency fluctuations as outlined in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 29 to 31.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2011 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     69 Section 4  Financial Statements
21 Risk Management Objectives and Policies continued
Liquidity Risk
The Group seeks to manage financial risk by ensuring sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to 
invest cash assets safely and profitably.
The Group currently has no general borrowing arrangement in place (although specific fixed value borrowings are held 
within the Group) and prepares cash flow forecasts which are reviewed at Board meetings to ensure liquidity.
As at 31 July 2011, the Group’s liabilities have contractual maturities which are summarised below:
  Current Non-current
  
 Within Six to One to Later than 
  six months 12 months five years five years 
31 July 2011 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade and other payables 2,056 – – –
Contingent consideration – 2,838 2,826  
This compares to the maturity of the Group’s financial liabilities in the previous reporting period as follows:
  Current Non-current
  
 Within Six to One to Later than 
  six months 12 months five years five years 
31 July 2010 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade and other payables 3,161 35 – –
Contingent consideration – 304 360 –
The Group has sufficient financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all trade payables are settled within  
the respective credit period.
Capital Risk Management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that all entities within the Group are able to continue as going concerns.  
The Board have taken the decision at this stage to minimise external debt whilst trying to maximise earnings from the  
cash currently held. Capital consists of the following items: 
  31 July 2011 31 July 2010*
 £000 £000
Available-for-sale financial assets – 165
Cash and cash equivalents 9,400 15,634
Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent company (55,799) (55,203)
  (46,399) (39,404)
* All comparative information including the relevant notes has been restated to reflect a prior year adjustment, see notes 4 and 19 for full details. 
The Group has no externally imposed capital requirements.
Interest Rate Risk
The Group manages its interest rate risk by negotiating fixed interest rates on deposits for periods of up to three months. 
The average cash and cash equivalents balance over the course of the year was £10.0m (2010: £15.0m) attracting  
an average interest rate of 1.0% (2010: 1.0%). If interest rates had been 1% higher during the year ended 31 July 2011  
the increase to profit before tax would have been £100,000 (2010: £150,000). If interest rates had been 1% lower during 
the year ended 31 July 2011 the reduction in profit before tax would have been £100,000 (2010: £150,000). The impact 
upon shareholders’ equity would have been an increase of £83,000 (2010: £100,000) and a decrease of £83,000  
(2010: £100,000) respectively.  YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     70 Section 4  Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2011
22 Share Capital
The Company only has one class of share. Par value of each ordinary share is 0.2p. All issued shares are fully paid.
 Number £000
Year to 31 July 2011
At 1 August 2010 96,827,414 194
Issue of shares 302,051 1
At 31 July 2011 97,129,465 195
Year to 31 July 2010
At 1 August 2009 96,733,177 193
Issue of shares 94,237 1
At 31 July 2010 96,827,414 194
 Number £000
Authorised share capital
At 31 July 2010 and 31 July 2011
Ordinary shares @ 0.2p each 150,000,000 300
Share-Based Payments
The charge in relation to the share-based payments in the year ended 31 July 2011 was £104,000 (2010: £134,000).  
Details of the number of share options and the weighted average exercise price (WAEP) outstanding during the year are 
as follows:
 2011 WAEP 2010 WAEP
  
 Number £ Number £
Approved share option scheme
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 129,056 0.869 129,056 0.869
Granted during the year – – – –
Exercised during the year – – – –
Lapsed during the year – – – –
Outstanding at the end of the year 129,056 0.869 129,056 0.869
Exercisable at the end of the year 129,056 0.869 129,056 0.869
 2011 WAEP 2010 WAEP
  
 Number £ Number £
Unapproved share option scheme
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 438,231 0.232 538,990 0.211
Granted during the year – – – –
Exercised during the year (73,218) 0.099 (94,237) 0.112
Lapsed during the year (2,615) 0.094 (6,522) 0.190
Outstanding at the end of the year 362,398 0.253 438,231 0.232
Exercisable at the end of the year 362,398 0.253 379,057 0.236
  YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     71 Section 4  Financial Statements
22 Share Capital continued
Share options exercised in the current financial year were exercised at prices between £0.094 and £0.194 (2010: between 
£0.093 and £0.199). The weighted average share price at the date of exercise was £0.099 (2010: £0.112).
The options outstanding under the approved and unapproved share option schemes as at 31 July 2011 have the following 
average exercise prices and expire in the following financial years.
 Exercise price 2011 2010 
Expiry £ Number Number
31 July 2013 0.180 24,000 24,000
31 July 2015 0.180 44,335 44,335
31 July 2017 1.645 82,067 82,067
31 August 2021* 0.166 341,052 416,885
* The Polimetrix options expire on a monthly basis up to and including August 2021.
Expiry dates as standard are seven years from the vesting date. Vesting criteria are time based and contingent on 
continued employment with YouGov rather than performance based.
During the year ended 31 July 2011, the Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) for Executive Directors, Senior Executives  
and Senior Managers continued to operate. The rules governing the LTIP are summarised in the Remuneration Report on 
page 27. The charge in relation to the LTIP in the year ended 31 July 2011 was £100,000 (2010: £14,000). This charge was 
valued using a Monte Carlo simulation.
 2011 WAEP 2010 WAEP
  
 Number £ Number £
Long-term incentive plan (LTIP)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 3,925,992 0.000 2,034,655 0.000
Granted during the year 2,314,909 0.000 1,891,337 0.000
Exercised during the year – – – –
Lapsed during the year (284,041) 0.000 – –
Outstanding at the end of the year 5,956,860 0.000 3,925,992 0.000
Exercisable at the end of the year – –  –  –
During the year ended 31 July 2011, a Deferred Stock Scheme was introduced for Executive Directors and Senior 
Managers. The rules governing the Deferred Stock Scheme are summarised in the Remuneration Report on page 27. The 
charge in relation to the Deferred Stock Scheme in the year ended 31 July 2011 was £133,000 (2010: £nil). This charge 
was valued using a Black-Scholes model.
 2011 WAEP 2010 WAEP
  
Deferred stock scheme Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year – – – –
Granted during the year 1,500,000 0.000 – –
Exercised during the year – – – –
Lapsed during the year – – – –
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,500,000 0.000 – –
Exercisable at the end of the year – –  – –
  YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     72 Section 4  Financial Statements
22 Share Capital continued
The fair value of shares and share options granted under the various schemes has been calculated using the Black-
Scholes option pricing model. No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculation. The fair value per 
option granted and the assumptions made are listed below:
Black-Scholes model assumptions: 2011
Share price (p) 40
Exercise price (p) –
Estimated life (years) 3.0
Risk-free interest rate N/A
Dividend yield 0.0%
Volatility N/A
Basic fair value of option (p) 40
Options granted/shares awarded 1,500,000
Fair value of share options (£m) 40
Vesting adjustment factor 100%
Total scheme adjusted fair value (£m) 0.6
Performance period (years) 3.0
Annual income statement charge which would be applied over the performance period (£m) 0.2
The aggregate profit and loss charge for share-based payments is disclosed in note 1.
23 Leasing Commitments
The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 July 2011 are as follows:
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010
  
 Land and  Land and  
 buildings Other  buildings Other 
 £000 £000 £000 £000
In one year or less 642 254 1,191 84
Between one and five years 1,855 523 1,046 140
In five years or more – – 15 34
  2,497 777 2,252 258
 
24 Capital Commitments
At 31 July 2011, the Group had no outstanding commitments to procure software (2010: £nil).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2011 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     73 Section 4  Financial Statements
25 Major Non-Cash Transactions
The Group entered into a barter transaction with Centaur plc, a joint venture partner, to exchange the provision  
of BrandIndex content for advertising within its publications for £327,000 (2010: £327,000).
Other barter transactions totalled £527,000 (2010: £136,000).
26 Transactions With Directors and Other Related Parties
There have been no transactions with Directors during the year.
During the period, YouGov plc provided research services totalling £90,000 (2010: £128,000) to Privero Capital Advisors 
Inc. A minority stake of 25% in this company is owned by Stephan Shakespeare, an Executive Director of YouGov plc.  
The sales were made at an arm’s length and on usual commercial terms. These arrangements have previously been 
disclosed as a related party transaction under the AIM Rules for Companies. At 31 July 2011 Privero Capital Advisors Inc 
owed YouGov plc £292,000 (2010: £208,000). 
During the period, YouGov plc invested £500,000 for a 25% stake in CoEditor Limited, a company owned by Doughty 
Media 2 (owned by Stephan Shakespeare). 
In the year ended 31 July 2011, YouGov plc provided research services totalling £nil (2010: £30,000) to Doughty Media 
Limited, a company which Stephan Shakespeare owns. At 31 July 2011, Doughty Media Limited owed YouGov plc £nil 
(2010: £nil).
Trading between YouGov plc and Group companies is excluded from the related party note as this has been eliminated 
on consolidation.
27 Events After the Reporting Period
No material events have taken place subsequent to the reporting date. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     74 Section 4  Financial Statements
We have audited the parent company financial statements 
of YouGov plc for the year ended 31 July 2011 which 
comprise the Balance Sheet, the Accounting Policies and 
the related notes. The financial reporting framework that  
has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the parent company financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared  
for and only for the Company’s members as a body in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report  
is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to  
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements  
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error . This includes an assessment of: whether  
the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent 
company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness  
of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; 
and the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Directors’ Report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Financial Statements 
In our opinion the parent company financial statements: 
•	 give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s 
affairs as at 31 July 2011;
•	 have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
•	 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements 
of the Companies Act 2006.
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of YouGov plc  
on the Parent Company Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2011
Opinion on Other Matter Prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report 
for the financial year for which the parent company financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the parent 
company financial statements.
Matters on Which We Are Required to Report by Exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following 
matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to 
report to you if, in our opinion: 
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
•	 the parent company financial statements are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
•	 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made; or 
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit.
Other Matter 
We have reported separately on the Group financial 
statements of YouGov plc for the year ended 31 July 2011.
David A Snell
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
10 October 2011 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     75 Section 4  Financial Statements
  31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 Note £000 £000
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 4 206 191
Tangible assets 5 283 380
Investments 6 36,691 33,546
   37,180 34,117
Current assets
Debtors 7 17,115 13,070
Cash at bank and in hand  867 5,424
   17,982 18,494
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 (8,272) (11,104)
Net current assets  9,710 7,390
Total assets less current liabilities  46,890 41,507
Provision for liabilities 9 (141) (171)
Net assets  46,749 41,336
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 11 195 194
Share premium account  30,947 30,822
Merger reserve  9,239 9,239
Profit and loss account  6,368 1,081
Total shareholders’ funds 10 46,749 41,336
The accounting policies and notes on pages 78 to 82 form an integral part of this financial statement.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 10 October 2011 and signed on its behalf by 
Alan Newman 
Chief Financial Officer
Company Balance Sheet as at 31 July 2011 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     76 Section 4  Financial Statements
Principal Accounting Policies of the Company Financial Statements  
for the year ended 31 July 2011
Basis of Preparation
The separate financial statements of the Company are drawn up in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and 
applicable accounting standards drawn from UK generally accepted accounting principles (UK GAAP). The financial 
statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and on the going concern basis.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 
“Cash Flow Statement (revised 1996)”. The cash flows of the Company are disclosed as part of the consolidated cash flow 
statement within the consolidated financial statements.
The particular accounting policies adopted are detailed below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the 
current year and the prior year .
Related Parties
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 “Related party disclosures” and has not reported 
transactions with fellow Group undertakings. Further details are included in note 26 of the consolidated financial statements.
Panel Incentive Costs
The Group invites consumer panel members to fill out surveys for a cash or points-based incentive. Although these 
amounts are not paid until a pre-determined target value has accrued on a panellist’s account, an assessment of incentives 
likely to be paid is made and is recognised as a cost of sale in the period in which the service is provided. This assessment 
takes into account the expected savings from the lottery offered in various territories.
Share-Based Payments
All goods and services received in exchange for the grant of any share-based payment are measured at their fair values. 
Where employees are rewarded using share-based payments, the fair values of employees’ services are determined 
indirectly by reference to the fair value of the instrument granted to the employee. This fair value is appraised at the grant 
date and excludes the impact of non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets).
Where equity-settled share-based payments relate to employees of the Company these are ultimately recognised as an 
expense in the profit and loss account with a corresponding credit to the profit and loss reserve. Where equity-settled 
share-based payments relate to employees of subsidiaries of the Company these are treated as a capital contribution, 
increasing the value of the investment in the subsidiary with a corresponding credit to the profit and loss reserve.
If vesting periods or other non-market vesting conditions apply, the expense is allocated over the vesting period, based  
on the best available estimate of the number of share options expected to vest. Estimates are revised subsequently if  
there is any indication that the number of share options expected to vest differs from previous estimates. Any cumulative 
adjustment prior to vesting is recognised in the current period. No adjustment is made to any expense recognised in prior 
periods if share options that have vested are not exercised.
Upon exercise of share options, the proceeds received net of attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital, 
and where appropriate share premium.
Intangible Fixed Asset
Panel acquisition costs reflect the direct, external cost of recruiting new panel members. A formula based on panel churn for 
the preceding 12 months determines the element which is enhancement and that which is maintenance. Only enhancement 
is capitalised as cost to the Company less accumulated amortisation. Amortisation is charged so as to write off the panel 
acquisition costs over three years, this being the Directors’ estimate of the average active life of a panel member .
Trademark costs reflect the direct cost of trademarks acquired to protect the YouGov brand and its products. Amortisation 
is not charged as trademarks are infinite in their longevity . The Company conducts an annual impairment review to ensure 
all trademarks are carried at appropriate values. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     77 Section 4  Financial Statements
Tangible Fixed Assets 
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost of the original purchase or development, net of accumulated depreciation and any 
provision for impairment.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost less estimated residual value of all tangible fixed assets by annual 
instalments over their estimated useful economic lives. The rates generally applicable are:
Leasehold property and improvements  Life of the lease
Fixtures and fittings on a reducing balance basis 25%
Computer software and hardware on a straight-line basis 33%
Software development costs on a straight-line basis 33%
Costs that are directly attributable to the development of new business application software and which are incurred during 
the period prior to the date the software is placed into operational use are capitalised as software development costs. 
External costs and internal costs are capitalised to the extent they generate future economic benefit for the business, whilst 
internal costs are only capitalised if they are incremental to the Group. Once the new business application software is 
operational it is depreciated at the rates set out in the above table.
Research and Development
Research expenditure is charged to profits in the period in which it is incurred. Software development costs incurred on 
specific projects are recognised to the extent that they comply with the requirements of SSAP 13, i.e. when recoverability 
can be assessed with reasonable certainty and amortised in line with the expected sales arising from the projects. All other 
development costs are written off in the year of expenditure.
Investments
Investments are included at cost less amounts written off. The carrying value is considered annually by the Directors in 
comparison against the potential net realisable value.
Leased Assets – Operating Leases
Operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Deferred Taxation
Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the transactions or events that give the Company an obligation 
to pay more tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax 
assets are recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that 
there will be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal 
of underlying timing differences can be deducted. Deferred tax is measured using rates of tax that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. The deferred tax provision is held at its current value and not discounted. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     78 Section 4  Financial Statements
1 Profit of Parent Company
The parent company has taken advantage of Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not included its own profit 
and loss account in these financial statements. The parent company’s profit for the year was £4,950,000 (2010: loss of 
£4,536,000). This includes audit fees for the Company of £40,000 (2010: £40,000).
2 Staff Numbers and Costs
Staff costs (including Directors) charged to administration expenses during the year were as follows:
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
Wages and salaries 5,168 5,363
Social security costs 558 470
Share-based payments 233 14
Other benefits  28 27
  5,987 5,874
The average monthly number of employees of the Group during the year was as follows:
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010
Key management personnel 7 4
Administration and operations 79 76
  86 80
Specific disclosures in relation to compensation for key management personnel (defined as Entity Directors and/or Chief 
Executive Officers) who held office during the year was as follows:
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
Short-term employee benefits 526 617
Share-based payments 66 5
  592 622
Disclosure of Directors’ remuneration including share options are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 28.
3 Dividend 
No dividend was paid or proposed during the year (2010: £nil).
Notes to the Company Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2011 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     79 Section 4  Financial Statements
4 Intangible Assets
 Panel 
 acquisition 
 costs Trademarks Total 
 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 August 2010 255 106 361
Additions 78 8 86 
At 31 July 2011 333 114 447
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 August 2010 170 – 170
Provided in the year 71 – 71
At 31 July 2011 241 – 241
Net book amount at 31 July 2011 92 114 206
Net book amount at 31 July 2010 85 106 191
5 Tangible Assets
 Software   Computer Leasehold 
 development Fixtures software and property and 
 costs and fittings hardware improvements Total 
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 August 2010  418  321  812  177  1,728
Additions – 5 104  – 109
At 31 July 2011 418 326 916 177 1,837
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 August 2010  418  192  616  122  1,348
Provided in the year – 33 138 35 206
At 31 July 2011 418 225 754 157 1,554
Net book amount at 31 July 2011 – 101 162 20 283
Net book amount at 31 July 2010 – 129 196 55 380
6 Fixed Asset Investments
Total fixed asset investments comprise:
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
Interest in subsidiaries  35,750 33,166
Interest in joint ventures and associates 500 43
Capital contributions arising from share-based payments 441 337
  36,691 33,546
The value of investments is determined on the basis of the cost to the Company .
The Company’s principal trading subsidiaries and joint ventures are listed in note 13 of the consolidated financial statements.
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     80 Section 4  Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2011
7 Debtors
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
Trade debtors 3,424 2,916
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 9,798 6,524
Amounts owed by joint ventures – 122
Other debtors 73 337
Prepayments and accrued income 2,166 1,599
Deferred taxation 1,654 1,572
  17,115 13,070
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, interest free, have no fixed date of payment and are repayable  
on demand.
8 Creditors: Amounts Falling Due Within One Year
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
Trade creditors  457 343
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 3,292 6,657
Taxation and social security 1,067 532
Other creditors 15 –
Accruals 2,742 3,168
Deferred income 699 404
  8,272 11,104
 
Some amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, interest free, have no fixed date of payment and are repayable 
on demand.
9 Provisions for Liabilities
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010 
 £000 £000
Deferred tax
At 1 August 171  252
Released during year in profit and loss account (30)  (81)
At 31 July 141  171
The deferred tax charge in the current and prior years represents accelerated capital allowances on fixed assets acquired. YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     81 Section 4  Financial Statements
10 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds 
  Called-up Share  Profit 
  share premium Merger and loss 
  capital account reserve account Total 
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 31 July 2009  193 30,811 9,239 5,469 45,712
Changes in equity for 2010
Loss for the year  – – – (4,536) (4,536)
Total recognised expense for the year  – – – (4,536) (4,536)
Issue of share capital through  
exercise of share options  1 11 – – 12
Share-based payments  – – – 148 148
Balance at 31 July 2010  194 30,822 9,239 1,081 41,336
Changes in equity for 2011
Profit for the year  – – – 4,950 4,950
Total recognised income for the year  – – – 4,950 4,950
Purchase of minority interests  1 125 – – 126
Share-based payments  – – – 337 337
Balance at 31 July 2011  195 30,947 9,239 6,368 46,749
 
11 Called Up Share Capital
The Company only has one class of share. Par value of each ordinary share is 0.2p. All issued shares are fully paid.
 Number £000
Year to 31 July 2011
At 1 August 2010 96,827,414 194
Issue of shares 302,051 1
At 31 July 2011 97,129,465 195
Year to 31 July 2010 
At 1 August 2009 96,733,177 193
Issue of shares 94,237 1
At 31 July 2010 96,827,414 194
Further details on the issues of share capital are included in note 22 of the consolidated financial statements.
 Number £000
Authorised share capital
At 31 July 2011
Ordinary shares @ 0.2p each 150,000,000 300
At 31 July 2010
Ordinary shares @ 0.2p each 150,000,000 300 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     82 Section 4  Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2011
12 Share-Based Payments 
The Company’s share-based payments are included in note 22 of the consolidated financial statements. The charge 
included in the profit and loss account of the Company is £233,000 (2010: £14,000). The increase in investment in respect 
of subsidiaries is £104,000 (2010: £134,000).
13 Leasing Commitments
Operating lease payments amounting to £343,000 (2010: £439,000) are due within one year . Annual commitments under 
operating leases which expire in the following periods as follows:
 31 July 2011 31 July 2010
  
 Land and  Land and  
 buildings Other buildings Other 
 £000 £000 £000 £000
In one year or less – –  289 5
Between one and five years 321 22  289 –
In five years or more – –  – –
  321 22  578 5
14 Major Non-Cash Transactions
The Company entered into a barter transaction with Centaur plc, a joint venture partner , to exchange the provision of 
BrandIndex content for advertising within its publications for £327,000 (2010: £327,000).
Other barter transactions deemed not material in aggregate totalled £28,000 (2010: £28,000). YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     83 Section 5  Additional Information
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of YouGov PLC will be held at 50 Featherstone Street, London 
EC1Y 8RT on 7 December 2011 at 12.30pm to consider and, if thought fit, pass the resolutions below. Resolution 8 will  
be proposed as a special resolution. All other resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
Ordinary Resolutions
1    To receive the Company’s annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 July 2011, together with the Directors’ 
report and the auditors’ report on those accounts.
2    To approve the Directors’ remuneration report set out in the annual report and accounts for the financial year 
ended 31 July 2011.
3    To reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the 
conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid.
4   To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the auditors.
5    To reappoint Peter Bazalgette as a Director retiring by rotation in accordance with the Company’s Articles  
of Association.
6    To reappoint Alan Newman as a Director retiring by rotation in accordance with the Company’s Articles  
of Association.
7    To reappoint Richard Douglas Rivers as a Director who, having been appointed a Director by the Directors since 
the last Annual General Meeting, would in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association vacate office  
at the conclusion of this meeting unless reappointed.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will be proposed as a special resolution.
Special Resolution
8   THAT:
8.1   the Directors shall, in substitution of all previous authorities, have the power under section 570 of the Companies 
Act 2006 (the “Companies Act”) to allot equity securities (as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act) for cash 
pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 6 passed at the Annual General Meeting held on 7 December 
2007, as if section 561(1) of the Companies Act did not apply to the allotment; 
8.2  this power shall be limited to:
8.2.1   the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer or issue of such securities to holders of Ordinary 
Shares on the register on a date fixed by the Directors, whether by way of rights issue, open offer or otherwise,  
in proportion (as nearly as practicable) to their respective holdings on that date or in accordance with the rights 
attached to them but subject to such exclusions and other arrangements as the Directors may consider 
appropriate in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory,  
or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange; and
8.2.2   the allotment (other than under paragraph 7.2.1 above) of equity securities having, in the case of relevant shares 
(as defined for the purposes of section 560 of the Companies Act), a nominal amount or , in the case of other 
equity securities, giving the right to subscribe for or convert into relevant shares having a nominal amount, not 
exceeding in aggregate £9,750;
8.3   this power shall cease to have effect on the earlier of the date on which the authority given by resolution 6 passed 
at the Annual General Meeting held on 7 December 2007 is revoked, and the conclusion of the next Annual 
General Meeting of the Company;
8.4   the Company may make an offer or agreement before this authority expires which would or might require equity 
securities to be allotted after it expires and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of that offer or 
agreement notwithstanding that the authority has expired.
By order of the Board
Alan Newman  Registered Office: 
Company Secretary   50 Featherstone Street, London EC1Y 8RT 
10 October 2011  Registered in England and Wales No. 3607311 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     84 Section 5  Additional Information
Notes:
1  Shareholders are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.  
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the 
rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder . A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company . A proxy form which 
may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice. If you do not have a proxy form and believe that 
you should have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact Neville Registrars, at Neville House, 18 Laurel Lane, Halesowen,  
West Midlands B63 3DA.
2  To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by post or (during normal business hours only) by hand  
at Neville Registrars, Neville House, 18 Laurel Lane, Halesowen, West Midlands B63 3DA no later than 12.30pm on 5 December 2011.
3   The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction (as described in paragraph 6 below) will not 
prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he/she wishes to do so.
4   In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, to be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General 
Meeting (and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast), shareholders must be registered in the Register 
of Members of the Company at 6.00pm on 5 December 2011 (or , in the event of any adjournment, 6.00pm on the date which is two days before 
the time of the adjourned meeting). Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the 
rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
5   CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the 
procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who 
have appointed a service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate 
action on their behalf.
6    In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a “CREST Proxy 
Instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance with the specifications of Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited (the operator of the CREST 
system), and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual. The message, regardless of whether 
it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, 
be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s agent (ID 7RA11) by 12.30pm on 5 December 2011. For this purpose, the time of receipt will 
be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host) from which the issuer’s agent 
is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST . After this time any change of instructions to proxies 
appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
7  CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does 
not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message. Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation 
to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or , if the CREST member is a CREST 
personal member , or sponsored member , or has appointed a voting service provider , to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) 
take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this 
connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system service providers are referred, in particular , to 
those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
8  The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated Securities 
Regulations 2001.
9  In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that: (i) if a corporate 
shareholder has appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the 
directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give 
voting directions to the chairman and the chairman will vote (or withhold a vote) as corporate representative in accordance with those directions; 
and (ii) if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not 
appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those 
corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated 
corporate representative. Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators 
on proxies and corporate representatives (www.icsa.org.uk) for further details of this procedure. The guidance includes a sample form of 
representation letter if the chairman is being appointed as described in (i) above.
Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting
The notes above give an explanation of the proposed resolutions. Resolutions 1 to 7 are proposed as ordinary resolutions. This means that for each 
of those resolutions to be passed, more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution. Resolution 8 is proposed as a special 
resolution. This means that for each resolution to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
Resolution 8 (statutory pre-emption rights)
Under section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, when new shares are allotted, they must first be offered to existing shareholders pro rata to their 
holdings. This special resolution renews the authorities previously granted to the Directors to: (a) allot shares of the Company in connection with a 
rights issue or other pre-emptive offer; and (b) otherwise allot shares of the Company , or sell treasury shares for cash, up to an aggregate nominal 
value of £9,750 (representing in accordance with institutional investor guidelines, approximately 5% of the share capital in issue as at 31 October 
2011 (being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this notice)) as if the pre-emption rights of section 561 did not apply . The authority 
granted by this resolution will expire on the earlier of, the expiry or revocation of the Directors’ authority to allot shares given at the Annual General 
Meeting on 7 December 2007, and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Designed and produced by FTI Consulting  www.fticonsulting.co.uk
Printed at PurePrint, ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral® YouGov plc
50 Featherstone Street
London EC1Y 8RT
T: +44 (0)20 7012 6000
F: +44 (0)20 7012 6001
www.yougov.com
YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011
