 Annual Report 2004 About BAE Systems 1
Results in brief, Highlights and Outlook 2
Chairman’s letter 4
Chief Executive’s review 6
Strategy 8
Operating and financial review 10
Programmes 12
Customer Solutions & Support  14
International Partnerships 16
Avionics 17
North America 18
Commercial Aerospace 22
HQ and other businesses 23
Financial review 24
Corporate responsibility 28
Board of directors 32
Annual Report 
on the web
Corporate governance including
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 34
Remuneration report 42
Directors’ report 54
Report of the independent auditors 56
Index to the accounts 57
Consolidated profit and loss account 58
Balance sheets 59
Consolidated cash flow statement 60
Other group statements 61
Notes to the accounts 62
Five year summary 106
Shareholder information 108
Glossary 110
Shareholders’ feedback 112
More information about 
BAE Systems can be found on:
www.baesystems.com 
We welcome your views. 
Email any comments to
investors@baesystems.com 1 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
BAE Systems is an international company engaged in the development,
delivery and support of advanced defence and aerospace systems in the
air , on land, at sea and in space. The company designs, manufactures 
and supports military aircraft, surface ships, submarines, fighting vehicles,
radar , avionics, communications, electronics and guided weapon systems. 
It is a pioneer in technology with a heritage stretching back hundreds of years.
It is at the forefront of innovation, working to develop the next generation
of intelligent defence and security systems.
BAE Systems has major operations across five continents and customers
in some 130 countries. The company employs more than 90,000
1
people 
and generates annual sales of approximately £13 billion through its 
wholly-owned and joint venture operations.
About BAE SYSTEMS
1 including share of joint venture employees 2 Results in brief, Highlights and Outlook
Programmes business outlook improving
– benefiting from elimination of excessive risk
–new commercial agreement for Typhoon signed
Customer Solutions & Support addressing UK growth opportunities
Land sector position strengthened with acquisition of Alvis plc
North America delivering good growth 
Airbus performing well – outlook improving
Strong cash flow
Adjusted earnings per share
3
up 8.4% at 18.0p
Record order book 
Final dividend increased, making 9.5p per share for the year
Highlights
An increase in contribution from the
Programmes business group is anticipated as 
it benefits from the revised T yphoon contract. In
addition, continued good growth is expected 
from the company's North American operations
including the benefit of full year contributions from
acquisitions completed during the course of 2004. 
The CS&S and Land Systems business is
expected to achieve further growth in the UK
support activities together with a full year
contribution from Alvis. These performance
improvements will be more than offset by the
previously announced step down in profitability 
in export support activities.
The completion of the Eurosystems transaction
will remove the profit contribution from disposed
activities. The transaction is expected to be
marginally dilutive to earnings in 2005. 
Overall, the performance of the company's
defence businesses is expected to continue to
improve in 2005 albeit at a lower rate of growth
than that achieved in 2004.
Commercial Aerospace is expected to
contribute to some growth with the benefit of a
planned increase in Airbus aircraft deliveries.
Some reversal of the strong 2004 operating
cash inflow is anticipated in 2005 as customer
prepayments are utilised to fund rising
production activity.
BAE Systems is now delivering well against its
strategy and objectives. Whilst there remains
much to do, the achievements to date, together
with the actions continuously being taken to
improve performance, enable the group to look
forward with confidence to delivering growing
returns to its shareholders. 
this outlook statement is based on the accounting standards
used to prepare the 2004  accounts
Outlook
*
*  Order book
1
£50.1 billion £46.0 billion
Sales
2
£13,479 million £12,572 million
Profit before interest
3
£1,013 million £980 million
(Loss)/profit before interest £(25) million £453 million
Adjusted earnings per share
3
18.0p 16.6p
Loss per share
4
(16.0)p (0.5)p
Dividend per share 9.5p 9.2p
Operating cash inflow £2,071 million £836 million
Net cash/(debt) £5 million £(870) million
2004 2003
3 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Results in brief 
1 including share of joint ventures’ order books and after the elimination of intra-group orders of £1.8bn (2003 £1.9bn)
2 including share of joint ventures’ sales
3 before goodwill amortisation and impairment of £1,038m (2003 £518m) and exceptional items of £nil (2003 £9m)
4 basic earnings per share after goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items (in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 14) 4 Chairman’s letter
I am pleased to report that BAE Systems
has made good progress in 2004. The
company maintained its focus on performance
improvement, addressed inappropriate risk
in the business and made progress in
restructuring its joint venture portfolio in
Europe. At the same time, we have continued
to grow our position in the US defence market.
Much progress has been made to deliver
long-term shareholder value.
Since succeeding Sir Richard Evans as
Chairman at the beginning of July , I have spent
considerable time meeting the company’ s
management and visiting our businesses. 
It is clear that BAE Systems is a company rich 
in technology and with highly capable people.
In accepting my appointment, I had to consider
the ways in which I could add value for
shareholders. I believe my job as Chairman 
is to ensure that the Board operates effectively
in three key areas: framing the strategy for the
company; monitoring the performance of the
executive team as they implement that strategy;
and leading on governance matters by setting
values and standards that are followed
throughout the company.
With the full involvement of executive and
non-executive directors, we used the annual
planning process as a framework to challenge
and refresh our strategy . We describe this in
some detail later in this report but, in essence,
we will further strengthen the focus on 
improving corporate performance while 
building on the strong position now established 
in the United States. 
Through the effective implementation of 
this strategy we aim to continue to build on
BAE Systems position as one of the world’ s
premier aerospace and defence companies 
and deliver sustained returns to our
shareholders.
I and my fellow directors are committed to
ensuring that BAE Systems has a robust
governance framework and has the processes
to provide the assurance to the Board and
stakeholders that the company is operating 
in accordance with these prescribed values 
and standards.
Chairman’s letter
“The company’s executive, together with the commitment and hard
work of the wider BAE Systems team, has delivered a good operational
performance in 2004 establishing a solid base for future growth. ” 5 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
The company’ s executive, together with the
commitment and hard work of the wider
BAE Systems team, has delivered a good
operational performance in 2004 establishing 
a solid base for future growth. In addition, the
measures taken to enhance the terms on which
we do business and mitigate risk going forward
have underpinned the company's recovery. 
The Board is recommending an increased final
ordinary dividend of 5.8p per share, making a
total of 9.5p for the year . Subject to shareholder
approval at the 2005 AGM, the dividend will be
paid on 1 June 2005 to holders of ordinary
shares registered on 22 April 2005.
Governance is equally important to our
relationship with the wider community in which
we operate. In this report, together with our
separately published Corporate Responsibility
Report, we provide more information on our
social, environmental and ethical policies. 
There has been much change in this area 
for all companies, both in how we report to
stakeholders and in the priority this is given.
Within BAE Systems we will ensure that this is
appropriately managed and reported, striving 
to be one of the leaders in this regard.
Accordingly, the Board has agreed recently to
form a Corporate Responsibility Committee that
will be responsible for reviewing and monitoring
the processes the company uses to manage
social, environmental and ethical risk to assist
the Board in overseeing the development of
strategy and policy in this area. It will be chaired
by a non-executive director .
BAE Systems should be proud of its role in 
helping to provide the means of establishing
and maintaining security in a turbulent world. 
It is always important that the company aspires 
to high standards of corporate behaviour and
responsibility. 
I have taken over the chair from Sir Richard
Evans under whose stewardship the company
has risen to be one of the world’ s leading
aerospace and defence businesses. The Board 
is grateful to Dick for his great contribution, over
many years, to this company and the industry in
which we operate.
Lord Hesketh will be retiring from the Board at
this year’ s AGM. The Board has valued greatly
the contribution he has made during his 11
years as a director of the company.
Dick Olver
Chairman
23 February 2005 6 Chief Executive’s review
to bear fruit with a number of significant new
business wins in supporting air platforms.
Building on the company's record in growing
support business in the air sector , BAE Systems
identified a substantial support opportunity in the
land sector . The acquisition of Alvis plc was a key
step in delivering a land sector support strategy .
Alvis significantly enhances the company’ s
involvement in the land sector . The merger 
of Alvis and BAE Systems complementary 
RO Defence activity into a new Land Systems
business enables the company to offer coherent
land sector support to the UK’ s armed forces
and the large installed base of fighting vehicles
in service with customers worldwide.
Support solutions also lie at the heart of
BAE Systems relationship with the Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia. BAE Systems has a long and
successful history providing integrated support
to the Saudi armed forces. The company has 
for some time adopted a strategy to integrate
progressively greater local Saudi content in the
programme. The company is a large employer 
of Saudi nationals and a leader in technology
training in the Kingdom. 
The company’ s strong position in both the US
and UK markets presents future opportunities
for industry to support the increasingly joint
nature of peacemaking and peacekeeping by our
armed forces. Industrial participation, including
access to the highest level of technology on
programmes in which both nations participate,
such as the Joint Strike Fighter programme,
remains an important objective in this regard.
The company has benefited from good cash
generation during the year enabling several
acquisitions to be completed in line with our
strategy. In the US, five acquisitions were
completed. The largest transaction, DigitalNet,
elevates BAE Systems to rank as a top 10
provider of IT systems support to the US 
Department of Defense and other government
agencies. With these acquisitions BAE Systems
now generates annualised sales of some
$5.6bn in its North America business and now
employs over 27,000 people across the US.
The company has continued to build on its 
strong position in military support solutions. 
The strategy to work in partnership with the UK
MoD’ s Defence Logistics Organisation continues
“We look forward with confidence to delivering growing returns to 
our shareholders in the future. ”
Chief Executive’s review
BAE Systems performed well in 2004, both in
delivering good financial results and executing
actions that will underpin performance
improvement over the longer term.
In particular , the signing of contracts for the
next, T ranche 2, phase of the Eurofighter
T yphoon programme established a way forward
for the programme. This completes the actions
taken over recent years to address excessive
risk in our UK Ministry of Defence (MoD)
programmes businesses.
These actions will result in a sustainable growth
in profitability in an area of our business that,
in the past, had overshadowed the performance
of the majority of the company’ s portfolio. 
BAE Systems has for some time been pursuing 
a strategy to focus on its capabilities in
aerospace and defence with an emphasis 
on accessing higher value opportunities in the
integration and networking of complex defence
systems and provision of support solutions 
to the armed forces. BAE Systems is alone
amongst the leaders in our industry in being
able to pursue this strategy on both sides of 
the Atlantic.  7 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Consistent with this in-Kingdom strategy
BAE Systems has invested in aerospace and
defence companies in Saudi Arabia which will
enable the company to work in partnership with 
Saudi investors whilst undertaking aircraft 
and avionics maintenance and upgrade work 
in-Kingdom. Whilst this trend to greater
indigenous content will reduce margins, these
partnerships will provide significant technology
and employment benefits to the Kingdom and
long-term value for BAE Systems. 
BAE Systems has the leading naval systems
business in the UK. Like its UK air systems
activities, the performance of the naval
business in recent times has been affected by 
the company having agreed, in prior years, to
contracts for programmes with excessive risk.
In addition, over many years, the UK naval
shipbuilding industry has suffered from a 
lack of strategic planning and the company
commenced an evaluation of the options for its
shipyards. Whilst that evaluation was underway
the company welcomed the UK government
initiative to determine a strategy for naval
shipbuilding in the UK, in dialogue with all
industry participants. BAE Systems welcomes
this dialogue as a real opportunity to secure a
future for the UK’ s naval shipbuilding
capabilities that will deliver value for money to
the UK government and an acceptable return to
shareholders of the companies concerned.
We have also made good progress in 
re-focusing our joint businesses in Europe.
Recognising the complexity of the earlier
proposed Eurosystems transaction with
Finmeccanica we have moved to a simpler
model. The revised agreement, signed in January
2005, provides for  BAE Systems to take full
ownership of the UK activities of the former 
AMS joint venture in exchange for the company’ s
existing 50% of the Italian activities and a cash
equalisation payment. We have also agreed to
sell to Finmeccanica the group’ s defence
communications business and certain avionics
activities comprising principally the UK-based
airborne radar and electronic warfare business. 
When completed, this transaction will generate
substantial cash and improve management control
and business performance in the strategically
important field of network-enabled capability .
BAE Systems has a 20% interest in Airbus and
the company maintains a close management
involvement in the business through the
shareholder board. 
Airbus is a highly successful enterprise and
BAE Systems is now seeing the benefit of its
investment and support over many years as the
business fought to build a family of aircraft and
secure a strong position in the large commercial
jet market. The A380 is the culmination of this
strategy. The public presentation of this new
aircraft took place in January 2005 and the
programme is for first deliveries in 2006.
At the heart of BAE Systems, and its joint
ventures, lies a highly qualified and dedicated
workforce and I would like to thank them for 
their continued support and commitment.
The last few years have seen our business
turned around, with clear management targets
set and consistently delivered. Scale is being
achieved in the US and our business with the 
UK MoD has been de-risked to acceptable 
and manageable levels. We look forward with
confidence to delivering growing returns for 
our shareholders in the future.
Mike Turner
Chief Executive
23 February 2005 Defence spend – US and Europe 
T otal defence spend approximately $652bn
Defence spend allocation – US and Europe 
8 Strategy 
Embed a high performance culture 
across the company
The BAE Systems strategy is ‘to create sustainable shareholder value by being the premier
transatlantic aerospace and defence company’. 
Strategy
Embed a high performance culture across 
the company is at the top of our list to reflect 
its importance. The Performance Centred
Leadership framework ensures all our business
leaders should know what high performance
means for them and their people. Our recent
commitment to invest in a Performance Centre
of Excellence builds on our suite of controls,
tools and processes to support our delivery 
of operational excellence. 
The transatlantic nature of the BAE Systems
strategy reflects the company's established
strong presence in the UK and other European
defence markets combined with its significant
presence and the growth opportunities  in the
large US market.
The US is the world's largest defence market
with equipment spend around twice that of the
UK and rest of Europe combined. In the UK,
significant opportunities are present to derive
value from new platform programmes and, in
particular , from the provision of through-life
support solutions for both new and legacy
defence systems. 
Research and T echnology is a key driver of future
capability in the defence sector . Importantly, the
US allocates a significantly higher proportion of
its defence spend on Research and T echnology
than Europe.
Sales into the US defence related markets in
2004 accounted for in excess of 25% of group
defence related sales. 
Equipment procurement
Research and T echnology
Other defence
The BAE Systems strategy is to build on its
established positions in the aerospace and
defence market in the United States, whilst
maximising the value of its position in the UK
and Europe.
These markets continue to shape the
company’ s capabilities and its products and
services. From this strong base, BAE Systems
will continue to export to, and work in, markets
around the world where we can deliver
appropriate shareholder returns.
While defence remains our core market, our
strong presence in the aerospace sector is a
major contributor to the value of the company. 
Delivery of our strategy will be achieved by way 
of five group strategic objectives. These five
objectives are being pursued through seven
strands of business portfolio actions supported by
the integrated business plans of our operations. 
Optimise value from our order book. By applying
our best practice controls, tools and processes
in a consistently efficient manner we will turn
orders, and then sales, into profitable returns 
for our shareholders and secure our future. 
In addition, we need to continue to improve
productivity and reduce our cost base. 
Optimise value from our order book
US $bn (based on 2004 data)
400
300
200
100
0
Research and T echnology represents
approximately 15% ($62bn) of US
defence spend. In Europe, Research 
and T echnology represents some 
6.5% ($15bn) of total spend.
$423bn
$229bn
(based on 2004 data) 
1 United States 65%
2 United Kingdom 9%
3France 7%
4 Germany 5%
5 Italy 4%
6 Rest of Europe 10%
European Economic Area 35%
1 2
3
4
5
6
US Europe 9 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Integrated Business Plans
Enhance US/UK industrial technology 
transfer is crucial for the delivery of greater 
inter-operability between the US and UK 
armed forces, in both peacemaking and 
peacekeeping roles around the world, and
maintaining the highest level of technology and
capability within the UK defence industrial base. 
Maintain a global presence from a strong
transatlantic business base recognises the
location of our most important markets.
T ransatlantic remains at the core of our strategy
given our leading position in the UK/Europe 
and strong and growing presence in the United
States. These markets continue to shape our
capabilities and our product and service portfolio.
From this strong base, we will continue to export
to and work in markets around the world where 
we can deliver appropriate shareholder returns. 
Proactively manage investment and divestment
in businesses. In order to continue to focus on
delivering value to our shareholders, each part 
of our business and product portfolio needs to 
be focused on where appropriate returns can 
be achieved. If this is not possible, then a route
to exit or to minimise exposure will be found. 
Maintain a global presence from a strong
transatlantic business base
Enhance US/UK industrial 
technology transfer
Proactively manage investment and 
divestment in businesses
Group Strategy
Group Strategic Objectives
Business Portfolio Actions
To create sustainable shareholder value by being the 
premier transatlantic aerospace and defence company
-  Embed a high performance culture across the company
-  Optimise value from our order book
-  Maintain a global presence from a strong transatlantic business base
-  Enhance US/UK industrial technology transfer
-  Proactively manage investment and divestment in businesses
Grow the
business in the
United States
Grow a global
support,solutions
and services
business
Create a
sustainably
profitable UK
programme
business in 
air , land and sea
Partner 
MoD in the
transformation
of the UK’ s 
armed forces
Continue to
optimise our
European 
position through 
a rationalised
portfolio of 
joint ventures
Grow and
maximise the
value of Airbus 
Manage 
non-strategic
businesses for
optimal value BAE Systems comprises aerospace and defence activities reported through seven operating
business groups. These business groups are bound by common values and processes. The
following pages of this operating and financial review describe the performance and progress 
of these business groups.
Operating and financial review
10 Operating and financial review 2004 2003
Cash Cash
Order inflow/ Number of Order inflow/ Number of
book Sales Profit (outflow) employees book Sales Profit (outflow) employees
£bn £m £m £m £bn £m £m £m
Programmes 14.3 2,867 64 505 18,400 11.3 2,436 56 33 19,400
Customer Solutions & Support 2.9 2,243 413 1,001 10,700 2.6 2,166 411 518 10,800
International Partnerships 6.5 1,907 109 48 13,200 6.8 1,685 65 69 13,600
Avionics 2.5 1,103 32 (16) 8,900 2.3 1,127 12 (28) 9,400
North America 2.5 2,771 233 204 27,400 2.4 2,700 232 162 23,150
Commercial Aerospace 20.9 2,880 176 (24) 12,600 21.4 2,924 204 (143) 12,150
HQ and other businesses 2.3 560 (14) 166 6,300 1.1 316 — 14 4,000
Less: intra-group (1.8) (852) (1.9) (782)
50.1 13,479 1,013 1,884 97,500 46.0 12,572 980 625 92,500
1 including share of joint ventures’ order books
2 including share of joint ventures’ sales
3 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items (statutory presentation is shown on page 58)
4 net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment and dividends from joint ventures
5includes share of joint venture employees
12 3 4 5 1 34 5
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 11
2 12 Operating and financial review: Programmes
Air systems businesses
The air forces of the four Eurofighter T yphoon
partner nations, UK, Germany , Italy and Spain,
completed the acceptance of their initial 30 twin
seat standard aircraft with the 28 aircraft delivered
in 2004. In-service training and operational
evaluations by the four nations have progressed
significantly in the first year of T yphoon's service
life. Over 600 hours have been flown in the UK 
and a significant number of air and ground crew
trained. The delivery, in December 2004, of 
the first single seat aircraft for operational 
use marks the next planned step in T yphoon
capability. This capability growth will continue
incrementally through the life of the programme.
Contracts to secure T ranche 2, comprising the
next 236 aircraft for the four nations, were
concluded at the end of 2004. The conclusion 
of agreements for T ranche 2 has, in the UK,
led to a revision to the T ranche 1 contracts to
address production continuity.
Significant progress has been made during
2004 in securing the future of the highly
successful Hawk business. 
In April, the government of India placed an order
for 66 Hawk aircraft and, in December , the UK
MoD signed a design and development contract
for a new variant of the Hawk, the Advanced Jet
T rainer (AJT). The customer is working closely
with BAE Systems to manage the design of the
In 2004, the Programmes business made a
profit
3
of £64m (2003 £56m) on sales
2
of
£2,867m (2003 £2,436m) and generated an
operating cash inflow
4
of £505m (2003 £33m).
The 2.2% return on sales for Programmes
continues to reflect the substantial sales
generating no profit contribution from the Nimrod
and Astute programmes. In addition, a higher 
level of sales on T yphoon was recognised with 
no profit. Increased T ype 45 destroyer sales were
recognised at zero margin, with the programme 
at an early stage of maturity .
Positive contributions to profit were made by
Underwater Systems and sustaining engineering
activity on T ornado and Harrier in the UK and export
markets. The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (JSF), a cost
plus award fee systems design and development
contract, also made a positive contribution. 
The outlook at Programmes is for increased sales
in 2005 as deliveries on the T yphoon programme
increase,together with increases on Hawk,Nimrod
and T ype 45. Overall, Programmes profit will show
further improvement in 2005 from sales growth
and margin enhancement as benefit flows from
the concluded T yphoon negotiations.
The UK defence equipment budget is expected to
continue to be constrained, with low real growth
having implications for the sustainability of long-
term funding for future defence technologies and
engineering capability in the UK.
avionics architecture and deliver two trials aircraft
to support the development and test flying. 
Contracts for Hawk with Canada, South Africa
and Bahrain are progressing to schedule.
There was good progress on Nimrod with the
first development aircraft, PA01, flying in the
summer and progressing successfully through
its flight test programme. PA02, the first aircraft
fitted with a full mission system, achieved its
first flight in December 2004. Programme
reforms continue to reinforce stability in the
programme on both cost and schedule. 
Confirmation of future Nimrod production is
awaited following the UK government’ s
announcement in the summer of a requirement
for some 12 aircraft for the maritime role,
subject to affordability and performance.
BAE Systems is partnered with Lockheed Martin 
and Northrop Grumman on the JSF programme. 
In addition to substantial avionics sub-systems 
and equipment involvement in North America,
BAE Systems participation in the programme
involves the design and manufacture of the 
rear fuselage and stabilisers in the UK. 
In August 2004, a key milestone was reached
with the start of the JSF production process
comprising assembly of the rear fuselage. 
Work has progressed on the JSF System
Development and Demonstration contract.  
The Programmes business group operates primarily in the UK defence market and comprises the
company's principal air systems, naval systems and C4ISR
7 
- related prime contract activities.
Programmes
Typhoon
The Eurofighter T yphoon combat aircraft 
is the product of a collaborative programme
involving the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy
and Spain. T yphoon entered service with 
the air forces of the four partner nations in
2004. BAE Systems manufactures the fully
equipped forward fuselage sub-assemblies 
for all T yphoon aircraft and is responsible 
for final assembly of the aircraft in the UK.
T yphoon will deliver unrivalled swing role
capability delivering a combination of both
highly advanced air-to-air capability with
precision air-to-surface operation.
Astute
Astute is the next
generation nuclear
powered attack
submarine being
developed for the
UK’ s Royal Navy.
Nimrod MR4A
The Nimrod MR4A 
is the replacement
maritime patrol and
attack aircraft for the
UK’ s Royal Air Force.   Percentage share of group sales
6
13 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Programmes : Summary
The primary focus has been the detailed
engineering design effort across the JSF variants,
in preparation for the increase in manufacturing
activity in 2005. First flight of the Conventional
Take-off and Landing variant is planned for 
late 2006. 
Successful Harrier GR9 carrier landings took
place to schedule as part of a major Harrier
upgrade programme. Contracts received include
the continuation of the Harrier GR9 sustainment
and upgrade programme, the support of T ornado
Secondary Power Systems and the T ornado
Structures contract.
Naval systems businesses
BAE Systems is building two 16,160 tonne
Landing Ship Dock (Auxiliary) vessels. The first
vessel, RFA Mounts Bay, was launched in April
2004 and the second vessel, RFA Cardigan Bay,
is on schedule to be launched in April 2005.
Good progress has been made on the first of 
the T ype 45 class next generation destroyer for
the Royal Navy, HMS Daring. Major power and
propulsion equipment has been installed in 
the engine compartments. The official steel
cutting ceremony for the second vessel,
HMS Dauntless, took place in August 2004. 
A successful programme to design and 
build three sophisticated Brunei Offshore 
Patrol Vessels has been followed by 
acceptance delays.
Work on the Astute attack submarine has
progressed well during 2004 with all key
milestones achieved on schedule. 
An accelerated programme resulted in the
delivery of HMS Bulwark, the second Landing
Platform Dock, ahead of the revised programme
schedule. The ship successfully completed its
trials after leaving Barrow in May 2004 and was
handed over to the Royal Navy in July 2004. The
early delivery enabled the Royal Navy to bring
forward the in-service date by one month to
December 2004. 
Following the completion of HMS Bulwark a
redundancy programme commenced, which
resulted in the loss of some 500 positions
across the Submarines business.
The tactical weapons systems update
programme for the T rafalgar class submarines
remains on schedule.
Underwater Systems had another good year ,
achieving all programmed deliveries. The
development of the Sting Ray Mod 1 lightweight
torpedo was completed and the UK production
order commenced with the successful
demonstration of the first build torpedoes. 
The Spearfish heavyweight torpedo in-service
support programme completed 10 years 
of on-time deliveries to the Royal Navy’ s
submarine fleet. The new Archerfish airborne
mine neutralisation system, ordered for the 
US Navy, is successfully progressing through
development and will commence formal test
and evaluation in 2005. 
C4ISR
The C4ISR business has a key role in developing
and delivering the UK’ s network-enabled
capability. BAE Systems is working towards
establishing a central role with the MoD in
creating and developing the MoD’ s overall
systems architecture. 
Type 45 
T ype 45 is the Royal Navy’ s new
anti-air warfare destroyer . Design
of the ship is well advanced and
construction of the first of class,
HMS Daring, is underway at 
the group’ s Clydeside facilities 
in Scotland.
Joint Strike Fighter
BAE Systems is a partner in the
US led F-35 Joint Strike Fighter
programme with responsibility 
for design and manufacture of 
the rear fuselage and tail
surfaces as well as a number 
of the aircraft systems. 
2004 2003
Order book
1
£14.3bn £11.3bn
Sales
2
£2.9bn £2.4bn
Profit
3
£64m £56m
Cash inflow
4
£505m £33m
Number of employees
5
18,400 19,400
1including share of joint ventures’ order books and before 
the elimination of intra-group orders
2including share of joint ventures’ sales
3 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and
exceptional items (statutory presentation is shown on page 58)
4 net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after
capital expenditure (net) and financial investment and
dividends from joint ventures
5includes share of joint venture employees
6 before elimination of intra-group sales
7 Command, Control, Communication and Computing,
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
20% 14 Operating and financial review: Customer Solutions & Support
BAE Systems has a major presence in the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, as prime contractor 
for the UK government-to-government defence
agreement, Al Yamamah. The business 
employs almost 4,700 people, of whom more
than half are Saudi nationals, in support of the
Saudi Royal Air Force and the Royal Saudi Navy. 
BAE Systems provides complete support to 
the Kingdom’ s ground defence infrastructure
and naval minehunters.
Performance on the Al Y amamah programme in
Saudi Arabia was good, with cash flows benefiting
from the strong oil price throughout 2004. 
UK support activity is increasing as the
partnering relationship with the MoD’ s Defence
Logistics Organisation (DLO) develops.
Performance in support of key UK in-service air
platforms, T ornado, Harrier , Nimrod and VC10
remains on plan. At RAF Wyton the DLO and
CS&S have set up a joint integrated project team
to address the next phase of partnering on the
Tornado programme. 
In 2004, the CS&S business group made a
profit
3
of £413m (2003 £411m) on sales
2
of £2,243m (2003 £2,166m). The business
generated an operating cash inflow
4
of
£1,001m (2003 £518m).
CS&S continued to perform well and delivered
on all its key targets in 2004. The benefit to the
Al Yamamah programme of the high oil price has
flowed through to operating cash flow, reducing
programme debtors. 
In August, the group’ s offer to acquire Alvis plc
was declared unconditional. The Alvis plc and
RO Defence businesses have been integrated 
to create a new Land Systems business. The
formation of this business is consistent with 
the group’ s land sector strategy. The results, in
2004, of the RO Defence and Alvis businesses
are reported within HQ and other businesses.
From January 2005 the results of these
businesses will be reported within a Customer
Solutions & Support and Land Systems sector .
The reactivation and upgrade of two T ype 22
frigates for Romania has progressed well 
with the first ship accepted on schedule in
September and the second ship due to be
delivered in the first half of 2005. The final
Upholder class submarine to be reactivated 
for the Canadian Navy was handed over in the
last quarter of 2004.
BAE Systems has 50% interests in Fleet
Support Limited and Flagship T raining Limited.
These support and services joint ventures
continue to form an integral part of the CS&S
strategy and both returned strong results in
2004. The performance of Flagship T raining,
which manages the Royal Navy training
establishments and markets their training
courses to overseas customers was particularly
encouraging. Contracts won this year included
the training of the Romanian frigate crew. Fleet
Support continued to perform well, underpinned
by the partnering agreement at the UK’ s
Portsmouth naval base which was signed 
in 2003. 
The Customer Solutions & Support business group provides systems and solutions for current
and future military capability. It addresses the trend within armed forces to work more closely with
industry to optimise their military capability in the most cost-effective and efficient manner . 
Customer Solutions & Support
Type 22 frigate
BAE Systems is
prime contractor for
reactivation of the
frigates for use by
the Romanian Navy.
Bahrain air training
programme 
Integrated solutions
are key in the
Bahrain air training
programme.
Al Yamamah
Under the long running Al Yamamah contract,
BAE Systems is providing a complete defence
package to Saudi Arabia. BAE Systems plays
a key role in training Saudi nationals to maintain
the equipment supplied under the contract. 15 15 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 15 15
bases. T ornado support will be the major driver
of activity during 2005 and should also provide
the blueprint of future support arrangements for
T yphoon and JSF .
In bringing together Alvis and RO Defence to
form a Land Systems business, the combined
capabilities are able to provide customers with
efficient solutions and to create opportunities
for increased systems content. The business
will reflect the strong drive towards integrated
through-life support of the large number of 
in-service vehicles and platforms within the 
UK and export markets.
BAE Systems has for some time signalled a
progressive reduction in margin for CS&S. This
anticipated margin reduction is a consequence 
of both a larger volume of lower margin UK MoD
support activity and a reduction in margin within
its Al Y amamah support operations in Saudi
Arabia as the programme embraces greater 
local content in-Kingdom. The increased pace 
of indigenous Saudi content in the Al Y amamah
CS&S has also made further progress in
developing a coherent information and logistics
infrastructure in support of both in-service and
new systems and platforms. A final bid was
submitted in December 2004 to the UK MoD
under the Future Defence Supply Chain initiative
for the planning and operation of a fully
integrated supply chain network.
In August 2004, CS&S agreed the purchase 
of the remaining 50% interest in AeroSystems
International (AeI) not already owned by the
group for £15m. AeI is a leading company in 
the analysis, design, development and delivery 
of complex, software intensive systems for the
aerospace and defence sectors and is part of the
development of the group’ s air support capability .
Looking forward, the CS&S business group will
work to sustain a long-term presence in Saudi
Arabia, deliver to schedule on the current
support contracts, and expand the relationship
with the DLO as the group provides more
integrated support programmes on customer
programme, including greater in-Kingdom repair
and overhaul work, is expected to bring forward
that margin reduction with a step down in 2005,
resulting in a lower CS&S business group
contribution. Al Y amamah support margins 
are expected to stabilise from 2005.
Harrier 
BAE Systems
supports key UK 
in-service air
platforms.
VC10 spares inclusive maintenance contract
In partnership with the UK MoD’ s Defence
Logistics Organisation, BAE Systems has
assumed responsibility for through-life
support of the Royal Air Force’ s VC10 
air-to-air refuelling tankers. In 2004,
the Javelin team, comprising MoD and 
BAE Systems, were winners of the 
MoD Smart Procurement Award.
Customer Solutions & Support : Summary
Percentage share of group sales
6
2004 2003
Order book
1
£2.9bn £2.6bn
Sales
2
£2.2bn £2.2bn
Profit
3
£413m £411m
Cash inflow
4
£1,001m £518m
Number of employees
5
10,700 10,800
16%
1including share of joint ventures’ order books and before 
the elimination of intra-group orders
2including share of joint ventures’ sales
3 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and 
exceptional items (statutory presentation is shown on page 58)
4 net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment and dividends from 
joint ventures
5includes share of joint venture employees
6 before elimination of intra-group sales 16 16 Operating and financial review: International Partnerships, Avionics
meeting all of its key development milestones 
in the year . Important orders for MBDA during
the year included Exocet Block 3, a significant
aircraft package for Greece, plus the PAAMS
Follow-On Ship contract.
Profitability of the AMS joint venture has
continued to improve. Order intake has included
the Network Enabled Combat System for the
United Arab Emirates and an extension to a
Private Finance Initiative contract for Astute
training services in the UK. 
Saab’ s operating profit in 2004 improved on
2003, after having recognised the cost of
rationalisation.
Gripen International is now well established in
the export market, with orders from the Czech
Republic, South Africa and Hungary for a current
total of 56 aircraft. The joint investment to
develop the export baseline standard for the
Gripen combat aircraft is nearing completion,
and the first delivery to the Czech Republic is
scheduled for May 2005. Production for
deliveries to South Africa and Hungary is
underway. During 2004, it was agreed that 
Saab will, from 1 January 2005, assume
responsibility for marketing new Gripen export
business. Saab and BAE Systems will continue
to have joint responsibility for any Gripen 
activity in the three established export markets
and may co-operate on future Gripen exports
when appropriate. 
The International Partnerships business group
comprises interests, at 31 December 2004,
in the following:
MBDA 37.5%
AMS 50%
Saab 34.2%
Gripen International  50%
Atlas Elektronik 100%
2004 has been a successful year for
International Partnerships with an operating
profit
3
of £109m (2003 £65m). Sales
2
grew by
13.2% to £1,907m. In sterling terms sales and
profits were reduced by the translation effect of a
weakening Euro by £37m and £2m respectively .
The business group generated cash flow
4 
of
£48m (2003 £69m). These results have been
achieved with a number of key programmes
moving out of development into full production.
Another solid year of delivery and growth in
2004 has seen MBDA’ s sales increase by more
than 20% with good operating profits growth.
This strong performance was driven during the
year by significant deliveries of Storm Shadow
and Scalp EG to the RAF and French Air Force,
respectively; significant deliveries of Mica and
Exocet to export customers; and continued
deliveries of ASRAAM to the RAF . ASRAAM also
entered service with the Royal Australian Air
Force during 2004. Solid development progress
on the Aster-PAAMS and Meteor programmes
also contributed to MBDA’ s growth, with Meteor
In recognition of the changes to the Gripen joint 
venture agreement BAE Systems will reduce its
shareholding in Saab AB over time. BAE Systems
will retain at least a 20% shareholding. 
Atlas Elektronik completed its first full year as 
a BAE Systems wholly owned business. During
2004, Atlas completed the acquisition of the
Danish Maridan autonomous underwater
vehicles business. 
In January 2005, BAE Systems and Finmeccanica
signed the Eurosystems agreement. The
Eurosystems transaction will bring the UK part 
of AMS into 100% BAE Systems ownership in
exchange for the group’ s 50% share of the
Italian business currently under joint control,
and a cash equalisation payment.
Looking to 2005, sales are expected to remain
broadly flat across International Partnerships 
as a whole with margins slightly reduced owing
to the recently announced rationalisation
programme in AMS.
MBDA designs and builds a wide range of missiles for numerous platforms around the world. 
AMS designs, manufactures and supplies command and control management systems, radar
sensors, simulation and training systems. Saab is focused on the design and manufacture of
integrated defence systems. Gripen International is a joint venture with Saab to market the Gripen
combat aircraft. Atlas Elektronik produces complete underwater sensor to shooter systems.
International Partnerships
International Partnerships : Summary
Percentage share of group sales
6
2004 2003
Order book
1
£6.5bn £6.8bn
Sales
2
£1.9bn £1.7bn
Profit
3
£109m £65m
Cash inflow
4
£48m £69m
Number of employees
5
13,200 13,600
13% 17 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 17 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
In 2004, the Avionics business group made 
an operating profit
3
of £32m (2003 £12m) 
on sales
2
of £1,103m (2003 £1,127m). The
business had an operating cash outflow
4
of
£16m (2003 outflow of £28m).
Avionics group results in 2004 improved
compared with 2003. Equipment deliveries on
T yphoon increased and the business benefited
from completion of the rationalisation
programme announced in 2003.
Avionics is a major supplier of systems on 
the T yphoon programme. These include two
principal sub-systems, the Captor multi-mode
radar and the Defensive Aids Sub-System
(DASS). Deliveries of Captor radar systems
continued to be in line with the programme,
with the 100th radar system for T yphoon being
delivered in the year . The build-up of DASS
equipment deliveries, while slower than planned,
reached targeted throughput rates by year end.
Investment in the business continued with the
opening of a major new facility for the electronic
warfare business in the UK. Investment in
infrastructure in previous years contributed 
to the award of a number of prizes for
manufacturing excellence. Furthermore, the
benefits of investment in the technology base 
of the business and its position as a leading
European sensor and integrated system
business were confirmed by a number of
successes across the technology portfolio.
The delivery of the 500th infra-red countermeasure
system (in partnership with Northrop Grumman) 
in the autumn showed the significant position that 
the partnership has in this technological area. 
Other notable achievements in the electro-optical
sector included: the award of the contract for the
surveillance, targeting and weapon system for the
Future Combat and Liaison V ehicle; demonstrations
in both the UK and US of laser-based burst
illumination technology; and continuing successful
development of the laser systems for the JSF
electro-optical targeting system.
The development of a new electronically
scanned radar resulted in successful trials 
of the new E7000 radar for helicopters and
border protection. Battlefield systems activities
included international trials of the HALO artillery
location system. A contract to support the
Northrop Grumman Communications,
Navigation and Identification suite for the 
F-35 JSF was also received.  
Orders for the electronic warfare suite for the
Boeing Apache helicopter for both Kuwait and
Greece reinforces the group’ s position as a 
leading electronic warfare export supplier . 
These successes emphasise the importance of
helicopter crew self-protection systems and the
key role of Avionics in this area. Also in electronic
warfare, the full UK acceptance of the Siren off-
board ship decoy system was achieved and further
deliveries have been made to the UK MoD. 
The Australian business has continued to drive
its strategy to place itself as the Australian
Defence Forces’ capability partner in integrated
military systems and support solutions. 
The completion of the Eurosystems transaction will
result in the major part of the Avionics group (radar ,
electro optics,defensive aids and communications)
coming under Finmeccanica management control
with a 25% retained BAE Systems interest. 
BAE Systems retained activities in this sector will
be managed through the North America Platform
Solutions business. The North America business
is primarily associated with military aircraft flight
control and navigation systems, and head-up and
helmet-mounted displays. The Australian business
will also be retained and managed through the
existing CS&S structure.
The Eurosystems transaction will see businesses
that contributed sales
2
of £718m and profit
3
of
£33m in 2004 sold to Finmeccanica. The outlook
for the retained business is for a good recovery in
2005 as rationalisation activities announced in
2003 were concluded.
The Avionics business group designs and develops electronic systems for air , naval and land
defence platforms. The businesses within this reporting sector comprise five areas of activity:
sensor systems; electronic warfare; inertial systems; avionic systems; and communications.
Avionics
DASS
BAE Systems 
supplies significant 
sub-systems and
equipment to the
T yphoon programme
including the Defensive
Aids Sub-System.
Displays
BAE Systems is a
leader in displays
technology including
sophisticated 
head-up and 
helmet-mounted
display systems.
Percentage share of group sales
6
2004 2003
Order book
1
£2.5bn £2.3bn
Sales
2
£1.1bn £1.1bn
Profit
3
£32m £12m
Cash outflow
4
£(16)m £(28)m
Number of employees
5
8,900 9,400
Avionics : Summary
8%
1including share of joint ventures’ order books and before
the elimination of intra-group orders
2 including share of joint ventures’ sales
3 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and
exceptional items (statutory presentation is shown on page 58)
4 net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after
capital expenditure (net) and financial investment and
dividends from joint ventures
5includes share of joint venture employees
6 before elimination of intra-group sales 18 Operating and financial review: North America
BAE Systems presently ranks among the top 10
suppliers to the US military. In 2004, in excess
of 25% of BAE Systems group defence related
sales were in the US.
The BAE Systems North America business
group has strengthened its core leadership
positions in electronic warfare and electronic
protection, military communications,
battlespace management, imagery exploitation,
intelligence systems and digital engine and 
flight control systems throughout 2004 through
acquisitions and organic growth.
The business group met or exceeded all
financial and business targets for 2004,
maintaining its good performance track record.  
The business produced organic sales growth 
of 12% with 8.4% return on sales. In sterling
terms, sales and profits were reduced by the
translation effect of the weakening dollar by
£334m and £25m respectively. 
The business continued to achieve good
conversion of operating profits to operating 
cash flow.
In 2004, the North America business group
made an operating profit
2
of £233m (2003
£232m) on sales of £2,771m (2003
£2,700m). The business had an operating
cash inflow
3
of £204m (2003 £162m).
The US is an attractive marketplace for
BAE Systems. The US defence market has grown
significantly in recent years. The combination of
the high priority afforded to US national security ,
a strong commitment to research and
development and contracting terms that balance
risk and reward provide a healthy environment 
for the defence industry . US defence expenditure
is expected to continue at the current high level,
but with some substitution of spend, to fund 
the global war on terror and peacekeeping
operations, impacting projected defence
equipment outlays. Despite some curtailment 
of expectations for equipment procurement,
BAE Systems participates in sectors of the
defence market such as homeland security 
and support for the intelligence community .
These activities are expected to continue to
present good growth opportunities.
The order book increased to $4.9bn, resulting
from successful re-competes, new contract wins
and acquisitions, providing a good foundation
for future organic sales growth.
Strategic growth
In addition to good organic sales growth in 
the year , the North America business group
acquired five businesses with annualised 
sales for 2004 of some $700m. 
STI Government Systems was acquired on
10 May for $26m. The business is a good
strategic fit with the group’ s core competencies 
in advanced hyperspectral imaging and 
sensor fusion. 
Boeing Commercial Electronics was acquired on 
13 August for $66m. The business represents the
addition of highly complementary skills and capacity
to the existing commercial aerospace electronic
equipment business. This acquisition also
enhances the group’ s relationship with Boeing and
its capability as a developer and producer of avionic
products and systems for commercial aircraft.
North America
F-35 Joint Strike Fighter
The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) is the 
US’ s next generation, multi-role stealth 
fighter aircraft. It utilises BAE Systems 
state-of-the-art manufacturing techniques,
and communications, flight control and
electronic warfare technologies. 
North America : Summary
2004 2003
Order book
1
£2.5bn £2.4bn
Sales £2.8bn £2.7bn
Profit
2
£233m £232m
Cash inflow
3
£204m £162m
Number of employees 27,400 23,150
Figures in underlying US dollars 2004 2003
Order book
1
$4.9bn $4.2bn
Sales $5.1bn $4.4bn
Profit
2
$427m $379m
Cash inflow
3
$374m $264m Littoral Combat Ship
BAE Systems has
been selected to fulfil
a critical role in the
final design of the 
US Navy’ s Littoral
Combat Ship.
19 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
These five strategically important acquisitions
enabled the group to achieve its strategy of
expanding its core competencies in electronic
systems, information technology and services
capabilities.  
BAE Systems is one of the US’ s leading providers
of communications and network centric systems
supporting the transformational programmes
and technologies identified as priorities in the 
US defence and security market. The lines of
business across BAE Systems North America
are focused on horizontal integration to provide
multi-discipline solutions and to continue to
operate as a high-performance enterprise. 
BAE Systems North America is also
transforming its services business to meet 
the dynamic mission requirements of its
customers, as they respond to new and 
evolving threats and challenges on a global
scale. The services activities now comprise 
a logistics Solutions Center of Excellence 
(SCE),a systems engineering and technical 
assistance SCE, a sub-systems integration 
SCE, and an operations and maintenance SCE.
Practical Imagineering was acquired on
17 August for $9m, adding significant capabilities
in the design and build of custom digital signal
processing algorithms, software and hardware.
DigitalNetwas acquired on 25 October for $520m.
DigitalNet is a leading provider of networked
infrastructure and information assurance
solutions to US government agencies and the
national intelligence community , one of the fastest
growing segments of the federal information
technology market. The combination of DigitalNet
with the group’ s previously established business
operating in the same market, creates the
necessary critical mass to target and win
business on prime federal information 
technology and assurance programmes.
Alphatech was acquired on 5 November for
$88m. The company specialises in image and
signal processing, multi-intelligence fusion 
and intelligent systems. The acquisition 
makes a significant contribution to the group’ s
capabilities to address the network centric
warfare requirements of the national security 
and intelligence communities.
This new organisation will better align the
services business to develop innovative
solutions and meet customers’ increasingly
complex requirements.
Transformational technologies and solutions
The business continues to grow its leadership
position in C4ISR capabilities and defence
electronics systems. BAE Systems is
developing the integrated air and ground
communications suite for the US Army’ s 
largest acquisition programme, the Future
Combat System (FCS).
BAE Systems North America is a leading national security, aerospace and information systems
business and a leading provider of electronic and information-based systems and knowledge-
based solutions. 
Percentage share of group sales
4
Avionics and electronics
BAE Systems is a primary provider of fly-by-wire
flight controls and subsystems for display
processing, navigation and other critical
functions to the C-17 Globemaster III aircraft.
19%
1 before the elimination of intra-group orders
2 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and 
exceptional items (statutory presentation is shown on page 58)
3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment 
4 before elimination of intra-group sales US Department of Homeland Security
BAE Systems has been awarded a contract 
by the US Department of Homeland Security
to develop a solution to counter the threat of
missile attack against commercial airlines.
20
The provision of technical services
BAE Systems is one of the largest suppliers 
of technical services and solutions to the 
US government. The Naval Sea Systems
Command awarded BAE Systems follow-on
contracts for Program Executive Office
integrated warfare systems. These wins were
key awards in which BAE Systems won all five 
of its competitive bids in the services market.
Major contracts were also won to provide
continued support services to the Federal
Aviation Administration on surveillance 
systems programmes.
Development and delivery of electronic 
and information systems
A core strength of BAE Systems is integrating
intelligent electronic systems with information
technology systems, and providing enterprise-
wide and networked systems, particularly in the
area of battlespace management and C4ISR.
Recent contract performance underpins future
growth in this market:
- the group won the US Army five-year , Indefinite
Delivery Indefinite Quantity award for the
immediate delivery of Advanced Threat
Infrared Countermeasures System/Common
Missile Warning System (ATIRCM/CMWS).
The system provides next-generation,
directable, laser and lamp based
countermeasures for the protection of aircraft
against heat-seeking missiles. ATIRCM is
planned for installation on US Army AH-64D,
Participation in transformational
communications programmes such as FCS 
is positioning BAE Systems as a key provider 
of situational awareness and situational
understanding to the warfighter . As a FCS One
T eam partner , BAE Systems is designing and
producing the complementary communications
systems that comprise the Network
Communications System, including Warfighter
Information Network-T actical (WIN-T) and Joint
T actical Radio System (JTRS) Clusters 1 and 5. 
BAE Systems is contributing to major C4ISR
programmes being undertaken by the US
Department of Defense (DoD) by offering:
transformational communications, together with
advanced technologies developed in precision
and time-critical targeting; geospatial imagery
processing; battlespace management,
command and control; and information and
intelligence systems integration. 
Support for the Department of 
Homeland Security
BAE Systems North America was selected 
to continue into Phase 2 of the Department 
of Homeland Security’ s development of
technologies to protect commercial airliners
from the threat of man-portable anti-aircraft
missile systems.  
The group is also a member of the winning
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
multi-hazard map modernisation contract team. 
UH-60, CH-47 and various Special Operations
helicopters. CMWS is in production for the UK
Apache, ASTOR and maritime patrol aircraft;
-the group’ s work on the JSF programme 
resulted in a number of Best in Class award 
fees, culminating in early delivery of the 
mission-critical electronic warfare suite for 
the JSF and the Outstanding Contractor 
Award on the programme;
- BAE Systems extended its successful
partnership with General Dynamics on the
WIN-T programme and on the Littoral Combat
Ship study;
- the group successfully demonstrated the
capabilities of the WolfPack unattended
ground sensors programme. This will lead 
to additional development and fielding of the
system to support US Army commanders’
real-time battlefield intelligence needs from
safe distances;
- the key US Air Force Autonomous Approach 
Landing Capability contract was won. This
strategically positions BAE Systems on a
programme to give fixed and rotary wing 
air crews the ability to land, taxi and take-off 
in zero visibility conditions safely;
- BAE Systems was named a prime contractor 
under the unique Advanced T echnology
Support Program III (ATSP3) contracting
programme. Under ATSP3, the DoD has
Operating and financial review: North America continued
North America continued
C4ISR
The BAE Systems 
North America business
continues to grow 
and invest in C4ISR
capabilities & defence
electronic systems. 21 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
with BAE Systems-built, radiation-hardened
protected computer systems performing 
vital data functions. The international 
Cassini-Huygens spacecraft reached 
Saturn after seven years and 2.2 billion 
miles of travel with seven BAE Systems
Advanced Spaceborne Computer Module
(ASCM) microprocessors on board. 
In addition, BAE Systems RAD6000
computers have provided critical mission
manoeuvring capabilities onboard 
NASA’ s Swift Mission.
Building for the future
With its 2004 acquisitions, BAE Systems 
North America is poised to capitalise on the 
US defence industry trend toward awarding
large, complex contracts. Anticipated future
acquisitions will further the group’ s strategy 
to acquire profitable, growing businesses 
with strong, differentiated technologies that
complement the group’ s broad range of
capabilities to provide integrated systems 
and transformational solutions to customers.
Looking ahead, BAE Systems North America 
is well positioned to compete in an increasingly
competitive environment. The business group
has identified the strategic capabilities that
must be developed, and the strategic actions
that will lead to the attainment of these
capabilities. BAE Systems North America 
strives to generate customer loyalty through
performance and best value solutions.
streamlined the procurement process 
to receive the full capability of the group 
to resolve technologically complex 
problems and keep the warfighter 
operational by upgrading fielded systems
quickly and efficiently;
- the group has secured new contracts for 
avionics and flight control components on 
the USAF C-17, building on its selection as 
Sikorsky’ s preferred supplier of fly-by-wire 
flight controls and sub-systems for the 
S-92/H-92 helicopters;
- BAE Systems spans the spectrum from
acoustic through optical frequencies to 
provide ground-based, submarine, surface
ship, airborne, and space applications 
for such information dominance programmes 
as Compass Call, Co-operative 
OUTBOARD Logistics Update, and 
Adaptive Joint C4ISR Node;
- follow-on contracts were signed including 
Turkish F-16 Self Protection Electronic 
Warfare System orders, reinforcing
BAE Systems as a leader in providing 
the world’ s foremost electronic 
warfare protection systems to both 
new and legacy military aircraft; and
- in space, the company's capabilities were
demonstrated by the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration’ s (NASA)
successful landing of two Mars Rovers 
Fundamental to the business is the 
application of superior technologies that are
essential to mission success and the safety 
of the armed forces.
The 2004 order wins and acquisitions underpin
future growth. Margins are anticipated to remain
close to 2004 levels.
Satellite
An artist’ s conception of NASA’ s Cassini-
Huygens spacecraft and Saturn. BAE Systems
contributed the satellite’ s seven radiation-
hardened microprocessors (RAD6000) 
for the mission.
Mars Rovers
Spirit and Opportunity
continue to gather
scientific data 
with the help of 
BAE Systems RAD
6000 computers. 22 Operating and financial review: Commercial Aerospace, HQ and other businesses
Driven by increasing demand from the low cost
carrier sector, Airbus secured net new orders
for a further 366 commercial aircraft, which
represents a 57% market share of orders
placed during 2004. Significant new orders
were received from previous Airbus customers
including China Southern Airlines, China
Eastern Airlines, Jetblue Airways and THY as
well as attracting new customers including 
Air Berlin, Etihad Airways and Spirit Airlines.
During December 2004 shareholder approval
was granted for Airbus to offer the A350 aircraft
which will target the large 220-300 seat market. 
Airbus delivered 320 commercial aircraft during
2004 compared with 305 last year . BAE Systems
20% share of the Airbus closing order book at 
31 December 2004 is over £20bn. 
The A380 marketing and development programme
is progressing with first flight planned for 2005 
and entry into service in 2006. The firm order 
book at December 2004 stood at 139 aircraft.
The A400M military transport aircraft
development programme, whilst in its early
stages, is continuing to plan. 
The Commercial Aerospace business group
made an operating profit
3
of £176m (2003
£204m) on sales
2
of £2,880m (2003 £2,924m).
Airbus contributed a profit
3
of £196m (2003
£211m) on sales
2
of £2,666m (2003
£2,683m). This was after charging £256m 
of development costs (2003 £252m), of 
which £158m (2003 £150m) related to the
A380 programme. In sterling, Airbus sales 
and profit were adversely impacted from the
translation effect of a weakening Euro by 
£53m and £4m respectively.  
The operating cash outflow
4
of £24m (2003
outflow of £143m) includes £278m outflow in
Regional Aircraft, mainly relating to prior year
provision utilisation, offset by a strong cash inflow
of £251m in Airbus. The performance at Airbus
reflects a lower than anticipated impact from
manufacturer’ s sales finance for airline customers.
Airbus
Airbus continues to build upon the strong
performance of 2003 despite a number of
challenges in the current commercial aircraft
market and against a backdrop of rising fuel
prices and adverse US dollar exchange rates.
The commercial aerospace market is emerging
from a period of prolonged weakness. Whilst
credit capacity of many of the world’ s airlines
remains poor, traffic demand has begun to
recover. Airbus has secured a rising share of
this improving market and higher production
volumes are now planned.  
Commercial aircraft are primarily priced in US
dollars. Airbus sources much of its bought-in
equipment in US dollars and also has a
substantial cost reduction programme underway . 
Airbus deliveries for 2005 are expected to be
some 10% higher than in 2004, albeit with a
weaker mix.
Aerostructures
The Aerostructures business returned to
profitability in 2004, with an operating 
profit of £6m on sales of £192m. The A380
inboard leading edge programme has
successfully transitioned from development 
into production.
Regional Aircraft
BAE Systems continues to provide customer
support and services in respect of regional aircraft.
The Commercial Aerospace business group principally comprises BAE Systems 20% interest 
in Airbus. Other activities include subcontract manufacture of aerostructures components and
assemblies, and the regional aircraft asset management business and associated support activities.
Commercial Aerospace
Airbus
BAE Systems has a 20% interest
in Airbus in partnership with
EADS. With the development of
the new 550 seat A380 double-
deck airliner well advanced,
Airbus now offers a family of
aircraft spanning the entire 
large commercial jet market.
Commercial Aerospace : Summary
Percentage share of group sales
6
2004 2003
Order book
1
£20.9bn £21.4bn
Sales
2
£2.9bn £2.9bn
Profit
3
£176m £204m
Cash outflow
4
£(24)m £(143)m
Number of employees
5
12,600 12,150
20% 23 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
The regional aircraft market remains difficult.
The 2004 results include a loss of £26m on 
this activity as a small additional provision 
was made against aircraft residual values 
and as spares and support volume fell on 
lower utilisation across the aircraft fleet,
a trend expected to continue.
2004 was the peak year for cash outflows 
on the recourse fleet. The cash outflow on
Regional Aircraft recourse in 2005 will amount 
to £170m. There will be further reductions 
to recourse cash outflows in both 2006 
and 2007.
HQ and other businesses made a loss
3
of 
£14m in 2004 (2003 break-even) on sales
2
of £560m (2003 £316m). The business 
group generated an operating cash inflow
4
of £166m (2003 £14m).
Land Systems
Within the new Land Systems business, the
former RO Defence business has delivered 
year-on-year sales growth with good progress
continuing on its two largest programmes. Low
rate initial production of the M777 lightweight
155mm field howitzer programme for the US
Marine Corp has begun with delivery of first
production units. Terrier, the UK’ s next
generation air-transportable armoured combat
engineering vehicle, is progressing to a
prototype vehicle in the first quarter of 2005.
Margins in the munitions area were lower
against 2003 levels. 
The acquisition of Alvis plc was declared
unconditional in August 2004. The business
contributed £167m sales
2
and £7m profit
3
since acquisition and has been integrated 
with RO Defence, forming a new Land Systems
business. The Hagglunds unit subsequently
secured a €749m order from the Netherlands
for 184 CV90 armoured vehicles. The down
payment from this contract contributed to a
£132m net cash balance at 31 December 
2004 in Alvis.
Future Carrier
In July 2004, the MoD announced that 
BAE Systems, Thales UK and the Defence
Procurement Agency had jointly agreed
alliancing principles for the aircraft carrier
programme. At the same time, it was decided 
to extend the assessment phase of the
programme. This extension, currently until
March 2005, enables the alliance to de-risk
further the programme ahead of proceeding 
to full-scale development. The programme 
has remained fully funded throughout 2004.
The alliance partners have recently agreed to
broaden the alliance with two new members,
Kellogg, Brown and Root (KBR), a subsidiary 
of the US Halliburton Group, and a shipbuilding
entity. The shipbuilding entity will be 
established by BAE Systems and KBR and 
will be responsible for the detailed design,
manufacture and integration of the ships. 
HQ and other businesses comprises the group’ s head office functions together with the 
Land Systems business formed by the combination of RO Defence and Alvis in 2004. In addition,
HQ and other businesses includes the contract management for the assessment phase work 
on the UK Future Carrier and property services.
HQ and other businesses
HQ and other businesses : Summary
Percentage share of group sales
6
2004 2003
Order book
1
£2.3bn £1.1bn
Sales
2
£0.6bn £0.3bn
(Loss)/profit
3
£(14)m —
Cash inflow
4
£166m £14m
Number of employees
5
6,300 4,000
CV90 armoured infantry 
fighting vehicle
Developed to meet international
demand; Sweden, Norway,
Switzerland, Finland and the
Netherlands have all selected 
the CV90.
M777 lightweight 155mm 
field howitzer
Designed and developed for 
the US Marines and US Army,
providing enhanced mobility,
survivability and mission
effectiveness.
4%
1including share of joint ventures’ order books and before
the elimination of intra-group orders
2 including share of joint ventures’ sales
3 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment
and exceptional items (statutory presentation is shown 
on page 58)
4 net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after
capital expenditure (net) and financial investment and
dividends from joint ventures
5includes share of joint venture employees
6 before elimination of intra-group sales 24 Operating and financial review: Financial review
Profit before interest
2
increased to £1,013m
from £980m in 2003, on sales
1
of £13,479m
(2003 £12,572m). Adjusted earnings per
share
2
for 2004 increased by 8.4% to 18.0p
compared with 2003.
These earnings were underpinned by strong
cash generation with operating cash inflow
totalling £2,071m (2003 £836m).
The weakening US dollar and Euro reduced
reported sales and profit on translation by
£424m and £31m respectively.
The group manages the performance of its
business primarily on measures of operating
cash flow and earnings per share before
deducting goodwill amortisation and impairment
and exceptional items. This measure of
earnings per share gives a more appropriate
indication of underlying performance. Earnings
growth and dividend cover are calculated using
this measure of earnings per share.
After deducting goodwill amortisation and
impairment and exceptional items, the loss 
per share was 16.0p compared with a loss per
share of 0.5p in 2003. This was primarily due 
to an increased charge for goodwill impairment. 
Financial review
24
2004 2003
£m £m
Sales
1
13,479 12,572
Operating profit
2
691 670
Share of operating profit of joint ventures
2
322 310
Profit before interest
2
1,013 980
Net interest (207) (220)
Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation
and impairment and exceptional items 806 760
Goodwill amortisation and impairment,
including joint ventures (1,038) (518)
Exceptional items (note 6) — (9)
(Loss)/profit before tax (232) 233
Tax (234) (225)
Minority interests (1) (2)
(Loss)/profit for the year (467) 6
Basic and diluted loss per share (note 9) (16.0)p (0.5)p
Basic and diluted earnings per share -
excluding goodwill amortisation and 
impairment and exceptional items 18.0p 16.6p
Dividend per share 9.5p 9.2p
2004 2003
£/€ — average 1.474 1.445
£/$ — average 1.832 1.635
£/€ — year end 1.417 1.417
£/$ — year end 1.932 1.786
Exchange rates
1 including share of joint ventures’ sales
2 before goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items 
(statutory presentation is shown on page 58)
3 net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) 
and financial investment and dividends from joint ventures
4 Command, Control, Communication and Computing, Intelligence, Surveillance 
and Reconnaissance 25 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 25
Interest
The net interest charge decreased to £207m
from £220m in 2003. This reflected lower net
interest payable on loans, overdrafts and financial
instruments of £110m (2003 £122m) due to
lower gross borrowings when compared with
2003 and net present value adjustments on
aircraft lease provisions of £28m (2003 £41m)
and other net present value adjustments of
£11m (2003 £7m). There was also a charge of
£28m (2003 £24m) relating to a net present
value adjustment to aircraft financing liabilities
due to changes in the expected timing of receipts
and payments. Share of net interest of joint
ventures was £30m (2003 £26m). Interest was
covered 4.9 times by earnings
2
(2003 4.5 times).
Taxation
The effective rate of tax was 29% (2003 30%)
which compares with the UK corporation tax
rate of 30% for the calendar year 2004 (2003
30%) and remains the planning rate for the
foreseeable future.
The effective tax rate benefits from the tax
deductibility of goodwill arising on acquisitions
in North America and, in the UK, the group has
continued to benefit from R&D tax credits. The
principal upward influence on the rate is the
higher overseas tax charge suffered on the
profits of the Airbus and MBDA joint ventures.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of
5.8p per share (2003 5.5p), bringing the total
dividend for the year to 9.5p (2003 9.2p).
Dividend cover , at this level of annual dividend,
has increased to 1.9 times earnings
2
from 1.8
times earnings
2 
in 2003. The dividend policy is
to maintain the dividend in line with earnings
with a long-term objective of dividend cover
above 2 times.
Other recognised gains and losses
Other recognised gains and losses include 
an exchange translation loss of £43m (2003
£93m) primarily due to weakening of the US
dollar on the net US dollar assets in subsidiaries
and an exchange translation loss of £62m
(2003 gain £181m) in joint ventures. 
Cash flows
Group operating cash inflow was £2,071m
(2003 £836m). A reconciliation of operating
cash flow to business group cash flow is shown
below. Net capital expenditure and financial
investment was £256m (2003 £248m),
including increases in capital expenditure
together with the investment in aerospace and
defence companies in Saudi Arabia (2003
included the initial £74m investment in Alvis plc).
Group operating business cash inflow
3
was
£1,884m compared with £625m in 2003. 
25 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
2004 2003
£m £m
Opening net debt (870) (1,298)
Operating business cash flow 1,884 625
Interest and preference dividends (120) (138)
Taxation (31) 75
Free cash inflow 1,733 562
Equity dividends paid (281) (281)
Acquisitions, including cash
and loans acquired (630) (62)
Adjustment to Exchange Property 13 121
Other non-cash movements (4) —
Foreign exchange 57 72
Movement in cash on customers’ account (13) 16
Closing net cash/(debt) as defined by the group 5 (870)
Analysed as: 
Gross borrowings (2,384) (2,528)
Cash and short-term investments 2,407 1,663
Cash on customers’ account (18) (5)
Closing net cash/(debt) as defined by the group 5 (870)
2004 2003
£m £m
Operating cash flow (FRS 1) 2,071 836
Capital expenditure (net) and
financial investment (256) (248)
Dividends received from joint ventures 69 37
Operating business cash flow 1,884 625
Programmes 505 33
Customer Solutions & Support 1,001 518
International Partnerships 48 69
Avionics (16) (28)
North America 204 162
Commercial Aerospace (24) (143)
HQ and other businesses 166 14
Operating business cash flow 1,884 625
Operating business cash flow Movement in net debt
Cash flow improvements were achieved at
Programmes as customer stage payments were
received on the renegotiated T yphoon contract
and in respect of the Indian Hawk contract. CS&S
cash flow benefited from the strong oil price
during 2004. North America cash flow was also
strong. Commercial Aerospace included an
outflow on the regional aircraft recourse
provision, almost entirely offset by another
strong cash performance by Airbus despite
product development and capital expenditure on
the A380 programme. Avionics cash outflows
were mainly due to some increase in working
capital on T yphoon equipment and cash outflows
on prior year rationalisation programmes.
Free cash inflow, after interest and preference
dividends and taxation, was £1,733m
compared with £562m in 2003.
Cash outflow on acquisitions was £550m
comprising cash consideration of £663m less
cash acquired, net of overdrafts, of £113m. 
In addition, loans acquired were £80m. 
Foreign currency translation movements in net
debt of £57m primarily comprises the benefit 
of translating US dollar denominated debt at 
the closing rate of £1/$1.932.
Net cash was £5m (2003 net debt of £870m) 
at the end of the year . 26
The floating rate debt has been predominantly
achieved by entering into interest rate swaps
which swap the fixed rate US dollar interest
payable on debt into either floating rate sterling
or US dollars. At the end of 2004, the group 
had a total of $1.6bn of this type of swap
outstanding with an average duration of 5 
years. In respect of the fixed rate sterling debt
the weighted average period in respect of which
interest is fixed was 7 years.
Given the level of short-term interest rates
during the year the average cost of the floating
rate debt was 4.1% (3.1% on US dollars and
5.6% on sterling); the cost of the sterling fixed
rate debt was 6.4%. 
In respect of cash deposits, given the fluctuation
in the group’ s working capital requirements,
cash is generally invested for short-term periods
based at floating interest rates. Given a 1%
change in short-term rates and the existing
fixed/floating mix and level of borrowings, the
interest cost to the group on its gross debt
would have varied by £11m.
Foreign exchange risk
The group is exposed to movements in exchange
rates for foreign currency denominated
transactions, the translation of net assets
and the translation of profit and loss accounts 
of foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures.
In order to protect itself against currency
fluctuations, the group’ s policy is to hedge 
all firm transactional exposures as well as 
to manage anticipated economic cash flow
exposures over a five-year period.
The group is exposed to a number of foreign
currencies, the most significant being the US
dollar . Note 30 to the accounts, on financial
instruments, includes the impact of revaluing 
the group’ s forward currency contracts to market
values on 31 December 2004. This revaluation
26 Operating and financial review: Financial review
Financial review continued
Liquidity 
As at 31 December 2004 the group had gross
borrowings of £2,384m (2003 £2,528m), cash
and current asset investments of £2,407m (2003
£1,663m) and cash on customers’ account of
£18m (2003 £5m) giving net cash of £5m (2003
net debt of £870m). During 2004, the gross
borrowing figure peaked at just above £2.7bn in
October owing to short-term funding requirements
for acquisitions which increased commercial
paper levels. The reduction in the gross
borrowing level at the year end was as a result 
of improved business cash flow allowing lower
levels of outstanding commercial paper , capital
repayments falling due and favourable currency
movements on US dollar denominated debt. 
In addition to its outstanding borrowings the
group had committed revolving credit facilities
(RCF) of £1.5bn available to it to meet any general
corporate funding requirement and support the
commercial paper programme. The RCF is a five-
year facility that expires in 2008 and is supported
by the group’ s core relationship banks. The group
also had a further RCF for £500m that was retired
during the year . At the end of 2004 the £1.5bn
RCF facility was undrawn.
In February 2005 the group renewed its RCF 
for a further five years taking advantage of the
favourable market conditions to reduce the 
cost of the facility.
Generally, the net debt of the group is driven by
operational performance, the level of receipts
on the major contracts and the performance of
the joint ventures. Historically, the net debt of
the group is usually at its lowest position at the
half and full year .
Capital structure
The group funds its operations through a mixture
of shareholders’ funds and borrowing facilities,
including bank and capital market borrowings.
All the group’ s material borrowing facilities are
arranged by the central treasury function and
funds raised are lent onward to operating
subsidiaries as required. The group’ s objective
is to ensure the continuity of competitively
priced funding through borrowing from a range 
of markets and at varied maturities.
Details of the group’ s debt, including the
Exchangeable Bonds, are included in note 
16 to the accounts. During 2004, £45m of 
long-term debt was repaid relating to the
European Investment Bank loan and the
Systems 2001 Asset T rust bonds. While
commercial paper levels fluctuated to meet
short-term liquidity requirements, at the end 
of 2004 they had reduced by £79m in the year 
to nil. No new long or medium-term debt was
raised in 2004, although it remains the group’ s
intention to ensure the business is funded
conservatively and to be opportunistic in
accessing the bank and capital markets in
achieving this aim.
Interest rates 
The objective of interest rate risk management 
is to reduce the exposure to interest rate
fluctuations on borrowings and deposits. This 
is achieved through varying the proportion of
fixed rate debt relative to floating rate debt over
the forward time horizon by utilising derivative
instruments, mainly interest rate swaps. The
interest rate risk profile of the group is set out 
in note 30 to the accounts along with the fair
value position of its fixed rate borrowings and
derivatives. The group’ s current interest rate
management policy is that a minimum of 25%
and a maximum of 75% of debt is maintained at
fixed interest rates. At 31 December 2004, the
group had 60% of fixed debt and 40% of floating
rate debt. The group’ s gross debt, after the impact
of foreign currency swaps, was 78% denominated
in sterling and 22% denominated in US dollars. 27 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 27 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
would have a minimal impact on the results of the
group as any gains and losses are generally offset
by the position on the underlying currency flow.
The group does not hedge the translation effect
of exchange rate movements on the profit and
loss account or balance sheet of overseas
subsidiaries and joint ventures it regards as
long-term investments. Hedges are, however ,
undertaken in respect of investments that are
not considered long-term or core to the group.
Commercial aircraft financing provision
The group provides guarantees in respect of
residual values or head lease and finance
payments in respect of certain commercial aircraft
sold. Details are set out in note 20 to the accounts.
Insurance
The group operates a policy of partial self insurance,
although the significant majority of cover is placed 
in the external market. The group continues to
monitor its insurance arrangements to ensure 
the quality and extent of the insurance cover . 
FRS 17
The group has continued to account for
retirement benefits under SSAP 24. The
pension charge for the year on UK and US
defined benefit schemes, excluding the group’ s
share of pension costs charged by joint venture
companies, on a SSAP 24 basis was £192m
(2003 £127m). The disclosures required under
the accounting standard FRS 17 are set out in
note 27 to the accounts. FRS 17 requires the
group to calculate its net pension liabilities by
valuing assets and liabilities at a point in time
rather than matching expectations of assets
and liabilities over time. The deficit on UK and
US schemes calculated on an FRS 17 basis 
was £3.0bn after tax (2003 £2.1bn after tax).
Investment returns were better than expected
but were offset by an increase in liabilities due 
to changes in mortality assumptions and a
reduction in real discount rates during 2004.
Full adoption of FRS 17 would have resulted in a
charge to operating profit of £151m (2003
£172m), a reduction of £41m (2003 additional
charge of £45m) when compared with the pension
charge on a SSAP 24 basis. Reserves would have
been reduced by £3.3bn (2003 £2.4bn).
The FRS 17 assessment has no impact on short-
term cash contributions to the pension schemes.
The group’ s pension funding requirements are
derived from separate independent actuarial
valuations. In order to help mitigate future
pension cost increases, the company has
introduced changes to its main UK and US
pension schemes. These changes include an
agreement to increase employees’ contributions
to the main scheme in the UK and to establish
employee contributions for much of the US
workforce. In addition, the company has made a
prepayment of $70m (£38m) to its US scheme.
Accounting policy changes
There have been no significant changes to 
the accounting policies adopted by the group. 
The group has amended its treatment within
shareholders’ funds of own shares held by the
ESOP trust. The value of such shares held by the
group is now deducted from distributable reserves.
Restatement of segmental analysis
In January 2005, the group announced an
agreement with Finmeccanica under which
BAE Systems will take full ownership of the UK
activities of the former AMS joint venture in
exchange for the group’ s existing 50% of the
Italian activities and a cash equalisation
payment. The group has also agreed to sell 
to Finmeccanica its defence communications
business and certain of its avionics activities
principally comprising UK-based airborne radar
and electronic warfare business. It is the group’ s
intention to restate segmental analysis for
2005 reporting, including taking account of 
the impact of the Eurosystems transaction.
Transition to International Financial Reporting
Standards
The review of the impact of the change to
International Financial Reporting Standards 
is ongoing. A description of the significant 
areas which will impact the group are set out 
in note 33 to the accounts. The current plans
indicate that the group is well placed to comply
with International Financial Reporting Standards
in line with the requirements. 28 28 Corporate responsibility
discrimination where all employees can receive
the training they need to develop their careers.
Community: We value our relationship with, and
support, the communities and charities in the
countries where we operate through donations
and practical involvement.
Environment: We have a responsibility to
consider our impact on the environment and 
are committed to manage our environmental
performance and minimise risks.
Marketplace: We are committed to ensure
compliance with the laws and controls governing
defence exports everywhere we operate and
ensure we meet the highest standards of
conduct in our work.
Management
Overall responsibility for CR lies with the board
of directors. It has delegated certain matters
to a number of Board Committees. 
The Chief Executive is responsible for all
normal operational matters and has delegated
specific responsibilities to the Group Legal
Director (Ethics and Compliance) and the 
Group HR Director (Workplace, Community 
and Business Environment). In addition, in 
2005 the Board has resolved to create a 
new board committee for CR, chaired by a 
non-executive director .
BAE Systems recognises its responsibilities to
the wider community and to the environment.
We are determined to be regarded as a 
well-managed, responsible company . As a 
global aerospace and defence business, our
competitiveness and future success depend not
only on the skills of our employees and the quality
of our products, but also on our standing in the
community and our commitment to high
standards of corporate governance and corporate
responsibility (CR). We aim to be, and to be seen
as, a responsible corporate citizen in all the
communities in which we operate worldwide.
We have developed broad statements of intent
to encapsulate our strategy and direction on
corporate responsibility. These are:
Engaging with our stakeholders: We want to be
open with our stakeholders and understand
their views. We are keen to engage in debate
about our role in society and to report our
progress on addressing stakeholder concerns.
Benchmarking: We know that we can learn from
other companies, as well as from the many
examples of good practice within our own
organisation. We will benchmark our
performance, both externally and internally,
using quantifiable performance indicators.
Workplace: We are committed to supporting our
employees and aim to help them reach their
potential by providing a safe workplace free from
The executives are supported in this work by 
a dedicated CR team and a CR Forum, which
draws on staff with relevant expertise from
across all of the group’ s businesses. The CR
Forum includes experts in communication,
health and safety, community affairs, investor
relations and the environment. 
Governance and risk
Governance of CR risks are an integral part of our
overall corporate governance. The BAE Systems
disclosures are to be found in the corporate
governance section in this report.
Assurance
It is important that our CR reporting addresses
issues that are material to our business and
reflects stakeholder concerns. In 2004 we
worked with csrnetwork, an independent
assurance organisation, to benchmark our CR
reporting against other major companies and
best practice standards using the Accountability
Rating. More information on their assessment
and recommendations can be found in our
annual CR Report.
Our business and how we operate
Our responsibilities
As a company we demand and expect honesty,
integrity and fairness in all aspects of our
business. We are committed to comply with 
the law in every country where we operate. 
This includes laws implementing the OECD 
Corporate responsibility
The information below acts as a summary of our principles and corporate responsibility activities
during 2004 and key highlights from the last year . For the first time the full Corporate Responsibility
Report has been formally reviewed by the BAE Systems Board and is available to all stakeholders.
Engaging with stakeholders : 2004 opinion leader survey – How do you rate BAE Systems performance on CR? Benchmarking performance
% of opinion leaders Good Satisfactory Poor
42% 33% 25%
50% 36% 14%
How would you rate BAE Systems performance on CR?
50% 21%
64% 21% 15%
How would you rate their commitment to improve?
60% 20%
How would you rate BAE Systems current CR report?
2004
2002
2004
2002 New question for 2004
2004
2002 29%
20% 29 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 29 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
We are proud of the results of this survey as it
both recognises the hard work we have been
doing in this area over the last three years and
shows an understanding of some of the
difficulties we, as a defence company, face 
in reporting on those issues material to us 
as a business. The table below highlights 
the findings of this survey and some of the 
actions we are taking.
Workplace
All our people are encouraged to realise 
their full potential as valued members of 
the company. Everyone who works for our
company contributes to our success. By 
working together we will stimulate innovation
and generate a more exciting and rewarding
environment in which we all feel valued and
respected.
These principles form the foundation for the
policies and practices that govern people
management and our approach to employees
within the organisation.
Employee feedback
This year we carried out a global Employee
Opinion Survey. More than 37,000 employees
took the opportunity to let senior management
know what they felt had improved since the last
survey was conducted in 2002 and which areas
still need work. A summary of key improvements
is shown on page 30.
Anti-Bribery Convention and the US Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act. We will not tolerate 
bribery or other attempts to influence improperly
the decisions of customers and suppliers. 
We have an anti-corruption compliance
programme in place throughout the company.
This includes robust procedures governing
transactions with marketing consultants, the
proper use of corporate hospitality and our
procurement processes. This is supported 
by an awareness-training programme which 
is mandatory for all senior managers and all
employees working in sales and marketing
functions, and underpinned by a clear statement
that infringements will result in disciplinary
action. More information is provided in our
annual CR Report.
Engaging with stakeholders 
We encourage dialogue and open
communications with all our stakeholders
including employees, trade unions,
shareholders, customers, business partners,
suppliers, competitors, governments and 
local communities. Much of this takes place 
in the normal course of business but this 
year we conducted a specific CR survey to 
build our understanding. The survey polled 
25 independent opinion leaders with an
understanding of CR reporting issues. This
enables us to track changing perceptions 
and identify current and emerging issues 
to help shape our reporting.
Recognition
Our Chairman’ s Award for Innovation scheme
recognises employees whose ideas, actions and
behaviours make BAE Systems a better , more
competitive company . This year over 3,000
nominations were received. From those, 48 Silver
Awards were allocated across the two categories
of Innovation and Best Practice Implementation
Awards. The best of these nominations were
considered for Gold Awards by a panel of 10
judges chaired by Ian King, Group Managing
Director of CS&S, and including Stan Porter ,
Director General Commercial at the UK Defence
Procurement Agency, previous Gold Award
winners from our Underwater Systems and North
American businesses and Grace Johnstone,
UK Female Engineer of the Y ear 2003.
Dignity at work
BAE Systems has a long-standing commitment
to develop and maintain a working environment
whereby all employees have the right, and the
ability, to work in an atmosphere free from
intimidation of any kind and where they are
treated with dignity and respect. Our Respect 
at Work policy and procedure ensures issues
and complaints in this area are quickly and
effectively resolved. This year we strengthened
our work in this area by partnering with the UK
Department of T rade and Industry (DTI) and
Britain’ s largest T rade Union, Amicus, to form 
the Dignity At Work Partnership to encourage
Report strengths
Good presentation of objectives 
and progress 
Clear and reader-friendly
Good mix of data and narrative
Informative and not too glossy
Comprehensive, addresses all the issues
Inclusion of positive and negative quotes 
Attempts to answer difficult questions
Report weaknesses
No indication of how CR is managed 
and top level responsibilities
T oo much policy, not enough on
performance 
No explanation or trends shown 
with data
Lacking information on marketing
processes
T oo much focus on community/
charity giving
Action taken in 2004 Report
More information included on how CR is managed 
and board level responsibilities 
Agreement for new Board sub-committee on CR 
to be established
Greater explanation of our stakeholder engagement
processes and more transparent feedback
Greater emphasis on performance and internal 
data management processes
Greater clarity over internal governance and 
ethical compliance 
Greater explanation of the business need to report 
on community activities and charitable giving
Engaging with stakeholders : Comments, feedback and actions 30 Corporate responsibility
represents five percent of all UK apprentices,
and has an outstanding completion rate of 90%.
Coupled with our graduate schemes, which
recruited 290 graduates in the UK and US in
2004, this helps ensure we have the talent
necessary to deliver our commitments to the
customer now and in the future.
Health and safety
The health and safety of our employees and
the communities around our facilities is very
important. Our statistics show that through
increased leadership, focus and attention 
and training and awareness amongst our
employees, our performance in this area
continues to improve to the benefit of all.
We, along with other major companies, made 
a corporate commitment to the UK Health &
Safety Executive (HSE) in 2001 to work with
them to deliver on their strategy for Revitalising
Health & Safety. The HSE has set targets for
reduction by 2010 with mid way targets to be
best practice in dealing with workplace bullying.
This partnership is in its early stages and we
aim to report on progress later in 2005.
Diversity
BAE Systems is committed to equality of
opportunity for all employees and creating a
workplace where everyone is treated with
respect. Our Corporate Diversity Steering Group
is working with diversity coordinators in our
business units to help us recruit and retain 
the best talent for our business. In 2004 the
Executive Committee agreed a more proactive
approach to enhancing diversity amongst the
employee population. Details are provided in 
our Corporate Responsibility Report and we 
will continue to report progress.
Training and development
BAE Systems invests in the training and
development of its people from apprentice
school leavers through graduates to our most
experienced functional professionals and
managers. Employees have access to over 350
on-line courses and all our major sites feature
Learning Resource Centres for those without
access to a computer . In addition, over 25,000
professional personnel have completed
elements of the Developing Y ou programme
covering key skills across the main functional
areas of our business. 
In 2004, we recruited 300 people to our
apprentice development scheme, which
achieved by 2005. Our performance against 
the 2005 values are shown in the table below.
We will continue to address causes of
accidents to further increase the safety of 
our operations.
Environment
We have a responsibility to manage our impact
on the environment, be it as a direct result of 
our manufacturing operations, waste from our
offices or the products we produce.
All our major manufacturing sites have now
achieved accreditation to the international
environmental management standard ISO
14001 and we continue to deliver
improvements in relation to energy use,
waste and water consumption.
In 2004 our primary energy users in the UK
formed a Carbon Club to address collectively
energy reduction issues and extend best
practice to reduce carbon emissions.
Corporate responsibility continued
Employee Opinion Survey: Improvements since 2002
45%
55%
% of employees who agree * benchmark data not available 
My business unit leadership team is taking positive steps to improve business performance.
47%
56%
My immediate manager/team leader lets me know how I am doing on an ongoing basis.* 
37%
43%
I believe my business unit will act on the results of the survey .*
2004
49% Aerospace and electronics average 2004
2002
2004
2002
2004
2002
2001 2004 HSE 2005 target BAE Systems actual
BAE Systems BAE Systems for reduction reduction against
baseline Actual against baseline 2001 baseline
Number of major accidents 68 60 5% 11%
(rate per 100,000 employees)
Days lost due to work related injury 21,079 11,299 15% 46%
(rate per 100,000 employees)
Days lost due to work related ill health 2,027 1,649 10% 18%
(rate per 100,000 employees)
There were no work-related fatalities in 2004. The above figures indicate that we are making noticeable progress against the HSE targets. 31 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
The projects they embarked on included
landscaping and building a play area for the
Association for the Mentally Challenged, building
a basketball court at a school for the hearing
impaired, re-furbishing a kitchen, dining room 
and wash area for Cheshire Homes, improving 
the sports field at the Centre for Learning and
improving a sports field and building and
education hall for the Vatsalya School. 
Information & Electronic Warfare Systems raised
over $16,400 for the American Cancer Society 
at the company’ s fifth annual Pride Day , through
ticket sales, raffles and sponsored sports
events. Employees have given over 15,000
hours as volunteers for education initiatives 
and raised over $215,000. In total employees 
in North America raised more than $900,000 
for the American Cancer Society during the 18-
month campaign, breaking all previous records.
In Australia, employees raised a total of A$40,000
for The Cancer Council Australia, which will be
matched by BAE Systems. In addition,
employees also raised A$20,000 for a number of
other charities, including World Vision, Leukemia
Foundation, Regency Park, Cranio-Maxillo Facial
Foundation, Bali orphanages and Indian charities.
In March 2004, 70 Saudi employees took part in
a BAE Systems sponsored fun run raising money
for the Centennial Charity’ s disabled children
appeal. This was the first fundraising event of its
kind organised by and involving Saudi employees.
Education and community
BAE Systems takes an active role in community
and education activities, supporting charities
and working directly with those communities
close to our facilities worldwide.
Support for the education sector remains a 
key part of BAE Systems CR programme. The
company is working actively with education
bodies, and with schools local to its principal
sites, to ensure that young people have the right
skills and are inspired to consider careers in
engineering. We have this year carried out a major
review of our UK educational activities and will,
as a result, be running in 2005 a special schools
roadshow (involving theatre and a practical
workshop) and offering a wealth of new online
resources at www.baesystems.com/education 
In 2004, our total community investment 
was £1.1m. This includes cash and in kind
donations to charity. In addition, Charity
Challenge, our company-wide fundraising and
volunteering programme, raised £6m from
employee fundraising and BAE Systems
matched donations. This year it reported over
5,700 volunteer days for charities worldwide.
Charity Challenge case studies
In October 2004, a team of 15 employees from
Australia, Germany, Saudi Arabia and the UK
spent four weeks living and working with charities
in Bangalore, India. This initiative organised by our
joint venture in India benefited five local charities.
Education case studies
In 2004, we invested £213,000 directly in our
education partnerships in the UK. We also make
a contribution indirectly through our expenditure
on apprenticeships and university research
(worth £26 million in 2004). The money we
spend in these areas enables colleges and
universities to develop their capabilities and
improve their facilities, raising standards and
improving engineering education.
BAE Systems is partnering with the American
Association of University Women to encourage
young women to take an interest in science and
engineering. Female engineers from our site at
Lansdale, Pennsylvania took part in the  Girls
Understanding Engineering, Science and
T echnology (GUEST) programme helping local
students complete an engineering and team
building project.
In Saudi Arabia, we agreed phase 2 of the
National Occupational Skill Standards and
Curriculum Development Project with the 
Saudi government. BAE Systems will provide
administrative support, funding and resources
to develop standard qualifications and training
curriculum for technical trades and vocational
qualifications. This builds on the success of the
project’ s first phase which saw the development
of 125 skills standards and 300 training
packages matched to workplace needs.
Corporate
Responsibility
Report on the web
Full information on our 
activity and commitments 
can be found in the annual
Corporate Responsibility
Report available in hard copy or
at www.baesystems.com/
corporateresponsibility 32 Board of directors
Dick Olver 
2,4
Appointed to the Board as a non-executive director
in May 2004, he succeeded Sir Richard Evans as
Chairman on 1 July 2004. A civil engineer , he
joined BP in 1973 where he held a variety of senior
positions culminating in his appointment to the
board of BP p.l.c. as CEO of Exploration and
Production in 1998. He was subsequently
appointed deputy chief executive of BP in 2003,
stepping down from that position when he
assumed the chairmanship of BAE Systems. Mr
Olver chairs the Board’ s Nominations Committee
and the Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee.
He is a non-executive director of Reuters Group plc
and deputy chairman of TNK-BP .
Appointed: 2004  Age: 58
Mike Turner CBE 
4
, Chief Executive
Appointed Chief Executive in 2002,having been a
Chief Operating Officer since 1999. He is a member
of the shareholder committee of Airbus SAS having
formerly been a member of the Airbus Industrie 
GIE Supervisory Board. He is a non-executive
director of Babcock International Group Plc.
Appointed: 1994  Age: 56
Chris Geoghegan, Chief Operating Officer
Appointed to the Board in 2002 as a Chief
Operating Officer . He was formerly responsible
for the group’ s Airbus operations and, in 2000,
was appointed Group Managing Director of the
Avionics business. He is a council member of
the Society of British Aerospace Companies.
Appointed: 2002  Age: 50
Michael Lester
4
, Group Legal Director
Appointed a member of the Board following 
the BAe/MES merger. Prior to the merger he 
was a director and vice chairman of The General
Electric Company, p.l.c. He is a non-executive
director of Premier Farnell plc.
Appointed: 1999  Age: 64
Steve Mogford, Chief Operating Officer
Appointed to the Board in 2000 as a Chief
Operating Officer, he has held a number of
senior positions within the company including
responsibility for the group’ s military aircraft
operations. He is chairman of the Eurofighter
Supervisory Board.
Appointed: 2000  Age: 48
Mark Ronald CBE 
4
, Chief Operating Officer
Appointed to the Board in 2002 as a Chief
Operating Officer . Formerly head of GEC’ s North
American defence business, in 1999 he was
appointed President and CEO of BAE Systems
North America. He is a member of the board 
of governors of the Electronic Industries Association
and the board and executive committee of the
Aerospace Industries Association.
Appointed: 2002  Age: 63
George Rose, Group Finance Director
Appointed Group Finance Director in 1998 and 
is a member of the shareholder committee of
Airbus SAS. Prior to joining the company in 1992,
he held senior positions in the Rover Group and
Leyland DAF . He is a non-executive director of
Saab AB and National Grid T ransco plc, and a
member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Appointed: 1998  Age: 52
Board of directors
Dick Olver Mike Turner Chris Geoghegan Michael Lester Steve Mogford
Sue Birley
Chairman Executive directors Sir Peter Mason KBE 
1,2,3
Chief executive of AMEC plc. Prior to joining AMEC
plc in 1996, he served as an executive director of
BICC plc, chairman and chief executive of Balfour
Beatty Ltd and chief executive of Norwest Holst
Group PLC. He is also a board member of UK 
T rade and Investment. Sir Peter Mason has been
nominated the Board’ s Senior Independent Director .
He is considered to be independent for the purposes
of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Appointed: 2003  Age: 58
Rt Hon Michael Portillo MP 
1,2
A cabinet minister in the 1990s, Michael Portillo
was successively Chief Secretary to the T reasury ,
Secretary of State for Employment, and Secretary
of State for Defence. He entered Parliament in
1984, was admitted to the Privy Council in 1992
and currently represents the Parliamentary
constituency of Kensington and Chelsea.
He is considered to be independent for the purposes
of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Appointed: 2002  Age: 51
David Parkes
33 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Professor Sue Birley 
1,2,3
Formerly Professor of Entrepreneurship at Imperial
College, University of London, and has held 
a number of academic positions at INSEAD,
London Business School and Cranfield 
Institute of Technology. She was formerly a 
non-executive director of National Westminster
Bank plc. Professor Birley chairs the Board’ s
Remuneration Committee.
She is considered to be independent for the
purposes of the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance.
Appointed: 2000  Age: 61
Dr Ulrich Cartellieri 
2,3
A director of Robert Bosch GmbH and, until
recently, a member of the Supervisory Board of
Deutsche Bank AG. He is also a member of the
International Advisory Committee of the Federal
Reserve Bank of New Y ork.
He is considered to be independent for the
purposes of the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance.
Appointed: 1999  Age: 67
Michael Hartnall 
1
Formerly finance director of Rexam plc, prior 
to which he held senior positions with a number 
of manufacturing companies. He is also a non-
executive director of Lonmin plc and Elementis
plc. Mr Hartnall chairs the Board’ s Audit
Committee. He is a fellow of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
He is considered to be independent for the
purposes of the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance.
Appointed: 2003  Age: 62
Rt Hon Lord Hesketh KBE 
2
Non-executive deputy chairman of Babcock
International Group Plc and Chairman of British
Mediterranean Airways. Lord Hesketh has 
held UK government ministerial positions 
in the Department of the Environment and the
Department of T rade and Industry. He is a former
government Chief Whip in the House of Lords
and a Privy Councillor . 
Appointed: 1994  Age: 54
Mark Ronald George Rose
Michael Hartnall Lord Hesketh Sir Peter Mason Michael Portillo Ulrich Cartellieri 
Non-executive directors
Company Secretary
1  member of the Audit Committee   2  member of the Nominations Committee   3  member of the Remuneration Committee   4  member of the Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee strategy , ensuring that it is implemented and that
business plans supporting the strategy are
integrated across all of the company businesses
and functions. The IBP process is managed by 
the Chief Executive with the Board being involved
closely in evaluating the strategic options for the
company and in ultimately agreeing the strategy and
the resultant business plan. Once agreed by the
Board, it uses the IBP to set objectives and stretch
targets for senior management and to monitor the
operational performance of the company . During 
the year as part of the IBP process the Board and
the company’ s Executive Committee spent a
number of days evaluating and challenging the
strategic options available to the company . 
The company has developed a number of
processes and controls aimed at ensuring 
that financial information systems are robust. 
In addition, financial controls and risk
management processes are in place to protect
the integrity of financial information, ensure 
that operational decisions are made on a 
sound basis and that the company’ s assets are
protected. The Board has delegated to the Audit
Committee responsibility for reviewing in detail
the effectiveness of processes and controls in
this area and requires it to report back on these
matters on a regular basis so that the Board as
a whole can consider them.
The Board 
Every company should be headed by 
an effective board, which is collectively
responsible for the success of the company. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle A.1
The Board of BAE Systems recognises that it is
responsible for the leadership of the company
and that in discharging this responsibility it is
required to take decisions objectively and in the
best interests of the company. The Board
through a single document, the Operational
Framework, has provided all employees with
details of the standards of behaviour and key
policies that are mandatory across the
company. The areas covered by it include:
- business ethics
- business planning
- risk management
- internal control
- personal behaviour.
Further details of the key business processes
described in the Operational Framework appear
below (see Internal Control).
The Board recognises the importance of having 
a clear and well founded business strategy . The
company has over a number of years developed a
core process, the Integrated Business Planning
process (IBP), for developing the company’ s
The Board is scheduled to meet on six occasions
during the year and usually a number of
additional meetings are called as required. In
2004 it met on 12 occasions. At each scheduled
meeting the Board reviews the company’ s
performance against the agreed business plan
and also major contracts and variances to the
profitability forecast for these contracts. 
Whilst the Board has delegated the normal
operational management of the company to the
Chief Executive, it has agreed a formal schedule
of matters that are reserved for its decision.
This schedule includes:
- approving the group strategy and business plan;
- ensuring that the company has proper
reporting and internal control systems and
that appropriate polices are in place to cover
matters such as political and charitable
donations, health, safety and the
environment, employment and the export of
defence equipment;
- approving changes to the company’ s capital
structure, and, above a certain limit, the
raising of debt finance;
- approving major changes to risk management
policies, treasury policies and the group
pension schemes; and 
- above certain limits set by the Board, approving
the acquisition and disposal of assets.
Corporate governance
34 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Successful companies are valuable not only to their shareholders but also to a wide community
of individuals and organisations that benefit from the goods, services and wealth they generate. 
A company’ s board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that the right leadership, strategy and
control structures are present to produce and sustain the delivery of this value. The essential
elements of good corporate governance are having well thought out and robust means of
delivering the right leadership, the right strategy and the right controls.
The Board of BAE Systems, like the rest of the company, strives continually to improve its
performance and, in the area of corporate governance, recognises the need to do this against 
a background of considerable change in recent years. In particular , the Board has noted the
changes to the US corporate governance environment and will use these developments as 
well as possible further changes in the UK and the European Union to inform best practice.
Good corporate governance,and its visibility ,gives confidence to all associated with a company that it is
being managed well and that value is being created. Our objective in this report,and those produced by
the Board’ s committees, is to communicate the key elements of the company’ s governance structure
and relate this to the principles in the UK’ s Combined Code on Corporate Governance. Dick Olver, Chairman
“ 35 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
important role the Board plays in setting overall
performance goals for the company and making
sure that progress is made against them.
Chairman and Chief Executive
There should be a clear division of
responsibilities at the head of the company
between the running of the Board and the
executive responsibility for the running of 
the company’s business. No one individual
should have unfettered powers of decision. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle A.2
The Chairman and Chief Executive have been
appointed separately and there is a clear division
of responsibilities between these two positions.
The Chairman, who serves in a non-executive
capacity , is responsible for the effective working
of the Board and setting the agenda for its
meetings. In order to facilitate the exchange of
information and ideas, as well as to develop
effective working relationships, the executive 
and non-executive directors meet on a number of
occasions during the year on an informal basis.
The Nominations Committee initiated the
search for a successor to the previous chairman
in 2003 and completed this process in March
2004 when it was announced that Mr Olver
would be appointed Chairman. The search
The Operational Framework sets out the group’ s
organisation structure together with the
attendant delegated authorities. The Board has
recognised that the terms on which the company
accepts complex long-term contracts is critical
to the performance of the company. The Board
has therefore determined that all contract bids
and tenders above certain limits must be
approved by it and, given the different risk
profiles of the various stages of a long-term
design and build contract, has set guidelines 
on the nature of the contracting arrangements
that it is willing to approve. 
The Board believes that it is important that it is
involved in developing and ultimately agreeing
the strategy for the company. Through the IBP
process the Board agrees the strategic and
operational priorities for the company and in
turn these priorities are used to determine the
objectives and targets for individual directors.
Through the Remuneration Committee the
Board ensures that, based on the financial
targets in the IBP , suitable ‘stretch targets’ are
set for the executive directors’ bonus scheme. 
The Board has initiated work recently aimed at
ensuring that it has best practice processes for
establishing performance objectives. Building
on the existing framework for performance
management, this is aimed at developing the
process was at all times controlled by the
Nominations Committee and its Chairman,
Sir Peter Mason. The Board endorsed Mr Olver’ s
nomination and it was agreed that, at the time of
his appointment, he was independent based on
the Code’ s criteria for assessing the
independence of directors. 
Board balance and independence
The Board should include a balance of executive
and non-executive directors (and in particular
independent non-executive directors) such that
no individual or small group of individuals can
dominate the Board’s decision making. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle A.3
At present the Board comprises 13 directors,
of whom seven are non-executive. The
Nominations Committee and the Board have
reviewed the provisions in the Combined Code
and have concluded that, under the definitions
used, all of the non-executive directors are
independent with the exception of Lord Hesketh
and Mr Olver . Lord Hesketh has been a director
of the company for eleven years and
consequently, based on the guidance in the
Combined Code, the Board has concluded that
he is not independent. Mr Olver was appointed 
a non-executive director on 17 May 2004 and
was independent from that date until he was
appointed Chairman on 1 July.
Mr Scaroni retired from the Board on 5 May 2004;
throughout the period of his appointment he was
an independent non-executive director . Sir Richard
Evans retired from the Board on 30 June 2004,
as a former executive director and employee of
the company he was not independent.
Throughout the year the Board was non-compliant
with provision A.3.2 that requires that at least 
half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should
comprise independent non-executive directors.
The terms of reference of the Board’ s
Nominations, Audit and Remuneration
committees state that only members of those
particular committees have a right to be present
at their meetings. The membership of these
committees is reviewed on a regular basis to
ensure that undue reliance is not placed on any
one director . The last such review was undertaken
by the Nominations Committee in 2004.
The Board has appointed Sir Peter Mason as 
its Senior Independent Director .
The attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees in 2004 
was as follows:
Director Board Audit RemunerationNominations
Prof S Birley 9 (12) 4 (4) 7 (7) 7 (7)
Dr U Cartellieri 9 (12) - 7 (7) 7 (7)
Sir Richard Evans
*
8 (8) - - 4 (4)
Mr C V Geoghegan 10 (12) - - -
Mr M J Hartnall 11 (12) 4 (4) - -
Lord Hesketh 8 (12) 1 (1) 1 (1) 4 (4)
Mr M Lester 10 (12) - - -
Sir Peter Mason 10 (12) - 7 (7) 7 (7)
Mr S L Mogford 11 (12) - - -
Mr R L Olver
**
5 (5) - - 3 (3)
Rt Hon M Portillo 11 (12) 4 (4) - 7 (7)
Mr M H Ronald 9 (12) - - -
Mr G W Rose 12 (12) - - -
Mr P Scaroni
***
0 (5) 0 (1) - -
Mr M J T urner 11 (12) - - -
(Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended. Whilst six of the Board meetings held
during the year were scheduled well in advance, six of the Board meetings were, out of business necessity , called at short notice.)
*retired 30 June 2004
** appointed 17 May 2004
*** retired 5 May 2004
“
“ 36 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Appointments to the Board
There should be a formal rigorous 
and transparent procedure for the 
appointment of new directors to the Board. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle A.4
The Board has appointed a committee, the
Nominations Committee, with responsibility for
reviewing the composition of the Board on a regular
basis and, if deemed necessary , to find suitable
candidates for nomination to the Board. Further
details of this work are reported in the Nominations
Committee report shown on page 41.
One of the Board’ s prime responsibilities is
ensuring that robust processes are in place for
identifying and developing the company’ s
management resources. BAE Systems has
developed such a process and this has been
integrated into its human resources management
processes. The Board undertakes a review of
management resources each year with a view to
ensuring that succession plans are in place for all
senior management positions. The Nominations
Committee undertakes a similar review covering
the executive appointments to the Board
including that of Chief Executive.
Information and professional development
The Board should be supplied in a timely 
manner with information in a form and of a
quality to enable it to discharge its duties.All
directors should receive induction on joining 
the board and should regularly update and
refresh their skills and knowledge. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle A.5
The Board has agreed the format of a report that
it receives regularly from the Chief Executive
detailing the performance of the company’ s
businesses relative to the business plan
approved by the Board. This report also informs
the Board of matters concerning marketing,
investor relations, corporate finance, mergers
and acquisitions and human resources. 
The Chief Executive is responsible for ensuring
that the training and development needs of 
the executive directors are understood and
addressed. The Company Secretary is
responsible for working with the non-executive
directors to provide the resources and
assistance required to keep their skills and
knowledge current. In addition, the non-
executive directors are regularly provided with
opportunities to develop their understanding 
of the company by visiting its facilities and
meeting with employees. During 2004 
members of the Board undertook a number 
of familiarisation visits, including visits to the
shipyards in Glasgow and Barrow, the Air
Systems sites in Lancashire, Airbus in T oulouse,
North America’ s IESI business sector in
Merrimack NH and Lexington MA, as well as
visits to the AMS, MBDA and Flagship joint
ventures in the UK. New directors are available
to meet with major shareholders as requested.
When directors first join the Board the Company
Secretary is responsible for ensuring that an
induction programme is provided to meet the
needs of the new director . T ypically this process
will cover the duties of a director , familiarisation
with the company’ s core processes and system
of internal control as well gaining an
understanding of the various businesses by
meeting with senior managers throughout the
company. T o date this has not included specific
training in social, environmental and ethical
matters, however in future this will be the case. 
The Company Secretary , through the Chairman, is
responsible for advising the Board on governance
matters. The Company Secretary is appointed by ,
and can only be removed by , the Board.
Performance evaluation
The Board should undertake a formal and rigorous
annual evaluation of its own performance and that
of its committees and individual directors. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle A.6
The Board has recently undertaken an
evaluation of its own effectiveness and that 
of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration
committees. The performance of individual
directors was also evaluated as part of this
process. External consultants were employed 
to help facilitate this process and it is believed
that the involvement of an independent third
party helped to ensure that the performance
evaluation was rigorous and fair to all involved.
The evaluation was aimed at reviewing how
effective the Board was in discharging its duties
and the behaviours of those sat around the board
table. The views of all directors and the Company
Secretary were sought through a questionnaire
and a structured interview with the facilitators. 
Feedback on individual performance was
provided to directors individually by the
facilitators. The Senior Independent Director ,
having first discussed the matter with the
facilitators, provided the Chairman with feedback
on his performance; similarly the Chief Executive
received feedback on his performance.
The main themes from the evaluation were
presented to the Chairman and Senior
Independent Director , prior to this being presented
to the Board as a whole. Some of the points 
made on Board performance, and the actions
subsequently agreed by the Board, were:
- there was scope to increase the number of
non-executive directors on the Board – the
Board agreed this point and it was noted that
search activities had already been initiated 
by the Nominations Committee with a view to
the appointment of additional non-executive
directors, including the appointment of
individuals with US experience;
- the number of scheduled Board meetings
should be increased – the Board has agreed
that the number of meetings scheduled for
2005 should be seven, rising to eight in 2006;
- the Board’ s committees were well chaired but
would benefit from the appointment of
additional members – following review by the
Nominations Committee the Board agreed that
Sir Peter Mason should join the Audit Committee
as it was believed that his specific knowledge 
of large-scale prime contracting would be a
valuable asset. Committee membership will 
be further reviewed when additional non-
executive appointments have been made;
- corporate responsibility could be given a
higher priority on the Board’s agenda – as
reported later in this report, the Board has
agreed to form a Corporate Responsibility
Committee.
The following points were also made in the
evaluation:
- the Board was well informed of major areas 
of importance to the company with efficient
means of communication in place;
- decision making was good, aided by the rigour
and discipline employed in the development
of strategy. 
The Board will be implementing, during the course
of 2005,a number of actions that have been agreed
in response to points made in the evaluation
exercise, including those detailed above.
Annual re-election
All directors should be submitted for re-election at
regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory
performance.The Board should ensure planned
and progressive refreshing of the Board. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle A.7
The Nominations Committee Report (page 41)
outlines the work of the committee in planning
for the progressive refreshing of the Board.
“
“
“
“ 37 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
The company’ s Articles of Association require
that all new directors seek re-election to the
Board at the following Annual General Meeting
(AGM). In addition, all directors are required to
stand down and seek re-election to the Board at
least once every three years.
The evaluation process detailed earlier in this
report included an evaluation of all directors by
their fellow Board members. T aking the
information from this into account, the
Chairman will be advising shareholders in the
Notice of Meeting for the forthcoming AGM that
the three directors standing for re-election are
effective and committed members of the Board
and recommends that shareholders vote in
favour of their re-election. 
As required by the company’ s Articles of
Association the Chairman will be seeking
election at this year’ s AGM (it being the first AGM
immediately following his appointment to the
Board), and the Nominations Committee and
the Board recommend that shareholders vote 
in favour of his election.
Mr T urner , Mr Ronald and Sir Peter Mason will
retire by rotation and seek re-election at the
AGM. As executive directors, both Mr T urner and
Mr Ronald have service agreements with the
company. Mr T urner’ s agreement requires that
the company give him 12 months’ notice of
termination. Mr Ronald’ s is of a fixed term
nature and as at the date of this report the
unexpired term is 311 days. Sir Peter Mason 
is a non-executive director and does not have 
a service agreement, his letter of appointment
does not have a notice period. Lord Hesketh 
will retire at the company’ s AGM to be held on
4May 2005 and will not seek re-election.
The Board has set out in the Notice of Annual
General Meeting (enclosed with this report) their
reasons for supporting the re-election of the
directors seeking re-election at the forthcoming
AGM. The evaluation exercise undertaken by the
Board confirms that the performance of the
directors seeking re-election continues to be
effective and that they continue to show
commitment to their role. 
Financial reporting
The Board should present a balanced 
and understandable assessment of the
company’s position and prospects. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle C.1
In preparing these reports the directors have
sought to present a balanced and easily
understood assessment of the company’ s
performance and have given guidance on its future
prospects. In producing the operating and financial
review (OFR) section of this report (pages 10 to 27)
the company has looked to conform with the
Accounting Standards Board’ s statement of best
practice concerning such reporting. Recognising
that the UK government has introduced legislation
concerning the contents of a company’ s OFR,
BAE Systems will be taking action in 2005 to
ensure that it is well placed to provide shareholders
with an OFR that builds on our existing practice 
and is compliant with these new requirements.
After making due enquiries, the directors have a
reasonable expectation that the group has
adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. For this
reason they continue to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the accounts. 
Internal control
The Board should maintain a sound system of
internal controls to safeguard shareholders’
investments and the company’s assets. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle C.2
BAE Systems has developed a system of
internal control that encompasses, amongst
other things, the policies, processes, tasks 
and behaviours, that taken together , seek to:
- facilitate the effective and efficient operation
of the company by enabling it to respond
appropriately to significant operational,
financial, compliance and other risks that it
faces in carrying out its business;
- assist in ensuring that internal and external
reporting is accurate and timely and based on
the maintenance of proper records supported
by robust information gathering processes; and 
- assist in ensuring that the company complies
with applicable laws and regulations at all
times and also internal policies in respect 
of the standards of behaviour and conduct
mandated by the Board.
Reporting within the company is structured 
so that key issues are escalated through the
management team ultimately to the Board 
if appropriate. The Operational Framework
provides a common framework across the
company for operational and financial controls.
The business processes detailed within the
Operational Framework draw on global best
practice and their application is mandated
across the organisation. Lifecycle Management
(LCM) is such a process; properly applied, this
process is key to helping deliver effective project
management from inception (including the bid
process) through to product delivery and
ultimately customer support.
Further key processes are Integrated Business
Planning (IBP), monthly Contract Status
Reviews, Quarterly Business Reviews (QBR) and
Monthly Finance Reviews. The IBP approved
annually by the Board, results in an agreed long-
term strategy for each business group, together
with detailed near-term budgets. The QBRs
evaluate progress against the IBP and are
chaired by the Chief Operating Officers and 
the Group Managing Director of the CS&S and
Land Systems business.
Whilst the quality of the control processes is
fundamental to the overall control environment,
the consistent application of these processes is
equally important. In the last few years a great
deal of management time has been devoted to
achieving the robust application of core control
processes and good progress has been made.
However , this area has been targeted for further
improvement and the consistent application of
world-class control processes will remain one 
of management’ s prime objectives. Likewise 
the monitoring of performance in this area will
continue to be a key responsibility for the 
Audit Committee and the Board. 
The company is committed to the protection of
its assets, which include human, property and
financial resources, through an effective risk
management process, underpinned where
appropriate by insurance. 
The Internal Audit team independently reviews
the risk identification procedures and control
processes implemented by management. It
provides objective assurance as to the operation
and validity of the systems of internal control
through a programme of cyclical reviews making
recommendations for business and control
improvements and tracking their implementation. 
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee
responsibility for reviewing in detail the
effectiveness of the company’ s system of internal
controls including risk management processes.
Having undertaken such reviews, the Committee
reports to the Board on its findings so that the
Board as a whole can take a view on these
matters. In order to assist the Audit Committee
and the Board in this review, the company utilises
a process, the Operational Assurance Statement
(OAS) process. This has been subject to regular
review over a number of years, which has resulted
in a number of refinements being made. 
“
“ 38 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
The OAS requires that each part of the business
complete a formal review of its compliance
against the Operational Framework, including
operational and financial controls and risk
management processes. It is signed-off by the
managing director of every business unit, all
functional directors and the executive directors.
The OAS is completed every half year and
includes a formal assessment of business risk.
The overall responsibility for the system of
internal control within BAE Systems rests with
the directors of the company. Responsibility for
establishing and operating detailed control
procedures lies with the managing director of
each operating business. 
In line with any system of internal control, the
policies and procedures that are mandated in
the Operational Framework are designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure
to achieve business objectives, and can only
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
The responsibility for internal control procedures
with joint ventures and other collaborations rests
primarily with the senior management of those
operations. The company monitors its investments
and exerts influence through Board representation.
The internal control processes detailed above
were in place throughout 2004 and in 2005 to
the date of this report and in this period were in
accord with the guidance in the T urnbull Report.
Corporate responsibility
Recognising the importance of corporate
responsibility (CR) concerns the social,
environmental and ethical issues associated
with the company’ s operations the Board has
agreed that it will review formally on an annual
basis the company’ s performance in this area.
The Board has agreed policies concerning the
management of important CR matters and
these have been incorporated into the
company’ s Operational Framework. The OAS
process described earlier is used to provide 
the Board with assurance that all parts of the
company have acted in compliance with key CR
policies. Integrated into the OAS process is a 
risk identification and management process that
looks at all risks, including CR risks be they of a
short or long term nature. This in turn draws on 
a number of dedicated CR risk processes used
throughout the group. Compliance with key CR
policies forms part of the work undertaken by 
the Internal Audit function and specialist 
compliance personnel.
The Board is responsible for all CR matters 
and recognises the importance of providing 
the company with clear leadership in this area.
The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive
responsibility for all CR operational matters and
he has given specific responsibility for health,
safety and environment to the Group HR 
Director and for our anti-corruption compliance
programme to the Group Legal Director . They are
supported in this work by a dedicated Corporate
Responsibility team and our Corporate
Responsibility Forum, which draws on staff with
relevant expertise across all group businesses.
All directors receive on a monthly basis a report
from the Chief Executive that includes, where
appropriate, information on CR matters.
The Board has agreed recently to form a
Corporate Responsibility Committee that will 
be responsible for reviewing and monitoring the
processes the company uses to manage social,
environmental and ethical risks and to assist
the Board in developing its strategy and policy 
in this area. The committee will report to the
Board on a regular basis and will be chaired 
by one of the non-executive directors. 
Pages 28 to 31 of this report deals with CR
matters, however the Board has always
recognised that, given the nature of our business,
certain CR risks will be more critical than others.
Compliance with export regulations and
compliance with international anti-corruption 
laws and regulations are two such areas and the
company’ s policy in these areas is outlined below:
Export of defence equipment
The key elements of our policy concerning the
export of defence equipment are:
- to maintain an active and open dialogue 
with relevant government departments in 
the territories in which we operate to ensure
compliance with government policy and the
law and regulations of those territories
governing the export of our products;
- to comply at all times with the conditions of
export licences and other regulations and
controls applicable to the sale of military and
dual-use equipment and technology; and
- to respect the values of the international
community and the laws of those countries
where we conduct our business.
Compliance with international anti-corruption laws 
BAE Systems demands and expects honesty,
integrity and fairness in all aspects of its business.
In support of this expectation, the company is
committed to compliance with laws implementing
the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention and the US
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The company will
not tolerate bribery or any attempt by way of gifts,
payments or favours to influence improperly the
decisions of our customers or suppliers. 
A comprehensive compliance programme has
been in place for a number of years and is aimed
at ensuring that our policies in this area are
observed and enforced. T o date over 2,500
employees, in a position where such training is
relevant, have received training as part of this
programme and the company looks to ensure
that it remains at the forefront of work being
undertaken by companies in this area.
The Board recognises that compliance with these
two areas is of critical importance to the company .
The company publishes a separate Corporate
Responsibility Report. This can be found on the
company’ s website or obtained from the
Company Secretary.
Relations with shareholders
There should be a dialogue with shareholders
based on the mutual understanding of
objectives.The Board as a whole has
responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory
dialogue with shareholders takes place. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle D.1
The Board should use the AGM to communicate
with investors and to encourage their participation. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle D.2
The company has a comprehensive investor
relations programme aimed at providing existing
and potential investors with a means of
developing their understanding of the company
and raising any concerns and issues they may
have. In 2004, the company held 226 meetings
with major investors, 70 of these were attended
by the Group Finance Director , 31 by the Chief
Executive and 11 by the Chairman.
The Board has agreed that each year it should
formally review investor relations matters with a
view to ensuring that all members of the Board
are acquainted with any issues or concerns that
major shareholders may have. The company
undertakes on a regular basis a survey of
institutional shareholders’ opinions and views,
the results of which are reported to the Board. 
The company maintains a comprehensive
Investor Relations website that provides,
amongst other things, information on investing
in BAE Systems and copies of the presentation
materials used for key shareholder
presentations. This can be accessed via the
company’ s website, www.baesystems.com.
“
“ Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Company law requires the directors to prepare
financial statements for each financial year that
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of 
the company and the group and of the profit or 
loss for that period. In preparing those financial
statements, the directors are required to:
- select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently;
- make judgements and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent;
- state whether applicable accounting 
standards have been followed, subject to 
any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
- prepare the financial statements on the 
going concern basis unless it is inappropriate 
to presume that the company will continue 
in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper
accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the
company and to enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Companies
Act 1985. They have general responsibility for
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them
to safeguard the assets of the group and to
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
39 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
The Annual General Meeting provides all
shareholders with the opportunity to develop
their understanding of the company and ask
questions on the matters put to the meeting
including this report and accounts. All
shareholders are entitled to vote on the
resolutions put to the AGM and, to ensure that
all votes are counted, the company’ s Articles 
of Association requires that a poll is taken on 
all the resolutions in the Notice of Meeting. 
The results of the votes on the resolutions 
are published on the company’ s website.
Compliance statement
Companies that have a stock market listing in
the United Kingdom are required to report to
shareholders each year on their compliance,
or otherwise, with the UK’ s Combined Code on
Corporate Governance (the “Combined Code”).
The Combined Code details what is perceived 
to be best practice in the area of corporate
governance and companies are required to
report on how they have applied the principles 
in the Combined Code and to either confirm
that it has complied with the Combined 
Code’ s detailed provisions or explain why 
they have not complied.
The Board has considered the company’ s
compliance with these provisions and confirms
that, as at the date of this report, it is compliant
with all provisions with the exception of
provision A.3.2. This provision requires that at
least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman,
should comprise non-executive directors
determined by the Board to be independent. 
As reported, the Board has agreed that it should 
be compliant with this provision and a search 
for suitable candidates for appointment to the
Board in a non-executive capacity is in progress.
It is believed that this process will be successful
and that the Board will in due course be
compliant.
In the period from 1 January to 25 February
2004 the membership of the Board’ s Audit 
and Remuneration committees was not
compliant with provisions C.3.1 and B.2.1 
of the Combined Code  as one member,
Lord Hesketh, was not independent using the
definitions used in the new Combined Code 
(in previous years he had been considered
independent under the provisions of the original
Combined Code). On 25 February 2004 the
Board changed the composition of the Audit 
and Remuneration committees to ensure 
that the company complied with the new Code. 
Audit Committee report
The Board should establish formal and transparent
arrangements for considering how they should
apply the financial reporting and internal control
principles and for maintaining an appropriate
relationship with the company’ s auditors. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle C.3
Members: 
Michael Hartnall (Chairman)
Prof Sue Birley
Sir Peter Mason
Rt Hon Michael Portillo
Responsible for:
- reviewing the effectiveness of the company’ s
financial reporting, internal control policies
and procedures for the identification,
assessment and reporting of risk;
- monitoring the role and effectiveness of the
Internal Audit function including approving 
the appointment or removal of the Head of
Internal Audit;
- considering and making recommendations to
the Board on the appointment of the Auditors;
- keeping the relationship with the Auditors
under review, including the terms of their
engagement and fees, their independence and
their expertise, resources and qualifications;
- monitoring the integrity of the company’ s
financial statements;
- reviewing significant financial reporting
issues and judgements.
(The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee can 
be found on the company’ s website or can be obtained
from the Company Secretary.)
The Committee is chaired by Michael Hartnall
who is a chartered accountant and has recent
experience of serving as a finance director 
of a major UK listed company. In addition to
Mr Hartnall, there are a further three members
of the Audit Committee all of whom are
independent non-executive directors.
Lord Hesketh was a member of the Committee
until 25 February 2004. Mr Scaroni was a
member up until his retirement from the Board
on 5 May 2004. The Committee normally asks
the company’ s Chief Executive, Group Finance 
Director and Internal Audit Director to attend its
meetings together with the Auditors. However ,
during the year the Committee did meet when 
no executive directors were present and has
also met with just the Head of Internal Audit
present and just the Auditors present.
“ 40 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Audit and management responses to
proposals made in the audit reports issued 
by the function during the year; and
- received scheduled presentations on the
company’ s treasury and tax departments 
and group pensions arrangements.
The Committee recognises that one of its key
responsibilities is reviewing the risks to the
company’ s performance and the security of its
assets. T wice a year the Committee reviews the
output from the group process that is used to
identify and evaluate risk; this process also
reports on the elimination or mitigation of risk
and the relative level of risk within the group.
This information is verified by the Internal Audit
function and made available to the Auditors. 
The company has established an employee
hotline, the BAE Systems Ethics Hotline, to
provide a means by which employees can raise
concerns they may have about any action that
they believe may be unlawful, dishonest, harmful
to others, against company policy, improper
business conduct or is simply unacceptable
behaviour . T o help ensure that employees have
faith in this arrangement it is provided by a third
party who pass details of calls or emails
received to the Head of Internal Audit. The
operation of the Ethics Hotline is monitored by
the Ethics Review Committee; this is chaired 
by the Head of Internal Audit and members 
are drawn from our legal, internal audit, human
resources and security departments. The 
Audit Committee receives regular reports on
individual contacts made to the hotline which
includes a summary of the nature of the issue
raised and details of any action taken. 
Additional information on Ethics Hotline
reporting is available in the full Corporate
Responsibility Report.
The Committee has formally reviewed whether
there are any factors that may prejudice the
independence of the Auditors. Part of this review
involved the receipt of a letter from KPMG Audit
Plc confirming that they believed they remained
independent within the meaning of the
regulations on this matter and their professional
standards. The Committee recognises that, in
addition to the statutory audit work undertaken
by the company’ s Auditors, there will be certain
work of a non-audit nature that is best
undertaken by the Auditors. It believes that,
provided suitable controls are in place,
doing this work does not compromise the
independence of the Auditors. Consequently,
the Committee has agreed rules to control 
the nature and quantity of non-audit work
undertaken by the Auditors. In addition,
guidelines have been adopted restricting the
employment within the group of individuals
formerly employed by the Auditors.
The Committee oversees the work undertaken
by the company’ s Internal Audit function,
reviewing, amongst other things, the resourcing 
of the function, its proposed audit programme
and outstanding audit recommendations.
During the year , the Committee reviewed the
performance of the company’ s Internal Audit
function. T o inform the Committee on this
matter , the Auditors, the managing directors 
of all group business units and members of 
the Committee completed questionnaires 
on the performance of the function. 
As reported to shareholders last year , the 
Audit Committee has adopted a programme
undertaking a major review of the company’ s
Auditors every three years and in the years in
between undertaking a review to monitor their
performance. The next major review will be
undertaken later in 2005.
A review of the performance of the company’ s
Auditors was undertaken recently by the Audit
Committee. On the basis of this review the
Committee recommended to the Board that 
they support the re-appointment of KPMG Audit
Plc as the company’ s Auditors. The Board has
agreed with this recommendation and
consequently a resolution to this effect will 
be put to shareholders at the company’ s 
Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to 
the Board on the proceedings of all Committee
meetings and the minutes of all meetings are
made available to Board members.
On behalf of the 
Audit Committee
Michael Hartnall
Audit Committee
Chairman
23 February 2005
The Committee met four times in 2004 and is
scheduled to hold the same number of meetings
in future years. The Committee has agreed an
annual programme of matters to be covered by
the Committee at these scheduled meetings and
for the first time in 2004 one of the scheduled
meetings was hosted by one of the company’ s
business units, providing the opportunity for 
the Committee to meet local management and
discuss audit and control processes. 
Since the beginning of 2004 the Audit
Committee has undertaken the following in
order to discharge its responsibilities:
- reviewed the financial statements in the 
2003 and 2004 reports and accounts and the
interim report issued in September 2004. 
As part of this review the Committee received
a report from the Auditors on their audit of 
the annual reports and accounts and review
of the interim report;
- reviewed the output from the group-wide
process used to identify, evaluate and
mitigate risks;
-reviewed the effectiveness of the company’ s
internal controls and disclosures made in the
annual report and accounts on this matter;
- reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit
work to be undertaken by the Auditors; 
- monitored the work being undertaken by the
company in preparation for the introduction of
International Financial Reporting Standards;
- considered a report from the Auditors on their
review of the effectiveness of controls across
the company and received a report on
management action taken in response to
work undertaken by the Auditors in 2004;
- agreed the fees to be paid to the Auditors 
for their audit of the 2004 accounts and
interim report;
- reviewed its own effectiveness;
- undertaken an evaluation of the 
performance of the Internal Audit function;
- undertaken an evaluation of the 
performance of the Auditors;
- agreed a programme of work for the
company’ s Internal Audit function; 
- received a report from the Internal Audit
Director on the work undertaken by Internal responsibilities. To meet this objective the
Committee has agreed that each year it 
will meet to review the succession plans 
for existing members of the Board and 
consider whether or not it wishes to make
recommendations to the Board regarding
changes to its composition. When a need for a
further appointment to the Board is identified 
by the Committee, its practice is to agree the
profile of the ideal candidate and appoint
external search consultants to assist in
identifying the right person for nomination 
to the Board. 
In 2004, the Committee completed the 
process of nominating a candidate to succeed
Sir Richard Evans as Chairman. At the start of
this process the Committee agreed the profile 
of the ideal candidate, the scope of the role 
and the amount of time that the successful
candidate would need to dedicate to the job.
External search consultants assisted the
Committee in the recruitment process that led
to the appointment of Dick Olver to the Board 
in May 2004. Mr Olver was, until July last year ,
Deputy Chief Executive of BP p.l.c.
Prior to his appointment the Committee agreed
the terms of a letter of appointment with
Mr Olver , requiring that he dedicates on average
not less than two days each week to the role,
and that the agreement of the Committee be
sought before accepting additional
commitments that might affect the time that 
he is able to devote to his duties as a director
and Chairman of the company. Mr Olver’ s other
business commitments are his duties as 
Deputy Chairman of TNK-BP ,a joint venture
company partly owned by his former employer
BP p.l.c., and his appointment as a 
non-executive director of Reuters Group plc.
Also in 2004, the Committee formally reviewed
the composition of the Board and following this
agreed that additional non-executive directors
should be sought as soon as possible with the
aim of ensuring that at least half the members
of the Board are independent non-executive
directors. It also recognised the need to
appoint non-executive directors with a US
background. Search consultants were engaged
in 2004 to assist the Committee in finding
suitable candidates for appointment to the
Board and they have been provided with a 
clear brief by the Committee on the knowledge,
skills and experience required in prospective
candidates.
On behalf of the 
Nominations
Committee
Dick Olver
Nominations
Committee
Chairman
23 February 2005
41 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Nominations Committee report
There should be a formal, rigorous and
transparent procedure for the appointment 
of new directors to the board. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle A.4
Members: 
Dick Olver (Chairman)
Prof Sue Birley
Dr Ulrich Cartellieri
Lord Hesketh
Sir Peter Mason
Rt Hon Michael Portillo
Responsible for:
- reviewing regularly the structure, size 
and composition of the Board and making
recommendations to the Board on any
changes desirable;
- identifying and nominating for the Board’ s
approval suitable candidates to fill vacancies for
non-executive directors and,with the assistance
of the Chief Executive, executive directors;
- planning for the orderly succession of new
directors to the Board;
- recommending to the Board the membership
and chairmanship of the Audit and
Remuneration committees.
(The full terms of reference of the Nominations Committee
can be found on the company’ s website or can be obtained
from the Company Secretary.)
The Board has established a Nominations
Committee that, since January this year , has
been chaired by Dick Olver . Apart from Dick 
Olver and Lord Hesketh all of the members of
the Committee are independent non-executive
directors. Throughout 2004 Sir Peter Mason
was Chairman of the Committee. Sir Richard
Evans was a member of the Committee until 
his retirement on 30 June 2004. Throughout
2004 a majority of the members of the
Committee were independent non-executive
directors. The Committee met seven times
during the year .
The Committee’ s key objective is to ensure
that the Board comprises individuals with the
requisite skills, knowledge and experience to
ensure that it is effective in discharging its
“ 42 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Levels of remuneration should be sufficient 
to attract, retain and motivate directors of the
quality required to run the company successfully,
but a company should avoid paying more than 
is necessary for this purpose.A significant
proportion of executive directors’ remuneration
should be structured so as to link rewards 
to corporate and individual performance. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle B.1
There should be a formal and transparent
procedure for developing policy on executive
remuneration and for fixing the remuneration
packages of individual directors. No director
should be involved in deciding his or her own
remuneration.”
Combined Code – Main Principle B.2
The Remuneration Committee
Members: 
Prof Sue Birley (Chairman)
Dr Ulrich Cartellieri
Sir Peter Mason
Responsible for:
- agreeing a policy for the remuneration of 
the Chairman and executive directors;
- within the agreed policy, determining
individual remuneration packages for the
Chairman and executive directors;
- agreeing the terms and conditions to 
be included in service agreements for
executive directors;
- approving any employee share based
incentive schemes and any performance
conditions to be used for such schemes;
- determining targets for any bonuses or
performance related share schemes
operated by the company.
(The full terms of reference of the Remuneration
Committee can be found on the company’ s website 
or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.)
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration
Committee responsibility for remuneration
policy and determining the specific packages 
for the executive directors and the Chairman. It
also agrees the framework for the
remuneration of certain other members of the
executive management team. The Committee's
terms of reference conform with the
requirements of the Combined Code. 
The Committee is chaired by Sue Birley and all 
of its members are independent non-executive
directors. Lord Hesketh also served as a
member of the Committee until 25 February
2004 when he stepped down from that role as
he was no longer deemed to be independent
under the provisions of the Combined Code. The
company's Chairman and Chief Executive attend
committee meetings by invitation only. They do
not attend where their individual remuneration is
discussed and no director is involved in deciding
his own remuneration.
In 2004, the Committee met seven times and
details of attendance at these meetings are
provided in the Corporate Governance Report 
on page 35. 
During the year Sir Richard Evans (until he retired
as Chairman), Dick Olver (since his appointment
as Chairman) and Mike T urner (as Chief
Executive) provided advice that was of material
assistance to the Committee. The Committee
also received material assistance and advice on
remuneration policy from the company’ s Group
Human Resources Director , Alastair Imrie, and
from the Human Resources Director ,
Remuneration and Benefits, Graham Middleton.
In addition, the Committee received advice and
services from PricewaterhouseCoopers (“PwC”)
in respect of the provision and interpretation of
comparative senior management remuneration
data. PwC were appointed by the company and
during the year they provided consulting services
to other parts of the BAE Systems group. The
Committee is satisfied that the services
provided to it by PwC were of a technical nature
and did not create any conflict of interest with
the company . If a conflict of interest were to arise
in the future, the Committee would appoint other
consultants in place of PwC.
Remuneration principles
The Committee’ s remuneration strategy is 
to provide a remuneration package that:
- helps attract, retain and motivate the highest
calibre executives;
- is aligned to shareholders’ interests to create
sustainable long-term shareholder value;
- is competitive against the appropriate
market, providing median reward for median
performance and upper quartile reward for
upper quartile performance;
- encourages and supports a high performance
culture whilst providing a balance between
fixed and variable reward;
- is fair and transparent and can be applied
consistently throughout the group.
During the year the Committee has undertaken
the following in order to discharge its
responsibilities:
- set performance targets for the year and
reviewed progress against those targets;
- agreed policy for executive share scheme
grants including the level of individual 
grants and performance conditions;
- agreed policy for the operation of the 
all-employee share schemes;
- awarded bonuses based on the prior year’ s
performance;
- determined the fee level for the incoming
Chairman;
- agreed the basis for the annual review of
executive directors’ remuneration, including
the composition of the comparator groups;
- reviewed the levels and structure of
remuneration payable to senior executives;
-reviewed the discretionary elements of the
executive share plans; and
- reviewed the remuneration report.
Remuneration report
On behalf of
the Committee
Professor
Sue Birley
Chairman of the
Remuneration
Committee
23 February 2005
“
“ Executive directors
Remuneration policy
The Remuneration Committee’ s (the Committee)
executive remuneration policy continues to be 
to set basic salaries at median competitive 
levels whilst seeking to reward upper quartile
performance with potential upper quartile
remuneration through the use of bonus schemes
and share-based incentives. The Committee
intends to continue with the executive
remuneration policy as detailed in this report in
2005, and will continue to consult on material
changes with principal shareholders. The
Committee intends to undertake a formal review
of remuneration policy in the second half of 2005.  
Remuneration of executive directors consists
typically of basic salary, a bonus based on 
annual performance, participation in employee
share schemes and retirement benefits. The
Committee reviews the split between basic 
salary and the performance related elements 
of remuneration each year in order to incentivise
properly executive directors, and believes that a
significant proportion of remuneration should be
based on schemes that encourage them to
perform at the highest level. Through this
arrangement, it is possible for those individuals
who contribute to sustained high levels of
company performance to receive at least a similar
level of reward from variable compensation to 
that received from fixed compensation. At median
performance, variable remuneration represents
approximately 50% of the remuneration package
as shown in the chart below: 
Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee
Members: 
Dick Olver (Chairman)
Michael Lester
Mark Ronald
Mike T urner
Responsible for:
- reviewing the fees payable to non-executive
directors (excluding the Chairman) and making
changes to such fees as deemed appropriate.
(The full terms of reference of the Non-Executive Directors’
Fees Committee can be found on the company’ s website 
or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.)
The Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee
was formed by the Board in January 2005 
with authority on its behalf to agree fees 
payable to non-executive directors. This 
role was undertaken previously by the Board 
as a whole.
The Board has approved the following guidelines
to be used by the Committee when discharging
its responsibilities:
- fees shall be sufficient to attract and retain
individuals with the necessary skills,
experience and knowledge required to ensure
that the Board is able to discharge its duties
effectively; 
- in setting fees the Committee shall have
regard to the amount of time individual 
non-executive directors are required to
devote to their duties and also the scale 
and complexity of the business and the
responsibility involved;
- fees payable to non-executive directors 
shall be paid in cash and shall not be
performance related;
- non-executive directors shall not participate 
in the company’ s share based incentive
schemes or pension scheme.
The Committee has held one meeting, that 
was attended by all members, at which it
agreed the changes to the structure of 
non-executive directors’ fees detailed 
on page 48 of this report.
The Committee seeks to align the interests 
of executive directors with those of other
shareholders through the use of share based
incentive schemes. The company operates a
combination of option and share based awards
for executive directors within the following
framework which is in line with similar plans
operated by other FTSE 100 companies: 
-awards under the Performance Share Plan to 
be set at 1 x salary with the eventual quantum
capable of exercise being determined by a 
Total Shareholder Return performance (share
price growth plus dividends) over a three year
performance period, and release of awards also
being subject to a secondary financial measure; 
- option grants under the Executive Share
Option Plan to be set at a maximum of 1.5 x
salary with performance conditions based 
on earnings per share (EPS) growth. 
In respect of grants of options in 2004, the
Committee decided to allow one re-test only at
the end of year five against the full period from
grant and stated that it would further review policy
prior to any grant of options in 2005. Having
subsequently reviewed the policy relating to re-
tests, the Committee has decided not to permit
any re-tests for options to be granted in 2005.
The Committee is mindful of the need to 
ensure consistent measurement of corporate
performance which determines the outcome of
incentive arrangements during the transition to
International Financial Reporting Standards and
will be formulating its policy in this regard in 2005.
The long-standing policy of allowing executive
directors to hold external non-BAE Systems
related non-executive directorships with the
prior approval of the Committee will continue.
The Committee considers that external
directorships provide the company's senior
executives with valuable experience that is of
benefit to BAE Systems. It is also considered
appropriate for BAE Systems, as a FTSE 100
company, to contribute to the pool of
non-executive expertise available for the 
43 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
On behalf of 
the Committee
Dick Olver
Chairman of the 
Non-Executive
Directors’ Fees
Committee
23 February 2005
Target performance 
(median)
1 Salary 31%
2 Pension 22%
3 Bonus 15%
4 Long-term incentive 
rewards 32%
1 
2 3
4
At upper quartile performance, variable remuneration
represents significantly more than 50% 44 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
benefit of the wider business community,
thereby reciprocating the benefit which it in turn
has received from other organisations which
have permitted members of their senior
management teams to serve in a non-executive
capacity on the BAE Systems Board. The
Committee believes that it is reasonable 
for the individual director to retain any fees 
received from such appointments given the
additional personal responsibility that this
entails. Such fees retained by full-time 
executive directors in 2004 were as follows:
Michael Lester: £33,000; George Rose:
£65,000; and Mike T urner: £27,000.
Basic salary 
Executive directors' salaries are reviewed each
year by the Committee and adjusted to reflect
performance and the competitiveness of
salaries relative to the market. Information on
the market for comparable management
positions is obtained from independent sources
and is provided to the Committee so that it can
form a view as to where to position basic salaries
and benefits relative to comparable companies. 
The methodology used is to construct
appropriate comparator groups for the individual
positions taking account of company size, scale
of operations and breadth of role. The median
and upper quartile positions are then analysed
for base salary, total cash reward (base salary
plus annual bonus), total direct reward (total
cash reward plus long-term incentives) and total
reward including pension.  This gives the
Committee a view on the competitiveness of
the individual elements of the package as well
as the package as a whole. The Committee 
also reviews the trends in the elements of
remuneration to ensure that the structure of 
the package stays in line with market practice,
and also takes account of the performance of
the individual, the company as a whole and the
pay and conditions of group employees. 
For the Chief Executive and Group Finance
Director , two comparator groups were
constructed: the Core Group consists of the 
19 FTSE 100 companies (excluding financial
institutions) with turnover closest to BAE Systems
(nine larger and ten smaller). The Large
Companies Group consists of the 23 FTSE 100
companies (excluding financial institutions) with
turnover larger than £8bn. The turnover figure
was chosen as it represents the company’ s
turnover in 2003 for its wholly owned
businesses – if total group turnover had been
used, the figure would have been almost £13bn.
These two comparator groups give a reasonable
range within which the package should be
positioned.  The Committee also reviewed the
data for aerospace and defence companies
within the FTSE 100. 
For the UK Chief Operating Officers, regression
analysis was used to produce appropriate
market figures consistent with the size and
scale of their businesses, adjusting where
necessary to reflect the extra responsibility 
for the Board roles. For the US Chief Operating
Officer , a similar exercise was undertaken 
based on US company data and, in addition,
the packages of similarly sized CEOs' roles 
were analysed within the US aerospace,
defence and general industry sector . 
There was no readily available market data 
for the Group Legal Director . For this role the
Committee analysed data for the most senior
legal position within FTSE 100 companies
(adjusting where necessary for board
responsibility) together with available data 
on the remuneration of senior lawyers within
large London law firms. 
As a result of this review, the Committee
decided to increase the base salary of the
executive directors with effect from 1 January
2005 to the following:
Mike T urner 
Chief Executive £800,000
George Rose 
Group Finance Director £500,000
Chris Geoghegan 
UK Chief Operating Officer £445,000
Steve Mogford 
UK Chief Operating Officer £445,000
Mark Ronald 
US Chief Operating Officer $850,000
Michael Lester 
Group Legal Director £540,000
Annual Bonus Plan
The executive directors and other senior
executives participate in a cash bonus plan 
that rewards those individuals if pre-determined
targets are met. The targets are derived from 
the Integrated Business Plan (IBP), which is
agreed by the Board and which implements
corporate strategy on a groupwide basis by
ensuring that business plans which support the
strategy are integrated across all businesses.
The IBP is used to set the objectives for senior
management including the base and stretch
targets for the financial measures used for the
executive directors in the Annual Bonus Plan.
Non-financial targets comprise key objectives
relevant to the individual and/or business and
also take account of behavioural performance.
The targets for the executive directors are
agreed and monitored by the Committee.
2004 was a very successful year with all the
major business groups achieving their stretch
targets on profit and cash. As a result, all the
financial targets within the 2004 Annual Bonus
Plan for executive directors were met at the
stretch level. In addition, excellent progress
was made against the majority of the key 
non-financial objectives, but the lack of
progress in winning more export orders is
disappointing and more work remains to be
done in 2005 on securing technology transfer
from the US to the UK. Accordingly, bonus
payments for 2004, which are set out in 
T able E on page 52, range from 94.5% to 
98% of the maximum bonus.
As a result of its annual review of the
performance related part of the remuneration
package, the Committee has determined that
the maximum bonus potential for 2005 will
remain unchanged from 2004 at 100% of 
salary (150% of salary for the US-based
executive director , Mark Ronald). The differential
between the UK and US-based executive
directors takes account of the difference 
in local market practices.
The structure of the Bonus Plan for executive
directors in 2005 (expressed as percentages 
of base salary) is as follows:
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director,
and Group Legal Director
Base Stretch
Bonus element T arget T arget
EPS targets 18.75% 37.5%
Group cash targets 18.75% 37.5%
Non-financial objectives up to 25% 
UK-based Chief Operating Officers
Base Stretch
Bonus element T arget T arget
EPS targets 9.375% 18.75%
Group cash targets 9.375% 18.75%
Business unit PBIT
*
target 9.375% 18.75%
Business unit cash target 9.375% 18.75%
Non-financial objectives up to 25%
*  PBIT = Profit before interest and tax
(A similar bonus structure applies for the 
US-based Chief Operating Officer , prorated to 
his maximum bonus entitlement of 150%). 
Intermediate payments are payable for
performance against these targets. The Chairman and the non-executive directors
do not participate in the Annual Bonus Plan.
In determining the performance measures for
the Annual Bonus Plan, the Committee took 
the view that the company’ s major investors
believed earnings per share (EPS) and cash
targets (and, where appropriate, PBIT) to be key
indicators of long-term financial performance
and value creation. These, coupled with the 
non-financial measures, align the executive
directors’ objectives with corporate strategy 
and targeted business performance.
The EPS figure used for the bonus plan (and 
the Executive Share Option Plan) is based on
basic EPS excluding goodwill amortisation and
impairment and exceptional items and may be
adjusted if necessary to ensure that the figures
for individual years are broadly comparable.
Share option schemes and long-term 
incentive schemes
Performance conditions for grants of options 
or awards to be made under the Executive 
Share Option Plan and the Performance Share
Plan in 2005 are detailed below. Performance
conditions for earlier grants under the Executive
Share Option Plan are shown as notes to
Table C. Performance conditions for grants 
of awards under the Performance Share Plan 
made in 2003 and 2004 are the same as for
awards to be made in 2005 as detailed below.
Executive Share Option Plan
Options granted under the Executive Share
Option Plan are normally exercisable between
the third and tenth anniversary of their grant.
Options may only be exercised during this 
period as follows:
- 33.33% of each option grant is exercisable 
if the company achieves on average real 
EPS growth per annum of 3% but less than 
4% over the three year performance period;
- 66.67% of each option grant is exercisable 
if the company achieves on average real 
EPS growth per annum of 4% but less than 
5% over the three year performance period;
- 100% of each option grant is exercisable if
the company achieves on average real EPS
growth per annum of 5% or more over the
three year performance period.
In determining the performance measure for 
the Executive Share Option Plan, the Committee
took the view that the company’ s major investors
believed EPS to be a key indicator of long-term
financial performance and value creation.
There will be no re-testing after the three year
performance period for options to be granted 
in 2005. 
Performance Share Plan
Conditional awards of shares are made under
the Performance Share Plan which are
contingent on meeting pre-determined
performance criteria. The quantum of shares
under award which are capable of being
exercised is determined by the company’ s T otal
Shareholder Return ranking relative to a
comparator group of 18 other defence and
aerospace companies operating in the
international arena. 
Awards in 2005 will continue to be granted at a
value equal to the individual’ s base salary and
performance for the 2005 award will be
measured as follows: 
(i) total shareholder return (TSR)
100% of the conditional shares are awarded
to directors if the company’ s TSR over a three
year period is in the top 20% of TSRs
achieved by the sectoral comparator group,
with 25% vesting if the TSR is in the top 50%.
Intermediate positions will be calculated on a
straight-line pro-rata basis. No awards will be
made if the company’ s performance is
outside the top 50%. Awards will be made in
three equal instalments at the end of years
three, four and five. 
(ii) underlying financial performance
As a secondary measure the Committee will
consider whether there has been a sustained
improvement in the company’ s underlying
financial performance and whether it is
appropriate to release some or all of the
awards. In taking a view of a sustained
improvement in underlying financial
performance,the Committee may consider (but
not exclusively) the following financial metrics:
net debt/cash; PBIT; order book; turnover; 
risk and underlying project performance.
A sectoral TSR peer group will continue to be
used in 2005 as the principal performance
measure due to its importance to the company’ s
shareholders as an indication of both earnings
and capital growth relative to major global
defence and aerospace companies. A relative
measure is considered important as it rewards
management if they outperform against major
companies in the same sector rather than
success possibly being determined solely by
growth in stock markets. The second measure
was included to ensure that awards will only vest
if there has been a clear improvement in the
company’ s underlying performance over the
relevant period. 
The composition of the TSR sectoral peer group
will not change for awards to be made in 2005.
It comprises:
Boeing Cobham
Dassault Aviation EADS
Embraer PN Finmeccanica
General Dynamics GKN
Goodrich Honeywell International
Lockheed Martin Northrop Grumman
Raytheon Rockwell Collins
*
Rolls Royce Smiths Group
Thales United T echnologies
* the 2003 report referred to Rockwell Automation in error
Restricted Share Plan
Executive directors who participate in the
Annual Bonus Plan may be given the option of
taking any net cash bonus paid partly or wholly
in shares through the Restricted Share Plan. If
an election is made to take shares through the
Restricted Share Plan, they are held in trust for 
a period of three years after which the company
awards the individual an equal number of 
shares provided the individual is in the
company’ s employment at the vesting date.
Where executive directors have elected to 
use such bonuses through the Restricted 
Share Plan, details of the shares held are 
set out in T able B.
The matching award of shares is not subject 
to any performance criteria as the Restricted
Share Plan is operated in conjunction with the
Annual Bonus Plan. This arrangement is
designed to retain key staff and to encourage
executives to re-invest in company shares the
cash bonuses that they have earned under the
Annual Bonus Plan, which is itself based on
performance criteria.
The Committee intends to operate this plan 
in 2005.
SAYE Share Option Scheme
The executive directors (with the exception of
Mark Ronald) are entitled to participate in the
company’ s Save-As-Y ou-Earn Share Option
Scheme. Statutory provisions do not allow
options granted under these schemes to be
subject to any performance conditions.
The Committee has decided that no further
grants will be made under the SAYE Share
Option Scheme, but instead, a share purchase
arrangement under the Share Incentive Plan 
will be introduced in 2005.
45 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 46 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Share Incentive Plan
During 2004 the UK executive directors were
entitled to participate in the profit-sharing element
of the Share Incentive Plan, an all-employee plan.
As a result of the company’ s performance in 2004,
all eligible employees (including the UK executive
directors) will be entitled to receive shares worth
approximately £372.
A similar arrangement operates for non-UK
employees (including Mark Ronald) on a cash 
or shares basis depending on local tax and
security laws. Accordingly, Mark Ronald will be
entitled to receive a cash payment to a similar
value less employer’ s social security charges.
Dilution of share capital
The Committee has agreed that shares
representing not more than 1% of the company’ s
issued share capital will be used in any one
financial year for the grant of share options
under the employee share schemes. The table
below sets out the available dilution capacity for
the company’ s share option schemes
*
based 
on the limits set out in the rules of the
employee share option schemes.
2004
T otal issued share capital as 
at 31 December 2004 3,060.3m
All schemes:
10% in any consecutive 10 years 306m
Remaining headroom 154.2m
Executive schemes:
5% in any consecutive 10 years 153m
Remaining headroom 82.6m
*share schemes using new issue or treasury shares
The number of ordinary shares in issue at
31 December 2004 was 3,060,280,029 and
the number of shares granted under 
option during 2004 totalled 24,019,969 
(0.78% of the total shares in issue). 
Personal shareholding policy
The Committee has agreed a policy whereby 
all executive directors are required to establish
and maintain a minimum personal shareholding
equal to 200% of salary . As a minimum, a holding
equal to 100% of salary must be achieved as
quickly as possible using shares vesting, or
options exercised, through the executive share
option schemes or long-term incentive schemes,
by using 50% of the shares that vest or 50% 
of the options which are exercised on each
occasion. Thereafter , executive directors are
required to increase their personal shareholding
gradually, on each occasion using 25% of the
shares that vest or 25% of the options exercised
each year , until a personal shareholding equal 
to 200% of annual salary is achieved and
maintained. These limits are reviewed
periodically . Details of the directors’ personal
shareholdings are shown in T able A. 
Post retirement benefits
The executive directors of the company are
members of group pension schemes and have 
a normal retirement age of 60, except Michael
Lester and Mark Ronald who have a normal
retirement age of 62. 
The pension schemes for the UK-based
directors are designed to produce a target
pension of two-thirds of final pensionable
earnings if potential service is 20 or more 
years. Final pensionable earnings is basic
salary averaged over the last 12 months prior 
to leaving service. Pensions can be paid before
normal retirement age, subject to the consent 
of the company and pension scheme trustees.
These schemes also provide a lump sum death
in service benefit equal to four times basic
salary at date of death, and a spouse's pension
equal to two-thirds of the prospective pension 
at normal retirement age or , once retired, of the
actual pension in payment (before any lump sum
commutation). Children’ s allowances are also
payable, usually up to the age of 18, upon death
in service or death in retirement. If the directors
leave the company’ s employment with a
deferred pension and die after age 50 but before
the pension has commenced, a lump sum
benefit is paid equal to five times the annual
rate of pension that would have been paid had
the deferred pension commenced immediately
before date of death. If a director dies with a
deferred pension before age 50, a refund of his
contributions will be paid and a pension will be
paid to his legal spouse in line with the rules of
the scheme for all group employees. Pensions
are increased annually by the rise in the Retail
Prices Index subject to a maximum increase of
5% per year . Directors pay contributions at the
same rate as all other employees participating
in the schemes.
Of the UK-based executive directors, George
Rose is affected by the Inland Revenue 
•                             •                             •                             •                             •                              •
31 Dec 99                   31 Dec 00                          31 Dec 01                           31 Dec 02                           31 Dec 03                   31 Dec 04
FTSE 100 Index
Total shareholder return
Source: Datastream
BAE Systems plc
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2004, of £100 invested in BAE Systems on 31 December 1999 compared to the
value of £100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening year-ends.
The graph, which has been produced in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985, shows 
the total shareholder return for a holding in the company’ s ordinary shares for the period 1999 - 2004 relative to a holding of
shares representing the FTSE 100. The FTSE 100 is considered to be an appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is a 
broad equity market index. As BAE Systems is a constituent member of the FTSE 100, it was deemed to be the most appropriate
general UK equity index.
£120
£100
£80
£60
£40
£20
0 Executive directors’ service contracts
Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period
Chris Geoghegan 10 July 2002 12 months 12 months either party
(amended 15 January 2004)
Michael Lester 26 November 1999 311 days
*
12 months either party
(amended 28 March 2002, 8 January 2003,
8 December 2003, 15 January 2004 and 9 August 2004)
Steve Mogford 6 April 2000 12 months 12 months either party
(amended 15 January 2004)
Mark Ronald 17 April 2002 311 days
*
12 months either party
(amended 17 September 2003, 27 January 2004 and 
1 August 2004)
George Rose 16 November 1998 12 months 12 months from the company,
(amended 3 December 1999 and 15 January 2004) 6 months from the individual
Mike T urner 22 February 1994 12 months 12 months from the company,
(amended 30 May 1995, 3 December 1999, 6 months from the individual
8 May 2002 and 15 January 2004)
*as at 23 February 2005
47 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
earnings cap on approved pensions and has 
an unapproved (ie non-tax qualified) pension
arrangement to top up his benefits from the
approved scheme. This is designed so that the
total pension from all sources will be broadly 
in line with the pension he would have received
from the group pension schemes had he not
been subject to the pensions cap. Further
information on the amounts paid by the
company in respect of these arrangements 
is included in the notes to T able F . 
The forthcoming UK tax changes to pensions,
that will come into force on 6 April 2006, will
impact on the UK executive directors who are
below normal retirement age and other senior UK-
based employees. The Committee is considering
this issue and the appropriate approach to take.
Mark Ronald is covered by the company’ s US
pension arrangements and the non-qualified
supplemental arrangements in place under 
his contract. He commenced his non-qualified
pension in 2004 having reached his normal
retirement age. This forms the majority of his
entitlement. His remaining entitlement from 
the qualified plan will commence when he
leaves service. In line with the rules of the 
US arrangements, it is not expected that the
pensions will be increased once in payment.
Death benefits under the plans are provided 
by a pension continuation to his spouse or
dependants in accordance with specific
payments from each scheme.
Michael Lester commenced his pension in 2002
having reached normal retirement age under 
the rules of the relevant pension scheme. He
has not accrued further benefits since retiring
other than pension increases awarded to all
pensioner members of his pension scheme.
Sir Richard Evans, who retired from the Board
on 30 June 2004, remains employed by the
company. He had a normal retirement age of
60 and, under the rules of the relevant pension
scheme, commenced his pension in 2002
having reached normal retirement age. He,
too, did not accrue further benefits once 
having retired other than pension increases
awarded to all pensioner members of his
pension scheme. 
Details of post retirement benefits are shown 
in T able F and are calculated in accordance 
with the requirements of Schedule 7A to the
Companies Act 1985 .
Other benefits
Other benefits provided to the executive
directors include a car allowance, cash
allowance for medical examination and,
where appropriate, second residence support
allowance. As reported in 2004, having
recognised the need for the Chief Executive to
spend a substantial amount of time in central
London on company business, the Committee
agreed to make a second residence support
allowance to Mike Turner. A payment of
£25,000 was made in 2004 (2003 £46,123)
and a final payment of £25,000 will be 
made in 2005. These payments are in 
line with group policy for second residence
support allowance.
Executive directors’ service contracts
It is the Committee's policy that executive
directors should normally have service
contracts that provide for the company to give
the individual 12 months’ notice of termination.
This policy has been chosen because it provides
a reasonable balance between the need to
retain the services of key individuals and the
need to limit the liabilities of the company in 
the event of the termination of a contract. 
The executive directors have service contracts
with group companies; details of these
contracts are shown in the table above.
Sir Richard Evans had a contract requiring him 
to work three days a week in his capacity as
Chairman which was signed on 16 July 2002
(and varied on 15 January 2004) and amended
a contract entered into on 24 September 1998.
Sir Richard retired as director and Chairman 
on 30 June 2004. Since that date he has been
employed by the company on a part-time basis,
working two days a week, in a customer
relationship role in a number of key overseas
markets. His remuneration for this role is set 
out in the footnote to T able E. 48 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
In the event of the termination of an executive
director’ s contract it is the Committee’ s policy to
seek to limit any payment made in lieu of notice
to a payment equal to the amount of one year's
basic salary. The service contracts for all of the
executive directors contain specific provisions
to the effect that the company has the right to
pay a sum equivalent to 12 months’ salary in the
event of the company terminating their contracts
for reasons other than gross misconduct. None
of the executive directors have provisions in
their service contracts that relate to a change 
of control of the company. Under the terms 
of his contract Mark Ronald is entitled to
compensation of a lump sum equal to
12 months’ salary, and the continuance of
medical benefits for 18 months, if his contract 
is terminated by BAE Systems North America,
his directorship of the parent company ceases,
or his contract is not renewed at the end of its
rolling one-year term. He will also be entitled to
exercise outstanding share options and share
awards will vest, subject to satisfaction of any
applicable performance conditions.
Chairman and non-executive directors
Dick Olver succeeded Sir Richard Evans as
Chairman on 1 July 2004 having been appointed
as a non-executive director on 17 May 2004. 
His appointment is for an initial fixed three-year
term with effect from 17 May 2004 and is
documented in a letter of appointment which 
is not a contract of employment. He is required
to devote no less than two days a week to his
duties as Chairman, unless terminated earlier 
in accordance with the company’ s Articles of
Association, or by either party giving to the other
not less than six months’ prior written notice.
The Nominations Committee will review his
appointment prior to the end of the three-year
term and will, if appropriate (and subject to the
agreement of Mr Olver), recommend to the
Board that he be invited to serve for an
additional period. Having been appointed by the
Board since the 2004 AGM, he will seek initial
re-election by the shareholders at the 2005
AGM. His appointment as Chairman will
automatically terminate if he ceases to be a
director of the company. His fee, which has 
been set by the Committee at £500,000 per
annum (prorated for 2004 from the date of his
appointment as Chairman), will not be subject 
to review during the initial three-year term. 
The non-executive directors do not have service
contracts but do have letters of appointment
detailing the basis of their appointment. The
dates of their original appointment (with the
exception of Lord Hesketh) are as follows:
Non-executive Date of Expiry of 
director appointment current term*
Sue Birley                   22.11.2000 21.11.2006
Ulrich Cartellieri 01.12.1999 30.11.2005
Michael Hartnall 10.06.2003 09.06.2006
Sir Peter Mason 22.01.2003 21.01.2006
Michael Portillo 11.09.2002 10.09.2005
*subject to re-election at the AGM at intervals of no more than
three years in accordance with the company’ s Articles of
Association
Non-executive directors are normally appointed
for two consecutive three year terms subject to
review after the end of the first three year period
and with any third term of three years being
subject to rigorous review and taking into
account the need progressively to refresh the
Board. They do not have periods of notice and the
company has no obligation to pay compensation
when their appointment terminates. They are
subject to re-election at the AGM following their
appointment and subsequently at intervals of 
no more than three years.
Lord Hesketh was appointed as a non-executive
director on 1 January 1994 and having served
over three terms he will be retiring from the
Board at the conclusion of this year’ s AGM 
on 4 May 2005.
Paolo Scaroni retired from the Board at the
conclusion of the 2004 AGM on 5 May 2004,
having been originally appointed to the Board 
on 22 November 2000.
The letters of appointment for non-executive
directors detail the amount of time it is
anticipated that the individual will need to devote
to his or her duties as a director . Non-executive
directors are proposed by the Nominations
Committee and are appointed by the Board on the
basis of their experience to provide independent
judgement on issues of strategy , performance,
resources and standards of conduct. The level of
their fees is set after reviewing practice in other
comparable companies. 
Non-executive directors are paid a fee reflecting
the time commitment required of the director .
The fee level for the chairmen of the Audit and
Remuneration Committees reflects their
additional responsibilities and workload. Fees
payable to non-executive directors in 2004 were
agreed by the Board; the non-executive directors
themselves did not participate in board
discussions or vote on matters concerning their
fees. Details of the non-executives’ fees are
shown in T able E.
The Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee
has agreed that fees payable to non-executive
directors will remain unchanged in 2005.
However , it has decided that, as the company
has increased the number of board meetings
held in North America and is considering the
potential appointment of US-based 
non-executive directors, a transatlantic meeting
allowance of £4,000 per board meeting should
be introduced. This takes into account the
additional time commitment required by the
European-based non-executive directors to
attend board meetings in the US and similarly
the commitment of potential US-based 
non-executive directors to attend meetings 
in Europe. This allowance applies from the
beginning of 2005.
By order of 
the Board
Dick Olver
Chairman 
23 February 2005 Information subject to audit
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in tables B, C, D, E and F on pages 49 to 53.
The Committee is of the opinion that to give a full statement of directors’ share options and long-term incentive scheme interests would result in a statement
of excessive length. Therefore disclosure is in accordance with paragraph 9 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985. The company’s register of directors’
interests (which is open to inspection) contains full details of directors’ shares interests. Details of directors’ interests in the share option schemes and 
long-term incentive plans are shown in tables B, C and D. The figures in the tables that form part of this report have been calculated by reference to a 
mid-market price for the company's ordinary shares at 31 December 2004 of 230.5p (2003 168.25p). The range during 2004 was 159p to 257.25p. 
T able B
Long-term incentive plans
Restricted Share Plan - Awards granted and vested in 2004
Awarded Market price Date of Market price
1 January during the Vested during 31 December Date at date of Date of Market price release on release
2004 year the year 2004
*
of award award vesting on vesting from trust from trust
££ £
Sir Richard Evans
1
43,751 - 22,053 21,698 23.03.01 3.2523.03.04 1.79 07.04.04 2.12
C V Geoghegan 18,938 19,994 5,700 33,232 23.03.01 3.25 23.03.04 1.79 05.04.04 2.06
M Lester 34,359 49,987 17,315 67,031 23.03.01 3.25 23.03.04 1.79 07.05.04 2.07
S L Mogford 25,533 - 12,864 12,669 23.03.01 3.25 23.03.04 1.79 08.04.04 2.16
M H Ronald 43,079 41,422 43,079 41,422 23.03.01 3.25 23.03.04 1.79 13.09.04 2.19
G W Rose - 14,996 - 14,996 - - - - - - 
M J T urner 32,712 99,974 16,473 116,213 23.03.01 3.25 23.03.04 1.79 05.04.04 2.08
1 ceased to be a director on 30 June 2004
* or upon ceasing to be a director of the company
The market price at the date of award for awards made in 2004 was £2.00. Awards made under the rules of the Restricted Share Plan are not subject to performance conditions.
The aggregate net value of assets received by directors in 2004 from long-term incentive plans, as calculated at date of release from trust, was £250,729.
In respect of shares vested during the year
49 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
T able A
As at 31 December 2004, the directors of the company and their families had the following beneficial and non-beneficial interests in the company’ s
securities. There have been no changes in the interests of the directors between 31 December 2004 and 23 February 2005. 
Directors' interests
Conditional Conditional
award of shares award of shares
under the under the
Share Restricted Performance Share Restricted Performance
Shares options Share Plan Share Plan Shares options Share Plan Share Plan
Prof S Birley 2,925 - - - 2,925 - - -
Dr U Cartellieri - - - - - - - -
Sir Richard Evans
1
510,180 790,782 43,751 43,230 549,091 790,782 21,698 -
C V Geoghegan 86,085 795,324 18,938 234,145 109,434 1,111,206 33,232 444,443
M J Hartnall - - - - 20,000 - - -
Lord Hesketh 6,000 - - - 6,000 - - -
M Lester 492,482 1,239,925 34,359 291,634 559,784 1,626,193 67,031 549,146
Sir Peter Mason 25,000 - - - 25,000 - - -
S L Mogford 106,380 1,053,983 25,533 234,145 113,962 1,322,206 12,669 444,443
R L Olver
2
20,000 - - - 40,000 - - -
Rt Hon M Portillo - - - - - - - -
M H Ronald 145,646 1,013,547 43,079 256,388 215,081 1,339,179 41,422 473,476
G W Rose 262,876 1,242,062 - 260,494 277,872 1,502,082 14,996 490,593
P Scaroni
3
-- - - - - - -
M J T urner 273,342 1,354,612 32,712 392,442 378,027 1,808,787 116,213 755,626
Michael Lester holds a non-beneficial interest in 200,000 (2003 200,000) ordinary shares.
The executive directors, in common with all employees of the company, have an interest in the unallocated shares held in employee share ownership trusts. As at 31 December 2004, 1,768,589
such shares were held in the ESOP trust and 345,565 shares in the Profit Sharing Scheme trust.
* or upon appointment
** or upon ceasing to be a director of the company
1 ceased to be a director on 30 June 2004
2 appointed on 17 May 2004
3 ceased to be a director on 5 May 2004
As at 1 January 2004* As at 31 December 2004** 50 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
T able C
Directors’ Share Options
Executive Share Option Plan
1 January Granted during Exercised during Lapsed during 31 December
2004 the year the year the year 2004*
Sir Richard Evans
1
790,782 - - - 790,782 
C V Geoghegan 792,434 315,447 - - 1,107,881 
M Lester 1,236,792 386,268 - - 1,623,060 
S L Mogford 1,050,482 315,447 - 47,224 1,318,705 
M H Ronald 1,013,547 325,632 - - 1,339,179 
G W Rose 1,240,037 345,149 - 84,399 1,500,787 
M J T urner 1,349,944 544,776 - 90,066 1,804,654 
The breakdown of the above options into options outstanding below and above the market price of the company’ s shares at 31 December 2004 is as follows:
Weighted Weighted
average Range of Date from average Range of Date from
Number of exercise exercise which Number of exercise exercise which
shares price prices exercisable
+
Expiry date shares price prices exercisable
+
Expiry date
££ £ £
Sir Richard Evans
1
58,060 1.86 1.86 - 1.86 05.10.98 05.10.05 732,722 3.39 3.35 - 3.42 04.05.04 03.04.12
C V Geoghegan 666,665 1.86 1.72 - 2.01 30.09.06 30.03.14 441,216 3.48 3.26 - 3.98 03.05.03 22.10.12
M Lester 823,719 1.86 1.72 - 2.01 30.09.06 30.03.14 799,341 3.62 3.35 - 4.21 20.12.02 03.04.12
S L Mogford 666,665 1.86 1.72 - 2.01 30.09.06 30.03.14 652,040 3.49 2.75 - 4.21 02.10.99 03.04.12
M H Ronald 710,215 1.85 1.72 - 2.01 30.09.06 30.03.14 628,964 3.56 3.30 - 4.21 20.12.02 03.04.12
G W Rose 792,342 1.86 1.72 - 2.01 05.10.98 30.03.14 708,445 3.51 3.29 - 4.21 06.10.01 03.04.12
M J T urner 1,133,439 1.86 1.72 - 2.01 30.09.06 30.03.14 671,215 3.54 3.35 - 4.21 20.12.02 03.04.12
Note: options were granted during the year at an option price of £2.01
+ subject to performance conditions
* or upon ceasing to be a director
1 ceased to be a director on 30 June 2004
SAYE Share Option Scheme
1 January Granted during Exercised during Lapsed during 31 December
2004 the year the year the year 2004*
Sir Richard Evans
1
- - -  - - 
C V Geoghegan 2,890 435 - - 3,325 
M Lester 3,133 - - - 3,133 
S L Mogford 3,501 - - - 3,501 
G W Rose 2,025 435 - 1,165 1,295 
M J T urner 4,668 - - 535 4,133 
The breakdown of the above options into options outstanding below and above market price of the company’ s shares at 31 December 2004 is as follows:
Weighted Weighted
average Range of Date from average Range of Date from
Number of exercise exercise which Number of exercise exercise which
shares price prices exercisable Expiry date shares price prices exercisable Expiry date
££ £ £
Sir Richard Evans
1
-- - - - - - - - -
C V Geoghegan 435 1.56 1.56 - 1.56 01.06.07 01.12.07 2,890 2.56 2.56 - 2.56 01.06.05 01.12.06
M Lester - - - - - 3,133 2.57 2.56 - 2.57 01.06.05 01.12.06
S L Mogford - - - - - 3,501 2.83 2.56 - 3.21 01.12.04 01.12.06
G W Rose 435 1.56 1.56 - 1.56 01.06.07 01.12.07 860 2.56 2.56 - 2.56 01.06.05 01.12.05
M J T urner - - - - - 4,133 2.56 2.56 - 2.57 01.06.05 01.12.07
* or upon ceasing to be a director
1 ceased to be a director on 30 June 2004
Options outstanding where market price is greater than option price
at 31 December 2004
Options outstanding where option price is greater than market price
at 31 December 2004
Options outstanding where market price is greater than option price
at 31 December 2004
Options outstanding where option price is greater than market price
at 31 December 2004 Performance Share Plan
Granted Exercised Lapsed Date from
1 January during during during 31 December which
2004 the year the year the year 2004* exercisable
+
Expiry date
Sir Richard Evans
1
43,230 - 43,230 - -  - -
C V Geoghegan 234,145 210,298 - - 444,443 30.09.06 30.03.11
M Lester 291,634 257,512 - - 549,146 30.09.06 30.03.11
S L Mogford 234,145 210,298 - - 444,443 30.09.06 30.03.11
M H Ronald 256,388 217,088 - - 473,476 30.09.06 30.03.11
G W Rose 260,494 230,099 - - 490,593 30.09.06 30.03.11
M J T urner 392,442 363,184 - - 755,626 30.09.06 30.03.11
+ subject to performance conditions
* or upon ceasing to be a director
1 ceased to be a director on 30 June 2004
The terms and conditions of the options detailed above were not varied during the period 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004.
The mid market price for the company's ordinary shares at 31 December 2004 was 230.5p (2003 168.25p). The range during 2004 was 159p to 257.25p. 
The performance conditions for the Executive Share Option Plan and the Performance Share Plan are as follows:
Executive Share Option Plan
The BAE Systems Executive Share Option Plan has been used to grant options to the executive directors since 2001. The performance conditions applying to the grants of options made in 2001,
2002, 2003 and 2004 are the same as for grants to be made in 2005, as set out on page 45 of this report, with the exception of the re-testing provision; for grants made between 2001- 2003,
where the original three year performance target is not met, performance is re-tested at the end of years four and five against the full period from grant; for grants made in 2004, where the original
three year performance target is not met, performance is re-tested at the end of year five. In all these cases the option will lapse in year five if the targets have not been achieved. There will be no 
re-testing of performance for grants to be made in 2005.
Before 1996, and also on the completion of the BAE/MES merger in 1999, options were granted to executive directors under the predecessor Executive Share Option Scheme. Options granted in
1995 could only be exercised if growth in the pre-exceptional EPS for any three-year period exceeded the sum of inflation for that period and a real growth requirement of 7.5% was achieved. Options
granted to the former GEC directors in 1999 were made on a similar basis but the real growth requirement is 9% for any three-year period. Options granted to the other executive directors in 1999 were
conditional on the satisfaction of a special performance condition based on achievement of cost savings of the merger integration process over the three-year performance period commencing on 1
January 2000; 57.7% of these options became exercisable in 2004 and the remaining 42.3% lapsed. 
Performance Share Plan
Performance conditions for the awards made in 2003 and 2004 are the same as for awards to be made in 2005 as set out on page 45 of this report.
T able D
Options exercised during 2004
Number of Realised Unrealised
Number of shares sold gain on gain on Share price Date option Date option
Date of options following shares retained Price of on date of Price at first would have
exercise exercised exercise exercised shares option exercise year end exercisable lapsed
££ £ £ £
Performance Share Plan
Sir Richard Evans
1
26.02.04 43,230 17,323 32,567 59,716 - 1.88 2.30526.02.0226.02.04
1 ceased to be a director on 30 June 2004
51 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 52 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
T able E
Directors' remuneration
All figures £’000
Basic Basic
salary Fees Bonus Benefits Total salary Fees Bonus Benefits Total
Chairman
Sir Richard Evans
*
200 - - 8 208 400 - - 16 416
R L Olver
**
- 256 - 1 257 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Executive directors
CV Geoghegan 423 - 399 20 842 403 - 198 20 621
M Lester 518 - 489 23 1,030 502 - 231 16 749
Sir Charles Masefield
***
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 72 - - 3 75
S L Mogford 423 - 414 13 850 403 - 169 19 591
M H Ronald 433 - 637 26 1,096 451 - 388 36 875
G W Rose 463 - 446 19 928 448 - 188 16 652
M J T urner 730 - 712 44 1,486 675 - 491 62 1,228
Non-executive directors
Sir Robin Biggam
***
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a -13-- 13
Prof S Birley -55 - - 55 -44-- 44
KCBrown
***
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a -13-- 13
Dr U Cartellieri -45 - - 45 - 36 - - 36
MJ Hartnall -65 - - 65 -36-- 36
Lord Hesketh -45 - - 45 -36-- 36
Sir Peter Mason -55 - - 55 -42-- 42
Rt Hon M Portillo -45 - - 45 -36-- 36
P Scaroni
*
-7 - - 7 -34-- 34
* retired during the year
** appointed during the year 
*** ceased to be a director in 2003
All emoluments and compensation paid to the directors during the year are shown above. Where the individual was appointed during the year the amount shown is for the period from appointment.
The benefits received by all the executive directors, except for Mark Ronald, were cash allowances for a medical examination and for the provision of a car , and also the taxable benefit of any
private use of a chauffeur . The benefits for Mike T urner also included second residence support allowance of £25,000 (2003 £46,123) for the costs of accommodation required in central London.
The benefits received by Mark Ronald were a cash allowance for a car , fuel and maintenance of the car , medical examination and dental benefits. The benefit received by Dick Olver was the taxable
benefit relating to private use of a chauffeur .
The fees payable to the non-executive directors were reviewed in 2004 and the following fee structure was implemented to reflect the various responsibilities of the individual directors: a fee of
£65,000 for the chairman of the Audit Committee; a fee of £55,000 for both the chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Senior Independent Director; and a fee of £45,000 for each of
the other non-executive directors. 
Sir Charles Masefield retired as a director on 28 February 2003 and remains employed by the company on a part-time basis in an overseas representational role. In 2004, his remuneration was
£290,500 (2003 £235,000 for the period 1 March 2003 to 31 December 2003) and comprised salary and a cash allowance for a car . Sir Richard Evans retired as director and chairman on 30
June 2004 and remains employed by the company in a part-time customer relationship role. From 1 July 2004 to 31 December 2004 his remuneration was £156,167 and comprised salary and a
cash allowance for a car .
There were no other payments to former directors during the year other than the payment to Richard Lapthorne referred to in the notes to table F .
2004 2003 T able F
Post retirement benefits
Change in Increase in
Accrued pension accrued pension T ransfer value T ransfer value transfer value
at 31 December Increase in after allowing at 1 January at 31 December Director’ s less director’ s
2004 accrued benefits for inflation 2004
1
2004 contributions contributions
Age £ per annum £ per annum £ per annum £ £ £ £
C V Geoghegan 50 221,919 17,197 11,546 1,912,360 2,720,566 31,578 776,628
S L Mogford 48 198,170 16,291 11,271 1,544,595 2,233,452 31,578 657,279
G W Rose
2
52201,034 20,618 15,639 1,998,276 2,735,402 16,637 720,489
M J T urner 56 465,377 46,312 34,747 5,850,884 7,216,640 54,633 1,311,123
1 T ransfer values have been calculated in accordance with guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession. For UK-based directors the assumptions are the same as those used for the
calculation of cash equivalents from the group’s UK pension schemes. In 2004, the actuary has changed the assumptions used to calculate cash equivalents from the UK pension schemes,
subject to a minimum of the cash equivalent calculated on the statutory MFR basis. This assumption change has, for the majority of the UK-based directors, resulted in a higher transfer value
than that calculated using the assumptions in force at the start of the year . The amount of the increase in change in transfer value arising from the change in assumptions is: Chris Geoghegan
£452,530; Steve Mogford £437,109; George Rose £283,210; Mike T urner £29,631. For directors with pensions in payment, the corresponding increase is Sir Richard Evans £nil and Michael
Lester £100,110. This assumption change does not apply to Mark Ronald.
2 George Rose’ s unapproved retirement arrangement is partly funded and partly unfunded. The company’ s pension contribution to the funded unapproved retirement arrangement for George
Rose in 2004 was £515,089 (2003 £1,237,697). Of this amount, approximately £339,000 (2003 £331,000) relates to the cost of benefits accruing during the year and approximately
£176,000 (2003 £172,000) relates to dealing with investment under-performance prior to 2003. In 2003, the company decided to deal with the under-performance of the underlying
investments over a three-year period, 2003-2005; the third of these three payments is due to be made in 2005. This treatment reflects company policy for employees with unapproved
arrangements in the same position. The 2003 contribution also included a one-off payment of approximately £735,000 to cover a change in actuarial basis underlying the calculations; 
the revised basis is consistent with the funding basis used for the approved pension schemes (with adjustments to take account of the different tax treatment).
Actual pension Change in
in payment at transfer value
31 December 2004 Increase in Change in over the year
(excluding AVC pension in T ransfer value at T ransfer value at transfer value less director’ s
pension) payment 1 January 2004 31 December 2004 over the year contributions
Age £ per annum £ per annum £ £ £ £
Sir Richard Evans
3
62 341,070 9,391 6,316,465 6,583,045 266,580 266,580
M Lester
3
64 239,354 6,134 4,309,122 4,542,629 233,507 233,507
MH Ronald
4
63 363,257 (28,136)
5
3,612,433 3,287,430 (325,003) (326,681)
3 Under the rules of the UK schemes, Sir Richard Evans and Michael Lester commenced their pensions in 2002 having reached normal retirement age. Neither of these individuals has accrued
further benefits since retiring other than pension increases awarded to all pensioner members of their pension schemes. Sir Richard Evans retired from the Board on 30 June 2004.
4 Under the rules of his pension arrangements, the majority of Mark Ronald’ s pension commenced in January 2004 when he reached normal retirement age. The pension in payment includes 
an accrued pension of $42,104 (£21,797 at 31 December 2004) from the BAE Systems North America Qualified Plan that will commence when Mark Ronald leaves company service. The
Qualified Plan is a contributory arrangement. Of the pension in payment, $406,322 (£210,309 at 31 December 2004) is payable up to when he reaches age 72 and $253,242 (£131,105 
at 31 December 2004) has a contingent 50% spouse’ s pension. Mark Ronald continues to participate in a Section 401(k) defined contribution arrangement set up for US employees in which
the company will match employee contributions up to a limit. In 2004 the company paid contributions of $5,036 (2003 $2,200) into Mark Ronald’ s 401(k) arrangement.
5 Mark Ronald’ s pension is paid in US dollars. Of the change in pension £29,724 is due to currency movements, and £1,588 is due to increases in his accrued pension.
Richard Lapthorne, a former director , has an unfunded pension arrangement. In 2004 the company paid Richard Lapthorne £84,969 (2003 £82,758) in respect of this arrangement.
53 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 54 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
The directors of BAE Systems present their
report, together with the accounts, for the year
ended 31 December 2004.
Principal activities
BAE Systems is a company engaged in the
development, delivery and support of advanced
defence and aerospace systems in the air , on
land, at sea and in space. The company designs,
manufactures and supports military aircraft,
surface ships, submarines, fighting vehicles,
radar,avionics,communications,electronics 
and guided weapon systems. Further details of
the principal activities of the company and likely
future developments in the business are set 
out in the Chief Executive’ s review and operating
and financial review on pages 6 to 27.
Research and development
The company is engaged in a significant
programme of research and development 
in support of the platforms, systems and
services that it provides to its customers. 
The programme covers a wide range of work 
and includes performance innovations,
improvements to manufacturing techniques,
and technology to improve the through life
support of products. A particular priority is
research and development into systems
integrating both platforms and other systems
and also the horizontal integration of systems.
The development and demonstration of
capabilities in networked systems, and 
enabling interoperability, is an important 
area of focus in both the UK and US. 
Long term research is undertaken through
partnerships with the academic sector and in 
the company’ s Advanced T echnology Centre 
and Systems Engineering Innovation Centre.
Application of this research is managed by the
company’ s business units through business
focused research and development programmes.    
Customers fund directly much of the near 
term product development work undertaken 
by the company.
Note 3 to the accounts details the amounts
spent on research and development in 2004.
Office of Fair Trading undertakings
As a consequence of the merger between 
British Aerospace and the former GEC Marconi
Electronics Systems businesses in 1999,
the company is required to comply with
undertakings given to the Secretary of State 
for T rade and Industry. Compliance with the
undertakings is monitored by an independent
compliance officer. Further information
regarding the undertakings and the contact
details of the compliance officer may be
obtained through the Company Secretary at 
the company's registered office.
Corporate governance
The corporate governance statement is set out
on pages 34 to 41.
Treasury policy
The group’ s treasury activities are overseen by
the T reasury Review Management Committee
(TRMC). T wo executive directors are members 
of the TRMC, including the Group Finance
Director who chairs the committee. The TRMC
also has representatives with legal and 
taxation expertise. 
The group operates a centralised treasury
department that is accountable to the TRMC 
for managing treasury activities in accordance with
the framework of treasury policies and guidelines
approved by the Board. An overriding policy is that
trading in financial instruments for the purpose 
of profit generation is prohibited, with all 
financial instruments being used solely for risk
management purposes. Other key policies are:
- to maintain a balance between continuity 
of funding and flexibility through the use 
of borrowings with a range of maturities,
currencies and fixed/floating rates of 
interest reflecting the group risk profile;
- to maintain adequate undrawn committed
borrowing facilities;
- to mitigate the exposure to interest rate
fluctuations on borrowings and deposits 
by utilising interest rate swaps, interest rate
options and forward rate agreements; and
- to hedge economically both contracted and
anticipated foreign currency cash flows 
over a five-year period, having first matched
receipts and payments.
Within this policy framework the treasury
department’ s principal responsibilities are:
- to manage the group’ s core funding and
liquidity;
- to manage exposure to interest rate
movements;
- to manage exposure to foreign currency
movements; 
- to control and monitor bank credit risk and
credit capacity utilisation; and
- to manage the group’ s relationship with debt
capital market investors, banks and rating
agencies.
The treasury department transacts with an
extensive range of counterparty banks and
financial institutions, and adopts a systematic
approach to the control and monitoring of
counterparty credit risk. A credit limit is
allocated to each counterparty with reference to
its relevant credit rating. For internal credit risk
purposes, all transactions are marked-to-market
and the resultant exposure is allocated against
the credit limit.
The company, through its internal audit
department, monitors compliance against the
principal policies and guidelines (including the
utilisation of credit) and any exceptions found
are reported to the TRMC. Further disclosure 
on financial instruments is set out on in note 
30 to the accounts.
Supplier payment policy
It is group policy that each business unit is 
in compliance with local best practice in the
country of operation in respect of supplier
payment policies. Agreed payment schedules
are maintained provided that the supplier
complies with all relevant terms and conditions.
Group policy is that changes to the agreed
payment schedule are only made with the 
prior agreement of the supplier .
The average number of days credit provided in
2004 by suppliers was 39 days (2003 37 days). 
Employment
The group has a programme in place to assist
employees to achieve their full potential and to
develop the skills necessary to meet the current
and future expectations of our customers. The
programme focuses on both personal and
technological development.
All employment policies include a commitment
to equal opportunities regardless of sex, race,
colour , nationality, ethnic origin, religion, age 
or disability, subject only to considerations 
of national security. The company's policy is 
to provide, wherever possible, employment
opportunities for disabled people and to ensure
that disabled people joining the company and
employees who become disabled whilst in our
employment benefit from training and career
development opportunities.
The company has put into place a number of
ways of consulting with employees and providing
them with information on the performance of 
the company and other matters that affect
them. The effectiveness of the communication
process is assessed regularly with the aim 
of ensuring continual improvement so as to
provide employees with the information they
want by the most effective means.
Directors’ report Employees are actively encouraged to become
shareholders in the company by way of
employee share schemes. During the year 
over 15,600 employees were granted options 
in the company’ s SAYE Share Option Scheme.
Honours
In the UK, the following individuals were
honoured in Her Majesty the Queen’ s 2004
Birthday Honours and the 2005 New Y ear
Honours lists:
OBE: Keith Crockford
MBE: Brian Ayres
Gareth Humphreys
Richard Priss
T om Royle
Safety, health and environment
The company is committed to high standards of
health and safety at work and encourages active
concern for the environment. Further details of
the company’ s activities in these areas are set
out on pages 28 to 31.
Share capital
As at 23 February 2005, the company had 
been advised of the following significant
interests in the issued ordinary share capital 
of the company:
Brandes Investment Partners, LP: 13.0%
Franklin Resources, Inc
and its affiliates: 8.1%
FRM Corp and Fidelity International 
Limited: 5.02%
Barclays PLC: 3.96%
Legal and General Investment
Management Limited: 3.0%
The company’ s Articles of Association contain
provisions to the effect that no foreign person,
or foreign persons acting in concert, can have 
an interest in more than 15% of the company’ s
issued ordinary share capital.
At the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on
5May 2004 the company was given authority 
to purchase up to 306,007 ,313 of its ordinary
shares. The authority will expire at the AGM 
held in 2005. Although no ordinary shares 
have been purchased by the company during 
the period from 5 May 2004 to the date of 
this report, a special resolution will be put to
shareholders at this year’ s AGM to renew the
authority to make market purchases of the
company’ s shares up to a maximum of 10% 
of the share capital of the company.
Results and dividends
The loss after taxation and minority interests
was £467m (2003 profit £6m). The directors
propose a final dividend of 5.8p per ordinary
share, amounting to £178m (2003 £168m),
which, together with the interim dividend,
amounts to a total annual dividend of 9.5p 
per ordinary share (2003 9.2p), at a total 
cost of £291m (2003 £281m). After deducting
£21m (2003 £21m), which represents the 
total for the preference share dividend, the 
total retained loss for the year is £779m 
(2003 £296m).
Charitable donations
During 2004, the amount donated for charitable
purposes in the UK was £1.1m (2003 £1.3m).
Further details of the company’ s charitable
activities are set out on page 31.
Political donations
It is the company’ s policy not to make
contributions to political parties. 
The Political Parties, Elections and
Referendums Act 2000 (the Act), amongst 
other things, prohibits the company and its
subsidiaries from making donations to EU
Political Organisations (as defined in the Act) 
of more than £5,000 in any twelve month 
period unless they are authorised to do so by 
the company’ s shareholders. The Act defines 
EU Political Organisations widely as a result 
of which the definition could include bodies,
such as those concerned with policy review 
and law reform or with the representation 
of the business community or sections of 
it, which the company may see benefit in
supporting. In recognition of this fact the
shareholders, at the 2002 AGM, authorised
the company and certain of its subsidiaries 
to make donations or incur expenditure as
defined in the Act up to an aggregate maximum
of £250,000 in a twelve month period. The
company made a donation of £50,000 in 2004 
to Britain in Europe which may be deemed to 
fall within the ambit of the Act.
Directors
The names of the current directors are listed 
on pages 32 to 33. The full remuneration report
is set out on pages 42 to 53.
Paolo Scaroni retired as a director at the
conclusion of the AGM held on 5 May 2004.
Dick Olver was appointed as a director of the
company on 17 May 2004.
Sir Richard Evans retired as director and
Chairman on 30 June 2004. Dick Olver
succeeded him as Chairman on 1 July 2004.
Lord Hesketh will be retiring from the Board at
the conclusion of this year’ s AGM.
Beneficial and non-beneficial interests,
including family interests, in the share capital 
of the company, for those persons who were
directors at the end of the financial year are
detailed on page 49. There have been no
changes in such interests in the period from 
the year end to 23 February 2005. The Board is
not aware of any contract of significance (other
than service contracts or as disclosed in the
remuneration report) in relation to the company 
or its subsidiaries in which any director has, or
has had, any material interest.
Annual General Meeting
The company’ s Annual General Meeting will 
be held on 4 May 2005. The Notice of Annual
General Meeting is enclosed with this annual
report and details the resolutions to be
proposed at the meeting. These include special
resolutions for the disapplication of 
pre-emption rights pursuant to section 89 of 
the Companies Act 1985 and a change to the
company’ s Articles of Association concerning
the provision of indemnities for directors and
officers of the company. 
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc, the auditors for the company,
have indicated their willingness to continue 
in office and a resolution proposing their 
re-appointment will be put to the AGM.
By order of 
the Board
David Parkes
Company Secretary
23 February 2005
55 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 56 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
accounting records, if we have not received all
the information and explanations we require for
our audit, or if information specified by law
regarding directors’ remuneration and
transactions with the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance
statement on pages 34 to 41 reflects the
company’ s compliance with the nine provisions
of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review 
by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the
Board’ s statements on internal control cover 
all risks and controls, or form an opinion on 
the effectiveness of the group’ s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and 
control procedures.
We read the other information contained in 
the Annual Report, including the corporate
governance statement and the unaudited part 
of the directors’ remuneration report, and
consider whether it is consistent with the
audited financial statements. We consider the
implications for our report if we become aware 
of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the financial statements. 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with
Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination,
on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the
amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements and the part of the directors’
remuneration report to be audited. It also
includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgements made by the
directors in the preparation of the financial
statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the group’ s
circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
Independent auditors’ report to the
members of BAE SYSTEMS plc
We have audited the financial statements on
pages 58 to 105. We have also audited the
information in the directors’ remuneration
report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company’ s
members, as a body, in accordance with Section
235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to
the company’ s members those matters we are
required to state to them in an auditor’ s report
and for no other purpose. T o the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the company
and the company’ s members as a body, for our
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions 
we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the
Annual Report and the directors’ remuneration
report. As described on page 39, this includes
responsibility for preparing the financial
statements in accordance with applicable
United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors,
are established in the United Kingdom by
statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority , and by
our profession’ s ethical guidance. 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the
financial statements give a true and fair view
and whether the financial statements and the
part of the directors’ remuneration report to be
audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We
also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors’
report is not consistent with the financial
statements, if the company has not kept proper
We planned and performed our audit so as to
obtain all the information and explanations
which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the financial
statements and the part of the directors’
remuneration report to be audited are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or other irregularity or error . In forming
our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information 
in the financial statements and the part of the
directors’ remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
- the financial statements give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the company and
the group as at 31 December 2004 and of the
loss of the group for the year then ended; and 
- the financial statements and the part of the
directors’ remuneration report to be audited
have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985.
Report of the independent auditors on the financial
statements to the members of BAE SYSTEMS plc
London
23 February 2005
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered
Accountants
Registered Auditor 57 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Index to the accounts
Contents Page Notes
Accounting policies 62 1
Balance sheets 59
Cash flow notes 96 28 & 29
Cash flow statement 60
Commercial aircraft financing 82 20
Contingent liabilities and commitments 83 21
Creditors 80 18
Current asset investments 78 15
Debtors 78 14
Deferred tax 84 22
Dividends 70 8
Earnings per share 70 9
Employees and directors 67 5
Equity minority interests 89 26
Exceptional items 68 6
Exchangeable Bonds and Exchange Property 80 17
Financial instruments 98 30
Fixed asset investments 75 12
Intangible fixed assets 70 10
Interest and other similar items 67 4
Contents Page Notes
International Financial Reporting Standards 102 33
Loans and overdrafts 79 16
Note of historical cost profits and losses 61
Operating costs 66 3
Post balance sheet events 102 32
Post retirement benefit schemes 90 27
Profit and loss account 58
Provisions for liabilities and charges 81 19
Reconciliation of movement 
in shareholders’ funds 61
Related party transactions 101 31
Reserves 88 24
Segmental analysis 64 2
Share capital 85 23
Statement of total recognised 
gains and losses 61
Statutory reserve 89 25
Stocks 78 13
Tangible fixed assets 73 11
Tax 69 7 58 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Continuing operations
Consolidated profit and loss account
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER
Existing Acquisitions Total Total
2004 2004 2004 2003
Notes £m £m £m £m
Sales 2 13,201 278 13,479 12,572
Less: adjustment for share of joint venture sales 2 (4,378) (6) (4,384) (4,185)
Turnover 2 8,823 272 9,095 8,387
Operating costs 3
Excluding goodwill amortisation and impairment and 
exceptional items (8,145) (259) (8,404) (7,717)
Goodwill amortisation and impairment 10 (920) (9) (929) (403)
Exceptional items 6 —— — (9)
(9,065) (268) (9,333) (8,129)
Operating (loss)/profit (242) 4 (238) 258
Share of operating profit/(loss) of joint ventures
Excluding goodwill amortisation and impairment and
exceptional items 322 — 322 310
Goodwill amortisation  12 (109) — (109) (115)
213 — 213 195
(Loss)/profit before interest 2
Excluding goodwill amortisation and impairment and
exceptional items 1,000 13 1,013 980
Goodwill amortisation and impairment (1,029) (9) (1,038) (518)
Exceptional items —— — (9)
(29) 4 (25) 453
Interest 4
Net interest (177) (194)
Share of net interest of joint ventures (30) (26)
(207) (220)
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2 (232) 233
Tax 7
T ax on profit excluding exceptional items (139) (128)
T ax on exceptional items — 3
Share of tax of joint ventures (95) (100)
(234) (225)
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities after taxation (466) 8
Equity minority interests 26 (1) (2)
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (467) 6
Dividends 8
Equity: ordinary shares (291) (281)
Non-equity: preference shares (21) (21)
(312) (302)
Retained loss 24 (779) (296)
Basic and diluted loss per share 9 (16.0)p (0.5)p
Basic and diluted earnings per share 9
Excluding goodwill amortisation and impairment
and exceptional items 18.0p 16.6p
The results for 2003 arose from continuing operations. 59 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Restated
1
Restated
1
2004 2003 2004 2003
Notes £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 10 5,647 6,000 — —
T angible assets 11 1,751 1,699 22 33
Investments 12
Share of gross assets of joint ventures,
including goodwill 7,747 7,827 — —
Share of gross liabilities of joint ventures (6,139) (6,212) — —
Share of joint ventures 1,608 1,615 — —
Others 66 95 4,603 4,060
1,674 1,710
9,072 9,409 4,625 4,093
Current assets
Stocks 13 895 775 2 2
Debtors due within one year 14 1,774 2,588 3,306 6,465
Debtors due after one year 14 1,064 927 449 274
Investments 15 & 28 1,420 883 1,242 780
Cash at bank and in hand 28 987 780 743 658
6,140 5,953 5,742 8,179
Liabilities falling due within one year
Loans and overdrafts 16 & 28 (719) (779) (923) (785)
Creditors 18 (6,565) (5,846) (7,347) (9,062)
(7,284) (6,625) (8,270) (9,847)
Net current liabilities (1,144) (672) (2,528) (1,668)
Total assets less current liabilities 7,928 8,737 2,097 2,425
Liabilities falling due after one year
Loans 16 & 28 (1,665) (1,749) (722) (768)
Creditors 18 (508) (482) (4) (13)
(2,173) (2,231) (726) (781)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 19 (1,017) (900) (5) —
2 4,738 5,606 1,366 1,644
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 143 143 143 143
Share premium account 24 412 412 412 412
555 555 555 555
Statutory reserve 25 202 202 202 202
Other reserves 24 5,372 5,370 128 142
Profit and loss account 24 (1,405) (536) 481 745
Shareholders’ funds
Equity 4,458 5,325 1,100 1,378
Non-equity 23 266 266 266 266
4,724 5,591 1,366 1,644
Equity minority interests 26 14 15 — —
4,738 5,606 1,366 1,644
1see notes 1 and 24
Approved by the Board on 23 February 2005 and signed on its behalf by: M J T urner Chief Executive
G W Rose Group Finance Director
Company Group
Balance sheets
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 60 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 29 2,071 836
Dividends from joint ventures 69 37
Returns on investments and servicing of finance 29 (120) (138)
Taxation 29 (31) 75
Capital expenditure and financial investment 29 (256) (248)
Acquisitions 29 (550) (62)
Equity dividends paid (281) (281)
Net cash inflow before management of liquid resources and financing 902 219
Management of liquid resources 29 (529) 206
Financing 29 (169) (380)
Net increase in cash available on demand 204 45
Reconciliation of net cash flow to net cash/(debt)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
Net increase in cash available on demand 204 45
Net increase/(decrease) in liquid resources 529 (206)
Net decrease in other loans included within net funds 169 380
Change in net funds from cash flows 902 219
Loans acquired on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 28 (80) —
Adjustment to Exchange Property 28 13 121
Other non-cash movements 28 (4) —
Foreign exchange 28 57 72
Net increase in net funds 888 412
Net funds at 1 January (865) (1,277)
Net funds at 31 December 28 23 (865)
Cash on customers’ account 28 (18) (5)
Net cash/(debt) as defined by the group 5 (870)
Consolidated cash flow statement
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 61 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Statement of total recognised gains and losses
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
(Loss)/profit for the financial year
Group, excluding joint ventures (555) (63)
Joint ventures 88 69
Total (loss)/profit for the financial year (467) 6
Currency translation on foreign currency net investments– subsidiaries (43) (93)
– joint ventures (62) 181
Adjustment to Exchange Property 17 13 121
Adjustment to interest in net assets of Saab 12 2 —
Unrealised gain on exchange of interests — 11
Write down of previously revalued fixed assets — (3)
Other recognised gains and losses relating to the year (net) (90) 217
Total recognised gains and losses relating to the year (557) 223
Note of historical cost profits and losses
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER
2004 2003
£m £m
Reported (loss)/profit on ordinary activities before taxation (232) 233
Difference between historical cost and revalued amount
Depreciation on land and buildings 3 5
Disposal of land and buildings 8 14
Historical cost (loss)/profit before tax on ordinary activities (221) 252
Historical cost loss for the year retained after tax, minority interests and dividends (768) (277)
Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (467) 6
Dividends 8 (312) (302)
(779) (296)
Other recognised gains and losses relating to the year (net) (90) 217
Share based payments 24 2 5
Net decrease in shareholders’ funds (867) (74)
Opening shareholders’ funds 5,591 5,665
Closing shareholders’ funds 4,724 5,591
Other group statements 62 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Notes to the accounts
1  Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The accounts are drawn up in accordance with applicable accounting standards under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of
certain land and buildings and the treatment adopted in respect of the valuation of certain current asset investments (see note 17).
As required by the Companies Act 1985, the directors have adopted the true and fair override in respect of the accounting for the Exchange Property
(see note 17).
In line with T echnical Release 21/04 issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales, the group has amended its treatment
within shareholders’ funds of own shares held by the ESOP T rust. The value of such shares held by the group is now deducted from distributable
reserves, rather than being held in a separate reserve, and the prior year comparative figures have been restated as set out in note 24 on page 88.
Basis of consolidation
The accounts of the group consolidate the results of the company and its subsidiary undertakings, and include its share of its joint ventures’ results
on the gross equity method, all of which are made up to 31 December .
The acquisition method of accounting has been adopted for businesses acquired with fair values applied to the acquired operation. The results of
such businesses are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition, up to the date of disposal or closure.
From 1 January 2002, where the group contributes a business, or other non-monetary asset for an interest in a subsidiary, joint venture or associate,
such transactions are recorded so that the reduction in ownership of the business being contributed is accounted for as a disposal while the
increased interest in the enlarged group or new interest in the business contributed by other parties to the transaction are accounted for as an
acquisition. Fair values are applied to those operations which are subject to the exchange and which have not previously been held within the group.
Any loss or realised gain resulting from the transaction is recorded in the profit and loss account while any unrealised gain is recorded in the
statement of total recognised gains and losses. Prior to 31 December 2001 such exchanges of interest were recorded so as to reflect the economic
substance of the transaction.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation, on an exchange of interest, or on acquisition of joint venture interests, is capitalised in respect of all transactions
from 1 January 1998. Such goodwill is amortised on a straight line basis through the profit and loss account over its estimated useful economic life,
based upon assessments of the durability of markets, product ranges and projected future profitability of the businesses concerned. Prior to 1998,
goodwill was either capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss account or was written off directly to reserves depending upon the
circumstances of each acquisition. T o date all goodwill capitalised has been assessed as having a 20 year estimated useful economic life.
Impairment reviews are undertaken at the end of the first full financial year following each acquisition and also if events or changes in circumstance
indicate that such a review is necessary.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a previously acquired business, the profit and loss on disposal or termination is calculated including
any remaining capitalised goodwill or the gross amount of any related goodwill previously written off directly to reserves, as appropriate.
Company accounts
In the company’ s accounts, all fixed asset investments (including subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures) are stated at cost (or valuation in
respect of certain listed investments) less provisions for permanent diminutions. Dividends received and receivable are credited to the company’ s
profit and loss account. In accordance with section 230(4) of the Companies Act 1985 the company is exempt from the requirement to present its
own profit and loss account. The amount of the profit for the financial year of the company is disclosed in note 24 to these accounts.
Relief under sections 131 and 133 of the Companies Act 1985 is taken whenever possible. Accordingly, where such relief is available, the difference
between the fair value and aggregate nominal value of shares is not recognised in either shareholders’ funds or cost of investment.
Revenue recognition
Sales are recognised when the group obtains the right to consideration in exchange for its performance, this is usually when title passes or a
separately identifiable phase of a contract or development has been completed and accepted by the customer . Sales comprise the net value of such
deliveries made, work completed or services rendered during the year and include the group’ s net share of sales of joint ventures. T urnover
represents sales made by the company and its subsidiary undertakings, excluding the group’ s share of sales of joint ventures.
Profit is recognised at the time of sale. In the case of contracts with extended delivery programmes, it is arrived at by reference to the estimated
overall profitability of the contract and appropriate provision is made for any losses in the year in which they are first foreseen.
Foreign currencies
T ransactions in overseas currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction or , where forward cover contracts have been
arranged, at the contracted rates. Monetary assets and liabilities, including goodwill, denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange
rates ruling at the balance sheet date or at a contracted rate if applicable and any exchange differences arising are taken to the profit and loss account.
For consolidation purposes the assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are translated at the closing exchange
rates. Profit and loss accounts of such undertakings are consolidated at the average rates of exchange during the year . Exchange differences arising
on foreign currency net investments are taken to reserves. 63 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
1  Accounting policies (continued)
Research and development
Group funded revenue expenditure on research and development is written off as incurred and charged to the profit and loss account, except where
supported under contract. 
Tangible fixed assets
Depreciation is provided, normally on a straight line basis, to write off the cost or valuation of tangible fixed assets over their estimated useful
economic lives to any estimated residual value, using the following rates:
Buildings — up to 50 years, or the lease term if shorter
Research equipment — 8 years
Computing equipment, motor vehicles 
and short life works equipment — 3 to 5 years
Other equipment — 10 to 15 years, or the project life if shorter
In the group’ s North America business, depreciation is normally provided on a basis consistent with cost reimbursement profiles under US
government contracts. T ypically this provides for a faster rate of depreciation than would otherwise arise on a straight line basis.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land and assets in the course of construction.
Impairment reviews are undertaken if there are indications that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Leases
Assets obtained under finance leases are included in tangible fixed assets at cost and are depreciated over their useful economic lives, or the term
of their lease, whichever is shorter . Future instalments under such leases, net of finance charges, are included within loans. Rental payments are
apportioned between the finance element, which is charged as interest to the profit and loss account, and the capital element, which reduces the
outstanding obligation for future instalments, so as to give a constant rate of charge on the outstanding obligation.
Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis in arriving at operating profit.
Assets held for leasing out under operating leases are included in tangible fixed assets at cost less depreciation. Rental income from aircraft
operating leases is recognised in sales as the receipts fall due.
Stocks
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost, including all relevant overhead expenditure, and net realisable value.
Long-term contracts – the amount of profit attributable to the stage of completion of a long-term contract is arrived at by reference to the estimated
overall profitability of the contract. Appropriate provisions are made for any losses in the year in which they are first foreseen. Work in progress
relating to long-term contracts is stated at cost less provision for anticipated losses.
Development properties – the net realisable value is based on advice received from independent valuers and assumes the grant of relevant planning
consent but excludes any development profit.
Cash received on customers’ account and customer stage payments
Amounts received from customers in accordance with the terms of contracts which specify payments in advance of delivery are credited, as progress
payments, against any expenditure incurred upon stocks or work in progress for the particular contract. Any unexpended balance is held in creditors
as customer stage payments or , if the amounts are subject to advance payment guarantees unrelated to company performance, as cash received on
customers’ account. Cash received on customers’ account is excluded from the figure for net debt as defined by the group.
Aircraft financing
The group is exposed to actual and contingent liabilities arising from commercial aircraft financing, both from financing arranged directly by the group
and from that arranged by third parties where the group has provided guarantees or has other recourse obligations. Provision for these risks is made
on a systematic basis.
Financial instruments
The group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposures to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates. Instruments accounted
for as hedges are designated as a hedge at the inception of contracts. Receipts and payments on interest rate instruments are recognised on an
accruals basis, over the life of the instrument. Gains and losses on foreign currency hedges are recognised on maturity of the underlying transaction,
other than translational hedges of foreign currency investments, net of related borrowings, which are taken to reserves. Gains and losses arising
from retiming of foreign exchange transactional cover are deferred to match the maturity of the underlying exposure. Gains or losses arising on
hedging instruments which are cancelled due to the termination of underlying exposure are taken to the profit and loss account immediately. Finance
costs associated with debt issuances are charged to the profit and loss account over the life of the instruments.
Short-term debtors and creditors that meet the definition of a financial asset or liability respectively have been excluded from the Financial Reporting
Standard 13 – Derivatives and other financial instruments (FRS 13) disclosures where permitted by that standard. 64 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
1  Accounting policies (continued)
Tax
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes account of taxation deferred because of timing differences between the
treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. Deferred tax is recognised on an undiscounted basis in respect of all timing
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet
date where there is an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, in the future.
Pensions and other post retirement benefits
These costs have been provided under Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 24 – Accounting for pension costs (SSAP 24) where the expected
cost of providing pensions and other post retirement benefits, as calculated periodically by independent actuaries, is charged to the profit and loss
account so as to spread the cost over the expected average remaining service lives of current employees. The group operates several pension
schemes providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the group.
The group has followed the transitional disclosure arrangements required by Financial Reporting Standard 17 – Retirement benefits (FRS 17).
Share options and own shares held
In accordance with Urgent Issues T ask Force Abstract 25 – National insurance contributions on share option gains (UITF 25) the group provides in full
for the employer’ s national insurance liability estimated to arise on the future exercise of share options granted, except where the employee has
agreed to settle the employer’ s national insurance liability as a condition of the grant of the options.
The group has taken advantage of the exemption offered in Urgent Issues T ask Force Abstract 17 – Employee share schemes (UITF 17) from charging
to the profit and loss account the 20% discount offered to employees partaking in such company operated SAYE schemes.
As required under Urgent Issues T ask Force Abstract 38 – Accounting for ESOP trusts (UITF 38) the cost to the company of own shares held is shown
as a deduction from shareholders’ funds within the profit and loss account. Consideration paid or received for the purchase or sale of the company’ s
own shares in the ESOP trust is shown separately in the reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED)
2 Segmental analysis
Analysis by business group
2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Programmes 2,867 2,436 (884) (294) 799 211 2,782 2,353 (71) (62)
Customer Solutions & Support 2,243 2,166 (187) (164) — — 2,056 2,002 (134) (124)
International Partnerships 1,907 1,685 (1,709) (1,496) — — 198 189 — —
Avionics 1,103 1,127 (13) (12) — — 1,090 1,115 (490) (477)
North America 2,771 2,700 — — — — 2,771 2,700 (57) (64)
Commercial Aerospace 2,880 2,924 (2,666) (2,683) 133 137 347 378 (20) (20)
HQ and other businesses 560 316 (8) (3) — — 552 313 (80) (35)
14,331 13,354 (5,467) (4,652) 932 348 9,796 9,050
Intra-group sales (852) (782) (852) (782) (852) (782)
JV sales between business groups 151 119 151 119 151 119
13,479 12,572 (5,467) (4,652) 1,083 467 9,095 8,387 (701) (663)
At business group level, sales to JVs are eliminated within the respective business group. Sales to JVs within other business groups are included in
the intra-group sales adjustment. Sales to JVs are reinstated to derive external turnover .
Acquisitions in 2004 contributed sales and operating profit (after goodwill amortisation) of £38m, and £1m, respectively in Customer Solutions &
Support, £73m and £1m in North America and £167m (including share of joint ventures’ sales of £6m) and £2m in HQ and other businesses.
Intra-group sales Turnover Add: sales to JVs Less: share of JV sales Sales 65 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
2  Segmental analysis (continued)
2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Programmes 64 56 64 56 102 29 (929) (545)
Customer Solutions & Support 413 411 413 411 6 4 (394) 222
International Partnerships 109 65 109 65 53 57 764 715
Avionics 32 12 32 9 579 134 1,428 2,034
North America 233 232 233 232 225 226 3,753 3,691
Commercial Aerospace 176 204 176 204 63 63 509 599
HQ and other businesses (14) — (14) (6) 10 5 (109) (45)
1,013 980 1,013 971 1,038 518 5,022 6,671
Less: goodwill amortisation and impairment (1,038) (518) (1,038) (518)
interest (207) (220) (207) (220)
net tax creditor (289) (195)
net cash/(debt) 5 (870)
(232) 242 (232) 233 4,738 5,606
Rental income in 2004 from aircraft operating leases included within turnover is £40m (2003 £46m).
The group’ s principal joint venture interests are: Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH reported in Programmes; Flagship T raining Ltd and Fleet Support Ltd
reported in Customer Solutions & Support; MBDA SAS, Saab AB, AMS NV and Gripen International KB reported in International Partnerships; and
Airbus SAS reported in Commercial Aerospace.
Analysis by geographical location
2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom 3,038 2,755 2,447 2,290 6,220 5,670 5,758 5,283
Rest of Europe 2,769 2,362 1,271 653 4,144 3,978 315 203
Middle East 2,095 2,479 1,715 1,989 — — — —
USA and Canada 4,189 3,864 3,125 2,959 2,839 2,734 2,814 2,731
Asia and Pacific 1,121 879 420 416 262 186 194 166
Africa, Central and South America 267 233 117 80 14 4 14 4
13,479 12,572 9,095 8,387 13,479 12,572 9,095 8,387
2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom (255) 237 (217) 275 (698) 1,236 (234) 1,265
Rest of Europe 10 4 176 158 412 122 1,556 1,681
Middle East — — — — — — — —
USA and Canada 4 8 8 10 3,745 3,683 3,744 3,704
Asia and Pacific 2 8 7 9 (45) 14 (44) 22
Africa, Central and South America 1 1 1 1 — 1 — (1)
(238) 258 (25) 453 3,414 5,056 5,022 6,671
Less: net tax creditor (289) (195) (289) (195)
net cash/(debt) 5 (870) 5 (870)
3,130 3,991 4,738 5,606
1 including goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items.
Including JVs Excluding JVs Including JVs Excluding JVs
Net assets Profit/(loss) before interest
1
Geographical origin
Turnover Sales Turnover Sales
Geographical origin Geographical destination
Net assets
Goodwill amortisation
and impairment
Profit/(loss)
before tax
Profit/(loss)
before tax excluding
exceptional items 66 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED)
3  Operating costs
Exisiting Acquired Total
2004 2004 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Raw materials and other bought in stock 2,703 168 2,871 2,927
Change in stocks of finished goods and work in progress 325 (14) 311 (457)
Staff costs (note 5) 3,027 73 3,100 2,966
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 1,117 14 1,131 625
Other operating charges 2,003 27 2,030 2,237
Other operating income (110) — (110) (169)
11111 9,074999,065 268 9,333 8,129
Included within the analysis of operating costs are the following expenses:
2004 2003
£m £m
Operating lease charges – within other operating charges:
Plant and machinery 7 4
Other , including aircraft 93 100
Exceptional items (note 6):
Staff costs — 2
Other operating charges — 7
— 9
Research and development expenditure was £1,720m (2003 £1,713m) of which £610m (2003 £614m) related to joint ventures.
Audit fees
The remuneration of the group’ s principal auditors for the year ended 31 December 2004 for statutory audit work was £4,281,000 (2003
£3,734,000), including £417,000 relating to acquisitions and £618,000 (2003 £600,000) in relation to the company.
Analysis of non audit fees
T otal worldwide non audit fees of the principal auditors for 2004 totalled £5,295,000 (2003 £5,229,000). Of this balance the amount arising in the
UK was £2,958,000 (2003 £2,978,000). The majority of services provided outside the UK were provided in the US. 
The table below provides an analysis of non audit fees in the year to 31 December 2004 compared with those in the year to 31 December 2003. 
UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Audit services
Statutory audit related 305 — 305 296 — 296
Audit related regulatory reporting 43 4 47 33 — 33
Further assurance services
Advice on accounting matters 720 64 784 1,307 213 1,520
Internal controls —— — —— —
Due diligence 984 197 1,181 575 — 575
Tax services
Compliance 149 1,518 1,667 285 1,488 1,773
Advisory 742 511 1,253 482 534 1,016
Other services 15 43 58 —16 16
2,958 2,337 5,295 2,978 2,251 5,229
Audit services includes the review of the Interim Report of the group. T ax services includes tax compliance support and services in relation to the
group’ s expatriate employees based around the world.
2003 2004 67 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
4  Interest and other similar items
2004 2003
£m £m
Interest receivable and similar income 57 51
Interest payable and similar charges:
On bank loans and overdrafts (11) (7)
On finance leases (1) (1)
On bonds and other financial instruments (155) (165)
Adjustment to net present value liabilities in respect of aircraft financing (28) (41)
Adjustment to aircraft financing liabilities due to changes in expected timing of receipts and payments (28) (24)
Other net present value adjustments (11) (7)
(234) (245)
Net interest arising on activities excluding joint ventures (177) (194)
Share of net interest of joint ventures (30) (26)
(207) (220)
5  Employees and directors
The weekly average and year end numbers of employees, excluding those in joint ventures, were as follows:
2004 2003 2004 2003
Number Number Number Number
’000 ’000 ’000 ’000
Programmes 18.8 19.6 18.2 19.2
Customer Solutions & Support 8.9 9.1 8.9 8.9
International Partnerships 1.7 1.6 1.7 1.7
Avionics  9.0 9.5 8.9 9.3
North America 24.4 22.8 27.4 23.2
Commercial Aerospace 2.2 2.5 2.2 2.3
HQ and other businesses 4.4 3.8 6.0 3.8
Group employees excluding joint venture employees 69.4 68.9 73.3 68.4
The aggregate payroll costs of group employees excluding joint venture employees were:
2004 2003
£m £m
Wages and salaries 2,634 2,580
Social security costs 232 225
Other pension costs (note 27) 234 161
3,100 2,966
Included within the above 2004 amounts are wages and salaries of £62m, social security costs of £8m and other pension costs of £3m relating to
acquired businesses.
T otal directors’ emoluments, excluding company pension contributions, were £7,013,863 (2003 £5,496,370). No amounts were paid this year or
last year to past directors relating to pensions other than those disclosed in the remuneration report. Fuller disclosures on directors’ remuneration
are set out in the remuneration report on pages 42 to 53.
At year end Weekly average 68 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED)
6  Exceptional items
2004 2003
£m £m
Operating exceptional items
Prior year rationalisation programmes — (6)
BAe/MES integration costs — (3)
Exceptional loss included within profit before interest and tax — (9)
Operating exceptional items
Prior year rationalisation programmes
Rationalisation programmes were initiated in 1999 and 2000 in response to capacity excesses across a number of business groups. No costs were
charged in 2004 (2003 £6m within HQ and Other Businesses, before a tax credit of £2m) in respect of these programmes which were completed in
2003. There was no cash outflow in 2004 (2003 £4m, before taking into account the cash benefits of tax relief).
BAe/MES integration costs
Integration of the former MES and British Aerospace businesses is now complete and no costs were incurred in 2004 (2003 £3m within Avionics,
before a tax credit of £1m). There was no cash outflow in 2004 (2003 £3m, before taking into account the cash benefits of tax relief).
Non-operating exceptional items
Cessation/reorganisation of commercial aerospace activities
In 2001 the group decided to close its regional jet manufacturing operations and reorganise certain other commercial aerospace activities at a cost
of £400m (before a tax credit of £120m) which was charged in full to the profit and loss account 2001 and 2002. The cash outflow in 2004 in respect
of these prior year exceptional charges was £17m (2003 £62m), before taking into account the cash benefits of tax relief. 69 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
7  T ax
2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current tax
Current tax charge for the year (1) (87) (41) (15) (46) (94) (88) (196)
Adjustment in respect of prior years 19 10 (12) (15) (4) 1 3 (4)
18 (77) (53) (30) (50) (93) (85) (200)
Double taxation relief — 32 — — — — — 32
18 (45) (53) (30) (50) (93) (85) (168)
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of timing differences (67) (54) (27) (22) (47) (12) (141) (88)
Adjustment in respect of prior years (10) 25 — (2) 2 5 (8) 28
(77) (29) (27) (24) (45) (7) (149) (60)
T ax on the results excluding exceptional items (59) (74) (80) (54) (95) (100) (234) (228)
Exceptional items
Current tax – credit for the year — 2 — — — — — 2
Deferred tax – origination and reversal of timing
differences — 1 — — — — — 1
— 3 — — — — — 3
Total tax after exceptional items (59) (71) (80) (54) (95) (100) (234) (225)
Current tax charge for the year
– excluding exceptional items 18 (45) (53) (30) (50) (93) (85) (168)
– exceptional items — 2 — — — — — 2
18 (43) (53) (30) (50) (93) (85) (166)
Deferred tax charge for the year
– excluding exceptional items (77) (29) (27) (24) (45) (7) (149) (60)
– exceptional items — 1 — — — — — 1
(77) (28) (27) (24) (45) (7) (149) (59)
The current tax charge for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (30%). The differences are explained below:
2004 2003
£m £m
(Loss)/profit before taxation (232) 233
T ax credit/(charge) on (loss)/profit at UK rate of 30% (2003 – 30%) 70 (70)
Permanent
Non-tax deductible goodwill (294) (136)
Expenses not tax effected (50) (56)
R&D tax credits 34 12
Other permanent items 15 20
(295) (160)
Timing
Accelerated capital allowances 16 28
Pension and other provisions 73 38
Utilisation of tax losses 5 10
94 76
Adjustment in respect of prior years 3 (4)
Adjustments relating to joint ventures 43 (8)
Current tax charge for the year (85) (166)
Total
Share of
joint ventures Overseas UK 70 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED)
8  Dividends
2004 2003
£m £m
Equity dividends
Interim 3.7p dividend per ordinary share paid (2003 3.7p) 113 113
Final 5.8p dividend per ordinary share proposed (2003 5.5p) 178 168
291 281
Non-equity dividends
7.75p dividend per preference share 21 21
312 302
9  Earnings per share
Basic Basic
and diluted and diluted
pence per pence per
£m share £m share
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (467) 6
Preference dividends (21) (21)
Loss for the financial year after preference dividends (488) (16.0) (15) (0.5)
Add back: Goodwill amortisation and impairment (notes 10 & 12) 1,038 34.0 518 16.9
Exceptional items (note 6) —— 9 0.3
T ax on exceptional items (note 7) —— (3) (0.1)
Earnings excluding goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items 550 18.0p 509 16.6p
2004 2003
Number Number
m m
Weighted average number of shares used in calculating earnings per share 3,058 3,057
Earnings per share is calculated by reference to earnings excluding goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items in addition to that
required by Financial Reporting Standard 14 – Earnings per share (FRS 14) as the directors consider that this gives a more appropriate indication
of underlying performance.
In accordance with FRS 14 the calculation of the weighted average number of shares excludes own shares held by the ESOP T rust (see note 24)
and the diluted earnings per share calculations are without reference to adjustments in respect of options and preference shares, as assumed
conversion would be anti-dilutive.
10  Intangible fixed assets
Goodwill arising from acquisition of subsidiary undertakings:
Group
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2004 7,553
Acquisitions 674
Adjustments to provisional fair values in respect of prior year acquisitions (3)
Exchange adjustments (95)
At 31 December 2004 8,129
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2004 1,553
Amortisation charge for the year 383
Impairment 546
At 31 December 2004 2,482
Net book value
At 31 December 2004 5,647
At 31 December 2003 6,000
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the separable net assets acquired.
2003 2004 71 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
10  Intangible fixed assets (continued)
Acquisitions
Alvis plc
The offer to acquire the 71% of the issued share capital in Alvis plc not already held was declared unconditional in  August 2004. Consideration,
including costs, was £268m in addition to the £74m paid in 2003 for the group’ s initial 29% stake. Provisional goodwill arising on consolidation
amounted to £295m. T otal accounting policy alignments and fair value adjustments of £7m have been made, primarily relating to recognition of
pension assets of £22m and provisions for obsolete stock of £13m. The company produces armoured fighting vehicles and other specialist vehicles
for military application.
DigitalNet Holdings Inc
In October 2004, the group completed the acquisition of 100% of the issued share capital of DigitalNet Holdings Inc for a total consideration,including
costs, of $520m (£282m). Provisional goodwill arising on consolidation amounted to $500m (£272m). T otal accounting policy alignments and fair
value adjustments of £31m have been made, primarily relating to the recognition of a deferred tax asset of £46m in respect of existing goodwill
balances and a bond premium of £9m to pay existing debt. The company is a provider of networked infrastructure and information assurance solutions
to federal government agencies.
Others
The other significant acquisitions made during the year are as follows:
STI Government Systems
In May 2004, the group completed the acquisition of the business of STI Government Systems for a total consideration, including costs, of $26m
(£15m). Provisional goodwill arising on consolidation amounted to $25m (£14m). The company develops innovative solutions for US government
customers with its expertise in photonics, information technologies and system integration and has been renamed BAE Systems Spectral Solutions.
Boeing Commercial Electronics
In August 2004, the group completed the acquisition of the business of Boeing Commercial Electronics for a total consideration, including costs, of
$66m (£36m). Provisional goodwill arising on consolidation amounted to $52m (£29m). The business develops and produces avionics products and
systems for commercial aircraft and operates as a division of BAE Systems Controls Inc.
Practical Imagineering Inc
In August 2004, the group completed the acquisition of 100% of the issued share capital of Practical Imagineering Inc for a total consideration,
including costs, of $9m (£5m). Provisional goodwill arising on consolidation amounted to $8m (£4m). The company focuses on signal processing
systems and software development and has been renamed BAE Systems Spectral T echnology.
Aerosystems International (AeI)
In August 2004, the group completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% of shares not already held in Aerosystems International Limited.
Consideration, including costs, was £15m in addition to the £2m paid in 1985 for the group’ s initial 50% stake. Provisional goodwill arising on
consolidation amounted to £15m. The group had previously accounted for its 50% interest in AeI as a joint venture. The company specialises in tactical
data links, e-maintenance solutions and logistics systems.
Alphatech Inc
In November 2004, the group completed the acquisition of 100% of the issued share capital of Alphatech Inc for a total consideration, including costs,
of $88m (£48m). Provisional goodwill arising on consolidation amounted to $84m (£45m). The company builds systems that process electronic
images and signals for US government intelligence agencies and has been renamed BAE Systems Advanced Information T echnologies Inc. 10  Intangible fixed assets (continued)
Acquisitions
Acquired Accounting Provisional Acquired Accounting Provisional
book policy fair value Provisional book policy fair value Provisional
value alignment adjustment fair value value alignment adjustment fair value
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Tangible assets 47 (2) (4) 41 5 (1) (1) 3
Stocks 62 (13) — 49 3 — — 3
Debtors due within one year 34 (1) — 33 48 — — 48
Debtors due after one year 5 — 22 27 4 (2) 46 48
Cash at bank and in hand 103 — — 103 6 — — 6
Overdrafts due within one year (3) — — (3) — — — —
Loans due within one year — — — — (12) — — (12)
Creditors due within one year (113) — — (113) (28) — (2) (30)
Loans due after one year (18) — — (18) (41) — (9) (50)
Creditors due after one year (29) — — (29) (5) — — (5)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (34) (3) (6) (43) (1) — — (1)
54 (19) 12 47 (21) (3) 34 10
Consideration paid and other costs of acquisition:
paid in cash – 2003 74 —
paid in cash – 2004 266 279
loan notes issued 2 —
accrued costs —3
342 282
Provisional goodwill arising 295 272
Acquired Accounting Provisional
book policy fair value Provisional
value alignment adjustment fair value
£m £m £m £m
T angible assets 11 (1) 3 13
Stocks 19 (3) (2) 14
Debtors due within one year 10 6 — 16
Debtors due after one year 6— — 6
Cash at bank and in hand 7— — 7
Creditors due within one year (20) — (3) (23)
Creditors due after one year (1) (7) — (8)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (10) — (1) (11)
22 (5) (3) 14
Consideration paid and other costs of acquisition:
paid in cash – 1985 2
paid in cash – 2004 118
accrued costs 1
121
Provisional goodwill arising 107
Total provisional goodwill arising:
Alvis plc 295
DigitalNet Holdings Inc 272
Other acquisitions: STI Government Systems 14
Boeing Commercial Electronics 29
Practical Imagineering Inc 4
Aerosystems International (Ael) 15
Alphatech Inc 45
107
674
Provisional fair values have been assigned to the net assets acquired of each business. These will be reviewed during 2005 and amended as
necessary in the light of subsequent knowledge or events to the extent that these reflect conditions as at the date of the respective acquisitions.
Other businesses acquired
DigitalNet Holdings Inc Alvis plc
72 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED)  73 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
10  Intangible fixed assets (continued)
Adjustment to provisional fair values
Post acquisition fair value adjustments of $5m (£3m) have been made in respect of Advanced Power T echnologies, Inc and Mevatec Corporation
which were acquired in March 2003. These relate to the identification of deferred tax assets which have increased net assets acquired and
consequently reduced goodwill on acquisition.
Impairment
The impairment charge of £546m includes a £480m impairment charge relating to the group’ s interests in certain UK-based avionics and defence
communications businesses, most of which were acquired in 1999 as part of the merger with Marconi Electronic Systems. The impairment reflects
the disposal values of the businesses incorporated in the Eurosystems transaction agreement signed with Finmeccanica on 27 January 2005.
In addition, a detailed review of the carrying value of goodwill across the group has been performed which has resulted in a £16m impairment charge
in respect of the goodwill relating to the Integrated Defence Solutions business in North America and a £50m impairment charge in respect of the
goodwill relating to the naval ships business, in line with the reduced MoD requirement for T ype 45 destroyers.
11  T angible fixed assets
Land and Plant and Land and Plant and
buildings equipment Total buildings equipment Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2004 1,487 2,394 3,881 42 39 81
Additions 190 138 328 — — —
Additions from acquisitions 39 18 57 — — —
T ransfer from stock — 3 3 — — —
Disposals (113) (191) (304) (12) (1) (13)
T ransfer to stock (2) (9) (11) — — —
Exchange adjustments (22) (40) (62) — — —
At 31 December 2004 1,579 2,313 3,892 30 38 68
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2004 417 1,765 2,182 16 32 48
Charge for the year 49 153 202 1 1 2
Disposals (22) (180) (202) (4) — (4)
T ransfer to stock (2) — (2) — — —
Exchange adjustments (10) (29) (39) — — —
At 31 December 2004 432 1,709 2,141 13 33 46
Net book value
At 31 December 2004 1,147 604 1,751 17 5 22
At 31 December 2003 1,070 629 1,699 26 7 33
The amounts above at 31 December 2004 include:
Capitalised finance leases:
Cost 2 299 301 — 24 24
Accumulated depreciation — 268 268 — 24 24
Depreciation charge — 29 29 — 1 1
Assets let under operating leases:
Cost 251 67 318 17 — 17
Accumulated depreciation 68 41 109 8 — 8
Non-depreciated assets 276 55 331 — 1 1
Net book value of:
Freehold property 1,082 — 1,082 9 — 9
Long leasehold property 54 — 54 3 — 3
Short leasehold property 11 — 11 5 — 5
Plant and machinery — 476 476 — — —
Fixtures, fittings and equipment — 128 128 — 5 5
1,147 604 1,751 17 5 22
Company Group 74 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED) 
11  T angible fixed assets (continued)
Land and buildings comprise:
- freehold and long leasehold land and buildings owned by the group as at 30 June 1996, excluding certain overseas properties, revalued at that
date. The majority of the group’ s operational properties at that time were valued on a depreciated replacement basis, owing to their specialisation,
with the remainder on an existing use value basis. Other non-operational properties were valued on the basis of open market value;
- short leaseholds at cost;
- additions subsequent to 30 June 1996 at cost; and
- land and buildings owned by subsidiary undertakings acquired since 30 June 1996 at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following the adoption in 2000 of Financial Reporting Standard 15 – T angible fixed assets (FRS 15) the company has elected that no further
revaluation of land and buildings will be undertaken for statutory reporting purposes.
Analysis of cost or valuation of land and buildings
Group Company
£m £m
At valuation – 1996 437 —
At cost or fair value at acquisition included in gross cost 1,142 30
1,579 30
If land and buildings had not been revalued, the following amounts would have been included in the balance sheet:
Group Company
£m £m
Historical cost 1,440 30
Depreciation 429 13
Net book value
At 31 December 2004 1,011 17
At 31 December 2003 923 24
The depreciation charge for the year , based on the historical cost, would have been £46m for the group (2003 £49m). 75 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
12  Fixed asset investments
Group
Carrying value of share of joint ventures Share of Purchased Carrying
net assets goodwill value
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 (9) 1,624 1,615
Share of results after tax 197 — 197
Dividends receivable (66) — (66)
T ransfer to subsidiary company: AeI (note 10) (5) — (5)
Dilution of interest 2— 2
Reclassification 36 — 36
Amortisation — (109) (109)
Exchange adjustments (61) (1) (62)
At 31 December 2004 94 1,514 1,608
Included within purchased goodwill is £47m (2003 £54m) relating to the goodwill arising on acquisitions made by the group’ s joint ventures
subsequent to their acquisition by BAE Systems.
Analysis of carrying value of share of joint ventures 2004 2003
£m £m
Share of gross assets (including goodwill)
Fixed assets 3,491 3,572
Current assets 4,256 4,255
7,747 7,827
Share of gross liabilities
Liabilities due within one year (3,523) (3,866)
Liabilities due after one year (2,616) (2,346)
(6,139) (6,212)
Carrying value 1,608 1,615
Additional disclosures in respect of the group’s share of Airbus 
2004 2003
£m £m
Turnover 2,666 2,683
Profit before taxation (excluding goodwill) 150 176
Taxation (46) (69)
Profit after taxation 104 107
Share of gross assets (excluding goodwill)
Fixed assets 1,571 1,571
Current assets 1,064 1,068
2,635 2,639
Share of gross liabilities
Liabilities due within one year (850) (1,478)
Liabilities due after one year (1,911) (1,285)
(2,761) (2,763)
Share of net liabilities (126) (124)
Goodwill at 1 January 1,063 934
Reclassification from share of net liabilities — 192
Amortisation (63) (63)
Goodwill at 31 December 1,000 1,063
Carrying value 874 939
Dividends receivable
All of the dividends receivable of £66m were received in cash in 2004. The £3m balance of dividends declared but not paid in 2003 was also
received in cash in 2004.
Dilution of interest
Following the completion in July 2004 of the conversion of debentures held by employees of Saab to shares, the group’ s share of the net assets of
Saab increased by £6m. As a result of the increased shares in issue the group’ s economic interest in Saab was diluted from 35% to 34.2%, reducing
the group’ s share of net assets by £4m. The net effect of £2m has been treated as an unrealised gain within the statement of total recognised gains
and losses.  76 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED)
12  Fixed asset investments (continued)
Reclassification
At 31 December 2003, the group was holding, within debtors, certain deferred costs relating to the formation of MBDA and AMS in 2001, which were
matched by an adjustment to liabilities recorded in the group’ s share of joint venture net assets. In 2004 these costs were netted off against the
matching adjustment to liabilities, resulting in an increase in the reported share of joint venture net assets and a corresponding reduction in debtors.
Group
Other investments
£m
Cost 
At 1 January 2004 101
Additions 50
T ransfer to subsidiary undertakings: Alvis (note 10) (74)
At 31 December 2004 77
Impairment provisions
At 1 January 2004 6
Created 5
At 31 December 2004 11
Net carrying value
At 31 December 2004 66
At 31 December 2003 95
Additions
The principal addition in the year was the acquisition of 100% of the issued share capital of Overhaul and Maintenance Company Limited (OMC), a company
registered in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, for a cash consideration of £119m. Further cash consideration to a maximum of £26m may be payable depending
on the future performance of OMC’ s business. The acquisition of OMC has been accounted for as a trade investment at a fair value of £48m pending
assumption of management control. The remaining consideration paid has been treated as satisfying a pre-existing offset obligation held within creditors.
OMC is a holding company with investments in aerospace and defence companies in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Impairment provision created
The impairment provision created in the year relates to the group’ s 20% holding in Exostar LLC, formed in 2000 as a business-to-business procurement
facilitation company and based in the US. The impairment reflects the current recoverable value of the group’ s original investment of £13m, which had been
previously written down to £8m.
Company Subsidiary
undertakings Others Total
£m  £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2004 4,203 84 4,287
Additions 424 — 424
T ransfer to subsidiary undertakings: Alvis (note 10) 74 (74) —
Reclassification 187 — 187
Exchange adjustments (3) — (3)
At 31 December 2004 4,885 10 4,895
Impairment provisions
At 1 January 2004 227 — 227
Created 140 — 140
Released (75) — (75)
At 31 December 2004 292 — 292
Net carrying value
At 31 December 2004 4,593 10 4,603
At 31 December 2003 3,976 84 4,060
Cost - additions
During the year the company increased its investment in BAE SYSTEMS Holdings Inc by £93m and its investment in Alvis plc by £268m (the initial
investment of £74m made in 2003 is now shown as an investment in subsidiary undertakings). The remaining additions relate to the transfer of
investments from other group companies.
Cost - reclassification
The reclassification in the year relates to the company's interest in certain non-trading subsidiary undertakings whose assets comprise loans to the
company and which have been offset against the company's investment  in previous years. An equivalent adjustment has been made to the company's
liabilities to subsidiary undertakings. 77 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
12  Fixed asset investments (continued)
Impairment provisions - created
Following a review of the current recoverable values of fixed asset investments, provisions for impairment have been created in respect of 
BAE SYSTEMS (Land and Sea Systems) Ltd of £11m, BAE SYSTEMS (Defence Systems) Ltd of £71m and for BAE SYSTEMS (Funding T wo) Ltd of
£58m. 
Impairment provisions - released
An impairment provision relating to BAE SYSTEMS Australia Holdings Ltd of £72m is no longer required and has been released. Similarly,an
impairment provision relating to Cashhold Ltd has been reduced by £3m.  
Principally Country of
Principal activities operates incorporation
Principal subsidiary undertakings
BAE SYSTEMS (Operations) Ltd Defence and commercial aerospace activities UK England
(Held via BAE SYSTEMS Enterprises Ltd) and Wales
BAE SYSTEMS Australia Ltd Defence support and avionics Australia Australia
(Held via BAE SYSTEMS Australia Holdings Ltd)
BAE SYSTEMS Electronics Ltd Defence electronics UK England
(Held via Meslink Ltd) and Wales
BAE SYSTEMS Marine Ltd
1
Shipbuilding UK England
(Held via BAE SYSTEMS Marine (Holdings) Ltd) and Wales
BAE SYSTEMS Avionics Ltd
1
Avionics UK England
(Held via BAE SYSTEMS Electronics Ltd) and Wales
BAE SYSTEMS North America Inc. Defence systems US US
(Held via BAE SYSTEMS Holdings Inc)
Royal Ordnance plc Manufacture of ammunition and weapon systems UK England
(Held by BAE SYSTEMS plc) and Wales
Atlas Elektronik GmbH Naval systems Germany Germany
(Held via BAE SYSTEMS Deutschland GmbH)
Alvis plc Manufacture and support of military vehicles UK England
(Held by BAE SYSTEMS plc) and Wales
Principal joint ventures
Airbus SAS (20%) Commercial aerospace activities Europe France
(Held via BAE SYSTEMS (Operations) Ltd)
Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH (33%) Management and control of Eurofighter T yphoon programme Germany Germany
(Held by BAE SYSTEMS plc)
MBDA SAS (37.5%) Development and manufacture of guided weapons Europe France
(Held via BAE SYSTEMS Electronics Ltd)
Panavia Aircraft GmbH (42.5%) Management and control of T ornado programme Germany Germany
(Held by BAE SYSTEMS plc)
Saab AB (34.2%) Defence and commercial aerospace activities Sweden Sweden
(Held via BAE SYSTEMS (Sweden) AB)
AMS NV (50%) Radar , combat and air traffic management systems UK and Italy Netherlands
(Held via BAE SYSTEMS Electronics Ltd)
Flagship T raining Ltd (50%) Supply of naval training and support services UK England
(Held via BAE SYSTEMS Electronics Ltd) and Wales
Fleet Support Ltd (50%) Engineering and facilities management support to UK England
(Held via BAE SYSTEMS Marine (Holdings) Ltd) the Royal Navy and Wales
Gripen International KB (50%) Marketing and selling of Gripen fighter aircraft Sweden Sweden
(Held via BAE SYSTEMS (Operations) Ltd)
The above list sets out the principal subsidiaries and joint ventures included within the group accounts. It does not represent a full list of subsidiaries, joint
ventures and other investments. All holdings represent 100% of ordinary share capital, except where otherwise indicated.
1 companies subject to specific Office of Fair T rading undertakings. Copies of these companies’ accounts may be obtained from the BAE Systems Company Secretary. 78 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED) 
13  Stocks
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Long-term contract balances 4,028 3,706 — —
Less: attributable progress payments (3,631) (3,319) — —
397 387 — —
Short-term work-in-progress 265 224 — —
Raw materials and consumables 120 70 — —
Finished goods and goods for resale 110 91 — —
Development properties 3 3 2 2
895 775 2 2
14  Debtors
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Due within one year
Amounts recoverable under long-term contracts 881 1,663 — —
T rade debtors 348 331 — —
Corporation tax recoverable — — 36 —
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings — — 3,071 6,259
Amounts owed by joint ventures 178 158 81 74
Other debtors 222 250 69 80
Prepayments and accrued income 145 186 49 52
1,774 2,588 3,306 6,465
Due after one year
T rade debtors 61 109 — —
Amounts owed by joint ventures 9 9 9 9
Deferred tax (note 22) 107 84 — —
Other debtors 249 167 142 52
Pensions (note 27) 602 532 273 197
Prepayments and accrued income 36 26 25 16
1,064 927 449 274
15  Current asset investments
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Term deposits 737 196 559 95
Exchange Property (note 17) 674 661 674 661
Other securities 9 26 9 24
1,420 883 1,242 780
At 31 December 2004 the Exchange Property represented 477 million shares in Vodafone Group Plc (2003 477 million shares). 
As explained in note 17, the Exchange Property has been recorded at its market value as this was below the issue price of the related bonds at both
31 December 2004 and 31 December 2003.
Company Group
Company Group
Company Group 79 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
16  Loans and overdrafts
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Due within one year
Bank loans and overdrafts 2 1 221 86
European Investment Bank loan 24 22 24 22
SYSTEMS 2001 Asset T rust: 
Option Aircraft bond 4 3 4 3
Permitted Investment bond — — — —
Exchangeable Bonds (note 17) 674 672 674 672
US Commercial Paper — 79 — —
8.85%  loan note – GKN plc 15 — — —
Obligations under finance leases — 2 — 2
719 779 923 785
Due after one year
Bank loans 3 — — —
US$ 7% note, repayable 2007 120 120 — —
Euro-Sterling 11
7
⁄ 8% bond, repayable 2008 150 150 150 150
European Investment Bank loan, final instalment 2009 44 68 44 68
Euro-Sterling 10
3
⁄ 4% bond, repayable 2014 100 100 100 100
US$ 7.5% bond, repayable 2027 300 300 — —
SYSTEMS 2001 Asset T rust:
Option Aircraft bond, final instalment 2013 425 449 425 449
Permitted Investment bond, repayable 2010 1 1 1 1
US$ bond, repayable 2011 518 561 — —
Other loan notes 2 — 2 —
Obligations under finance leases 2 — — —
1,665 1,749 722 768
Bank loans and overdrafts are at a floating rate of interest.
The European Investment Bank loan has a weighted average fixed rate of interest of 6.86%. 
The US$ bond, repayable 2011, is at a floating rate of interest with a weighted average of 3.34% during 2004.
The SYSTEMS 2001 Asset T rust bonds are at a floating rate of interest.
The other loan notes were issued to certain shareholders of Alvis plc as part of the consideration paid by the group on acquisition of that company as
set out in note 10. The notes pay a floating rate of interest on the principal amount outstanding and are redeemable at par at the option of the holder
on 31 December in any of the years up to 2009, at which time any outstanding balance will be redeemed by the company.
Finance lease obligations are generally repayable in periodic instalments (monthly or annual) and incur interest at 8%. 
The remaining borrowings identified above are all at the fixed rates shown.
At 31 December 2004 borrowings of £1,429m (2003 £1,434m) are at fixed rates of interest compared to £955m (2003 £1,094m) at floating rates
of interest. The floating rate borrowings include bank debt bearing interest at rates based on the relevant inter-bank rate or base rates.
Loans and overdrafts are repayable as follows:
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
In one year or less 719 779 923 785
Between one and two years 50 30 48 30
Between two and five years 416 416 295 296
In later years 1,199 1,303 379 442
2,384 2,528 1,645 1,553
The total amount of loans repayable by instalments, where any instalment is due after five years, is £432m for the group (2003 £543m) and £432m
for the company (2003 £543m).
Company Group
Company Group 80 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED) 
17  Exchangeable Bonds and Exchange Property
The company has in issue £676m (2003 £676m) 3.75% Senior Unsecured Exchangeable Bonds (the Bonds), due in 2006. At any time prior to the
due date the Bondholders have the right to request to exchange their Bonds for the Exchange Property, which is represented by the group’ s holding in
the ordinary share capital of Vodafone Group Plc (see note 15). On receiving such early redemption notice, the company has the option to settle the
Bond in cash, based on the prevailing market value of the Exchange Property. The company does not intend currently to use this option to settle any
material proportion of the Bonds in cash. Any Bonds still outstanding on the due date will be settled by the company in cash at the principal amount.
The Bonds are recorded at issue price less unamortised issue costs, which represent the maximum economic exposure.
The value of the Exchange Property was initially based on the issue price of the Bonds, which represented the realisable value to the group. The
historical cost of the Exchange Property to the group is negligible, and the uplift to match the Exchange Property to the value of the Bonds was
recorded as an unrealised gain within other reserves.
This treatment of the Exchange Property represents a departure from the normal requirements of the Companies Act 1985 under which current
asset investments are to be carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value. This basis would, for the reasons set out above, in the opinion of the
directors not reflect the economic substance of the transaction nor show a true and fair view.
At 31 December 2004 the value of the group’ s holding in Vodafone Group Plc was less than the redemption value of the Bonds. Accordingly the group
has recorded the value of the Exchange Property at its market value at that date.
The movement in 2004 of £13m in the market value of the Exchange Property has been offset against the original unrealised gain within other
reserves, and disclosed within the non-cash movements in the consolidated movement on net debt.
18  Creditors
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Due within one year
Customer stage payments:
Long-term contracts 2,524 1,899 — —
Others 121 98 — —
Cash received on customers’ account:
Long-term contracts 11 2 — —
Others 2 3 — —
T rade creditors 507 482 — —
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings — — 5,859 7,896
Amounts owed to joint ventures 1,070 794 1,061 798
Corporation tax 200 196 — —
Other taxes and social security costs 23 42 — —
Dividends 189 179 189 179
Other creditors 567 759 152 36
Pensions (note 27) 13 5 — —
Accruals and deferred income 1,338 1,387 86 153
6,565 5,846 7,347 9,062
Due after one year
Customer stage payments: 
Long-term contracts 123 239 — —
Cash received on customers’ accounts: 
Long-term contracts 5 — — —
T rade creditors — 1 — —
Amounts owed to joint ventures 10 10 — —
Other creditors 237 113 2 2
Pensions (note 27) 109 102 — —
Accruals and deferred income 24 17 2 11
508 482 4 13
Pensions creditors in the group of £122m (2003 £107m) includes £64m (2003 £49m) in respect of European schemes (see note 27).
Company Group 81 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
19  Provisions for liabilities and charges
Post Contracts Warranties and Reorganisation Regional Contract
Deferred retirement and after sales ongoing aircraft and
tax benefits other service operations Total other
note 22 note 27
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 83 68 254 163 45 287 900 —
Created 109 7 118 49 14 18 315 5
Released — (1) (70) (29) (8) — (108) —
Utilised — (12) (23) (23) (20) (104) (182) —
Provisions arising on acquisitions 4 — 28 20 3 — 55 —
Exchange adjustments — (5) (10) (3) (1) — (19) —
Other provision movements — — 1 (2) 1 56 56 —
At 31 December 2004 196 57 298 175 34 257 1,017 5
Contracts and other
In respect of ongoing contracts, appropriate provisions are made for any losses in the year in which they are first foreseen. The balance remaining,
after the allocation of any such losses to work-in-progress, is recorded as a liability provision. The associated outflows are estimated to occur over
the period of the contract, normally between one and five years.
Other provisions include legal costs, insurance and environmental commitments.
Warranties and after-sales service
Warranties and after-sales service are provided in the normal course of business with provisions for associated costs being made based on an
assessment of future claims with reference to past experience. Such costs are generally incurred within one to five years post delivery.
Reorganisations – ongoing operations
The provision relates to 2004 and prior year rationalisation programmes.
Regional aircraft
This provision contains the costs associated with the decision in 2001 to close the regional jet aircraft activities, principally manufacturing, and
reorganise certain other commercial aerospace activities (see note 6) and recourse provisions (see note 20) in respect of financing arrangements
for aircraft previously sold by the group.
The recourse element of the provision of £253m (2003 £253m) covers costs to be incurred over the period to 2013 and the directors believe it is
appropriate to state the recourse provisions at its net present value (NPV). Adjustments to NPV are recorded within other provision movements. Of
the adjustment of £56m in 2004, £13m was transferred to the creditor balance in respect of aircraft financing (see note 20) as a non-cash
movement within the amount utilised in the year .
Provisions arising on acquisitions
The amount arising on acquisitions represents the fair value of provisions held at acquisition by Alvis plc, DigitalNet Holdings Inc and other
companies acquired by the group during the year (see note 10).
Other provision movements
Reclassifications between provision categories are reported within other provision movements.
Company
Provisions created relate to onerous property leases.
Company Group 82 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED) 
20  Commercial aircraft financing
FRIP Post-FRIP FRIP Post-FRIP
aircraft aircraft Total aircraft aircraft Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Future cash flow payments in respect of aircraft financing
obligations 1,951 393 2,344 2,317 400 2,717
Amounts pre-financed (see below) (518) — (518) (594) — (594)
1,433 393 1,826 1,723 400 2,123
Income guaranteed through insurance (1,167) — (1,167) (1,273) — (1,273)
Anticipated residual values — (365) (365) — (378) (378)
Adjustments to net present value (18) (5) (23) (46) (4) (50)
Exposure at net present value 248 23 271 404 18 422
Amounts included within:
Creditors 18 — 18 169 — 169
Provisions 230 23 253 235 18 253
248 23 271 404 18 422
The group has provided guarantees in respect of residual values or head lease and finance payments in respect of certain commercial aircraft sold.
At 31 December 2004 the group’ s future payments in respect of these arrangements were £2,344m (2003 £2,717m).
As part of a restructuring of its gross obligations through the issue of a limited recourse bond in 2001, the group pre-financed certain of the residual
value guarantees.
The future cash flows associated with this pre-financing totalled £518m at 31 December 2004 (2003 £594m). 
A significant proportion of the net exposure of £1,826m (2003 £2,123m) is covered by a Financial Risk Insurance Programme (FRIP) which provides
insurance cover in respect of potential shortfalls in contracted and expected income. Any anticipated liability in respect of uninsured amounts is
accounted for on a net present value basis.
Since the inception of the FRIP , the group has granted residual value guarantees in respect of aircraft sold totalling £393m (2003 £400m). After
taking account of independent appraisal valuations the directors consider that the group’ s net exposure to these guarantees is covered by the
provisions held, on a net present value basis, and the residual values of the related aircraft.
The group is also exposed to actual and contingent liabilities arising from commercial aircraft financing and residual value guarantees given by
Saab AB and Airbus SAS. Provision is made against the expected net exposures on a net present value basis. The group’ s share of such exposure is
limited to its percentage shareholding in each of these joint ventures.
2003 2004 83 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
21  Contingent liabilities and commitments
Company guaranteed borrowings
Borrowings of subsidiary undertakings totalling £720m (2003 £975m) which are included in the group’ s borrowings (note 16) have been guaranteed
by the company.
Guarantees and performance bonds
The group and company have entered into a number of guarantee and performance bond arrangements in the normal course of business. Provision
is made for any amounts that the directors consider may become payable under such arrangements.
Operating lease commitments
The commitments of the group in respect of expenditure in the year ahead arising from operating leases are set out below:
Aircraft Aircraft
Property financing Other Property financing Other
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Operating leases which expire:
In one year or less 25 21 2 71 2
Between one and five years 35 51 3 39 52 5
In later years 58 21 1 47 37 —
118 93 6 93 90 7
The company has an ongoing annual property operating lease commitment for £6m which expires after five years (2003 £5m).
Capital commitments
Capital expenditure for tangible fixed assets contracted for but not provided for in the accounts comprised £57m for the group (2003 £78m) and
£1m for the company (2003 £nil).
Aircraft financing contingent liabilities 
Aircraft financing contingent liabilities are set out in note 20.
Treasury contingent liabilities
T reasury contingent liabilities are set out in note 30.
2003 2004 84 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED) 
22  Deferred tax
2004 2003
£m £m
Accelerated capital allowances (63) (41)
Provisions and accruals 171 227
Pensions (163) (115)
Other (34) (70)
Deferred tax (provision)/asset (89) 1
Asset at 1 January 1 51
Exchange adjustments (8) (10)
Other movements 22 12
Deferred tax charge in profit and loss account for period (104) (52)
Deferred tax (provision)/asset at 31 December (89) 1
This (provision)/asset is included within:
Debtors (note 14) 107 84
Provisions for liabilities and charges (note 19) (196) (83)
(89) 1
The group has unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses, accelerated capital allowances and other short-term timing differences, the
net tax effect of which is £177m (2003 £149m). These assets have not been recognised as the precise incidence of future profits in the relevant
countries and legal entities cannot be sufficiently accurately predicted at this time.
No deferred tax has been provided in respect of future remittances of the accumulated reserves of overseas subsidiary undertakings and joint
ventures as there are no binding agreements entered into by the subsidiaries and joint ventures to distribute these past earnings.
No significant potential liability to tax is expected to arise if properties included at valuation in the accounts were realised at their revalued amounts.
In respect of rolled over capital gains the potential year end liability amounted to £29m (2003 £26m). 85 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
23  Share capital
Number of Nominal Number of Nominal Number of Nominal Nominal
shares value shares value shares value value
m£m m £m £ £m
Authorised
At 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2004 3,850 96 275 69 1 1 165
Issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2004 3,060 77 266 66 1 1 143
One Special Share of £1 in the company is held on behalf of the Secretary of State for T rade and Industry (the ‘Special Shareholder’). Certain parts of
the company’ s Articles of Association cannot be amended without the consent of the Special Shareholder . These Articles include the requirement
that no foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, can have an interest in more than 15% of the company, the requirement that the majority
of the directors are British, and the requirement that the chief executive and any executive chairman are British citizens. The effect of these
requirements can also be amended by regulations made by the directors and approved by the Special Shareholder .
The Special Shareholder may require the company at any time to redeem the Special Share at par or to convert the Special Share into one ordinary
voting share. The Special Shareholder is entitled to receive notice of and to attend general meetings and class meetings of the company’s
shareholders but has no voting right, nor other rights, other than to speak in relation to any business in respect of the Special Share.
The 7.75p (net) cumulative redeemable preference shares of 25p each are convertible into ordinary shares of 2.5p each at the option of the holder
on 31 May in any of the years up to 2007, on the basis of 0.47904 ordinary shares for every preference share. During the year 24,705 shares were
converted for 11,834 ordinary shares.
The company may redeem all of the remaining preference shares at any time after 1 July 2007 and, in any case, will redeem any remaining shares on
1 January 2010, in each case at 100p per share together with any arrears and accruals of dividend. The maximum redemption value of the
preference shares, ignoring any arrears or accruals of dividends, is therefore £266m and this amount has been disclosed on the face of the balance
sheet as the total of non-equity shareholders’ funds.
The preference shares carry voting rights at a general meeting of the company only where the preferential dividend is six months or more in arrears,
or where a motion is to be proposed which abrogates, varies or modifies the rights of the preference shareholders, or where a motion is to be
proposed for the winding up of the company. On a winding up, holders of the preference shares are entitled, after repayment of the capital paid up on
the Special Share and in priority to any payment to any other class of shareholder , to the return of amounts paid up or credited as paid up on the
preference shares together with a premium of 75p per share, and all arrears of preferential dividends.
Ordinary shares of 2.5p each Preference  shares of 25p each Special share of £1
Equity Non-Equity Total 86 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED) 
23  Share capital (continued)
Under the BAE SYSTEMS SAYE Share Option Scheme, the BAE SYSTEMS International SAYE Share Option Scheme, the BAE SYSTEMS Joint Venture
SAYE Share Option Scheme and the BAE SYSTEMS Consortium SAYE Share Option Plans for MBDA, Xchanging HR Services and Xchanging
Procurement Services, options to purchase ordinary shares of 2.5p each are exercisable normally on completion of the related savings contracts.
The number of options exercised (in accordance with the rules of the Schemes) and outstanding at 31 December 2004, together with their exercise
prices rounded to the nearest penny, was as follows:
Exercised Lapsed
Exercise during during Out-
price the year the year standing
p ’000 ’000 ’000
BAE SYSTEMS SAYE Share Option Scheme
Granted
1998 (October) 290 — 4,301 —
1999 (October) 321 — 265 3,226
2000 (March) 257 — 567 5,863
2001 (March) 256 — 5,991 7,503
2002 (March) 256 — 1,272 11,127
2003 (March) 93 26 486 8,599
2004 (March) 156 2 159 8,714
28 13,041 45,032
BAE SYSTEMS Joint Venture SAYE Share Option Scheme
Granted
1998 (November) 353 — 611 —
1999 (October) 321 — 9 510
2000 (March) 257 — 70 1,075
2001 (March) 256 — 1,197 1,396
2002 (March) 256 — 106 1,316
2003 (March) 93 3 49 939
2004 (March) 156 — 19 1,113
3 2,061 6,349
BAE SYSTEMS Consortium SAYE Share Option Plans
Granted
2002 (March) MBDA 256 — 46 1,077
2003 (March) MBDA 93 — 14 697
2004 (March) MBDA 156 — 8 886
2002 (March) Xchanging Procurement Services 256 — — 2
2003 (March) Xchanging Procurement Services 93 — — 3
2004 (March) Xchanging Procurement Services 156 — — 4
2002 (March) Xchanging HR Services 256 — 16 74
2003 (March) Xchanging HR Services 93 — 8 39
2004 (March) Xchanging HR Services 156 — 4 51
—96 2,833
BAE SYSTEMS International SAYE Share Option Plans
Granted
2003 (March) 93 — 1 —
—1 —
T otal in respect of above schemes 31 15,199 54,214 87 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
23  Share capital (continued)
Under the BAE SYSTEMS Executive Share Option Plan, BAE SYSTEMS Executive Share Option Scheme, the BAE SYSTEMS Joint Venture Executive
Share Option Scheme (JV) and the BAE SYSTEMS International Executive Share Option Scheme (INT), options to purchase ordinary shares of 2.5p
each are exercisable not later than ten years and normally not earlier than three years from the date of the grant. 
The number of options exercised (in accordance with the rules of the Schemes) and outstanding at 31 December 2004, together with their exercise
prices rounded to the nearest penny, was as follows:
Exercised Lapsed
Exercise during during
price the year the year Balance
p ’000 ’000 ’000
Granted
1995 (March) 122 50 14 63
1995 (October) 186 94 — 618
1996 (March) 216 21 47 431
1996 (October) 265 — 20 511
1996 (October) 275 — 41 519
1997 (March) 339 — 88 825
1997 (October) 430 — 22 446
1998 (March) 487 — 27 221
1998 (October) 329 — 75 701
JV 1998 (October) 329 — 21 380
1999 (March) 395 — 139 854
JV 1999 (March) 395 — — 15
1999 (October) 402 — 135 926
JV 1999 (October) 402 — — 49
1999 (December) 421 — 909 1,805
JV 1999 (December) 421 — — 150
INT 1999 (December) 421 — — 1,386
2000 (May) 398 — 93 1,744
JV 2000 (May) 398 — 352 220
INT 2000 (May) 398 — 5 45
2000 (October) 354 — 214 2,068
JV 2000 (October) 354 — 273 15
2001 (May) 330 — 116 8,207
JV 2001 (May) 330 — — 585
2001 (May) 342 — — 1,941
2001 (October) 327 — — 191
JV 2001 (October) 327 — 145 2,279
2002 (April) 335 — 87 7,725
2002 (October) 326 — — 120
2002 (October) 195 — — 146
JV 2002 (October) 195 — 75 1,867
2003 (September) 172 — 75 11,506
JV 2003 (October) 181 — 31 1,899
2004 (March) 201 — 35 10,182
JV 2004 (October) 240 — 8 2,680
2004 (October) 240 — — 155
165 3,047 63,475 88 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED) 
24  Reserves
Share Profit Share Profit
premium Other and loss premium Other and loss
account reserves account account reserves account
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 (restated) 412 5,370 (536)
1
412 142 745
Retained loss — — (779) — — (280)
Adjustment to Exchange Property — 13 — — — —
Realisation of revaluation reserve — (11) 11 — (2) 2
T ransfer of non-distributable reserve — — — — (12) 12
Dilution of interest in Saab — — 2 — — —
Share based payments — — 2 — — 2
Exchange adjustment — — (105) — — —
At 31 December 2004 412 5,372 (1,405) 412 128 481
1 the balance brought forward for the profit and loss accounts of both the group and the company have been restated to include deductions of £9m for the value of own shares held
by the BAE SYSTEMS ESOP T rust which were previously held in separate reserves (see note 1)
Other reserves – group
Other reserves for the group comprise: merger reserve £4,589m (2003 £4,589m); Exchange Property £636m (2003 £623m); revaluation reserve
£136m (2003 £147m); and unrealised gain in respect of exchange of interests £11m (2003 £11m).
Other reserves – company
Other reserves for the company comprise: capital reserve £24m (2003 £24m); revaluation reserve £nil (2003 £2m); and non-distributable reserve
arising from property disposals to other group undertakings £104m (2003 £116m).
The non-distributable reserve arising from property disposals to other group undertakings relates to the revaluation surplus realised by the company
on properties which were sold to other group companies as part of operational reorganisations in prior years. Amounts within this reserve will be
transferred to the profit and loss account as distributable when the related properties are disposed of outside the group, or written down following
impairment.
Own shares held and share based payments – group and company
Within the profit and loss account of the group and company are deductions for the value of own shares held of £7m (2003 £9m) which comprise a
holding of 2,567,228 (2003 2,848,726) ordinary shares of 2.5p each in the company, listed on The London Stock Exchange and held by the
BAE SYSTEMS ESOP T rust of which Bank of Scotland T rust Company (International) Limited are the trustees. Information on the market value and
allocation of these shares to the group’ s various share option schemes is as follows:
2004 2003
£m £m
Market value
Under option 2 1
Not yet allocated to share option schemes 4 4
6 5
Number of Number of
shares shares
Allocation
Held under Restricted Share Plan
Executive directors: under option 285,563 198,372
Other employees: under option 513,076 305,426
Not yet allocated to share option schemes 1,768,589 2,344,928
2,567,228 2,848,726
Dividends on the shares held in the ESOP T rust have not been waived. Finance costs and other administrative charges are dealt with in the profit and
loss account on an accruals basis.
The credit to reserves for share based payments relates to the profit and loss account charge recorded under the requirements of UITF 17.
Company Group
1 89 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
24  Reserves (continued)
Amounts taken directly to reserves on acquisitions – group
The cumulative negative goodwill is £33m (2003 £33m). The cumulative amount of goodwill arising on consolidation is £64m (2003 £64m).
Company profit
The company’ s profit for the financial year was £32m (2003 £506m).
25  Statutory reserve
Under section 4 of the British Aerospace Act 1980 this reserve may only be applied in paying up unissued shares of the company to be allotted to
members of the company as fully paid bonus shares.
26  Equity minority interests
Joint Joint
Subsidiaries ventures Total Subsidiaries ventures Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 10 5 15 10 10 20
Reclassification to share of joint venture net assets —— — — (6) (6)
Share of profit for the year 1— 1 11 2
Dividends paid to minority interests (1) (1) (2) (1) — (1)
At 31 December 10 4 14 10 5 15
2003 2004 90 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED) 
27  Post retirement benefit schemes
The group has continued to account for pensions in accordance with SSAP 24 and the disclosures given in (a) are those required by that standard.
FRS 17 was issued in November 2000 but the Accounting Standards Board has deferred full mandatory implementation. Prior to this,transitional
disclosures are required which, to the extent they are not given in note (a), are set out in (b).
(a) Pension schemes
The group operates pension schemes in the UK and overseas. The main schemes are funded defined benefit schemes and the assets are held in
separate trustee administered funds. Pension scheme valuations are regularly carried out by independent actuaries to determine pension costs for
pension funding, SSAP 24 and FRS 17 purposes.
The details of the principal schemes, their respective latest valuation dates, and the financial assumptions used for the SSAP 24 valuations are
given below. 
Valuation
method and date
UK schemes
BAE SYSTEMS Projected Unit
Pension Scheme 5 April 2002
BAE SYSTEMS Projected Unit
2000 Pension Plan 6 April 2004
Royal Ordnance Projected Unit
Pension Scheme 31 December 2001
BAE SYSTEMS (VSEL) Section Attained Age
Shipbuilding Industries Pension Scheme 1 April 2004
Principal assumptions used in the valuations for the UK schemes were that in the long term the average return on investments would exceed:
2004 2003
% %
Average increases in pay by 2.50 to 3.25 2.00 to 3.00
Average increases in pensions by 3.75 to 4.25 3.50 to 4.00
Dividend growth by 2.75 2.75
Valuation
method and date
US schemes
BAE SYSTEMS Projected Unit
Employee Retirement Plan No. 1 1 January 2004
As permitted under SSAP 24 the US schemes have been accounted for under the Financial Accounting Standards Board’ s Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 87 Employers’ accounting for pensions.
Principal assumptions used in the valuations for the US schemes were that in the long term the average return on investments would be 8.75%
(2003 8.75%) and average increases in pay would be 5.83% (2003 5.42%).
The aggregate of the market values of the assets of the principal schemes operated by the group at the latest date of actuarial valuation totalled
£9.3bn (2003 £9.7bn). The actuarial value for the assets covered approximately 96% (2003 100%) of the benefits that had accrued to members
after allowing for expected future increases in wages and salaries. The market value of these assets at 31 December 2004 was approximately
£9.8bn (2003 £9.1bn).
The net deficit is being amortised using the straight line method over the estimated average service lives of the related scheme members of 9 to
14 years. The net charge to the profit and loss account amounted to £192m (2003 £127m), excluding charges in respect of the contributions made
by the group’ s joint venture companies. 91 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
27  Post retirement benefit schemes (continued)
Pension prepayments included in debtors of the group amounted to £602m (2003 £532m) (note 14) and pension liabilities included in the creditors
of the group amounted to £122m (2003 £107m) (note 18). Cash contributions by the group to the pension schemes totalled £237m
(2003 £233m). In addition, £70m (2003 £62m) of cash contributions were received into the various schemes from joint venture companies.
The group also incurred a charge in respect of the cash contributions of £40m (2003 £32m) paid to defined contribution pension schemes for
certain employees.
A charge of £2m (2003 £2m) has also been incurred, with cash paid of £2m (2003 £2m), for pensions under Atlas Electronik GmbH’ s unfunded
pension arrangement. The estimated future liabilities as at 31 December 2004 totalled £51m (2003 £49m) and are included in the balance for
pensions within creditors referred to above. This scheme has been accounted for under the International Accounting Standards Board’s
International Accounting Standard No. 19 Employee Benefits (IAS 19).
As a result of the group’ s acquisition of Alvis plc, charges have been made to the profit and loss account in respect of that company’ s pension
schemes and these are included in the figures set out above. Prepayments and accruals at 31 December 2004 are also included above,together
with the estimated future liabilities of the company’ s unfunded Swedish pension scheme which totalled £13m at the year end and have been
included within the balance for creditors.
The group’ s pension funding requirements are derived from separate independent actuarial valuations required by the company and the trustees of
the various schemes.
Post retirement benefits other than pensions
The group also operates a number of non-pension post retirement benefit plans, under which certain employees are eligible to receive benefits after
retirement, the majority of which relate to the provision of medical benefits to retired employees of the group’ s subsidiaries in the US. These
schemes are generally unfunded. The latest valuations of the principal schemes, covering retiree medical and life insurance plans in certain US
subsidiaries, were performed by independent actuaries as at 1 January 2004. The method of accounting for these is similar to that used for defined
benefit pension schemes. The gross liability at 31 December 2004 amounts to £57m (2003 £68m), all of which is held within provisions (note 19).
(b) Transitional FRS 17 disclosure
The disclosures below relate to retirement benefit plans in the UK, US and Europe (the latter arising in respect of Atlas Elektronik and Alvis plc)
accounted for on a defined benefit basis under FRS 17. The valuations used for the FRS 17 disclosures are based on the most recent actuarial
valuation undertaken by independent qualified actuaries and updated to take account of the requirements of FRS 17 in order to assess the
surplus/deficit of the schemes at 31 December each year . Scheme assets are stated at the market value at 31 December each year and scheme
liabilities are based on the results of the last actuarial valuation.
The financial assumptions used to calculate liabilities for the schemes were:
2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002
% %% % %%
Inflation rate 2.70 2.60 2.30 3.00 3.00 4.00
Rate of increase in salaries 3.70 3.60 3.30 5.83 5.40 4.50-4.80
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2.50-3.00 2.60-3.00 2.30-3.00 nil nil nil
Rate of increase for deferred pensions 2.70 2.60 2.30 — ——
Discount rate 5.30 5.50 5.75 5.90 6.25 6.75
Long-term healthcare cost increases — —— 5.70 5.80 4.50-5.50
US schemes UK schemes 92 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED) 
27  Post retirement benefit schemes (continued)
The assumptions used by the actuaries are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale covered,
may not necessarily be borne out in practice. The fair value of scheme assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short-term and may be
subject to significant change before they are realised, and the present value of scheme liabilities, which are derived from cash flow projections over
long periods and thus inherently uncertain, as at 31 December were:
2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002
% %% £m £m £m
Equities 8.25 8.50 8.50 6,220 5,996 5,131
Bonds 5.00 5.20 4.50 1,883 1,701 1,623
Other (mainly property) 6.25 6.50 6.50 1,101 712 579
T otal market value 9,204 8,409 7,333
Present value of scheme liabilities (13,074) (11,152) (10,125)
Deficit (3,870) (2,743) (2,792)
Related deferred tax asset 1,122 823 838
Net pension liability (2,748) (1,920) (1,954)
2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002
% %% £m £m £m
Equities 9.00 9.00 10.50 623 591 500
Bonds 5.60 5.60 6.00 189 179 230
Other (mainly property) 6.60 6.60 8.00 132 126 64
T otal market value 944 896 794
Present value of scheme liabilities (1,335) (1,185) (1,127)
Deficit (391) (289) (333)
Related deferred tax asset 149 110 123
Net pension liability (242) (179) (210) 
US healthcare schemes
Deficit (69) (99) (74)
Related deferred tax asset 26 38 28
Net healthcare liability (43) (61) (46)
The deficit on the US healthcare schemes before deferred tax reflects assets of £39m (2003 £34m) and liabilities of £108m (2003 £133m).
Value Long term rate of return
US pension schemes
Value Long term rate of return
UK pension schemes 93 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
27  Post retirement benefit schemes (continued)
If FRS 17 had been adopted in the financial statements, the group’ s net assets and profit and loss reserve would be as follows:
2004 2003 2002
£m £m £m
Net assets as stated in balance sheet 4,738 5,606 5,685
Pension asset recognised under SSAP 24 (note 14) (602) (532) (434)
Pension liabilities recognised under SSAP 24 (note 18) 122 107 45
Post retirement healthcare liability recognised in accordance with SSAP 24 (note 19) 57 68 74
Related deferred tax (note 22) 163 115 80
Net assets excluding defined benefit assets/liabilities 4,478 5,364 5,450
FRS 17 pension liabilities for UK and US schemes (net of deferred tax) (2,990) (2,099) (2,164)
FRS 17 pension liabilities for European schemes (net of deferred tax) (44) (29) —
FRS 17 other retirement benefits (net of deferred tax) (43) (61) (46)
Net assets including defined benefit assets/liabilities 1,401 3,175 3,240
Group profit and loss reserve (1,405) (536) (352)
1
Pension asset recognised under SSAP 24 (note 14) (602) (532) (434)
Pension liabilities recognised under SSAP 24 (note 18) 122 107 45
Post retirement healthcare liability recognised in accordance with SSAP 24 (note 19) 57 68 74
Related deferred tax (note 22) 163 115 80
Group profit and loss reserve excluding amounts relating to defined benefit assets/liabilities (1,665) (778) (587)
FRS 17 pension liabilities for UK and US schemes (net of deferred tax) (2,990) (2,099) (2,164)
FRS 17 pension liabilities for European schemes (net of deferred tax) (44) (29) —
FRS 17 other retirement benefits (net of deferred tax) (43) (61) (46)
Group profit and loss reserve including defined benefit assets/liabilities (4,742) (2,967) (2,797)
1 restated, see notes 1 and 24
1 94 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED) 
27  Post retirement benefit schemes (continued)
On full adoption of FRS 17, on the basis of the above assumptions, the amounts that would have been charged to the consolidated profit and loss
account and consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses are set out below:
UK pension US pension US healthcare UK pension US pension US healthcare
schemes schemes schemes Total schemes schemes schemes Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Consolidated profit and loss account
Amounts charged to group operating profit
Current service cost, including amounts related to 
joint venture companies (182) (37) (2) (221) (176) (38) (1) (215)
Less contributions received from joint venture companies 62 — — 62 64 — — 64
(120) (37) (2) (159) (112) (38) (1) (151)
Past service cost, including amounts related to
joint venture companies (30) — — (30) (38) 1 — (37)
Less contributions received from joint venture companies 1— — 1 4— — 4
(29) — — (29) (34) 1 — (33)
Curtailments and settlements 35 — — 35 (1) 12 — 11
Total group operating charge (114) (37) (2) (153) (147) (25) (1) (173)
Group share of pension costs charged by joint venture 
companies (20) — — (20) (20) — — (20)
Total charged to profit before interest and similar items (134) (37) (2) (173) (167) (25) (1) (193)
Amounts credited/(charged) to other finance charges
Expected return on pension scheme assets 639 80 3 722 540 71 2 613
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (609) (73) (8) (690) (575) (75) (6) (656)
Net return 30 7 (5) 32 (35) (4) (4) (43)
Total charged to consolidated profit and loss account
before tax (104) (30) (7) (141) (202) (29) (5) (236)
Certain of the group's joint venture companies contribute to the group's defined benefit pension schemes. These are all multi-employer schemes
and, for the purpose of reporting under FRS 17, the joint ventures' share of the underlying assets and liabilities has not been separately identified.
In consequence, the joint ventures currently account for the schemes on a defined contribution basis. The group accounts reflect 100% of the
movements on, and balances in, the schemes, net of the contributions received from the joint ventures.
Amounts recognised in consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses:
2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m % % £m £m % %
Actual return less expected return on pension 
scheme assets 246 710 18 117
As percentage of scheme assets 2.7 8.4 1.8 13.0
Experience gains and losses arising on pension 
scheme liabilities (20) 20 (87) (61)
As percentage of present value of scheme liabilities (0.2) 0.2 (6.5) (5.1)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present 
value of the scheme liabilities (1,421) (669) (89) (78)
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognisable in the consolidated 
statement of total recognised gains and losses (1,195) 61 (158) (22)
As percentage of present value of scheme liabilities (9.1) 0.5 (11.8) (1.8)
US pension schemes UK pension schemes
2003 2004 95 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
27  Post retirement benefit schemes (continued)
Movement in deficit during the year:
UK US US Other
pensionpensionhealthcare pension
schemes schemes schemes Total schemes Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Deficit in schemes at 1 January 2003 (2,792) (333) (74) (3,199) — (3,199)
T ransfers arising on exchange of interests — — — — (46) (46)
Current service cost (176) (38) (1) (215) (2) (217)
Past service costs (38) 1 — (37) — (37)
Curtailments and settlements (1) 12 — 11 — 11
Cash contributions 238 63 13 314 2 316
Other finance income/(costs) (35) (4) (4) (43) (3) (46)
Currency gain — 32 10 42 — 42
Actuarial gain/(loss) 61 (22) (43) (4) — (4)
Deficit in schemes at 31 December 2003 (2,743) (289) (99) (3,131) (49) (3,180)
T ransfers arising on acquisitions (33) (7) (1) (41) (15) (56)
Current service cost (182) (37) (2) (221) (2) (223)
Past service costs (30) — — (30) — (30)
Curtailments and settlements 35 — — 35 — 35
Cash contributions 248 61 12 321 2 323
Other finance income/(costs) 30 7 (5) 32 (4) 28
Currency gain — 32 6 38 — 38
Actuarial (loss)/gain (1,195) (158) 20 (1,333) (5) (1,338)
Deficit in schemes at 31 December 2004 (3,870) (391) (69) (4,330) (73) (4,403)
Related deferred tax asset at 31 December 2004 1,122 149 26 1,297 29 1,326
Net pension and healthcare liability at 31 December 2004 (2,748) (242) (43) (3,033) (44) (3,077)
The transfers on acquisition relate the net liabilities transferred from Alvis plc and Aerosystems International Limited. Other pension schemes
comprise the liabilities of the unfunded European schemes operated by Atlas Elektronik and Alvis Hagglunds AB schemes.
Comparison between total group profit and loss charge, excluding group share of pension costs charged by joint venture companies, for the UK
and US defined benefit pension schemes under SSAP 24 and FRS 17:
SSAP 24 FRS 17 SSAP 24 FRS 17
£m £m £m £m
Operating charge 192 151 127 172
Amounts (credited)/charged to other finance charges:
Expected return on pension scheme assets — (719) — (611)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities — 682 — 650
Interest — (37) —39
Group profit and loss charge 192 114 127 211
Company schemes
Employees of the company are members of various of the group's defined benefit schemes. These are all multi-employer schemes and, for the
purposes of reporting under FRS 17, the company's share of the underlying assets and liabilities has not been separately identified. In
consequence, the company currently accounts for the schemes on a defined contribution basis and no transitional disclosures are required by the
company under FRS 17.  
The schemes are included in the consolidated FRS 17 disclosures set out above.
2003 2004 96 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED) 
28  Analysis of net debt
The consolidated cash flow statement has been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 1 – Cash flow statements (revised 1996)
(FRS 1) to show the net movement in net cash available on demand. In addition, the cash flow statement includes a reconciliation to net cash/(debt)
as defined by the group.
Net funds Cash at bank and in hand plus liquid current asset investments less short and long term loans and overdrafts
Net (debt)/cash Net funds excluding cash on customers’ account
Cash on customers’ account Unexpended cash received from customers in advance of delivery which is subject to advance payment
guarantees unrelated to company performance
On the above basis, the group’ s net funds and net (debt)/cash comprise:
Amounts Other
At 1 January Cash acquired upon non-cash Foreign At 31 December
2004 flows acquisition movements exchange 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Current assets
Investments 883 524 — 13 — 1,420
Cash at bank and in hand:
Available on demand 771 204 — — (2) 973
Cash deposits with short-term maturity 9 5 — — — 14
Current liabilities
Loans and overdrafts:
Repayable on demand (1) — — — — (1)
Other (778) 85 (12) (15) 2 (718)
Liabilities falling due after more than one year
Loans (1,749) 84 (68) 13 57 (1,663)
Finance leases — — — (2) — (2)
Net funds (865) 902 (80) 9 57 23
Current liabilities
Cash on customers’ account (5) (7) (6) — — (18)
Net (debt)/cash (870) 895 (86) 9 57 5
Cash deposits with short-term maturity
Cash deposits with short-term maturity are treated as liquid resources in the cash flow statement and are included within cash at bank and in hand in
the balance sheet.
Other non-cash movements 
£m
Current asset investments
Adjustment to Exchange Property 13
Liabilities falling due within one year - loans and overdrafts
Other - maturing of loans acquired on acquisition from liabilities falling due after more than one year (15)
Liabilities falling due after more than one year - loans and overdrafts
Loans - maturing of loans acquired on acquisition to liabilities falling due within one year 15
- loan notes issued to former shareholders of Alvis plc as part of the consideration paid to acquire
the outstanding share capital in that company (2)
13
Finance leases - new obligations under finance leases (2)
9 97 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
29  Analysis of main headings in cash flow statement
2004 2003
£m £m
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities
Operating (loss)/profit (238) 258
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 1,131 625
Profit on disposal of fixed assets and investments (27) (23)
Impairment of fixed asset investments 5 —
Movement in provisions for liabilities and charges excluding deferred tax (71) (172)
(Increase)/decrease in working capital
Stocks (70) 19
Debtors 727 24
Creditors 89 (355)
Customer stage payments 525 460
2,071 836
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Interest received 66 53
Interest paid (164) (169)
Interest element of finance lease rental payments (1) (1)
Dividends paid on preference shares (21) (21)
(120) (138)
Taxation
UK corporation tax (paid)/repaid (18) 103
Overseas tax paid (13) (28)
(31) 75
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (337) (243)
Joint venture funding — 3
Sale of tangible fixed assets 131 67
Purchase of fixed asset investments (50) (75)
(256) (248)
Acquisitions
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings (663) (62)
Net cash acquired with subsidiary undertakings 113 —
(550) (62)
Management of liquid resources
Net (purchase)/sale of:
Cash deposits with short-term maturity (5) 192
Term deposits (541) (118)
Other securities 17 132
(524) 14
(529) 206
Financing
Capital element of finance lease rental payments (2) (9)
Cash inflow from loans — 2
Cash outflow from repayment of loans (167) (373)
(169) (380) 98 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED) 
30  Financial instruments
A discussion of the group’ s treasury objectives and policies and the use of financial instruments can be found in the operating and financial review
and the directors’ report. Financial instruments comprise net borrowings (note 16) together with other instruments deemed to be financial
instruments under FRS 13 including long-term debtors, long-term creditors and provisions for liabilities and charges. Disclosures dealt with in this
note exclude short-term debtors and creditors where permitted by FRS 13 except for the analysis of net currency exposures.
Interest rate risk management
At 31 December 2004, after taking account of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps, the currency and interest rate profile of the financial
assets and liabilities of the group was as follows:
Financial assets
The interest rate profile of the financial assets of the group was:
Financial Financial
Floating assets Floating assets
rate Fixed rate on which rate Fixed rate on which
financial financial no interest financial financial no interest
assets assets is paid Total assets assets is paid T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Currency
Sterling 1,519 — 812 2,331 738 2 827 1,567
US dollar 126 60 87 273 86 69 95 250
Other 188 — 3 191 132 — 43 175
Total 1,833 60 902 2,795 956 71 965 1,992
Floating rate financial assets attract interest at short-term interbank rates. The weighted average period until maturity for financial assets on which
no interest is paid is two to five years.
Fixed rate financial assets have a weighted average interest rate of 7.8% (2003 7.72%) and a weighted average period to maturity of 10 years
(2003 11 years).
Interest bearing financial assets comprise cash, money market deposits, certain fixed asset investments and debtors. Financial assets on which no
interest is paid include certain current asset investments and debtors.
In order to hedge certain long-term financial currency and interest rate exposures, the group has entered into a number of financial derivative
contracts with maturities ranging between ten to thirty years. Cash collateral payments can be required to be made periodically to the counterparty
dependent upon the mark to market value of these financial derivatives. Cash deposited in this way is treated as a long-term debtor and at the end of
2004 totalled £104m (2003 £22m).
2003 2004 99 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
30  Financial instruments (continued)
Financial liabilities
The interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the group was:
Financial Financial
Floating liabilities Floating liabilities
rate Fixed rate on which rate Fixed rate on which
financial financial no interest financial financial no interest
liabilities liabilities is paid Total liabilities liabilities is paid T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Currency
Sterling 430 1,789 444 2,663 454 1,698 530 2,682
Sterling own non-equity shares — 266 — 266 — 266 — 266
US dollar 518 — 266 784 640 — 245 885
Other 72 90 99 —— 90 90
Total 955 2,057 800 3,812 1,094 1,964 865 3,923
Weighted Weighted
Weighted average Weighted Weighted average Weighted
average period for average average period for average
interest which rate period until interest which rate period until
rate is fixed maturity rate is fixed maturity
%Years Years %Years Years
Currency
Sterling 6.80% 7.34 see below 6.70 7.90 see below
US dollar —— 1-2 —— 1-2
Other 8.00% 6.00 see below n/a n/a see below
Floating rate financial liabilities bear interest based on short-term interbank rates.
Interest bearing financial liabilities comprise bonds, commercial papers issued, net obligations under finance leases and bank overdrafts. Financial
liabilities on which no interest is paid primarily comprise long-term creditors and provisions for liabilities and charges.
Maturity of financial liabilities
Non-equity shares are redeemable on 1 January 2010. The maturity profile of loans and borrowings is set out in note 16. For the other financial
liabilities, note 19, gives an indication of the underlying liabilities which in general cover a period of between one and five years from the balance
sheet date.
Financial liabilities on
which no interest is paid
Fixed rate financial
liabilities
Financial liabilities on
which no interest is paid
Fixed rate financial
liabilities
2003 2004
2003 2004 100 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED) 
30  Financial instruments (continued)
Currency exposure
The analysis below shows the net monetary assets and liabilities of group companies that are not denominated in their functional currency and
therefore give rise to exchange gains and losses in the profit and loss account. The amounts shown in the table take into account the effect of
hedging instruments used to manage these exposures.
Sterling US Dollar Other Total Sterling US Dollar Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Functional currency
at 31 December
Sterling —15 6 21 —13 12 25
US dollar 2— — 2 —— — —
Other —— — — 2— — 2
Total 215 6 23 213 12 27
Other relates primarily to the Euro.
Fair values
The estimated fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities was:
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the group’s operations
Cash at bank and in hand 987 780 987 780
Other current asset investments 746 222 746 222
Exchange Property 674 661 674 661
Loans and overdrafts (1,710) (1,856) (1,926) (2,052)
Exchangeable Bond (674) (672) (646) (625)
Derivative financial instruments held to manage the currency and interest rate profile
Foreign exchange contracts 18 5 (5) (1)
Interest rate contracts — — 19 27
Cross currency swaps 15 13 15 13
Other long-term (liabilities)/assets
Own non-equity shares (preference shares) (266) (266) (333) (325)
Other assets 355 311 355 311
Provisions and other liabilities (1,162) (1,129) (1.162) (1,129)
The fair values of quoted assets and borrowings are based on period end mid-market quoted prices. The fair values of other borrowings and
derivative financial instruments are estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market-based rates
prevailing at 31 December .
Estimated fair value Net carrying amount
2003
Net currency monetary asset/(liability)
2004
Net currency monetary asset/(liability) 101 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
30  Financial instruments (continued)
Hedges
Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are not recognised until the exposure that is being hedged is itself recognised. The table below
shows the extent to which the group has unrecognised gains and losses on financial instruments in respect of financial instruments used as hedges
at the beginning and end of the year .
Unrecognised gains and losses
Gains Losses Net Gains Losses Net
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 150 (129) 21 119 (42) 77
Net movement in unrecognised gains and losses (32) 7 (25) 31 (87) (56)
At 31 December 118 (122) (4) 150 (129) 21
Expected to be recognised in one year or less 61 (81) (20) 97 (78) 19
In later years 57 (41) 16 53 (51) 2
118 (122) (4) 150 (129) 21
Interest rate management
The group uses interest rate derivative instruments to manage the group’ s exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its borrowings and deposits by
varying the proportion of fixed rate debt relative to floating rate debt over the forward time horizon.
The group’ s current interest rate management strategy is that a minimum of 25% and a maximum of 75% of debt is maintained at fixed interest
rates. 
Currency management
The company’ s principal currency exposure is the US dollar/£sterling exchange rate. In order to protect itself against currency fluctuations,the
group’ s policy is to hedge all firm transactional exposures as well as to manage anticipated economic cash flow exposures over the medium term.
Liquidity management
At 31 December 2004, the group had undrawn revolving credit facilities (RCF) of £1.5bn (2003 £2bn), which expires in more than two years but less
than five years (2003 £500m expire in more than one year and less than two years and £1,500m expire in more than two years but less than five
years). The group’ s commercial paper programme is supported by the RCF with any amount outstanding reducing the amount that can be drawn
down. As at 31 December 2004, no amounts were outstanding under the commercial paper programme (2003 £79m).
On 1 February 2005, the group renewed its RCF for a further five years taking advantage of the favourable market conditions to reduce the cost of the
facility.
31  Related party transactions
The group has an interest in a number of joint ventures, the principal ones of which are disclosed in note 12. T ransactions occur with these joint
ventures in the normal course of business. The more significant transactions are disclosed below:
Purchases Amounts Amounts
Sales to from owed by owed to
related related related related
party party party party
Related party £m £m £m £m
Airbus SAS 141 — 22 413
AMS NV 861 69 117
Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH 747 — 50 —
Flagship T raining Limited —— — 10
Gripen International KB 83 5 23
MBDA SAS 80 23 29 516
Panavia Aircraft GmbH 93 46 6 —
2003 2004 102 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED) 
32  Post balance sheet events
Agreement of Eurosystems transaction
In January 2005, the group announced an agreement with Finmeccanica under which it will merge its UK-based airborne radar , electronic warfare and
other operations, owned through BAE Systems Avionics Limited, with Finmeccanica's Galileo Avionics Spa businesses to form a new avionics
business of which BAE Systems will initially own 25% and receive net cash consideration of £379m. BAE Systems and Finmeccanica will have
options, respectively, to sell and to buy this 25% stake in the future for a further cash consideration of £269m. Selenia Communications Limited, a
wholly owned subsidiary of Finmeccanica, will acquire the group's UK defence communications business for £25m in cash. In addition, under an
exchange of interests, BAE Systems will take full ownership of the UK activities of the AMS joint venture in exchange for the group's existing 50%
share of the Italian activities and a cash equalisation payment of £50m. Finmeccanica will also acquire the UK Air T raffic Management business of
AMS for £10m.  
During the year ended 31 December 2004, the avionics and defence communications businesses being sold by the group as part of the transaction,
and which are all reported within the Avionics sector , generated total sales of £718m and a combined profit before goodwill amortisation and
impairment, interest and tax of £33m. The businesses being sold had net assets, including goodwill, which are the subject of this transaction of
£673m at 31 December 2004. 
The group’ s reported share of the UK operations of AMS for the year ended 31 December 2004 was: sales of £239m; profit before goodwill
amortisation, interest and tax of £14m; and net assets, including goodwill, of £115m.
The group’ s reported share of the Italian operations of AMS for the year ended 31 December 2004 was: sales of £178m, profit before goodwill
amortisation, interest and tax of £14m; and net assets, including goodwill, of £65m.
The transaction is subject to regulatory approval but the changes in economic and management control are effective from 1 January 2005 and legal
completion is expected by the end of April 2005.
The group is reviewing its segmental analysis in order to move to a new reporting structure, including taking account of the impact of this transaction,
and plans to report on this new basis in 2005.
Partial disposal of interest in Saab AB
On 22 February 2005, the group announced its intention to dispose of up to 15.175 million of its holding in the series B shares of Saab AB,
representing approximately 14% of the share capital by economic rights of Saab. The disposal will be conducted by means of a placing and is
expected to be concluded during March 2005. Following this disposal the group will retain a shareholding representing slightly over 20% of the share
capital by economic rights of Saab AB.
33  T ransition to International Financial Reporting Standards
Following the EU’ s adoption of Regulation No. 1606/2002 on the use of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by EU-listed companies,
the group is implementing IFRS from 1 January 2005.
The first financial information to be reported by the group in accordance with IFRS will be for the six months ending 30 June 2005 but the
requirement to present comparative information means that a balance sheet as at 31 December 2003 and primary statements for 2004 prepared
in accordance with IFRS will also be required. The group has continued to report its consolidated accounts in accordance with UK GAAP for 2004.
The group plans to provide a separate reconciliation of the UK GAAP 2004 results and the balance sheet at 31 December 2003 to IFRS during the
second quarter of 2005. At that time a full explanation of the known impacts of IFRS will be given as well as details of the accounting policies that are
expected to be adopted under IFRS as from 1 January 2005.
This analysis of the impact of IFRS is being prepared by the directors using their best judgement of the standards and interpretations expected to be
effective, and the accounting policies expected to be adopted, when the directors prepare the company’ s first complete set of IFRS financial
statements as at 31 December 2005. Therefore, as these interpretations develop, there is a possibility that the analysis may evolve further before
constituting the final IFRS balance sheet as at 31 December 2005 when the company prepares its first complete set of IFRS financial statements.
Commercial aircraft financing
As previously reported, the group has provided guarantees in respect of residual values and head lease and finance payments on certain commercial
aircraft sold. These arrangements were transacted through special purpose entities (SPEs) that are not required to be reported as part of the
consolidated group under UK GAAP . In addition, the group entered into various lease arrangements that are treated as operating leases under
UK GAAP . 103 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
A significant proportion of the net exposures arising from these arrangements is covered by a Financial Risk Insurance Programme (FRIP), which
provides insurance cover for shortfalls in contracted and expected income.
At 31 December 2003, the total exposure provided for in accordance with UK GAAP under these obligations and guarantees, net of expected
recoveries, was £404m relating to FRIP aircraft and £18m relating to post-FRIP aircraft on a net present value basis. The gross and net obligations
are set out in note 20.
On transition to IFRS, IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (IAS 27) requires the consolidation of all subsidiaries and SPEs which
the group controls at 31 December 2003. Based on the IAS 27 definition of control, and after taking into account the facts and circumstances
relevant at the transition date, the group has determined that it controls the SPEs. Accordingly, the gross assets and obligations of the SPEs will be
consolidated in the IFRS balance sheet as at 31 December 2003. In addition, a number of the lease arrangements will be reclassified from operating
leases under UK GAAP to finance leases following their assessment against the lease classification criteria in IAS 17 Leases with resulting changes
to assets and debt. Excluding adjustments in respect of deferred tax and foreign exchange, the exposure relating to FRIP aircraft of £404m at 
31 December 2003 is represented under IFRS by:
£m
Aircraft related assets, guaranteed by insurance 615
Net debt (1,019)
Exposure at net present value (404)
Additionally, the reclassification of certain operating leases as finance leases outlined above will require the reclassification of amounts payable
under operating leases of £58m included within creditors due after more than one year to amounts payable under finance leases within net debt.
The post-FRIP aircraft provision of £18m at 31 December 2003 under UK GAAP remains under IFRS.
Post retirement benefit schemes
Under UK GAAP , the group currently accounts for defined benefit pension schemes in accordance with SSAP 24 Accounting for Pension Costs
(SSAP 24). The group also reports the transitional disclosures required in accordance with FRS 17 Retirement Benefits (FRS 17), including the
adjustment from the figures reported under SSAP 24 which would be required if FRS 17 was adopted in the financial statements.
The methodology and assumptions used to calculate the value of pension assets and liabilities under FRS 17 are substantially consistent with the
requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (IAS 19). In accordance with the requirements of IAS 19, the group will be allocating the IAS 19 pension
deficit to the underlying group subsidiary companies and joint ventures and is currently evaluating appropriate methods of allocation. One area of
difference which may impact the adjustment from SSAP 24 to IAS 19 relates to the valuation of pension fund assets. Under FRS 17,equities are valued using
mid-market prices at valuation date whereas IAS 19 requires the use of bid prices. Subject to any adjustment to the valuation of pension assets and an
appropriate allocation to joint ventures, the group expects to recognise the following adjustment from SSAP 24 to IAS 19 in the IFRS group balance
sheet at 31 December 2003:
£m £m
Remove assets and liabilities recognised in accordance with SSAP 24:
Pension asset (532)
Pension liability 107
Post retirement healthcare liability 68
Related deferred tax 115
(242)
Recognise assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 19:
Pension liability for UK and US schemes (3,032)
Pension liability for European schemes (49)
Post retirement healthcare liability (99)
Related deferred tax 991
(2,189)
Adjustment to shareholders’ funds (2,431)
Revaluation of land and buildings
It had been the group’ s policy under UK GAAP to revalue its land and buildings until FRS 15 T angible Fixed Assets was adopted in 2000. At that point
the group elected that no further revaluation of land and buildings would be undertaken. The group does not intend to adopt the exemption under the
transition rules of IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of IFRS (IFRS 1) that allows the previous GAAP valuation amount to be used as the deemed cost on
transition to IFRS. Accordingly the group will be reversing the previously recognised revaluations and will be reverting to the use of historical cost for
land and buildings.
33  T ransition to International Financial Reporting Standards (continued) 104 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED) 
33  T ransition to International Financial Reporting Standards (continued)
Accounting for long-term contracts
The group accounts for its substantial number of long-term contracts under UK GAAP in accordance with SSAP 9 Stocks and Long-T erm Contracts.
Under IFRS, long-term contracts are accounted for under either IAS 11 Construction Contracts or IAS 18 Revenue depending on the characteristics
of the contract and its deliverables. These standards provide more guidance on the determination of the timing and amount of revenue recognition.
The impact of this detailed guidance is to reduce the amount of revenue recognised under UK GAAP on the early stages of certain long-term
contracts. Due to the approach taken for profit recognition under UK GAAP there is no impact on the reported profits for any period arising from this
adjustment to recognised revenue.
Proposed dividends
Under SSAP 17 Post Balance Sheet Events, proposed dividends are accrued for as an adjusting post balance sheet event in the accounting period to
which they relate. Under IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, dividends are recognised in the accounting period in which they are declared.
Accordingly, the group will reverse the accrual for its final dividend and report it in the consolidated IFRS accounts for the following period.
Intangible assets – goodwill 
Under UK GAAP ,the group’ s policy is to capitalise goodwill in respect of businesses acquired and amortise it on a straight line basis over its
estimated useful economic life, which has been assessed as 20 years for all acquisitions to date.
On transition to IFRS, IFRS 1 requires the group to review the carrying value of capitalised goodwill at 31 December 2003 for potential impairments. 
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, no amortisation of goodwill will be charged in the group’ s consolidated IFRS accounts from
1 January 2004. Instead, annual reviews of the goodwill will be performed to test for potential impairments.
Intangible assets – other
Under IAS 38 Intangible Assets (IAS 38), the group is required to recognise, capitalise and amortise other intangible assets on the balance sheet
providing they meet certain and recognition criteria. 
Intangible assets include software costs and company funded development expenditure (which is discussed in more detail below). 
IFRS 1 requires that where these intangible assets would have been recognised on an IFRS compliant balance sheet for any entity acquired the
goodwill created at acquisition is reduced by an amount equal to the intangible assets that are now recognised. There will be a subsequent net
impact on the goodwill amortisation previously charged to the group’ s profit and loss account. 
Research and development expenditure
In 2003, the group’ s expenditure on research and development was £1.7 billion, of which £0.6 billion represented the group’ s share of research and
development expenditure by its joint ventures. Most of this expenditure was funded under specific customer projects. The balance related to
company funded research and development expenditure that was expensed as incurred. Of this balance, a significant proportion relates to research
costs that will continue to be expensed as incurred.
IAS 38 requires company funded development expenditure meeting certain recognition criteria to be capitalised on the balance sheet and amortised
over the estimated life of the development product. This standard is to be applied retrospectively.
Equity accounted investments 
The directors have reviewed the group’ s interests in those investments currently reported as joint ventures under UK GAAP . IAS 31 Interests in Joint
Ventures requires more emphasis to be placed on the legal form of arrangements rather than the substance of what happens in practice as under
UK GAAP . Accordingly, the directors have decided that the group’ s investment in Airbus is to be accounted for as an associate under IAS 28
Investments in Associates from the date of transition to IFRS. The impact of the change in accounting treatment is only presentational and will not
have an impact on income recognition or the amount of shareholders’ funds as the group will continue to account for its share of the Airbus results
and net assets. The accounting treatment for all other investments that are accounted for as joint ventures under UK GAAP remains unchanged on
transition to IFRS.
Share-based payments 
Under UK GAAP , the cost of share options is based on the intrinsic value in the option at the date of grant, meaning that options granted to employees
at market price or allowable discount do not generate an expense. Under IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, the group is required to measure the cost of
all share options granted since November 2002 using fair value models. As a result, additional expense will be recognised in the IFRS profit and loss
account. 105 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
33  T ransition to International Financial Reporting Standards (continued)
Deferred tax
Under IAS 12 Income T axes, certain temporary differences, for example in respect of capital losses, rollover relief and investments in joint ventures,
that previously were not recognised under UK GAAP , will be recognised. In addition, deferred tax liabilities in relation to tax deductible goodwill, which
were provided for under UK GAAP , will not be provided for under IFRS.
Derivative financial instruments
The global nature of the group’ s business means it is exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates. In order to protect itself against currency
fluctuations, the group’ s policy is to hedge all firm transactional exposures as well as to manage anticipated economic cash flow exposures over the
medium term. The group also uses interest rate derivative instruments to manage the group’ s exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its
borrowings and deposits by varying the proportion of fixed rate debt relative to floating rate debt over the forward time horizon.
To achieve hedge accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (IAS 39), the group is required to designate these
financial instruments against specific assets, liabilities, income and expenses. All such instruments are measured at fair value as at the balance
sheet date and the effectiveness of each hedge tested against defined criteria. Changes in the fair value of the financial instruments are recognised
either in profit or loss for the period or , in the case of a cash flow hedge, directly in equity and subsequently recognised in profit or loss for the period
when the underlying transaction is realised. For financial instruments designated as fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of the hedged item
and the derivative are recognised in the profit or loss for the period. Gains and losses on financial instruments, both realised and unrealised, that do
not qualify for hedge accounting are included in profit or loss for the period. The group aims to apply hedge accounting treatment for all derivatives
that hedge material foreign currency exposures and those interest rate exposures where hedge accounting can be achieved.
With the adoption of IAS 39, all financial instruments will be recognised on the balance sheet as either financial assets or financial liabilities.
Under the IFRS transition rules, IAS 39 and IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation (IAS 32) will apply to accounting periods
beginning on or after 1 January 2005 with no requirement for comparative information for the period to 31 December 2004. Therefore, this area, and
Exchangeable Bonds and preference shares discussed below, will continue to be accounted for under UK GAAP in the 2004 comparatives of the
group’ s 2005 IFRS financial statements.
Exchangeable Bonds
As described in note 17, the company has in issue Bonds of £676m due in 2006 which allow the Bondholders the option to exchange the Bonds for
the Exchange Property, which is represented by the group’ s holding in the ordinary share capital of Vodafone Group Plc. Under IAS 39 this option is
considered to be an embedded derivative that has to be separated from the underlying debt balance, measured at fair value and accounted for
separately from the debt within net assets. 
Preference shares
The group has in issue 7.75p (net) cumulative preference shares of 25p each that are convertible into the group’ s ordinary shares of 2.5p each at
the option of the holder on 31 May in any of the years up to 2007, on the basis of 0.47904 ordinary shares for every preference share. From 1 July
2007 to 1 January 2010, the company may redeem any outstanding shares at 100p per share together with any arrears and accruals of dividends. In
accordance with IAS 32 this is considered to be a compound financial instrument consisting of both a debt component and an equity component
which require separate accounting treatment. The debt component represents the amortised cost of the instrument and is presented as a
component of liabilities in the IFRS balance sheet. The equity component represents the value of the option at issue to convert the preference
shares into ordinary shares and is presented separately within shareholders’ funds.  106 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Five year summary
2004 2003 2002 2001 2000
£m £m £m £m £m
Profit and loss account
Sales
1
Programmes 2,796 2,374 2,060 2,817 2,975
Customer Solutions & Support 2,109 2,042 2,133 1,978 1,783
International Partnerships 1,907 1,685 1,648 1,780 1,825
Avionics 613 650 727 632 741
North America 2,714 2,636 2,561 2,538 1,634
Commercial Aerospace 2,860 2,904 2,716 3,051 2,853
HQ and other businesses 480 281 300 342 374
13,479 12,572 12,145 13,138 12,185
Profit/(loss) before interest
2
Programmes 64 56 69 161 8
Customer Solutions & Support 413 411 454 414 434
International Partnerships 109 65 (11) 102 117
Avionics 32 12 66 109 107
North America 233 232 247 250 165
Commercial Aerospace 176 204 195 213 106
HQ and other businesses (14) — (18) 11 13
1,013 980 1,002 1,260 950
Goodwill amortisation (1,038) (518) (615) (495) (373)
Exceptional operating costs — (9) (797) (148) (307)
Exceptional loss on cessation/reorganisation of 
commercial aerospace activities — — (30) (370) —
Exceptional profit on sale of operations — —2 — —
Exceptional profit on fixed asset disposals — —28 — —
(Loss)/profit before interest (25) 453 (410) 247 270
Interest (207) (220) (206) (177) (91)
(Loss)/profit before tax on ordinary activities
Excluding exceptional items (232) 242 181 588 486
Exceptional items — (9) (797) (518) (307)
(232) 233 (616) 70 179
Tax (234) (225) (70) (198) (198)
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities after taxation (466) 8 (686) (128) (19)
Balance sheet
Fixed assets 9,072 9,409 9,641 10,129 10,338
Stocks 895 775 768 1,046 1,536
Creditors (excluding cash on customers’ 
account) less debtors (1,449) (572) (712) (1,181) (1,588)
Customer stage payments (2,768) (2,236) (1,727) (1,237) (854)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (1,017) (900) (987) (1,281) (1,476)
Net assets 4,733 6,476 6,983 7,476 7,956
Shareholders’ funds 4,724 5,591 5,665 6,625 6,957
Equity minority interests 14 15 20 20 100
Capital and reserves 4,738 5,606 5,685 6,645 7,057
Net (cash)/debt (5) 870 1,298 831 899
Total 4,733 6,476 6,983 7,476 7,956
1 including share of joint ventures’ sales and net of intra-group sales
2 excluding goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items 107 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
2004 2003 2002 2001 2000
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash flow statement
Profit before interest
2
1,013 980 1,002 1,260 950
Depreciation and impairment 202 222 212 239 309
Net capital expenditure (233) (199) (186) (214) (280)
Movement in provisions excluding deferred tax (71) (172) (280) (207) (215)
Customer stage payments 525 460 157 405 223
Working capital and sundry items 448 (666) (874) (973) 685
Operating cash flow 1,884 625 31 510 1,672
Net (purchases)/sales of operations (630) (62) 41 98 (1,459)
Other non-cash movements 9 121 (136) — —
Net interest (99) (117) (150) (189) (76)
T ax and dividends (333) (227) (391) (381) (282)
Net proceeds from equity issues — —3230 71
Exchange movements 57 72 97 — —
Net increase/(decrease) in net funds 888 412 (476) 68 (74)
Movement in cash on customers’ account (13) 16 9 — —
Movement in net debt as defined by the group 875 428 (467) 68 (74)
Operating cash flow by business group
Programmes 505 33 (177) (220) 937
Customer Solutions & Support 1,001 518 323 405 554
International Partnerships 48 69 77 255 18
Avionics (16) (28) 83 70 43
North America 204 162 213 119 168
Commercial Aerospace (24) (143) (396) 81 36
HQ and other businesses 166 14 (92) (200) (84)
1,884 625 31 510 1,672
Reconciliation to statutory presentation
Operating cash flow (note 29) 2,071 836 136
Net capital expenditure and financial investment (256) (248) (183)
Dividends from joint ventures 69 37 78
1,884 625 31
2004 2003 2002 2001 2000
Other information
Basic loss per share (16.0)p (0.5)p (23.2)p (5.1)p (1.5)p
Basic earnings per share – excluding goodwill
amortisation and impairment and exceptional items 18.0p 16.6p 17.3p 23.4p 18.8p
Dividend per ordinary share 9.5p 9.2p 9.2p 9.0p 8.5p
Number of employees, excluding joint venture
employees, at year end 73,300 68,400 68,100 70,110 85,000
Capital expenditure including leased assets £337m £243m £274m £287m £374m
Order book including the group’s share of joint ventures £50.1bn £46.0bn £42.5bn £43.8bn £41.0bn Ordinary shares of 2.5p Preference shares of 25p
Accounts Shares Accounts Shares
Number % Number % Number % Number %
’000 million ’000 million
By category of shareholder
Individuals 148.2 94.2 137.1 4.5 2.8 60.4 11.8 4.9
Nominee companies 7.6 4.8 2,817.2 92.1 1.7 37.2 242.6 85.7
Banks – – 19.4 0.6 – – 5.0 –
Insurance and pension funds – – 13.3 0.4 – – 2.1 1.4
Other 1.4 1.0 73.3 2.4 0.1 2.4 4.8 8.0
157.2 100.0 3,060.3 100.0 4.6 100.0 266.3 100.0
By size of holding
1–99 35.5 21.4 1.9 0.1 – 0.2 – –
100–499 45.7 28.9 12.5 0.4 0.1 2.6 – –
500–999 32.5 21.1 22.9 0.7 0.2 4.3 0.2 0.1
1,000–9,999 40.9 27.0 96.6 3.2 3.6 78.0 13.1 4.9
10,000–99,999 1.7 1.1 42.4 1.4 0.6 12.1 11.6 4.4
100,000–999,999 0.6 0.4 220.4 7.2 0.1 2.0 33.0 12.4
1,000,000 and over 0.3 0.1 2,663.6 87.0 – 0.8 208.4 78.2
157.2 100.0 3,060.3 100.0 4.6 100.0 266.3 100.0
Registered office
6 Carlton Gardens
London
SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
T elephone: +44 (0)1252 373232
Company website: www.baesystems.com
Registered in England & Wales, No. 1470151
Registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars (0140)
The Causeway, Worthing
West Sussex, BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
T elephone: 0870 600 3982
(+44 121 415 7058 from outside the UK)
If you have any queries regarding your
shareholding, please contact the registrars.
Shareholder information
108 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Shareview service
The Shareview service from our registrar ,
Lloyds TSB Registrars, gives shareholders:
- direct access to data held on their 
behalf on the share register including 
recent share movements and dividend 
details;
- the ability to change their address or 
dividend payment instructions on-line.
To sign up for Shareview you need the
‘shareholder reference’ printed on your 
proxy form or dividend stationery. There is 
no charge to register . 
When you register with the site, you can 
register your preferred format (post or e-mail) 
for shareholder communications. If you select
‘e-mail’ as your mailing preference, you will 
be sent shareholder communications, such 
as proxy forms and annual/interim results by 
e-mail instead of post, as long as this option 
is available. 
If you have your dividends paid straight to 
your bank account, and you have selected 
‘e-mail’ as your mailing preference, you can 
also collect your tax voucher electronically.
Instead of receiving the paper tax voucher , you
will be notified by e-mail with details of how to
download your electronic version.
However , if you choose ‘post’ as your
preference, you will be sent paper documents 
as usual.
Visit the site for more details:
www.shareview.co.uk 
Details of software and equipment requirements
are given on the website. 
Shareholder dealing service
Hoare Govett Limited offers a low cost 
postal dealing service enabling UK resident
shareholders to buy or sell BAE SYSTEMS plc
shares. Basic commission is 1%, subject to a
minimum charge of £12.00. If you require
further information please contact: 
Hoare Govett Limited on 
T elephone: +44 (0)20 7678 8300
This notice has been approved by Hoare
Govett Limited which is authorised and
regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Analysis of share register at 31 December 2004 109 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a
charity donation scheme for shareholders 
with small parcels of shares which may be
uneconomic to sell. Details of the scheme are
available from ShareGift at www.sharegift.org
or by telephone on 020 7337 0501.
Share price information
The middle market price of the company’ s
ordinary shares on 31 December 2004 was
230.5p, the range during the year was 159p 
to 257.25p.
Daily share prices are available in the UK 
on the FT Cityline service as follows:
BAE SYSTEMS plc ordinary shares
T elephone: 0906 003 1890
BAE SYSTEMS plc preference shares
T elephone: 0906 003 5174
(Calls are charged at 60p per minute at 
all times)
Alternatively you can view teletext or a 
similar service.
American Depositary Receipts
The BAE SYSTEMS plc American Depositary
Receipts (ADRs) are traded on the Over The
Counter market (OTC) under the symbol BAESY .
One ADR represents four BAE SYSTEMS plc
ordinary shares.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the depositary. 
If you should have any queries, please contact:
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
JPMorgan Service Center
PO Box 43013
Providence, RI 02940-3013
USA  
T elephone: +1 781 575 4328
Website: www.adr .com
Email: adr@jpmorgan.com
Dividend reinvestment plan
The company offers holders of its ordinary
shares the option to elect to have their dividend
reinvested in shares purchased in the market
instead of cash. If you would like to make this
election, please request a dividend
reinvestment plan mandate from our registrars:
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway, Worthing
West Sussex, BN99 6DA 
T elephone: 0870 241 3018 
(+44 121 415 7058 from outside the UK)
Financial year end 31 December
Annual General Meeting 4 May 2005
Preference shares conversion date 31 May 2005
2004 final ordinary dividend payable 1 June 2005
2005 half yearly preference dividend payable 1 July 2005
2005 interim results announcement September 2005
2005 interim ordinary dividend payable November 2005
2005 half yearly preference dividend payable 3 January 2006
2005 full year results – preliminary announcement February 2006
– report and accounts April 2006
2005 final ordinary dividend payable June 2006
Financial calendar C4ISR
Command, Control, Communication and
Computing (C4), Intelligence, Surveillance and
Reconnaissance (ISR). Systems that provide a
precise picture of the battlefield in ‘real-time’,
optimising the information available for decision
making. C4ISR systems sense the environment,
process data and combine it with existing 
knowledge, for optimised mission plans.
C-17
United States military transport aircraft.
BAE Systems is the premier avionics supplier 
for the C-17.
Captor
Radar system for the T yphoon combat aircraft;
Captor detects, identifies, prioritises and
engages targets beyond the effective range of
enemy weapons, while remaining resistant to
electronic jamming.
DASS
Defensive Aids Sub-System - an electronic
protection system.
European Economic Area
The European Union plus Norway, Iceland and
Liechtenstein.
Exocet
A range of air-launched, sea-launched and
coastal battery missile systems.
A350
The Airbus A350 is a wide-body medium size
passenger aircraft with long-range capability.
A380
A high capacity Airbus 555-seat passenger
aircraft capable of a range of 8,000 nautical
miles.
A400M
An Airbus military transport aircraft programme,
ordered by the UK government.
ASRAAM
Advanced Short Range Air-to-Air Missile
Archerfish
An expendable, single shot naval mine 
disposal munition.
ASTOR
Airborne Stand-off Radar .
Bv206 all-terrain vehicle
A multipurpose amphibious tracked vehicle 
with both military and civilian applications
around the world.
Future Combat System
The cornerstone of the US Army’ s
transformation vision. It will develop network
centric concepts for a multi-mission combat
system through the use of a combination of
manned and unmanned ground and air
platforms.
Future Carrier
The UK Royal Navy’ s next generation aircraft
carrier.
GR9
A major capability upgrade for the UK Harrier ,
enhancing propulsion and aircraft systems 
and providing a smart weapon capability.
Gripen
The first new-generation multi-role/swing-role
combat aircraft to enter service.
HALO
Passive acoustic artillery location system;
monitors artillery activities across a wide area 
of the battlefield.
Harrier 
V/STOL (Vertical/Short T ake-Off and Landing)
combat aircraft.
Hawk
Advanced jet training and light combat aircraft.
110 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Glossary
Hawk
Hawk is an advanced training and light
combat aircraft, with several operational
variants. In December 2004, the UK MoD
signed a contract for a new variant of the
Hawk, the Advanced Jet T rainer .
Bv206S
An armoured variant
of the Bv206 
all-terrain vehicle. 111 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
ISO 14001
The standard for environmental management
published by the International Standards
Organisation.
JTRS
Joint T actical Radio System, the next generation
radio system for the US military. 
Landing Platform Dock
A UK Royal Navy assault ship capable of
controlling a complete force of amphibious
ships and supporting the deployment of armed
forces ashore.
Landing Ship Dock (Auxiliary)
Landing Ship Dock (Auxiliary) will provide
support to amphibious assault and will deliver
personnel and equipment 
Meteor
A beyond visual range air-to-air missile.
Mica
Multi-mission air-to-air missile.
NS&S
Networked Systems & Solutions.
OECD
Organisation for Economic Co-operation 
and Development made up of the 30 most
industrialised countries in the world.
PAAMS
Principal Anti-Air Missile System. 
Aster-PAAMS, a medium range anti-air vertical
launching missile system based on the ASTER
15 and ASTER 30 anti-missile missiles.
Siren 
Radar decoy systems for warships.
Spearfish
Advanced heavyweight torpedo in service with
the UK Royal Navy.
Sting Ray
Advanced lightweight torpedo in service with 
the UK Royal Navy, UK Royal Air Force and in
other countries.
Storm Shadow/Scalp EG
A stealth missile, Storm Shadow is for use on
UK aircraft and Scalp EG on French aircraft.
Terrier
A lightly armoured combat engineering vehicle
being developed for the British Army.
Tornado
The UK Royal Air Force’ s front line combat
aircraft, also in service with the Royal Saudi Air
Force, and in Germany and Italy.
Trafalgar Class Submarine
A submarine fitted with a propulsor instead of a
propellor , covered with noise reduction coatings.
USAF
United States Air Force.
WolfPack
A communication jamming system being
developed by the Defence Advanced Research
Projects Agency. BAE Systems will provide a
vertical take-off and landing unmanned aerial
vehicle to the programme. 
Landing Ship Dock
(Auxiliary)
Work is underway 
on RFA Cardigan 
Bay which will be
launched in 2005.
Sting Ray
An advanced lightweight torpedo.
The Sting Ray Mod 1 incorporates
a new digital homing system.  Shareholder feedback
112 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
This year we have decided to change the way 
we receive feedback by including a stand-alone
questionnaire in a random selection of reports
and to utilise e-mail as a cost effective
communication mechanism. 
If you have not received a questionnaire, but
would like to give us feedback, please either
send your written comments to our investor
relations team at: 
BAE Systems plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London 
SW1Y 5AD 
or by e-mail to andy.mann@baesystems.com
Thank you to everyone who took the time and effort to respond
to last year's feedback questionnaire. It was most appreciated. 
Andrew Wrathall
Investor Relations
Director
23 February 2005   BAE SYSTEMS plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
T elephone +44 (0)1252 373232
Registered in England and Wales No. 1470151
Website details
www.baesystems.com
03.05.AREP2004.001/076   
Front cover image 
RAF twin seat T yphoon at BAE Systems, Warton, Lancashire, UK. 
Photo © Geoffrey Lee at Planefocus Ltd Annual Review 2004 Annual Report 
on the web
More information about 
BAE Systems can be found on:
www.baesystems.com 
We welcome your views. 
Email any comments to
investors@baesystems.com
PostScript Picture
Cursor freehand
Important note
This Annual Review is a summary of the
information in the full Annual Report of 
BAE SYSTEMS plc. It does not contain
sufficient information to allow a full
understanding of the results of the group 
and state of affairs of the company or of the
group, and of their policies and arrangements
concerning directors’ remuneration. 
For further information, the full Annual Report
should be consulted. Copies of the full Annual
Report are available, free of charge, from:
The Company Secretary 
BAE SYSTEMS plc 
6 Carlton Gardens
London SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom 
Alternatively, visit the company’ s 
website,www.baesystems.com.
If in future years you wish to receive 
the full Annual Report you should write 
to the company’ s registrars, Lloyds TSB
Registrars, at the address shown on 
page 32.
About BAE Systems
BAE Systems is an international company 
engaged in the development, delivery and support
of advanced defence and aerospace systems in 
the air , on land, at sea and in space.
The company designs, manufactures 
and supports military aircraft, surface ships,
submarines, fighting vehicles, radar , avionics,
communications, electronics and guided weapon
systems. It is a pioneer in technology with a
heritage stretching back hundreds of years. It is
at the forefront of innovation,working to develop
the next generation of intelligent defence and
security systems.
BAE Systems has major operations across 
five continents and customers in some 130
countries. The company has more than 
90,000 people and generates annual sales 
of approximately £13 billion through its 
wholly-owned and joint venture operations.
Contents
Results in brief, Highlights and Outlook 1
Chairman’s letter 2
Chief Executive’s review 3
Summarised financial review 5
Strategy 6
Programmes 8
Customer Solutions & Support  10
International Partnerships 12
Avionics 13
North America 14
Commercial Aerospace 18
HQ and other businesses 19
Summarised corporate responsibility 20
Board of directors 21
Summarised corporate governance 22
Summarised remuneration report 24
Summarised directors’ report 26
Auditors’ statement 27
Consolidated profit and loss account 28
Consolidated balance sheet 29
Statement of total recognised
gains and losses 30
Note of historical cost profits and losses 30
Reconciliation of movements in 
shareholders’ funds 30
Summarised consolidated cash flow 
statement and reconciliation to net debt 31
Shareholder information 32 1 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004
2004 2003
Order book
1
£50.1 billion £46.0 billion
Sales
2
£13,479 million £12,572 million
Profit before interest
3
£1,013 million £980 million
(Loss)/profit before interest £(25) million £453 million
Adjusted earnings per share
3
18.0p 16.6p
Loss per share
4
(16.0)p (0.5)p
Dividend per share   9.5p 9.2p
Operating cash inflow   £2,071 million £836 million
Net cash/(debt)   £5 million £(870) million
Highlights
Outlook
*
Programmes business outlook improving
– benefiting from elimination of excessive risk
–new commercial agreement for T yphoon signed
Customer Solutions & Support addressing UK growth opportunities
Land sector position strengthened with acquisition of Alvis plc
North America delivering good growth
Airbus performing well – outlook improving
Strong cash flow
Adjusted earnings per share
3 
up 8.4% at 18.0p
Record order book
Final dividend increased, making 9.5p per share for the year 
Results in brief
An increase in contribution from the Programmes
business group is anticipated as it benefits from the
revised T yphoon contract. In addition, continued good
growth is expected from the company's North American
operations including the benefit of full year contributions
from acquisitions completed during the course of 2004. 
The CS&S and Land Systems business is expected 
to achieve further growth in the UK support activities
together with a full year contribution from the
acquisition of Alvis. These performance improvements
will be more than offset by the previously announced
step down in profitability in export support activities.
The completion of the Eurosystems transaction will
remove the profit contribution from disposed
activities. The transaction is expected to be marginally
dilutive to earnings in 2005. 
Overall, the performance of the company's defence
businesses is expected to continue to improve in
2005 albeit at a lower rate of growth than that
achieved in 2004.
Commercial Aerospace is expected to contribute 
to growth with the benefit of a planned increase in
Airbus aircraft deliveries.
Some reversal of the strong 2004 operating cash
inflow is anticipated in 2005 as customer prepayments
are utilised to fund rising production activity .
BAE Systems is now delivering well against its 
strategy and objectives. Whilst there remains much 
to do,the achievements to date,together with the actions
continuously being taken to improve performance,enable
the group to look forward with confidence to delivering
growing returns to its shareholders. 
1including share of joint ventures’ order books
and after the elimination of intra-group
orders of £1.8bn (2003 £1.9bn)
2 including share of joint ventures’ sales
3 before goodwill amortisation and impairment
of £1,038m (2003 £518m) and exceptional
items of £nil (2003 £9m)
4 basic earnings per share after goodwill
amortisation and impairment and
exceptional items (in accordance with
Financial Reporting Standard 14) 
*   this outlook statement is based on the
accounting standards used to prepare the
2004 accounts 2 Chairman’s letter, Chief Executive’s review
I am pleased to report that BAE Systems
has made good progress in 2004. The 
company maintained its focus on performance
improvement, addressed inappropriate risk
in the business and made progress in
restructuring its joint venture portfolio in
Europe. At the same time, we have continued
to grow our position in the US defence market.
Much progress has been made to deliver
long-term shareholder value.
Since succeeding Sir Richard Evans as
Chairman at the beginning of July, I have spent
considerable time meeting the company’ s
management and visiting our businesses. It 
is clear that BAE Systems is a company rich 
in technology and with highly capable people.
In accepting my appointment, I had to consider
the ways in which I could add value for
shareholders. I believe my job as Chairman 
is to ensure that the Board operates effectively
in three key areas: framing the strategy for the
company; monitoring the performance of the
executive team as they implement that strategy;
and leading on governance matters by setting
values and standards that are followed
throughout the company.
With the full involvement of executive and
non-executive directors, we used the annual
planning process as a framework to challenge 
and refresh our strategy . We describe this in 
some detail later in this report but, in essence,
we will further strengthen the focus on improving
corporate performance while building on the strong
position now established in the United States. 
Through the effective implementation of 
this strategy we aim to continue to build on
BAE Systems position as one of the world’ s
premier aerospace and defence companies and
deliver sustained returns to our shareholders.
I and my fellow directors are committed to
ensuring that BAE Systems has a robust
governance framework and has the processes
to provide the assurance to the Board and
stakeholders that the company is operating in
accordance with these prescribed values and
standards.
Governance is equally important to our
relationship with the wider community in which
we operate. In this report, together with our
separately published Corporate Responsibility
Report, we provide more information on our
social, environmental and ethical policies. 
There has been much change in this area 
for all companies, both in how we report to
stakeholders and in the priority this is given.
Within BAE Systems we will ensure that this is
appropriately managed and reported, striving 
to be one of the leaders in this regard.
Accordingly, the Board has agreed recently to
form a Corporate Responsibility Committee 
that will be responsible for reviewing and
monitoring the processes the company uses 
to manage social, environmental and ethical 
risk to assist the Board in overseeing the
development of strategy and policy in this area.
It will be chaired by a non-executive director .
BAE Systems should be proud of its role in 
helping to provide the means of establishing
and maintaining security in a turbulent world. 
It is always important that the company aspires
to high standards of corporate behaviour and
responsibility. 
I have taken over the chair from Sir Richard
Evans under whose stewardship the company
has risen to be one of the world’ s leading
aerospace and defence businesses. The Board
is grateful to Dick for his great contribution, over
many years, to this company and the industry 
in which we operate.
Lord Hesketh will be retiring from the Board at
this year’ s AGM. The Board has valued greatly
the contribution he has made during his 11
years as a director of the company.
The company’ s executive, together with the
commitment and hard work of the wider
BAE Systems team, has delivered a good
operational performance in 2004 establishing 
a solid base for future growth. In addition, the
measures taken to enhance the terms on which
we do business and mitigate risk going forward
have underpinned the company's recovery. 
The Board is recommending an increased final
ordinary dividend of 5.8p per share, making a
total of 9.5p for the year . Subject to shareholder
approval at the 2005 AGM, the dividend will be
paid on 1 June 2005 to holders of ordinary
shares registered on 22 April 2005.
Chairman’s letter
“The company’s executive, together with 
the commitment and hard work of the wider 
BAE Systems team, has delivered a good
operational performance in 2004 establishing 
a solid base for future growth. ”
Dick Olver
Chairman
23 February 2005 3 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004
Chief Executive’s review
the programme. The company is a large
employer of Saudi nationals and a leader in
technology training in the Kingdom. 
Consistent with this in-Kingdom strategy
BAE Systems has invested in aerospace and
defence companies in Saudi Arabia that will
enable the company to work in partnership 
with Saudi investors whilst undertaking aircraft 
and avionics maintenance and upgrade 
work in-Kingdom. Whilst this trend to greater
indigenous content will reduce margins, these
partnerships will provide significant technology
and employment benefits to the Kingdom and
long-term value for BAE Systems. 
BAE Systems has a leading naval systems
business in the UK. Like its UK air systems
activities, the performance of the naval
business in recent times has been affected by
the company having agreed, in prior years, to
contracts for programmes with excessive risk.
In addition, over many years, the UK naval
shipbuilding industry has suffered from a 
lack of strategic planning and the company
commenced an evaluation of the options for 
its shipyards. Whilst that evaluation was
underway the company welcomed the UK
government initiative to determine a strategy 
for naval shipbuilding in the UK, in dialogue 
with all industry participants. BAE Systems
welcomes this dialogue as a real opportunity to
secure a future for the UK’ s naval shipbuilding
capabilities that will deliver value for money to
the UK government and an acceptable return 
to shareholders of the companies concerned.
We have also made good progress in 
re-focusing our joint businesses in Europe.
acquisitions to be completed in line with our
strategy. In the US, five acquisitions were
completed. The largest transaction, DigitalNet,
elevates BAE Systems to rank as a top 10
provider of IT systems support to the US 
Department of Defense and other government
agencies. With these acquisitions BAE Systems
generates annualised sales of some $5.6bn 
in its North America business and now employs
over 27,000 people across the US.
The company has continued to build on its 
strong position in military support solutions. 
The strategy to work in partnership with the UK
MoD’ s Defence Logistics Organisation continues
to bear fruit with a number of significant new
business wins in supporting air platforms.
Building on the company's record in growing
support business in the air sector , BAE Systems
identified a substantial support opportunity in the
land sector . The acquisition of Alvis plc was a key
step in delivering a land sector support strategy .
Alvis significantly enhances the company’ s
involvement in the land sector . The merger 
of Alvis and BAE Systems complementary 
RO Defence activity into a new Land Systems
business enables the company to offer coherent
land sector support to the UK’ s armed forces
and the large installed base of fighting vehicles
in service with customers worldwide.
Support solutions also lie at the heart of
BAE Systems relationship with the Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia. BAE Systems has a long and
successful history providing integrated support
to the Saudi armed forces. The company has 
for some time adopted a strategy to integrate
progressively greater local Saudi content in 
BAE Systems performed well in 2004, both in
delivering good financial results and executing
actions that will underpin performance
improvement over the longer term.
In particular , the signing of contracts for the
next, T ranche 2, phase of the Eurofighter
T yphoon programme established a way forward
for the programme. This completes the actions
taken over recent years to address excessive
risk in our UK Ministry of Defence (MoD)
programmes businesses.
These actions will result in a sustainable growth
in profitability in an area of our business that, in
the past, had overshadowed the performance 
of the majority of the company’ s portfolio. 
BAE Systems has for some time been pursuing a
strategy to focus on its capabilities in aerospace
and defence with an emphasis on accessing
higher value opportunities in the integration 
and networking of complex defence systems 
and provision of support solutions to the armed
forces. BAE Systems is alone amongst the
leaders in our industry in being able to pursue
this strategy on both sides of the Atlantic. 
The company’ s strong position in both the US
and UK markets presents future opportunities
for industry to support the increasingly joint
nature of peacemaking and peacekeeping 
by our armed forces. Industrial participation,
including access to the highest level of
technology on programmes in which both
nations participate, such as the Joint Strike
Fighter programme, remains an important
objective in this regard.
The company has benefited from good cash
generation during the year enabling several
“We look forward with confidence to
delivering growing returns to our
shareholders in the future. ”
Mike Turner
Chief Executive
23 February 2005 4 Chief Executive’s review continued, Summary financial review
Recognising the complexity of the earlier
proposed Eurosystems transaction with
Finmeccanica we have moved to a simpler
model. The revised agreement, signed in
January 2005, provides for BAE Systems to take
full ownership of the UK activities of the former
AMS joint venture in exchange for the company’ s
existing 50% of the Italian activities and a cash
equalisation payment. We have also agreed 
to sell to Finmeccanica the group’ s defence
communications business and avionics
activities comprising principally UK-based
airborne radar and electronic warfare business. 
When completed, this transaction will generate
substantial cash and improve management control
and business performance in the strategically
important field of network-enabled capability .
BAE Systems has a 20% interest in Airbus and
the company maintains a close management
involvement in the business through the
shareholder board. 
Airbus is a highly successful enterprise and
BAE Systems is now seeing the benefit of its
investment and support over many years as the
business fought to build a family of aircraft and
secure a strong position in the large commercial
jet market. The A380 is the culmination of this
strategy . The public presentation of this new
aircraft took place in January 2005 and the
programme is for first deliveries in 2006.
At the heart of BAE Systems, and its joint
ventures, lies a highly qualified and dedicated
workforce and I would like to thank them for 
their continued support and commitment.
The last few years have seen our business
turned around, with clear management targets
set and consistently delivered. Scale is being
achieved in the US and our business with the 
UK MoD has been de-risked to acceptable 
and manageable levels. We look forward with
confidence to delivering growing returns for 
our shareholders in the future.
Summarised profit and loss account                                                                       Segmental analysis
Exchange rates                                
2004 2003
£m £m
Sales
1
13,479 12,572
Operating profit
2
691 670
Share of operating profit of joint ventures
2
322 310
Profit before interest
2
1,013 980
Net interest (207) (220)
Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation
and impairment and exceptional items 806 760
Goodwill amortisation and impairment,
including joint ventures (1,038) (518)
Exceptional items — (9)
(Loss)/profit before tax (232) 233
Tax (234) (225)
Minority interests (1) (2)
(Loss)/profit for the year (467) 6
Basic and diluted loss per share (16.0)p (0.5)p
Basic and diluted earnings per share 
excluding goodwill amortisation and
impairment and exceptional items                           18.0p 16.6p
Dividend per share 9.5p 9.2p
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Programmes 2,867 2,436 64 56
Customer Solutions & Support 2,243 2,166 413 411
International Partnerships 1,907 1,685 109 65
Avionics 1,103 1,127 32 12
North America 2,771 2,700 233 232
Commercial Aerospace 2,880 2,924 176 204
HQ and other businesses 560 316 (14) —
14,331 13,354 1,013 980
Less: intra-group (852) (782)
Net interest (207) (220)
13,479 12,572 806 760
Goodwill amortisation
and impairment,
including joint ventures (1,038) (518)
Exceptional items — (9)
13,479 12,572 (232) 233
2004 2003
£/€ — average 1.474 1.445
£/$ — average 1.832 1.635
£/€ — year end 1.417 1.417
£/$ — year end 1.932 1.786
1 including share of joint ventures’ sales
2 before goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional
items (statutory presentation is shown on page 28)
Sales
1
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER Profit/(loss) before tax
Chief Executive’s review continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 5 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004
Summarised financial review
Profit before interest
2
increased to £1,013m
from £980m in 2003, on sales
1
of £13,479m
(2003 £12,572m). Adjusted earnings per
share
2
for 2004 increased by 8.4% to 18.0p
compared with 2003.
These earnings were underpinned by strong
cash generation with operating cash inflow
totalling £2,071m (2003 £836m).
The weakening US dollar and Euro reduced
reported sales and profit on translation by
£424m and £31m respectively.
After deducting goodwill amortisation and
impairment and exceptional items, the loss 
per share was 16.0p compared with a loss per
share of 0.5p in 2003. This was primarily due 
to an increased charge for goodwill impairment.
Interest
The net interest charge decreased to £207m
from £220m in 2003. This reflected lower net
interest payable on loans, overdrafts and financial
instruments of £110m (2003 £122m) due to
lower gross borrowings when compared with
2003 and net present value adjustments on
aircraft lease provisions of £28m (2003 £41m)
and other net present value adjustments of £11m
(2003 £7m). There was also a charge of £28m
(2003 £24m) relating to a net present value
adjustment to aircraft financing liabilities due to
changes in the expected timing of receipts and
payments. Share of net interest of joint ventures
was £30m (2003 £26m). Interest was covered
4.9 times by earnings
2
(2003 4.5 times).
Taxation
The effective rate of tax was 29% (2003 30%)
which compares with the UK corporation tax 
rate of 30% for the calendar year 2004 (2003
30%) and remains the planning rate for the
foreseeable future.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend 
of 5.8p per share (2003 5.5p), bringing the 
total dividend for the year to 9.5p (2003 9.2p).
Dividend cover , at this level of annual dividend,
has increased to 1.9 times earnings
2
from 1.8
times earnings
2
in 2003. The dividend policy is
to maintain the dividend in line with earnings
with a long-term objective of dividend cover
above 2 times.
Cash flows
Group operating cash inflow was £2,071m
(2003 £836m). Net capital expenditure and
financial investment was £256m (2003
£248m), including increases in capital
expenditure together with the investment in
aerospace and defence companies in Saudi
Arabia (2003 included the initial £74m
investment in Alvis plc).
Group operating business cash inflow
3
was
£1,884m compared with £625m in 2003. 
Cash flow improvements were achieved at
Programmes as customer stage payments were
received on the renegotiated T yphoon contract
and in respect of the Indian Hawk contract. CS&S
cash flow benefited from the strong oil price
during 2004. North America cash flow was also
strong. Commercial Aerospace included 
an outflow on the regional aircraft recourse
provision, almost entirely offset by another
strong cash performance by Airbus despite
product development and capital expenditure 
on the A380 programme. Avionics cash outflows
were mainly due to some increase in working
capital on T yphoon equipment and cash outflows
on prior year rationalisation programmes.
Free cash inflow, after interest and preference
dividends and taxation, was £1,733m
compared with £562m in 2003.
Cash outflow on acquisitions was £550m
comprising cash consideration of £663m less
cash acquired, net of overdrafts, of £113m. 
In addition, loans acquired were £80m. 
Foreign currency translation movements in net
debt of £57m primarily comprises the benefit 
of translating US dollar denominated debt at 
the closing rate of £1/$1.932.
Net cash was £5m (2003 net debt of £870m) 
at the end of the year .
FRS 17
The group has continued to account for
retirement benefits under SSAP 24. The pension
charge for the year on UK and US defined benefit
schemes, excluding the group’ s share of
pension costs charged by joint venture
companies, on a SSAP 24 basis was £192m
(2003 £127m). FRS 17 requires the group to
calculate its net pension liabilities by valuing
assets and liabilities at a point in time rather
than matching expectations of assets and
liabilities over time. The deficit on UK and US
schemes calculated on an FRS 17 basis was
£3.0bn after tax (2003 £2.1bn after tax).
Investment returns were better than expected,
but were offset by an increase in liabilities due 
to changes in mortality assumptions and a
reduction in real discount rates during 2004.
Full adoption of FRS 17 would have resulted 
in a charge to operating profit of £151m 
(2003 £172m), a reduction of £41m (2003
additional charge of £45m) when compared 
with the pension charge on a SSAP 24 basis.
Reserves would have been reduced by £3.3bn
(2003 £2.4bn).
The FRS 17 assessment has no impact on
short-term cash contributions to the pension
schemes. The group’ s pension funding
requirements are derived from separate
independent actuarial valuations. In order to 
help mitigate future pension cost increases,
the company has introduced changes to its 
main UK and US pension schemes. These
changes include an agreement to increase
employees’ contributions to the main 
scheme in the UK and to establish employee
contributions for much of the US workforce. 
In addition, the company has made a 
prepayment of $70m (£38m) to its US scheme.
Accounting policy changes
There have been no significant changes to 
the accounting policies adopted by the group.
The group has amended its treatment within
shareholders’ funds of own shares held by 
the ESOP trust. The value of such shares 
held by the group is now deducted from
distributable reserves. 
Transition to International Financial 
Reporting Standards
The review of the impact of the change to
International Financial Reporting Standards 
is ongoing. The current plans indicate that the
group is well placed to comply with International
Financial Reporting Standards in line with the
requirements.
1 including share of joint ventures’ sales
2 before goodwill amortisation and impairment and
exceptional items (statutory presentation is shown on 
page 28)
3 net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after
capital expenditure (net) and financial investment and
dividends from joint ventures 6 Strategy
Defence spend – US and Europe 
T otal defence spend approximately $652bn
Defence spend allocation – US and Europe 
Embed a high performance culture 
across the company
The BAE Systems strategy is ‘to create sustainable shareholder value by being the premier
transatlantic aerospace and defence company’. 
Strategy 
Embed a high performance culture across 
the company is at the top of our list to reflect 
its importance. The Performance Centred
Leadership framework ensures all our business
leaders should know what high performance
means for them and their people. Our recent
commitment to invest in a Performance Centre
of Excellence builds on our suite of controls,
tools and processes to support our delivery 
of operational excellence. 
The transatlantic nature of the BAE Systems
strategy reflects the company's established
strong presence in the UK and other European
defence markets combined with its significant
presence and the growth opportunities  in the
large US market.
The US is the world's largest defence market
with equipment spend around twice that of the
UK and rest of Europe combined. In the UK,
significant opportunities are present to derive
value from new platform programmes and, in
particular , from the provision of through-life
support solutions for both new and legacy
defence systems. 
Research and T echnology is a key driver of future
capability in the defence sector . Importantly, the
US allocates a significantly higher proportion of
its defence spend on Research and T echnology
than Europe.
Sales into the US defence related markets in
2004 accounted for in excess of 25% of group
defence related sales. 
Equipment procurement
Research and T echnology
Other defence
The BAE Systems strategy is to build on its
established positions in the aerospace and
defence market in the United States, whilst
maximising the value of its position in the UK
and Europe.
These markets continue to shape the
company’ s capabilities and its products and
services. From this strong base, BAE Systems
will continue to export to, and work in, markets
around the world where we can deliver
appropriate shareholder returns.
While defence remains our core market, our
strong presence in the aerospace sector is a
major contributor to the value of the company. 
Delivery of our strategy will be achieved by way 
of five group strategic objectives. These five
objectives are being pursued through seven
strands of business portfolio actions supported by
the integrated business plans of our operations. 
Optimise value from our order book. By applying
our best practice controls, tools and processes
in a consistently efficient manner we will turn
orders, and then sales, into profitable returns 
for our shareholders and secure our future. 
In addition, we need to continue to improve
productivity and reduce our cost base. 
Optimise value from our order book
US $bn (based on 2004 data)
400
300
200
100
0
Research and T echnology represents
approximately 15% ($62bn) of US
defence spend. In Europe, Research 
and T echnology represents some 
6.5% ($15bn) of total spend.
$423bn
$229bn
(based on 2004 data) 
1 United States 65%
2 United Kingdom 9%
3France 7%
4 Germany 5%
5 Italy 4%
6 Rest of Europe 10%
European Economic Area 35%
1 2
3
4
5
6
US Europe -  Embed a high performance culture across the company
-  Optimise value from our order book
-  Maintain a global presence from a strong transatlantic business base
-  Enhance US/UK industrial technology transfer
-  Proactively manage investment and divestment in businesses
To create sustainable shareholder value by being the 
premier transatlantic aerospace and defence company
7 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004
Integrated Business Plans
Enhance US/UK industrial technology 
transfer is crucial for the delivery of greater 
inter-operability between the US and UK 
armed forces, in both peacemaking and 
peacekeeping roles around the world, and
maintaining the highest level of technology and
capability within the UK defence industrial base. 
Maintain a global presence from a strong
transatlantic business base recognises the
location of our most important markets.
T ransatlantic remains at the core of our strategy
given our leading position in the UK/Europe 
and strong and growing presence in the United
States. These markets continue to shape our
capabilities and our product and service portfolio.
From this strong base, we will continue to export
to and work in markets around the world where 
we can deliver appropriate shareholder returns. 
Proactively manage investment and divestment
in businesses. In order to continue to focus on
delivering value to our shareholders, each part 
of our business and product portfolio needs to 
be focused on where appropriate returns can 
be achieved. If this is not possible, then a route
to exit or to minimise exposure will be found. 
Maintain a global presence from a strong
transatlantic business base
Enhance US/UK industrial 
technology transfer
Proactively manage investment and 
divestment in businesses
Group Strategy
Group Strategic Objectives
Business Portfolio Actions
Grow the
business in the
United States
Grow a global
support,solutions
and services
business
Create a
sustainably
profitable UK
programme
business in 
air , land and sea
Partner 
MoD in the
transformation
of the UK’ s 
armed forces
Continue to
optimise our
European 
position through 
a rationalised
portfolio of 
joint ventures
Grow and
maximise the
value of Airbus 
Manage 
non-strategic
businesses for
optimal value 8 Programmes
Air systems businesses
The air forces of the four Eurofighter T yphoon
partner nations, UK, Germany , Italy and Spain,
completed the acceptance of their initial 30 twin
seat standard aircraft with the 28 aircraft delivered
in 2004. In-service training and operational
evaluations by the four nations have progressed
significantly in the first year of T yphoon's service
life. Over 600 hours have been flown in the UK 
and a significant number of air and ground crew
trained. The delivery, in December 2004, of 
the first single seat aircraft for operational 
use marks the next planned step in T yphoon
capability. This capability growth will continue
incrementally through the life of the programme.
Contracts to secure T ranche 2, comprising the
next 236 aircraft for the four nations, were
concluded at the end of 2004. The conclusion 
of agreements for T ranche 2 has, in the UK,
led to a revision to the T ranche 1 contracts to
address production continuity.
Significant progress has been made during
2004 in securing the future of the highly
successful Hawk business. 
In April, the government of India placed an order
for 66 Hawk aircraft and, in December , the UK
MoD signed a design and development contract
for a new variant of the Hawk, the Advanced Jet
T rainer (AJT). The customer is working closely
with BAE Systems to manage the design of the
In 2004, the Programmes business made a
profit
3
of £64m (2003 £56m) on sales
2
of
£2,867m (2003 £2,436m) and generated an
operating cash inflow
4
of £505m (2003 £33m).
The 2.2% return on sales for Programmes
continues to reflect the substantial sales
generating no profit contribution from the Nimrod
and Astute programmes. In addition, a higher 
level of sales on T yphoon was recognised with 
no profit. Increased T ype 45 destroyer sales were
recognised at zero margin, with the programme 
at an early stage of maturity .
Positive contributions to profit were made by
Underwater Systems and sustaining engineering
activity on T ornado and Harrier in the UK and export
markets. The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (JSF), a cost
plus award fee systems design and development
contract, also made a positive contribution. 
The outlook at Programmes is for increased sales
in 2005 as deliveries on the T yphoon programme
increase,together with increases on Hawk,Nimrod
and T ype 45. Overall, Programmes profit will show
further improvement in 2005 from sales growth
and margin enhancement as benefit flows from
the concluded T yphoon negotiations.
The UK defence equipment budget is expected to
continue to be constrained, with low real growth
having implications for the sustainability of long-
term funding for future defence technologies and
engineering capability in the UK.
avionics architecture and deliver two trials aircraft
to support the development and test flying. 
Contracts for Hawk with Canada, South Africa
and Bahrain are progressing to schedule.
There was good progress on Nimrod with the
first development aircraft, PA01, flying in the
summer and progressing successfully through
its flight test programme. PA02, the first aircraft
fitted with a full mission system, achieved its
first flight in December 2004. Programme
reforms continue to reinforce stability in the
programme on both cost and schedule. 
Confirmation of future Nimrod production is
awaited following the UK government’ s
announcement in the summer of a requirement
for some 12 aircraft for the maritime role,
subject to affordability and performance.
BAE Systems is partnered with Lockheed Martin 
and Northrop Grumman on the JSF programme. 
In addition to substantial avionics sub-systems 
and equipment involvement in North America,
BAE Systems participation in the programme
involves the design and manufacture of the 
rear fuselage and stabilisers in the UK. 
In August 2004, a key milestone was reached
with the start of the JSF production process
comprising assembly of the rear fuselage. 
Work has progressed on the JSF System
Development and Demonstration contract.  
The Programmes business group operates primarily in the UK defence market and comprises the
company's principal air systems, naval systems and C4ISR
7 
- related prime contract activities.
Programmes
Typhoon
The Eurofighter T yphoon combat aircraft 
is the product of a collaborative programme
involving the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy
and Spain. T yphoon entered service with 
the air forces of the four partner nations in
2004. BAE Systems manufactures the fully
equipped forward fuselage sub-assemblies 
for all T yphoon aircraft and is responsible 
for final assembly of the aircraft in the UK.
T yphoon will deliver unrivalled swing role
capability delivering a combination of both
highly advanced air-to-air capability with
precision air-to-surface operation.
Astute
Astute is the next
generation nuclear
powered attack
submarine being
developed for the
UK’ s Royal Navy.
Nimrod MR4A
The Nimrod MR4A 
is the replacement
maritime patrol and
attack aircraft for the
UK’ s Royal Air Force.   9 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004
Percentage share of group sales
6
Programmes : Summary
The primary focus has been the detailed
engineering design effort across the JSF variants,
in preparation for the increase in manufacturing
activity in 2005. First flight of the Conventional
Take-off and Landing variant is planned for 
late 2006. 
Successful Harrier GR9 carrier landings took
place to schedule as part of a major Harrier
upgrade programme. Contracts received include
the continuation of the Harrier GR9 sustainment
and upgrade programme, the support of T ornado
Secondary Power Systems and the T ornado
Structures contract.
Naval systems businesses
BAE Systems is building two 16,160 tonne
Landing Ship Dock (Auxiliary) vessels. The first
vessel, RFA Mounts Bay, was launched in April
2004 and the second vessel, RFA Cardigan Bay,
is on schedule to be launched in April 2005.
Good progress has been made on the first of 
the T ype 45 class next generation destroyer 
for the Royal Navy, HMS Daring. Major power
and propulsion equipment has been installed 
in the engine compartments. The official steel
cutting ceremony for the second vessel,
HMS Dauntless, took place in August 2004. 
A successful programme to design and 
build three sophisticated Brunei Offshore 
Patrol Vessels has been followed by 
acceptance delays.
Work on the Astute attack submarine has
progressed well during 2004 with all key
milestones achieved on schedule. 
An accelerated programme resulted in the
delivery of HMS Bulwark, the second Landing
Platform Dock, ahead of the revised programme
schedule. The ship successfully completed its
trials after leaving Barrow in May 2004 and was
handed over to the Royal Navy in July 2004. The
early delivery enabled the Royal Navy to bring
forward the in-service date by one month to
December 2004. 
Following the completion of HMS Bulwark a
redundancy programme commenced, which
resulted in the loss of some 500 positions
across the Submarines business.
The tactical weapons systems update
programme for the T rafalgar class submarines
remains on schedule.
Underwater Systems had another good year ,
achieving all programmed deliveries. The
development of the Sting Ray Mod 1 lightweight
torpedo was completed and the UK production
order commenced with the successful
demonstration of the first build torpedoes. 
The Spearfish heavyweight torpedo in-service
support programme completed 10 years 
of on-time deliveries to the Royal Navy’ s
submarine fleet. The new Archerfish airborne
mine neutralisation system, ordered for the 
US Navy, is successfully progressing through
development and will commence formal test
and evaluation in 2005. 
C4ISR
The C4ISR business has a key role in developing
and delivering the UK’ s network-enabled
capability. BAE Systems is working towards
establishing a central role with the MoD in
creating and developing the MoD’ s overall
systems architecture. 
Type 45 
T ype 45 is the Royal Navy’ s new
anti-air warfare destroyer . Design
of the ship is well advanced and
construction of the first of class,
HMS Daring, is underway at 
the group’ s Clydeside facilities 
in Scotland.
Joint Strike Fighter
BAE Systems is a partner in the
US led F-35 Joint Strike Fighter
programme with responsibility 
for design and manufacture of 
the rear fuselage and tail
surfaces as well as a number 
of the aircraft systems. 
2004 2003
Order book
1
£14.3bn £11.3bn
Sales
2
£2.9bn £2.4bn
Profit
3
£64m £56m
Cash inflow
4
£505m £33m
Number of employees
5
18,400 19,400
1including share of joint ventures’ order books and before 
the elimination of intra-group orders
2including share of joint ventures’ sales
3 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and
exceptional items (statutory presentation is shown on page 28)
4 net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after
capital expenditure (net) and financial investment and
dividends from joint ventures
5includes share of joint venture employees
6 before elimination of intra-group sales
7 Command, Control, Communication and Computing,
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
20% 10 Customer Solutions & Support
BAE Systems has a major presence in the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, as prime contractor 
for the UK government-to-government defence
agreement, Al Yamamah. The business 
employs almost 4,700 people, of whom more
than half are Saudi nationals, in support of the
Saudi Royal Air Force and the Royal Saudi Navy. 
BAE Systems provides complete support to 
the Kingdom’ s ground defence infrastructure
and naval minehunters.
Performance on the Al Y amamah programme in
Saudi Arabia was good, with cash flows benefiting
from the strong oil price throughout 2004. 
UK support activity is increasing as the
partnering relationship with the MoD’ s Defence
Logistics Organisation (DLO) develops.
Performance in support of key UK in-service air
platforms, T ornado, Harrier , Nimrod and VC10
remains on plan. At RAF Wyton the DLO and
CS&S have set up a joint integrated project team
to address the next phase of partnering on the
Tornado programme. 
In 2004, the CS&S business group made a
profit
3
of £413m (2003 £411m) on sales
2
of £2,243m (2003 £2,166m). The business
generated an operating cash inflow
4
of
£1,001m (2003 £518m).
CS&S continued to perform well and delivered
on all its key targets in 2004. The benefit to the
Al Yamamah programme of the high oil price has
flowed through to operating cash flow, reducing
programme debtors. 
In August, the group’ s offer to acquire Alvis plc
was declared unconditional. The Alvis plc and
RO Defence businesses have been integrated 
to create a new Land Systems business. The
formation of this business is consistent with 
the group’ s land sector strategy. The results, in
2004, of the RO Defence and Alvis businesses
are reported within HQ and other businesses.
From January 2005 the results of these
businesses will be reported within a Customer
Solutions & Support and Land Systems sector .
The reactivation and upgrade of two T ype 22
frigates for Romania has progressed well 
with the first ship accepted on schedule in
September and the second ship due to be
delivered in the first half of 2005. The final
Upholder class submarine to be reactivated 
for the Canadian Navy was handed over in the
last quarter of 2004.
BAE Systems has 50% interests in Fleet
Support Limited and Flagship T raining Limited.
These support and services joint ventures
continue to form an integral part of the CS&S
strategy and both returned strong results in
2004. The performance of Flagship T raining,
which manages the Royal Navy training
establishments and markets their training
courses to overseas customers was particularly
encouraging. Contracts won this year included
the training of the Romanian frigate crew. Fleet
Support continued to perform well, underpinned
by the partnering agreement at the UK’ s
Portsmouth naval base which was signed 
in 2003. 
The Customer Solutions & Support business group provides systems and solutions for current
and future military capability. It addresses the trend within armed forces to work more closely with
industry to optimise their military capability in the most cost-effective and efficient manner . 
Customer Solutions & Support
Type 22 frigate
BAE Systems is
prime contractor for
reactivation of the
frigates for use by
the Romanian Navy.
Bahrain air training
programme 
Integrated solutions
are key in the
Bahrain air training
programme.
Al Yamamah
Under the long running Al Yamamah contract,
BAE Systems is providing a complete defence
package to Saudi Arabia. BAE Systems plays
a key role in training Saudi nationals to maintain
the equipment supplied under the contract. 11 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 11 11 11
bases. T ornado support will be the major driver
of activity during 2005 and should also provide
the blueprint of future support arrangements for
T yphoon and JSF .
In bringing together Alvis and RO Defence to
form a Land Systems business, the combined
capabilities are able to provide customers with
efficient solutions and to create opportunities
for increased systems content. The business
will reflect the strong drive towards integrated
through-life support of the large number of 
in-service vehicles and platforms within the 
UK and export markets.
BAE Systems has for some time signalled a
progressive reduction in margin for CS&S. This
anticipated margin reduction is a consequence 
of both a larger volume of lower margin UK MoD
support activity and a reduction in margin within
its Al Y amamah support operations in Saudi
Arabia as the programme embraces greater 
local content in-Kingdom. The increased pace 
of indigenous Saudi content in the Al Y amamah
CS&S has also made further progress in
developing a coherent information and logistics
infrastructure in support of both in-service and
new systems and platforms. A final bid was
submitted in December 2004 to the UK MoD
under the Future Defence Supply Chain initiative
for the planning and operation of a fully
integrated supply chain network.
In August 2004, CS&S agreed the purchase 
of the remaining 50% interest in AeroSystems
International (AeI) not already owned by the
group for £15m. AeI is a leading company in 
the analysis, design, development and delivery 
of complex, software intensive systems for the
aerospace and defence sectors and is part of the
development of the group’ s air support capability .
Looking forward, the CS&S business group will
work to sustain a long-term presence in Saudi
Arabia, deliver to schedule on the current
support contracts, and expand the relationship
with the DLO as the group provides more
integrated support programmes on customer
programme, including greater in-Kingdom repair
and overhaul work, is expected to bring forward
that margin reduction with a step down in 2005,
resulting in a lower CS&S business group
contribution. Al Y amamah support margins 
are expected to stabilise from 2005.
Harrier 
BAE Systems
supports key UK 
in-service air
platforms.
VC10 spares inclusive maintenance contract
In partnership with the UK MoD’ s Defence
Logistics Organisation, BAE Systems has
assumed responsibility for through-life
support of the Royal Air Force’ s VC10 
air-to-air refuelling tankers. In 2004,
the Javelin team, comprising MoD and 
BAE Systems, were winners of the 
MoD Smart Procurement Award.
Customer Solutions & Support : Summary
Percentage share of group sales
6
2004 2003
Order book
1
£2.9bn £2.6bn
Sales
2
£2.2bn £2.2bn
Profit
3
£413m £411m
Cash inflow
4
£1,001m £518m
Number of employees
5
10,700 10,800
16%
1including share of joint ventures’ order books and before 
the elimination of intra-group orders
2including share of joint ventures’ sales
3 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and 
exceptional items (statutory presentation is shown on page 28)
4 net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment and dividends from 
joint ventures
5includes share of joint venture employees
6 before elimination of intra-group sales 12 12 International Partnerships, Avionics
meeting all of its key development milestones 
in the year . Important orders for MBDA during
the year included Exocet Block 3, a significant
aircraft package for Greece, plus the PAAMS
Follow-On Ship contract.
Profitability of the AMS joint venture has
continued to improve. Order intake has included
the Network Enabled Combat System for the
United Arab Emirates and an extension to a
Private Finance Initiative contract for Astute
training services in the UK. 
Saab’ s operating profit in 2004 improved on
2003, after having recognised the cost of
rationalisation.
Gripen International is now well established in
the export market, with orders from the Czech
Republic, South Africa and Hungary for a current
total of 56 aircraft. The joint investment to
develop the export baseline standard for the
Gripen combat aircraft is nearing completion,
and the first delivery to the Czech Republic is
scheduled for May 2005. Production for
deliveries to South Africa and Hungary is
underway. During 2004, it was agreed that 
Saab will, from 1 January 2005, assume
responsibility for marketing new Gripen export
business. Saab and BAE Systems will continue
to have joint responsibility for any Gripen 
activity in the three established export markets
and may co-operate on future Gripen exports
when appropriate. 
The International Partnerships business group
comprises interests, at 31 December 2004,
in the following:
MBDA 37.5%
AMS 50%
Saab 34.2%
Gripen International  50%
Atlas Elektronik 100%
2004 has been a successful year for
International Partnerships with an operating
profit
3
of £109m (2003 £65m). Sales
2
grew by
13.2% to £1,907m. In sterling terms sales and
profits were reduced by the translation effect of a
weakening Euro by £37m and £2m respectively .
The business group generated cash flow
4 
of
£48m (2003 £69m). These results have been
achieved with a number of key programmes
moving out of development into full production.
Another solid year of delivery and growth in
2004 has seen MBDA’ s sales increase by more
than 20% with good operating profits growth.
This strong performance was driven during the
year by significant deliveries of Storm Shadow
and Scalp EG to the RAF and French Air Force,
respectively; significant deliveries of Mica and
Exocet to export customers; and continued
deliveries of ASRAAM to the RAF . ASRAAM also
entered service with the Royal Australian Air
Force during 2004. Solid development progress
on the Aster-PAAMS and Meteor programmes
also contributed to MBDA’ s growth, with Meteor
In recognition of the changes to the Gripen joint 
venture agreement BAE Systems will reduce its
shareholding in Saab AB over time. BAE Systems
will retain at least a 20% shareholding. 
Atlas Elektronik completed its first full year as 
a BAE Systems wholly owned business. During
2004, Atlas completed the acquisition of the
Danish Maridan autonomous underwater
vehicles business. 
In January 2005, BAE Systems and Finmeccanica
signed the Eurosystems agreement. The
Eurosystems transaction will bring the UK part 
of AMS into 100% BAE Systems ownership in
exchange for the group’ s 50% share of the
Italian business currently under joint control,
and a cash equalisation payment.
Looking to 2005, sales are expected to remain
broadly flat across International Partnerships 
as a whole with margins slightly reduced owing
to the recently announced rationalisation
programme in AMS.
MBDA designs and builds a wide range of missiles for numerous platforms around the world. 
AMS designs, manufactures and supplies command and control management systems, radar
sensors, simulation and training systems. Saab is focused on the design and manufacture of
integrated defence systems. Gripen International is a joint venture with Saab to market the Gripen
combat aircraft. Atlas Elektronik produces complete underwater sensor to shooter systems.
International Partnerships
International Partnerships : Summary
Percentage share of group sales
6
2004 2003
Order book
1
£6.5bn £6.8bn
Sales
2
£1.9bn £1.7bn
Profit
3
£109m £65m
Cash inflow
4
£48m £69m
Number of employees
5
13,200 13,600
13% 13 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 13
In 2004, the Avionics business group made 
an operating profit
3
of £32m (2003 £12m) 
on sales
2
of £1,103m (2003 £1,127m). The
business had an operating cash outflow
4
of
£16m (2003 outflow of £28m).
Avionics group results in 2004 improved
compared with 2003. Equipment deliveries on
T yphoon increased and the business benefited
from completion of the rationalisation
programme announced in 2003.
Avionics is a major supplier of systems on 
the T yphoon programme. These include two
principal sub-systems, the Captor multi-mode
radar and the Defensive Aids Sub-System
(DASS). Deliveries of Captor radar systems
continued to be in line with the programme,
with the 100th radar system for T yphoon being
delivered in the year . The build-up of DASS
equipment deliveries, while slower than planned,
reached targeted throughput rates by year end.
Investment in the business continued with the
opening of a major new facility for the electronic
warfare business in the UK. Investment in
infrastructure in previous years contributed 
to the award of a number of prizes for
manufacturing excellence. Furthermore, the
benefits of investment in the technology base 
of the business and its position as a leading
European sensor and integrated system
business were confirmed by a number of
successes across the technology portfolio.
The delivery of the 500th infra-red countermeasure
system (in partnership with Northrop Grumman) 
in the autumn showed the significant position that 
the partnership has in this technological area. 
Other notable achievements in the electro-optical
sector included: the award of the contract for the
surveillance, targeting and weapon system for the
Future Combat and Liaison V ehicle; demonstrations
in both the UK and US of laser-based burst
illumination technology; and continuing
successful development of the laser systems 
for the JSF electro-optical targeting system.
The development of a new electronically
scanned radar resulted in successful trials 
of the new E7000 radar for helicopters and
border protection. Battlefield systems activities
included international trials of the HALO artillery
location system. A contract to support the
Northrop Grumman Communications,
Navigation and Identification suite for the 
F-35 JSF was also received.  
Orders for the electronic warfare suite for the
Boeing Apache helicopter for both Kuwait and
Greece reinforces the group’ s position as a 
leading electronic warfare export supplier . 
These successes emphasise the importance of
helicopter crew self-protection systems and the
key role of Avionics in this area. Also in electronic
warfare, the full UK acceptance of the Siren off-
board ship decoy system was achieved and further
deliveries have been made to the UK MoD. 
The Australian business has continued to drive
its strategy to place itself as the Australian
Defence Forces’ capability partner in integrated
military systems and support solutions. 
The completion of the Eurosystems transaction will
result in the major part of the Avionics group (radar ,
electro optics,defensive aids and communications)
coming under Finmeccanica management control
with a 25% retained BAE Systems interest. 
BAE Systems retained activities in this sector will
be managed through the North America Platform
Solutions business. The North America business
is primarily associated with military aircraft flight
control and navigation systems, and head-up and
helmet-mounted displays. The Australian business
will also be retained and managed through the
existing CS&S structure.
The Eurosystems transaction will see businesses
that contributed sales
2
of £718m and profit
3
of
£33m in 2004 sold to Finmeccanica. The outlook
for the retained business is for a good recovery in
2005 as rationalisation activities announced in
2003 were concluded.
The Avionics business group designs and develops electronic systems for air , naval and land
defence platforms. The businesses within this reporting sector comprise five areas of activity:
sensor systems; electronic warfare; inertial systems; avionic systems; and communications.
Avionics
DASS
BAE Systems 
supplies significant 
sub-systems and
equipment to the
T yphoon programme
including the Defensive
Aids Sub-System.
Displays
BAE Systems is a
leader in displays
technology including
sophisticated 
head-up and 
helmet-mounted
display systems.
Percentage share of group sales
6
2004 2003
Order book
1
£2.5bn £2.3bn
Sales
2
£1.1bn £1.1bn
Profit
3
£32m £12m
Cash outflow
4
£(16)m £(28)m
Number of employees
5
8,900 9,400
Avionics : Summary
8%
1including share of joint ventures’ order books and before
the elimination of intra-group orders
2 including share of joint ventures’ sales
3 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and
exceptional items (statutory presentation is shown on page 28)
4 net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after
capital expenditure (net) and financial investment and
dividends from joint ventures
5includes share of joint venture employees
6 before elimination of intra-group sales 14 North America
BAE Systems presently ranks among the top 10
suppliers to the US military. In 2004, in excess
of 25% of BAE Systems group defence related
sales were in the US.
The BAE Systems North America business
group has strengthened its core leadership
positions in electronic warfare and electronic
protection, military communications,
battlespace management, imagery exploitation,
intelligence systems and digital engine and 
flight control systems throughout 2004 through
acquisitions and organic growth.
The business group met or exceeded all
financial and business targets for 2004,
maintaining its good performance track record.  
The business produced organic sales growth 
of 12% with 8.4% return on sales. In sterling
terms, sales and profits were reduced by the
translation effect of the weakening dollar by
£334m and £25m respectively. 
The business continued to achieve good
conversion of operating profits to operating 
cash flow.
In 2004, the North America business group
made an operating profit
2
of £233m (2003
£232m) on sales of £2,771m (2003
£2,700m). The business had an operating
cash inflow
3
of £204m (2003 £162m).
The US is an attractive marketplace for
BAE Systems. The US defence market has grown
significantly in recent years. The combination of
the high priority afforded to US national security ,
a strong commitment to research and
development and contracting terms that balance
risk and reward provide a healthy environment 
for the defence industry . US defence expenditure
is expected to continue at the current high level,
but with some substitution of spend, to fund 
the global war on terror and peacekeeping
operations, impacting projected defence
equipment outlays. Despite some curtailment 
of expectations for equipment procurement,
BAE Systems participates in sectors of the
defence market such as homeland security 
and support for the intelligence community.
These activities are expected to continue to
present good growth opportunities.
The order book increased to $4.9bn, resulting
from successful re-competes, new contract wins
and acquisitions, providing a good foundation
for future organic sales growth.
Strategic growth
In addition to good organic sales growth in 
the year , the North America business group
acquired five businesses with annualised 
sales for 2004 of some $700m. 
STI Government Systems was acquired on
10 May for $26m. The business is a good
strategic fit with the group’ s core competencies
in advanced hyperspectral imaging and sensor
fusion. 
Boeing Commercial Electronics was acquired on 
13 August for $66m. The business represents the
addition of highly complementary skills and capacity
to the existing commercial aerospace electronic
equipment business. This acquisition also
enhances the group’ s relationship with Boeing and
its capability as a developer and producer of avionic
products and systems for commercial aircraft.
North America
F-35 Joint Strike Fighter
The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) is the 
US’ s next generation, multi-role stealth 
fighter aircraft. It utilises BAE Systems 
state-of-the-art manufacturing techniques,
and communications, flight control and
electronic warfare technologies. 
North America : Summary
2004 2003
Order book
1
£2.5bn £2.4bn
Sales £2.8bn £2.7bn
Profit
2
£233m £232m
Cash inflow
3
£204m £162m
Number of employees 27,400 23,150
Figures in underlying US dollars 2004 2003
Order book
1
$4.9bn $4.2bn
Sales $5.1bn $4.4bn
Profit
2
$427m $379m
Cash inflow
3
$374m $264m 15 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004
Littoral Combat Ship
BAE Systems has
been selected to fulfil
a critical role in the
final design of the 
US Navy’ s Littoral
Combat Ship.
These five strategically important acquisitions
enabled the group to achieve its strategy of
expanding its core competencies in electronic
systems, information technology and services
capabilities.  
BAE Systems is one of the US’ s leading providers
of communications and network centric systems
supporting the transformational programmes
and technologies identified as priorities in the 
US defence and security market. The lines of
business across BAE Systems North America
are focused on horizontal integration to provide
multi-discipline solutions and to continue to
operate as a high-performance enterprise. 
BAE Systems North America is also
transforming its services business to meet 
the dynamic mission requirements of its
customers, as they respond to new and 
evolving threats and challenges on a global
scale. The services activities now comprise 
a logistics Solutions Center of Excellence 
(SCE),a systems engineering and technical 
assistance SCE, a sub-systems integration 
SCE, and an operations and maintenance SCE.
Practical Imagineering was acquired on
17 August for $9m, adding significant
capabilities in the design and build of custom
digital signal processing algorithms, software
and hardware.
DigitalNetwas acquired on 25 October for $520m.
DigitalNet is a leading provider of networked
infrastructure and information assurance
solutions to US government agencies and the
national intelligence community , one of the fastest
growing segments of the federal information
technology market. The combination of DigitalNet
with the group’ s previously established business
operating in the same market, creates the
necessary critical mass to target and win
business on prime federal information 
technology and assurance programmes.
Alphatech was acquired on 5 November for
$88m. The company specialises in image and
signal processing, multi-intelligence fusion 
and intelligent systems. The acquisition 
makes a significant contribution to the group’ s
capabilities to address the network centric
warfare requirements of the national security 
and intelligence communities.
This new organisation will better align the
services business to develop innovative
solutions and meet customers’ increasingly
complex requirements.
Transformational technologies and solutions
The business continues to grow its leadership
position in C4ISR capabilities and defence
electronics systems. BAE Systems is
developing the integrated air and ground
communications suite for the US Army’ s 
largest acquisition programme, the Future
Combat System (FCS).
BAE Systems North America is a leading national security, aerospace and information systems
business and a leading provider of electronic and information-based systems and knowledge-
based solutions. 
Percentage share of group sales
4
Avionics and electronics
BAE Systems is a primary provider of fly-by-wire
flight controls and subsystems for display
processing, navigation and other critical
functions to the C-17 Globemaster III aircraft.
19%
1 before the elimination of intra-group orders
2 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and 
exceptional items (statutory presentation is shown on page 28)
3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment
4 before elimination of intra-group sales 16 North America continued
US Department of Homeland Security
BAE Systems has been awarded a contract 
by the US Department of Homeland Security
to develop a solution to counter the threat of
missile attack against commercial airlines.
The provision of technical services
BAE Systems is one of the largest suppliers 
of technical services and solutions to the 
US government. The Naval Sea Systems
Command awarded BAE Systems follow-on
contracts for Program Executive Office
integrated warfare systems. These wins were
key awards in which BAE Systems won all five 
of its competitive bids in the services market.
Major contracts were also won to provide
continued support services to the Federal
Aviation Administration on surveillance 
systems programmes.
Development and delivery of electronic 
and information systems
A core strength of BAE Systems is integrating
intelligent electronic systems with information
technology systems, and providing enterprise-
wide and networked systems, particularly in the
area of battlespace management and C4ISR.
Recent contract performance underpins future
growth in this market:
- the group won the US Army five-year , Indefinite
Delivery Indefinite Quantity award for the
immediate delivery of Advanced Threat
Infrared Countermeasures System/Common
Missile Warning System (ATIRCM/CMWS).
The system provides next-generation,
directable, laser and lamp based
countermeasures for the protection of aircraft
against heat-seeking missiles. ATIRCM is
planned for installation on US Army AH-64D,
Participation in transformational
communications programmes such as FCS 
is positioning BAE Systems as a key provider 
of situational awareness and situational
understanding to the warfighter . As a FCS One
T eam partner , BAE Systems is designing and
producing the complementary communications
systems that comprise the Network
Communications System, including Warfighter
Information Network-T actical (WIN-T) and Joint
T actical Radio System (JTRS) Clusters 1 and 5. 
BAE Systems is contributing to major C4ISR
programmes being undertaken by the US
Department of Defense (DoD) by offering:
transformational communications, together with
advanced technologies developed in precision
and time-critical targeting; geospatial imagery
processing; battlespace management,
command and control; and information and
intelligence systems integration. 
Support for the Department of 
Homeland Security
BAE Systems North America was selected 
to continue into Phase 2 of the Department 
of Homeland Security’ s development of
technologies to protect commercial airliners
from the threat of man-portable anti-aircraft
missile systems.  
The group is also a member of the winning
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
multi-hazard map modernisation contract team. 
UH-60, CH-47 and various Special Operations
helicopters. CMWS is in production for the UK
Apache, ASTOR and maritime patrol aircraft;
-the group’ s work on the JSF programme 
resulted in a number of Best in Class award 
fees, culminating in early delivery of the 
mission-critical electronic warfare suite for 
the JSF and the Outstanding Contractor 
Award on the programme;
- BAE Systems extended its successful
partnership with General Dynamics on the
WIN-T programme and on the Littoral Combat
Ship study;
- the group successfully demonstrated the
capabilities of the WolfPack unattended
ground sensors programme. This will lead 
to additional development and fielding of the
system to support US Army commanders’
real-time battlefield intelligence needs from
safe distances;
- the key US Air Force Autonomous Approach 
Landing Capability contract was won. This
strategically positions BAE Systems on a
programme to give fixed and rotary wing 
air crews the ability to land, taxi and take-off 
in zero visibility conditions safely;
- BAE Systems was named a prime contractor 
under the unique Advanced T echnology
Support Program III (ATSP3) contracting
programme. Under ATSP3, the DoD has
North America continued
C4ISR
The BAE Systems 
North America business
continues to grow 
and invest in C4ISR
capabilities & defence
electronic systems. 17 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004
with BAE Systems-built, radiation-hardened
protected computer systems performing 
vital data functions. The international 
Cassini-Huygens spacecraft reached 
Saturn after seven years and 2.2 billion 
miles of travel with seven BAE Systems
Advanced Spaceborne Computer Module
(ASCM) microprocessors on board. 
In addition, BAE Systems RAD6000
computers have provided critical mission
manoeuvring capabilities onboard 
NASA’ s Swift Mission.
Building for the future
With its 2004 acquisitions, BAE Systems 
North America is poised to capitalise on the 
US defence industry trend toward awarding
large, complex contracts. Anticipated future
acquisitions will further the group’ s strategy 
to acquire profitable, growing businesses 
with strong, differentiated technologies that
complement the group’ s broad range of
capabilities to provide integrated systems 
and transformational solutions to customers.
Looking ahead, BAE Systems North America 
is well positioned to compete in an increasingly
competitive environment. The business group
has identified the strategic capabilities that
must be developed, and the strategic actions
that will lead to the attainment of these
capabilities. BAE Systems North America 
strives to generate customer loyalty through
performance and best value solutions.
streamlined the procurement process 
to receive the full capability of the group 
to resolve technologically complex 
problems and keep the warfighter 
operational by upgrading fielded systems
quickly and efficiently;
- the group has secured new contracts for 
avionics and flight control components on 
the USAF C-17, building on its selection as 
Sikorsky’ s preferred supplier of fly-by-wire 
flight controls and sub-systems for the 
S-92/H-92 helicopters;
- BAE Systems spans the spectrum from
acoustic through optical frequencies to 
provide ground-based, submarine, surface
ship, airborne, and space applications 
for such information dominance programmes 
as Compass Call, Co-operative 
OUTBOARD Logistics Update, and 
Adaptive Joint C4ISR Node;
- follow-on contracts were signed including 
Turkish F-16 Self Protection Electronic 
Warfare System orders, reinforcing
BAE Systems as a leader in providing 
the world’ s foremost electronic warfare
protection systems to both new and 
legacy military aircraft; and
- in space, the company's capabilities were
demonstrated by the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration’ s (NASA)
successful landing of two Mars Rovers 
Fundamental to the business is the 
application of superior technologies that are
essential to mission success and the safety 
of the armed forces.
The 2004 order wins and acquisitions underpin
future growth. Margins are anticipated to remain
close to 2004 levels.
Satellite
An artist’ s conception of NASA’ s Cassini-
Huygens spacecraft and Saturn. BAE Systems
contributed the satellite’ s seven radiation-
hardened microprocessors (RAD6000) 
for the mission.
Mars Rovers
Spirit and Opportunity
continue to gather
scientific data 
with the help of 
BAE Systems RAD
6000 computers. 18 Commercial Aerospace, HQ and other businesses
Driven by increasing demand from the low cost
carrier sector, Airbus secured net new orders
for a further 366 commercial aircraft, which
represents a 57% market share of orders
placed during 2004. Significant new orders
were received from previous Airbus customers
including China Southern Airlines, China
Eastern Airlines, Jetblue Airways and THY as
well as attracting new customers including 
Air Berlin, Etihad Airways and Spirit Airlines.
During December 2004 shareholder approval
was granted for Airbus to offer the A350 aircraft
which will target the large 220-300 seat market. 
Airbus delivered 320 commercial aircraft during
2004 compared with 305 last year . BAE Systems
20% share of the Airbus closing order book at 
31 December 2004 is over £20bn. 
The A380 marketing and development programme
is progressing with first flight planned for 2005 
and entry into service in 2006. The firm order 
book at December 2004 stood at 139 aircraft.
The A400M military transport aircraft
development programme, whilst in its early
stages, is continuing to plan. 
The Commercial Aerospace business group
made an operating profit
3
of £176m (2003
£204m) on sales
2
of £2,880m (2003 £2,924m).
Airbus contributed a profit
3
of £196m (2003
£211m) on sales
2
of £2,666m (2003
£2,683m). This was after charging £256m 
of development costs (2003 £252m), of 
which £158m (2003 £150m) related to the
A380 programme. In sterling, Airbus sales 
and profit were adversely impacted from the
translation effect of a weakening Euro by 
£53m and £4m respectively.  
The operating cash outflow
4
of £24m (2003
outflow of £143m) includes £278m outflow in
Regional Aircraft, mainly relating to prior year
provision utilisation, offset by a strong cash inflow
of £251m in Airbus. The performance at Airbus
reflects a lower than anticipated impact from
manufacturer’ s sales finance for airline customers.
Airbus
Airbus continues to build upon the strong
performance of 2003 despite a number of
challenges in the current commercial aircraft
market and against a backdrop of rising fuel
prices and adverse US dollar exchange rates.
The commercial aerospace market is emerging
from a period of prolonged weakness. Whilst
credit capacity of many of the world’ s airlines
remains poor, traffic demand has begun to
recover. Airbus has secured a rising share of
this improving market and higher production
volumes are now planned.  
Commercial aircraft are primarily priced in US
dollars. Airbus sources much of its bought-in
equipment in US dollars and also has a
substantial cost reduction programme underway . 
Airbus deliveries for 2005 are expected to be
some 10% higher than in 2004, albeit with a
weaker mix.
Aerostructures
The Aerostructures business returned 
to profitability in 2004, with an operating 
profit of £6m on sales of £192m. The A380 
inboard leading edge programme has
successfully transitioned from development 
into production.
Regional Aircraft
BAE Systems continues to provide customer
support and services in respect of regional aircraft.
The Commercial Aerospace business group principally comprises BAE Systems 20% interest 
in Airbus. Other activities include subcontract manufacture of aerostructures components and
assemblies, and the regional aircraft asset management business and associated support activities.
Commercial Aerospace
Airbus
BAE Systems has a 20% interest
in Airbus in partnership with
EADS. With the development of
the new 550 seat A380 double-
deck airliner well advanced,
Airbus now offers a family of
aircraft spanning the entire 
large commercial jet market.
Commercial Aerospace : Summary
Percentage share of group sales
6
2004 2003
Order book
1
£20.9bn £21.4bn
Sales
2
£2.9bn £2.9bn
Profit
3
£176m £204m
Cash outflow
4
£(24)m £(143)m
Number of employees
5
12,600 12,150
20% 19 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004
The regional aircraft market remains difficult.
The 2004 results include a loss of £26m on 
this activity as a small additional provision 
was made against aircraft residual values 
and as spares and support volume fell on 
lower utilisation across the aircraft fleet,
a trend expected to continue.
2004 was the peak year for cash outflows 
on the recourse fleet. The cash outflow on
Regional Aircraft recourse in 2005 will amount 
to £170m. There will be further reductions 
to recourse cash outflows in both 2006 
and 2007.
HQ and other businesses made a loss
3
of 
£14m in 2004 (2003 break-even) on sales
2
of £560m (2003 £316m). The business 
group generated an operating cash inflow
4
of £166m (2003 £14m).
Land Systems
Within the new Land Systems business, the
former RO Defence business has delivered 
year-on-year sales growth with good progress
continuing on its two largest programmes. Low
rate initial production of the M777 lightweight
155mm field howitzer programme for the US
Marine Corp has begun with delivery of first
production units. Terrier, the UK’ s next
generation air-transportable armoured combat
engineering vehicle, is progressing to a
prototype vehicle in the first quarter of 2005.
Margins in the munitions area were lower
against 2003 levels. 
The acquisition of Alvis plc was declared
unconditional in August 2004. The business
contributed £167m sales
2
and £7m profit
3
since acquisition and has been integrated 
with RO Defence, forming a new Land Systems
business. The Hagglunds unit subsequently
secured a €749m order from the Netherlands
for 184 CV90 armoured vehicles. The down
payment from this contract contributed to a
£132m net cash balance at 31 December 
2004 in Alvis.
Future Carrier
In July 2004, the MoD announced that 
BAE Systems, Thales UK and the Defence
Procurement Agency had jointly agreed
alliancing principles for the aircraft carrier
programme. At the same time, it was decided 
to extend the assessment phase of the
programme. This extension, currently until
March 2005, enables the alliance to de-risk
further the programme ahead of proceeding 
to full-scale development. The programme 
has remained fully funded throughout 2004.
The alliance partners have recently agreed to
broaden the alliance with two new members,
Kellogg, Brown and Root (KBR), a subsidiary 
of the US Halliburton Group, and a shipbuilding
entity. The shipbuilding entity will be 
established by BAE Systems and KBR and 
will be responsible for the detailed design,
manufacture and integration of the ships. 
HQ and other businesses comprises the group’ s head office functions together with the 
Land Systems business formed by the combination of RO Defence and Alvis in 2004. In addition,
HQ and other businesses includes the contract management for the assessment phase work 
on the UK Future Carrier and property services.
HQ and other businesses
HQ and other businesses : Summary
Percentage share of group sales
6
2004 2003
Order book
1
£2.3bn £1.1bn
Sales
2
£0.6bn £0.3bn
(Loss)/profit
3
£(14)m —
Cash inflow
4
£166m £14m
Number of employees
5
6,300 4,000
CV90 armoured infantry 
fighting vehicle
Developed to meet international
demand; Sweden, Norway,
Switzerland, Finland and the
Netherlands have all selected 
the CV90.
M777 lightweight 155mm 
field howitzer
Designed and developed for 
the US Marines and US Army,
providing enhanced mobility,
survivability and mission
effectiveness.
4%
1 including share of joint ventures’ order books and before
the elimination of intra-group orders
2 including share of joint ventures’ sales
3 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment
and exceptional items (statutory presentation is shown 
on page 28)
4 net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after
capital expenditure (net) and financial investment and
dividends from joint ventures
5 includes share of joint venture employees
6 before elimination of intra-group sales 20 Summarised corporate responsibility , Board of directors 20
Summarised corporate responsibility
The information below is a summary of our principles and corporate responsibility activities
during 2004 and key highlights from the last year . For the first time the full Corporate Responsibility
Report has been formally reviewed by the BAE Systems Board and is available to all stakeholders.
BAE Systems recognises its responsibilities to
the wider community and for the environment. 
We are determined to be regarded as a 
well-managed, responsible company. As a 
global aerospace and defence business, our
competitiveness and future success depend 
not only on the skills of our employees and the
quality of our products, but also on our standing 
in the community and our commitment to high
standards of corporate governance and corporate
responsibility (CR). We aim to be, and to be seen
as, a responsible corporate citizen in all the
communities in which we operate worldwide.
Management
Overall responsibility for CR lies with the board
of directors. It has delegated certain matters 
to a number of Board Committees. The 
Chief Executive is responsible for all normal
operational matters and has delegated specific
responsibilities to the Group Legal Director
(Ethics and Compliance) and the Group HR
Director (Workplace, Community and Business
Environment). In addition, in 2005 the Board
has resolved to create a new board committee
for CR, chaired by a non-executive director .
Governance and risk
Governance of CR risks are an integral part of
our overall corporate governance structure. 
Comprehensive risk management processes
are in place to identify and mitigate risk,
including CR related risk.
Assurance
It is important that our CR reporting addresses
issues that are material to our business and
reflects stakeholder concerns. In 2004 we
worked with csrnetwork, an independent
assurance organisation, to benchmark our CR
reporting against other major companies and
best practice standards using the Accountability
Rating. More information on their assessment
and recommendations can be found in our
annual CR Report.
Our responsibilities
As a company we demand and expect honesty,
integrity and fairness in all aspects of our
business. We are committed to comply with 
the law in every country where we operate. 
This includes laws implementing the OECD 
Anti-Bribery Convention and the US Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act. We will not tolerate
bribery or other attempts to influence improperly
the decisions of customers and suppliers. 
Engaging with stakeholders
We encourage dialogue and open communications
with all our stakeholders including employees,
trade unions, shareholders, customers, business
partners,suppliers,competitors,governments
and local communities. Much of this takes place
in the normal course of business but this year 
we conducted a specific CR survey to build our
understanding.
Workplace
All our people are encouraged to realise their 
full potential as valued members of the
company . Everyone who works for our company
contributes to our success. By working together
we will stimulate innovation and generate a
more exciting and rewarding environment in
which we all feel valued and respected.
Recognition
Our Chairman’ s Award for Innovation scheme
recognises employees whose ideas, actions
and behaviours make BAE Systems a better ,
more competitive company. This year over
3,000 nominations were received. From those,
48 Silver Awards were allocated across the 
two categories of Innovation and Best Practice
Implementation Awards. The best of these
nominations were considered for Gold Awards. 
Dignity at work
BAE Systems has a long-standing commitment 
to develop and maintain a working environment
whereby all employees have the right, and the
ability, to work in an atmosphere free from
intimidation of any kind and where they are treated
with dignity and respect. Our Respect at Work policy
and procedure ensures issues and complaints 
in this area are quickly and effectively resolved. 
Diversity
BAE Systems is committed to equality of
opportunity for all employees and creating 
a workplace where everyone is treated with
respect. Our Corporate Diversity Steering 
Group is working with diversity coordinators 
in our business units to help us recruit and
retain the best talent for our business. In 
2004 the Executive Committee agreed a 
more proactive approach to enhancing 
diversity amongst the employee population.
Training and development
BAE Systems invests in the training and
development of its people from apprentice
school leavers through graduates to our most
experienced functional professionals and
managers. Employees have access to over 
350 on-line courses.  
Health and safety
The health and safety of our employees 
and the communities around our facilities is 
very important. Our statistics show that through
increased leadership, focus and attention and
training and awareness amongst our employees,
our performance in this area continues to
improve to the benefit of all.
Environment
We have a responsibility to manage our impact
on the environment, be it as a direct result of 
our manufacturing operations, waste from our
offices or the products we produce.
All our major manufacturing sites have now
achieved accreditation to the international
environmental management standard ISO 14001
and we continue to deliver improvements in relation
to energy use, waste and water consumption.
Education and community
BAE Systems takes an active role in community
and education activities, supporting charities
and working directly with those communities
close to our facilities worldwide.
Support for the education sector remains a 
key part of BAE Systems CR programme. The
company is working actively with education
bodies, and with schools local to its principal
sites, to ensure that young people have the right
skills and are inspired to consider careers in
engineering. We have this year carried out a major
review of our UK educational activities and will,
as a result, be running in 2005 a special schools
roadshow (involving theatre and a practical
workshop) and offering a wealth of new online
resources at www.baesystems.com/education 
Corporate Responsibility Report on the web
Full information on our activity and
commitments can be found in the annual
Corporate Responsibility Report available 
in hard copy or at www.baesystems.com/
corporateresponsibility 21 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 21 21
Board of directors
Dick Olver
Chairman
Mike Turner
Chief Executive
Chris Geoghegan
Chief Operating
Officer
Michael Lester
Group Legal Director
Steve Mogford
Chief Operating
Officer
Mark Ronald
Chief Operating
Officer
George Rose
Group Finance
Director
Michael Hartnall Ulrich Cartellieri Professor Sue Birley
Chairman
Dick Olver 
2,4
Appointed to the Board as a non-executive
director in May 2004, he succeeded Sir Richard
Evans as Chairman on 1 July 2004. Mr Olver
chairs the Board’ s Nominations Committee and
the Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee.
Formerly deputy chief executive of BP p.l.c., he
is a non-executive director of Reuters Group plc
and deputy chairman of TNK-BP . Age: 58
Mike Turner CBE 
4
, Chief Executive
Appointed Chief Executive in 2002,having been 
a Chief Operating Officer since 1999. He is a
member of the shareholder committee of 
Airbus SAS. Age: 56
Chris Geoghegan, Chief Operating Officer
Appointed to the Board in 2002 as a Chief
Operating Officer . He was formerly responsible
for the group’ s Airbus operations and in 2000
was appointed group managing director of the
Avionics business. Age: 50
Michael Lester 
4
, Group Legal Director
Appointed a member of the Board following the
BAe/MES merger . Prior to the merger he was a
director and vice chairman of The General
Electric Company, p.l.c.. Age: 64
Dr Ulrich Cartellieri 
2,3
A director of Robert Bosch GmbH and, until
recently, a member of the Supervisory Board 
of Deutsche Bank AG. Age: 67
Michael Hartnall 
1
Formerly finance director of Rexam plc, prior to
which he held senior positions with a number 
of manufacturing companies. Mr Hartnall chairs
the Board’ s Audit Committee. Age: 62
Rt Hon Lord Hesketh KBE 
2
Non-executive deputy chairman of Babcock
International Group Plc and Chairman of 
British Mediterranean Airways. Age: 54
Sir Peter Mason KBE 
1,2,3
Chief executive of AMEC plc and also a board
member of UK T rade and Investment. Sir Peter
Mason has been nominated the Board’ s Senior
Independent Director . Age: 58
Rt Hon Michael Portillo MP 
1,2
A member of parliament, Michael Portillo was 
a cabinet minister in the 1990s, and was
successively Chief Secretary to the T reasury,
Secretary of State for Employment, and 
Secretary of State for Defence. Age: 51
David Parkes
Steve Mogford, Chief Operating Officer
Appointed to the Board in 2000 as a Chief
Operating Officer , he has held a number of
senior positions within the company including
responsibility for the group’ s military aircraft
operations. He is chairman of the Eurofighter
Supervisory Board. Age: 48
Mark Ronald CBE 
4
, Chief Operating Officer
Appointed to the Board in 2002 as a Chief
Operating Officer . Formerly head of GEC’ s 
North American defence business, in 1999 
he was appointed President and CEO of 
BAE Systems North America. Age: 63
George Rose, Group Finance Director
Appointed Group Finance Director in 1998 and 
is a member of the shareholder committee of
Airbus SAS. Prior to joining the company in 1992,
he held senior positions in the Rover Group and
Leyland DAF . He is a  member of the Financial
Reporting Review Panel. Age: 52
Professor Sue Birley 
1,2,3
Formerly Professor of Entrepreneurship at 
Imperial College, University of London, and 
has held a number of academic positions 
at INSEAD, London Business School and
Cranfield Institute of Technology. Professor
Birley chairs the Board’ s Remuneration
Committee. Age: 61
Lord Hesketh Sir Peter Mason Michael Portillo
1 member of the Audit Committee
2 member of the Nominations Committee
3 member of the Remuneration Committee
4 member of the Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee
Executive directors
Non-executive directors
Company Secretary 22
A formal review of the composition of the Board
was undertaken by the Nominations Committee
during 2004. As a result of this, it was agreed that
the Board would benefit from the appointment of
non-executive directors with a US background. 
A search for suitable candidates is underway.
Information and professional development 
The Board should be supplied in a timely 
manner with information in a form and of a
quality to enable it to discharge its duties.All
directors should receive induction on joining 
the board and should regularly update and
refresh their skills and knowledge. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle A.5
The Board has agreed which information it 
should receive on a regular basis.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the
training and development needs of the
executive directors, and the Company 
Secretary for the non-executive directors.
Performance evaluation
The Board should undertake a formal 
and rigorous annual evaluation of its own
performance and that of its committees 
and individual directors. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle A.6
The Board has recently undertaken an
evaluation of its own effectiveness and that 
of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration
committees. The performance of individual
directors was included as part of this process.
The evaluation was undertaken with the
assistance of external facilitators and resulted
in the Board agreeing a number of actions in
response to issues identified.
22 Summarised corporate governance
The Board 
Every company should be headed by 
an effective board, which is collectively 
responsible for the success of the company. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle A.1
The Board is responsible for the leadership 
of the company.  It has mandated standards 
of behaviour and key policies, covering:
- business ethics
- business planning
- risk management
- internal control
- personal behaviour
Through the company’ s Integrated Business
Planning process the Board is involved in the
development of strategy. The Board approves
business plans that are used to implement
strategy and monitor the operational
performance of the company.
The Board has delegated the normal operational
management of the company to the executive
directors and other senior managers but certain
matters have been reserved for its decision.
The Board met on 12 occasions in 2004 plus an
additional two days were spent reviewing strategy .
Chairman and Chief Executive  
There should be a clear division of
responsibilities at the head of the company
between the running of the Board and the
executive responsibility for the running of the
company’s business. No one individual should
have unfettered powers of decision. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle A.2
The Chairman and Chief Executive have been
appointed separately and there is a clear division
of responsibilities between these two positions.  
The Chairman, who serves in a non-executive
capacity, is responsible for the effective working
of the Board. The Chief Executive is responsible
to the Board for the normal management of the
company’ s operations.
The present Chairman was appointed in 2004.
On his appointment the Nominations Committee
agreed that he was independent based on the
criteria used in the Combined Code.
Board balance and independence
The Board should include a balance of executive
and non-executive directors (and in particular
independent non-executive directors) such that
no individual or small group of individuals can
dominate the Board’s decision making. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle A.3
At present the Board comprises 13 directors, of
whom six are non-executive. The Board considers
that all the non-executive directors with the
exception of Lord Hesketh are independent 
using the criteria in the Combined Code.
Appointments to the Board 
There should be a formal rigorous and
transparent procedure for the appointment 
of new directors to the Board. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle A.4
The Board has appointed a committee, the
Nominations Committee, with responsibility 
for reviewing the composition of the Board on 
a regular basis and, if deemed necessary, to 
find suitable candidates for appointment to 
the Board.
The Nominations Committee led the search in
2004 for a suitable individual to succeed Sir
Richard Evans as Chairman of the company.  
Summarised corporate governance
Corporate governance is the process by which companies are controlled and directed – a
company’ s board is ultimately responsible for this. The key to good corporate governance is
having the right leadership, strategy and control structures in place to produce and sustain 
the delivery of value to shareholders.
Good corporate governance, and its visibility, gives confidence to all associated with a company
that it is being managed well and that value is being created. Our objective in this report is to
summarise the key elements of the company’ s governance structure and relate this to the
principles in the UK’ s Combined Code on Corporate Governance – a code of good practice for
listed companies. Dick Olver, Chairman
“
“
“
“
“
“ 23 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 23
Annual re-election
All directors should be submitted for re-election at
regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory
performance.The Board should ensure planned
and progressive refreshing of the Board. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle A.7
All new directors are required to seek re-election
to the Board at the first Annual General Meeting
(AGM) following appointment.
All directors are required to stand down and
seek re-election to the Board at least once every
three years.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for
planning the progressive refreshing of the Board
(see ‘Appointments to the Board’ above).
Financial reporting
The Board should present a balanced 
and understandable assessment of the
company’s position and prospects. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle C.1
In preparing these reports the directors have
sought to present a summarised but balanced
and easily understood assessment of the
company’ s performance and have given
guidance on its future prospects. The full report
and accounts (available to shareholders on
request) provides more detailed reports and
financial statements.
The company’ s accounts have been produced
on a going concern basis.
Internal control
The Board should maintain a sound system 
of internal controls to safeguard shareholders’
investments and the company’s assets. ”
Combined Code - Main Principle C.2
The overall responsibility for the system of
internal control within BAE Systems rests with
the directors of the company. Responsibility for
establishing and operating detailed control
procedures lies with the managing director of
each operating business.  
The directors have completed a formal review of
the effectiveness of the company’ s internal
controls. In order to assist the Board in this
review, an Operational Assurance Statement
(OAS) is produced by each part of the business.
It is signed off by the relevant managing director
to confirm compliance against the company’ s
mandated policies and procedures, including
operational and financial controls and risk
management processes. 
Relations with shareholders
There should be a dialogue with shareholders
based on the mutual understanding of
objectives.The Board as a whole has
responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory
dialogue with shareholders takes place. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle D.1
The Board should use the AGM to communicate
with investors and to encourage their participation. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle D.2
The company has a comprehensive investor
relations programme and maintains an Investor
Relations website. This can be accessed at
www.baesystems.com.
The Annual General Meeting provides all
shareholders with the opportunity to develop
their understanding of the company and ask
questions on the matters put to the meeting
including this report and accounts. 
Audit Committee and Auditors
The Board should establish formal and
transparent arrangements for considering 
how they should apply the financial reporting 
and internal control principles and for
maintaining an appropriate relationship 
with the company’s auditors. ”
Combined Code – Main Principle C.3
The Board has appointed an audit committee
that is responsible for reviewing the
effectiveness of the company’ s financial
reporting, internal control policies and
procedures for the identification of risk. It 
is also responsible for keeping the relationship
with the company’ s Auditors under review. The
Committee has four members all of whom are
independent non-executive directors.
The Audit Committee met on four occasions 
in 2004 and, amongst other things, undertook
the following:
-reviewed the financial statements and
received reports on them from the Auditors;
-reviewed the output from the processes 
used by the company to identify, evaluate
and mitigate risk;
- reviewed the effectiveness of the company’ s
internal controls;
- monitored the company’ s Ethics Hotline 
and matters reported;
- agreed the scope of the Auditors’ work 
and their fees; and
- monitored the performance of the Internal
Audit function.
The Audit Committee has agreed safeguards
aimed at protecting the independence of the
Auditors.
A review of the performance of the current
auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, was undertaken by 
the Audit Committee recently. On the basis of
this, the Board has agreed that a resolution 
for their reappointment be put to the AGM.
Compliance with the Combined Code 
on Corporate Governance
The Board confirms that the company is
compliant with all the provisions of the
Combined Code with the exception of provision
A.3.2. This requires that at least half of the
board should comprise independent non-
executive directors. The Board has agreed that 
it should be compliant with this provision and a
search for suitable candidates for appointment
to the Board in a non-executive capacity is in
progress. It is believed that this process will 
be successful and that the Board will in due
course be compliant.
In the period from 1 January to 25 February
2004 the membership of the Board’ s Audit and
Remuneration committeees was not compliant
with provisions C.3.1 and B.2.1 of the
Combined Code as one member , Lord Hesketh,
was not independent using the definitions used
in the new Combined Code (in previous years he
had been considered independent under the
provisions of the original Combined Code). On
25 February 2004 the Board changed the
composition of the Audit and Remuneration
committees to ensure that the company
complied with the new Code.
“
“
“
“
“
“ Total shareholder return
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2004, of £100
invested in BAE Systems on 31 December 1999 compared 
to the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index. The
other points plotted are the values at intervening year-ends.
The graph, which has been produced in accordance with 
the requirements of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 
1985, shows the total shareholder return for a holding in the
company’ s ordinary shares for the period 1999 - 2004 relative
to a holding of shares representing the FTSE 100. The FTSE
100 is considered to be an appropriate comparator for this
purpose as it is a broad equity market index. As BAE Systems
is a constituent member of the FTSE 100, it was deemed 
to be the most appropriate general UK equity index.
24 24 Summarised remuneration report
2005, and will continue to consult on material
changes with principal shareholders. The
Committee intends to undertake a formal review
of remuneration policy in the second half of 2005.
Remuneration of executive directors consists
typically of basic salary , a bonus based on annual
performance, participation in employee share
schemes and retirement benefits. The
Committee reviews the split between basic 
salary and the performance related elements 
of remuneration each year in order to incentivise
properly executive directors, and believes that 
a significant proportion of remuneration should
be based on schemes that encourage them to
perform at the highest level. Through this
arrangement, it is possible for those individuals
who contribute to sustained high levels of
company performance to receive at least a similar
level of reward from variable compensation to that
received from fixed compensation. At median
performance, variable remuneration represents
approximately 50% of the remuneration package
as shown in the chart below:
Basic salary
Executive directors' salaries are reviewed each
year by the Committee and adjusted to reflect
performance and the competitiveness of
salaries relative to the market. Information 
on the market for comparable management
positions is obtained from independent sources
and is provided to the Committee so that it can
form a view as to where to position basic salaries
and benefits relative to comparable companies. 
The methodology used is to construct
appropriate comparator groups for the individual
positions taking account of company size, scale
of operations and breadth of role. The median
and upper quartile positions are then analysed
for base salary, total cash reward (base salary
plus annual bonus), total direct reward (total
cash reward plus long-term incentives) and 
total reward including pension. This gives the
Committee a view on the competitiveness of 
the individual elements of the package as well
as the package as a whole.The Committee 
also reviews the trends in the elements of
Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to
attract, retain and motivate directors of the
quality required to run the company successfully,
but a company should avoid paying more than 
is necessary for this purpose.A significant
proportion of executive directors’ remuneration
should be structured so as to link rewards to
corporate and individual performance. ”
Combined Code - Main Principle B.1
There should be a formal and transparent procedure
for developing policy on executive remuneration and
for fixing the remuneration packages of individual
directors. No director should be involved in deciding
his or her own remuneration. ”
Combined Code - Main Principle B.2
The Remuneration Committee
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration
Committee responsibility for remuneration
policy and determining the specific packages 
for the executive directors and the Chairman. It
also agrees the framework for the remuneration
of certain other members of the executive
management team. The Committee's terms of
reference conform with the requirements of the
Combined Code, and can be found on the
company’ s website or obtained from the
Company Secretary .
Remuneration principles  
The Committee’ s remuneration strategy is to
provide a remuneration package that:
- helps attract, retain and motivate the 
highest calibre executives;
- is aligned to shareholders’ interests to create 
sustainable long-term shareholder value;
- is competitive against the appropriate 
market, providing median reward for median 
performance and upper quartile reward for 
upper quartile performance;
- encourages and supports a high performance 
culture whilst providing a balance between 
fixed and variable reward;
- is fair and transparent and can be applied 
consistently throughout the group.
Executive directors
Remuneration policy
The Committee's executive remuneration policy
continues to be to set basic salaries at median
competitive levels whilst seeking to reward upper
quartile performance with potential upper quartile
remuneration through the use of bonus schemes
and share-based incentives. The Committee
intends to continue with the executive
remuneration policy as detailed in this report in
Summarised remuneration report 
remuneration to ensure that the structure of 
the package stays in line with market practice,
and also takes account of the performance of
the individual, the company as a whole and the
pay and conditions of group employees.
As a result of this review, the Committee decided
to increase the base salary of the executive
directors with effect from 1 January 2005 as 
set out in the notes to the table on page 25.
Annual Bonus Plan
The executive directors and other senior
executives participate in a cash bonus scheme
that rewards those individuals if pre-determined
targets are met. The targets are derived from the
Integrated Business Plan (IBP), which is agreed
by the Board and which implements corporate
strategy on a groupwide basis by ensuring that
business plans which support the strategy are
integrated across all businesses. The IBP is
used to set the objectives for senior
management including the base and stretch
targets for the financial measures used for the
executive directors in the Annual Bonus Plan.
Non-financial targets comprise key objectives
relevant to the individual and/or business and
also take account of behavioural performance.
The targets for the executive directors are
agreed and monitored by the Committee. The
maximum bonus potential for 2005 remains the
same as for 2004 at 100% of salary (150% for
the US based executive director , Mark Ronald).
2004 was a very successful year with all the
major business groups achieving their stretch
•        •                •                   •                   •                 •
31 Dec 99     31 Dec 00                31 Dec 01                    31 Dec 02                  31 Dec 03    31 Dec 04
FTSE 100 Index
Source: Datastream
BAE Systems plc
£120
£100
£80
£60
£40
£20
0
Target performance 
(median)
1 Salary 31%
2 Pension 22%
3 Bonus 15%
4 Long-term incentive 
rewards 32%
At upper quartile performance, variable remuneration
represents significantly more than 50%
“
“
1 
2
3
4 25 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 25
incentive schemes. The company operates a
combination of option and share based awards
for executive directors within the following
framework which is in line with similar plans
operated by other FTSE 100 companies:
- options granted under the Executive Share 
Option Plan to be set at a maximum of 1.5 x 
salary. Vesting of options is subject to the 
achievement of real earnings per share (EPS) 
growth targets over a three-year performance 
period. For grants made in 2005, there will 
be no retests where the original performance 
criteria are not met;
- awards under the Performance Share Plan 
to be set at 1 x salary. The median level 
of vesting for the 2005 awards will be 25% of
the shares under award if the company's total 
shareholder return (TSR) performance (share 
targets on profit and cash. As a result, all the
financial targets within the 2004 Annual Bonus
Plan for executive directors were met at the
stretch level. In addition, excellent progress 
was made against the majority of the key 
non-financial objectives, but the lack of progress
in winning more export orders is disappointing 
and more work remains to be done in 2005 
on securing technology transfer from the US 
to the UK. Accordingly, bonus payments for
2004, which are set out above, range from
94.5% to 98% of the maximum bonus. 
Share option schemes and long-term 
incentive schemes
The Committee seeks to align the interests 
of the executive directors with those of other
shareholders through the use of share based
Directors' remuneration
All figures £’000
Basic 2003
salary Fees Bonus Benefits Total Total
Chairman
Sir Richard Evans 
*
200 - - 8 208 416
R L Olver
**
- 256 - 1 257 n/a
Executive directors
CV Geoghegan 
†
423 - 399 20 842 621
M Lester 518 - 489 23 1,030 749
Sir Charles Masefield 
***
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 75
S L Mogford 
†
423 - 414 13 850 591
M H Ronald 
† +
433 - 637 26 1,096 875
G W Rose 
† +
463 - 446 19 928 652
M J T urner 
†
730 - 712 44 1,486 1,228
Non-executive directors
Sir Robin Biggam 
***
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 13
Prof S Birley -55 - - 55 44
KCBrown 
***
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 13
Dr U Cartellieri -45 - - 45 36 
MJ Hartnall -65 - - 65 36
Lord Hesketh -45 - - 45 36
Sir Peter Mason -55 - - 55 42
M Portillo -45 - - 45 36
P Scaroni
*
-7 - - 7 34
* retired during the year   
** appointed during the year 
*** ceased to be a director in 2003
All emoluments and compensation paid to the directors during the year are shown above. Where the individual was appointed during the year the amount shown is for the period from appointment.
† accruing retirement benefits under defined benefit schemes at 31 December 2004
+ accruing benefits under money purchase arrangements at 31 December 2004
The aggregate amount of directors’ emoluments in 2004 was £7,013,863. The aggregate amount of unrealised gains made by directors on share options was £59,716 and the aggregate 
net value of assets received by directors from long-term incentive plans was £250,729. The aggregate amount of company contributions paid in respect of money purchase retirement
benefits for directors was £517,838 being: (i) a payment of £2,749 to Mark Ronald’ s 401(k) plan; and (ii) a payment of £515,089 to George Rose’ s FURBS arrangement (comprising,
approximately, a normal contribution of £339,000, plus a payment of £176,000 to deal with investment under-performance).
As a result of the detailed salary review undertaken by the Committee in 2004, the base salary of the executive directors has increased with effect from 1 January 2005 to the following: 
CV Geoghegan: £445,000; M Lester: £540,000; S L Mogford: £445,000; M H Ronald: $850,000; G W Rose: £500,000; M J T urner: £800,000.
2004
price growth plus dividends) over a three-year 
performance period is in the top 50% of the 
TSR comparator group, with 100% of the 
shares under award being released if the 
TSR is in the top 20%. Intermediate positions
will be calculated on a straight line pro-rata
basis. Vesting will also be subject to the
Committee being satisfied there has been 
a sustained improvement in underlying
financial performance. The TSR comparator
group comprises 18 other major defence and 
aerospace companies operating in the 
international arena.
In determining the performance criteria, the
Committee took the view that EPS is a key
indicator of long-term financial performance 
and value creation and that TSR is an indication 26
Summarised
directors’ report
Summarised remuneration report continued, Summarised directors’ report, Auditors’ statement
BAE Systems is a company engaged in the
development, delivery and support of advanced
defence and aerospace systems in the air , on
land, at sea and in space. The company
designs, manufactures and supports military
aircraft, surface ships, submarines, radar ,
fighting vehicles, avionics, communications,
electronics and guided weapon systems.
Further details of the principal activities of the
company and likely future developments in the
business are set out in the Chief Executive’ s
review, summarised financial review and
operating review on pages 3 to 19.
The names of the current directors are listed on
page 21. Their remuneration for the year is set
out on pages 24 to 26.
Paolo Scaroni retired as a director at the
conclusion of the AGM held on 5 May 2004. 
Dick Olver was appointed as a director of the
company on 17 May 2004. Sir Richard Evans
retired as director and Chairman on 30 June
2004. Dick Olver succeeded him as Chairman
on 1 July 2004. Lord Hesketh will be retiring
from the Board at the conclusion of this year’ s
AGM on 4 May 2005.
The auditors have reported on the full annual
accounts, their report was unqualified and did
not contain statements under section 237 (2) 
or (3) of the Companies Act 1985.
Office of Fair Trading undertakings
As a consequence of the merger between 
British Aerospace and the former GEC Marconi
Electronics Systems businesses in 1999, the
company is required to comply with undertakings
given to the Secretary of State for T rade and
Industry . Compliance with the undertakings is
monitored by an independent compliance officer .
Further information regarding the undertakings
and the contact details of the compliance officer
may be obtained from the Company Secretary at
the company's registered office.
Share capital
As at 23 February 2005, the company had been
advised of the following significant interests in
the issued ordinary share capital of the company:
Brandes Investment Partners, LP: 13.0%
Franklin Resources, Inc
and its affiliates: 8.1%
FRM Corp and Fidelity International 
Limited: 5.02%
Barclays PLC: 3.96%
Legal and General Investment
Management Limited: 3.0%
of earnings and capital growth relative to the
industry-specific comparator group.
Executive directors who participate in the
Annual Bonus Plan may be given the option of
taking any net cash bonus paid partly or wholly
in shares through the Restricted Share Plan 
for which a matching award of shares is made
after three years providing the individual
remained in the company's employment at 
the vesting date. The matching award is not
subject to performance criteria as the scheme is
designed to retain key staff and encourage them
to invest the cash bonuses they have earned
under the bonus plan which was itself based on
performance criteria.
The executive directors are also entitled to
participate in the company's Share Incentive 
Plan, an all-employee share plan.  
Retirement benefits
The executive directors of the company are
members of group pension schemes and pay
contributions at the same rate as all other
employees participating in the schemes 
(except where they have already reached 
normal retirement age).
Personal shareholding policy
The Committee has agreed a policy whereby 
all executive directors are required to establish
and maintain a minimum personal shareholding
equal to 200% of salary. As a minimum, a
holding equal to 100% of salary must be
achieved as quickly as possible using shares
vesting, or options exercised, through the
executive share option schemes, or long-term
incentive schemes, by using 50% of the shares
that vest or 50% of the options which are
exercised on each occasion. Thereafter,
executive directors are required to increase their
personal shareholding gradually, on each
occasion using 25% of the shares that vest or
25% of the options exercised each year , until 
a personal shareholding equal to 200% of
annual salary is achieved and maintained.
These limits are reviewed periodically.
Executive directors' service contracts
It is the Remuneration Committee's policy 
that executive directors should normally have
service contracts that provide for the company 
to give the individual 12 months' notice of
termination. This policy has been chosen
because it provides a reasonable balance
between the need to retain the services of key
individuals and the need to limit the liabilities 
of the company in the event of the termination 
of a contract. Mark Ronald, who has a 
one-year rolling contract, is entitled inter alia 
to compensation of a lump sum equal to one
year's salary if the contract is not renewed at 
the end of its term. Sir Richard Evans, who
retired as executive director and Chairman 
on 30 June 2004, had a contract requiring 
him to work three days a week in his capacity 
as Chairman which could be terminated by
either party giving six months' notice.
Chairman and non-executive directors
Dick Olver succeeded Sir Richard Evans as
Chairman on 1 July 2004 having been appointed
as a non-executive director on 17 May 2004. 
He is required to devote at least two days a week
to his duties as Chairman, unless terminated
earlier in accordance with the company's
Articles of Association, or by either party giving 
to the other not less than six months' prior
written notice.  
The non-executive directors do not have 
service contracts but do have letters of
appointment detailing the basis of their
appointment. 
Non-executive directors are paid a fee reflecting
the time commitment required of the director .  The
fee level for the chairmen of the Audit and
Remuneration Committees reflects their
additional responsibilities and workload. Fees
payable to non-executives in 2004 were agreed by
the Board; the non-executive directors themselves
did not participate in board discussions or vote on
matters concerning their fees. 
In January 2005 the Board formed the 
Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee with
authority on the Board's behalf to agree fees
payable to non-executive directors. The Non-
Executive Directors’ Fees Committee has
agreed that fees payable to non-executive
directors will remain unchanged in 2005.
However , it has decided that, as the company
has increased the number of board meetings
held in North America and is considering the
potential appointment of US-based non-
executive directors,a transatlantic meeting
allowance of £4,000 per board meeting should
be introduced. This takes into account the
additional time commitment required by the
European-based non-executive directors to
attend board meetings in the US and similarly
the commitment of potential US-based 
non-executive directors to attend meetings 
in Europe. This allowance applies from the
beginning of 2005. 27 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004
Statement of the independent auditors to the
members of BAE SYSTEMS plc pursuant to
section 251 of the Companies Act 1985
We have examined the summary financial
statement set out on pages 28 to 31,the
summary directors’ report on page 26 and the
table of directors’ remuneration on page 25.
This statement is made solely to the company’ s
members, as a body, in accordance with section
251 of the Companies Act 1985. Our work has
been undertaken so that we might state to the
company’ s members those matters we are
required to state to them in such a statement
and for no other purpose. T o the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the company
and the company’ s members as a body, for our
work, for this statement, or for the opinions we
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the
Annual Review in accordance with applicable
United Kingdom law. Our responsibility is to
report to you our opinion on the consistency 
of the summary financial statement, summary
directors’ report and table of directors’
remuneration within the Annual Review with 
the full annual financial statements, directors’
report and the directors’ remuneration 
report, and its compliance with the relevant
requirements of section 251 of the Companies
Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder .
We also read the other information contained in
the Annual Review and consider the implications
for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with
the summary financial statement.
Auditors’ statement
Basis of opinion
We conducted our work in accordance with
Bulletin 1999/6 ‘The auditor’s statement on 
the summary financial statement’ issued by the
Auditing Practices Board for use in the United
Kingdom. Our report on the group’ s full annual
financial statements describes the basis of our
audit opinion on those financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion the summary financial statement,
summary directors’ report and table of
directors’ remuneration are consistent with the
full annual financial statements, the directors’
report and the directors’ remuneration report 
of BAE SYSTEMS plc for the year ended 
31 December 2004 and comply with the
applicable requirements of section 251 of 
the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations
made thereunder .
London
23 February 2005
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered
Accountants
Registered Auditor
The company’ s Articles of Association contain
provisions to the effect that no foreign person,
or foreign persons acting in concert, can have 
an interest in more than 15% of the company’ s
issued ordinary share capital.
Results and dividends
The loss after taxation and minority interests
was £467m (2003 profit £6m). The directors
propose a final dividend of 5.8p per ordinary
share, amounting to £178m (2003 £168m),
which, together with the interim dividend,
amounts to a total annual dividend of 9.5p per
ordinary share (2003 9.2p), at a total cost of
£291m (2003 £281m). After deducting £21m
(2003 £21m), which represents the total for 
the preference share dividend, the total retained
loss for the year is £779m (2003 £296m).
Political donations
It is the company’ s policy not to make
contributions to political parties. 
The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums
Act 2000 (the Act), amongst other things,
prohibits the company and its subsidiaries from
making donations to EU Political Organisations
(as defined in the Act) of more than £5,000 
in any twelve month period unless they are
authorised to do so by the company’ s
shareholders. The Act defines EU Political
Organisations widely as a result of which the
definition could include bodies, such as those
concerned with policy review and law reform 
or with the representation of the business
community or sections of it, which the company
may see benefit in supporting. In recognition 
of this fact the shareholders, at the 2002 AGM,
authorised the company and certain of its
subsidiaries to make donations or incur
expenditure as defined in the Act up to an
aggregate maximum of £250,000 in a twelve
month period. The company made a donation of
£50,000 in 2004 to Britain in Europe which may
be deemed to fall within the ambit of the Act.
Annual General Meeting
The company's Annual General Meeting will be 
held on 4 May 2005. The Notice of Annual General
Meeting is enclosed with this annual review and
includes details of the resolutions to be proposed 
at the meeting. These include special resolutions
for the disapplication of pre-emption rights pursuant
to section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 and a
change to the company’ s Articles of Association
concerning the provision of indemnities for 
directors and officers of the company . 28 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004
Consolidated profit and loss account 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER
Continuing operations
Existing Acquisitions Total Total
2004 2004 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Sales 13,201 278 13,479 12,572
Less: adjustment for share of joint venture sales (4,378) (6) (4,384) (4,185)
Turnover 8,823 272 9,095 8,387
Operating costs
Excluding goodwill amortisation and impairment and 
exceptional items (8,145) (259) (8,404) (7,717)
Goodwill amortisation and impairment (920) (9) (929) (403)
Exceptional items —— — (9)
(9,065) (268) (9,333) (8,129)
Operating (loss)/profit (242) 4 (238) 258
Share of operating profit/(loss) of joint ventures
Excluding goodwill amortisation and impairment and
exceptional items 322 — 322 310
Goodwill amortisation (109) — (109) (115)
213 — 213 195
(Loss)/profit before interest
Excluding goodwill amortisation and impairment and
exceptional items 1,000 13 1,013 980
Goodwill amortisation and impairment (1,029) (9) (1,038) (518)
Exceptional items —— — (9)
(29) 4 (25) 453
Interest
Net interest (177) (194)
Share of net interest of joint ventures (30) (26)
(207) (220)
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities before taxation (232) 233
Tax
T ax on profit excluding exceptional items (139) (128)
T ax on exceptional items — 3
Share of tax of joint ventures (95) (100)
(234) (225)
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities after taxation (466) 8
Equity minority interests (1) (2)
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (467) 6
Dividends
Equity: ordinary shares (291) (281)
Non-equity: preference shares (21) (21)
(312) (302)
Retained loss (779) (296)
Basic and diluted loss per share (16.0)p (0.5)p
Basic and diluted earnings per share
Excluding goodwill amortisation and impairment
and exceptional items 18.0p 16.6p
The results for 2003 arose from continuing operations. 29 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004
Consolidated balance sheet
Restated
2004 2003
£m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 5,647 6,000
T angible assets 1,751 1,699
Investments
Share of gross assets of joint ventures,
including goodwill 7,747 7,827
Share of gross liabilities of joint ventures (6,139) (6,212)
Share of joint ventures 1,608 1,615
Others 66 95
1,674 1,710
9,072 9,409
Current assets
Stocks 895 775
Debtors due within one year 1,774 2,588
Debtors due after one year 1,064 927
Investments 1,420 883
Cash at bank and in hand 987 780
6,140 5,953
Liabilities falling due within one year
Loans and overdrafts (719) (779)
Creditors (6,565) (5,846)
(7,284) (6,625)
Net current liabilities (1,144) (672)
Total assets less current liabilities 7,928 8,737
Liabilities falling due after one year
Loans (1,665) (1,749)
Creditors (508) (482)
(2,173) (2,231)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (1,017) (900)
4,738 5,606
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 143 143
Share premium account 412 412
555 555
Statutory reserve 202 202
Other reserves 5,372 5,370
Profit and loss account (1,405) (536)
Shareholders’ funds
Equity 4,458 5,325
Non-equity 266 266
4,724 5,591
Equity minority interests 14 15
4,738 5,606
Approved by the Board on 23 February 2005 and signed on its behalf by:
M J Turner, Chief Executive
G W Rose, Group Finance Director
AS AT 31 DECEMBER
Group 30 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004
Other group statements
Statement of total recognised gains and losses 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER
2004 2003
£m £m
(Loss)/profit for the financial year
Group, excluding joint ventures (555) (63)
Joint ventures 88 69
Total (loss)/profit for the financial year (467) 6
Currency translation on foreign currency net investments – subsidiaries (43) (93)
– joint ventures (62) 181
Adjustment to Exchange Property 13 121
Dilution of interest in net assets of Saab 2 —
Unrealised gain on exchange of interests — 11
Write down of previously revalued fixed assets — (3)
Other recognised gains and losses relating to the year (net) (90) 217
Total recognised gains and losses relating to the year (557) 223
Note of historical cost profits and losses
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER
2004 2003
£m £m
Reported (loss)/profit on ordinary activities before taxation (232) 233
Difference between historical cost and revalued amount
Depreciation on land and buildings 3 5
Disposal of land and buildings 8 14
Historical cost (loss)/profit before tax on ordinary activities (221) 252
Historical cost loss for the year retained after tax, minority interests and dividends (768) (277)
Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER
2004 2003
£m £m
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (467) 6
Dividends (312) (302)
(779) (296)
Other recognised gains and losses relating to the year (net) (90) 217
Share based payments 2 5
Net decrease in shareholders’ funds (867) (74)
Opening shareholders’ funds 5,591 5,665
Closing shareholders’ funds 4,724 5,591 31 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004
2004 2003
£m £m
Operating (loss)/profit (238) 258
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 1,131 625
Profit on disposal of fixed assets and investments (27) (23)
Impairment on fixed asset investment 5 —
Movement in provisions for liabilities and charges excluding deferred tax (71) (172)
(Increase)/decrease in working capital
Stocks (70) 19
Debtors 727 24
Creditors 89 (355)
Customer stage payments 525 460
Net cash inflow from operating activities 2,071 836
Capital expenditure and financial investment (256) (248)
Dividends from joint ventures 69 37
Operating business cash inflow 1,884 625
Interest and preference dividends (120) (138)
Taxation (31) 75
Free cash inflow 1,733 562
Acquisitions (550) (62)
Equity dividends paid (281) (281)
Net cash inflow before financing and management of liquid resources 902 219
Management of liquid resources (529) 206
Financing (169) (380)
Net increase in cash available on demand 204 45
Net increase/(decrease) in liquid resources 529 (206)
Net decrease in other loans included within net funds 169 380
Change in net funds from cash flows 902 219
Loans acquired on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings (80) —
Other non-cash movements 9 121
Foreign exchange 57 72
Net increase in net funds 888 412
Net funds at 1 January (865) (1,277)
Net funds at 31 December 23 (865)
Cash on customers’ account (18) (5)
Net cash/(debt) as defined by the group 5 (870)
Summarised consolidated cash flow statement 
and reconciliation to net cash/(debt)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 32 Shareholder information
Shareholder information
Registered office
6 Carlton Gardens
London, SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
T elephone: +44 (0)1252 373232
Company website: www.baesystems.com
Registered in England & Wales, No. 1470151
Registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars (0140)
The Causeway, Worthing 
West Sussex, BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
T elephone: 0870 600 3982
(+44 121 415 7058 from outside the UK)
If you have any queries regarding your
shareholding, please contact the registrars.
Shareview service
The Shareview service from our registrar ,
Lloyds TSB Registrars, gives shareholders:
- direct access to data held on their behalf 
on the share register including recent 
share movements and dividend details;
- the ability to change their address or 
dividend payment instructions on-line.
To sign up for Shareview you need the ‘shareholder
reference’ printed on your proxy form or dividend
stationery . There is no charge to register . 
When you register with the site, you can register
your preferred format (post or e-mail) for
shareholder communications. If you select 
‘e-mail’ as your mailing preference, you will be
sent shareholder communications, such as 
proxy forms and annual/interim results by e-mail
instead of post, as long as this option is available. 
Financial year end 31 December
Annual General Meeting 4 May 2005
Preference shares conversion date 31 May 2005
2004 final ordinary dividend payable 1 June 2005
2005 half yearly preference dividend payable 1 July 2005
2005 interim results announcement September 2005
2005 interim ordinary dividend payable November 2005
2005 half yearly preference dividend payable 3 January 2006
2005 full year results – preliminary announcement February 2006
– report and accounts April 2006
2005 final ordinary dividend payable June 2006
If you have your dividends paid straight to your
bank account, and you have selected ‘e-mail’ 
as your mailing preference, you can also 
collect your tax voucher electronically. Instead 
of receiving the paper tax voucher , you will 
be notified by e-mail with details of how to
download your electronic version.
However , if you choose ‘post’ as your preference,
you will be sent paper documents as usual.
Visit the site for more details: www .shareview .co.uk.
Details of software and equipment requirements
are given on the website. 
Shareholder dealing service
Hoare Govett Limited offers a low cost 
postal dealing service enabling UK resident
shareholders to buy or sell BAE SYSTEMS plc
shares. Basic commission is 1%, subject to 
a minimum charge of £12.00. If you require
further information please contact: 
Hoare Govett Limited 
T elephone: +44 (0)20 7678 8300
This notice has been approved by Hoare
Govett Limited which is authorised and
regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates 
a charity donation scheme for shareholders
with small parcels of shares which may be
uneconomic to sell. Details of the scheme are
available from ShareGift at www.sharegift.org
or by telephone on 020 7337 0501
Share price information
The middle market price of the company’ s
ordinary shares on 31 December 2004 was
230.5p, the range during the year was 159p 
to 257.25p.
Daily share prices are available in the UK 
on the FT Cityline service as follows:
BAE SYSTEMS plc ordinary shares
T elephone: 0906 003 1890
BAE SYSTEMS plc preference shares
T elephone: 0906 003 5174
(Calls are charged at 60p per minute at all times)
Alternatively you can view teletext or a 
similar service.
Dividend reinvestment plan
The company offers holders of its ordinary
shares the option to elect to have their dividend
reinvested in shares purchased in the market
instead of cash. If you would like to make this
election, please request a dividend reinvestment
plan mandate from our registrars:
Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway,
Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA 
T elephone: 0870 241 3018 
(+44 121 415 7058 from outside the UK)
American Depositary Receipts
The BAE SYSTEMS plc American Depositary
Receipts (ADRs) are traded on the Over The
Counter market (OTC) under the symbol BAESY .
One ADR represents four BAE SYSTEMS plc
ordinary shares.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the depositary. 
If you should have any queries, please contact:
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
JPMorgan Service Center
PO Box 43013, Providence
RI 02940-3013, USA  
T elephone: +1 781 575 4328
Website: www.adr .com
Email: adr@jpmorgan.com
Financial calendar  BAE SYSTEMS plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
T elephone +44 (0)1252 373232
Registered in England and Wales No. 1470151
Website details
www.baesystems.com
03.05.AREV2004.001/076   
Front cover image 
RAF twin seat T yphoon at BAE Systems, Warton, Lancashire, UK. 
Photo © Geoffrey Lee at Planefocus Ltd
 
