 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview
Introduction
Y ouGov is the authoritative 
measure of public opinion 
and consumer behaviour. It is 
Y ouGov’s ambition to supply 
a live stream of continuous, 
accurate data and actionable 
insight into what people are 
thinking and doing all over the 
world, all of the time, so that 
companies, governments and 
institutions can better serve the 
people that sustain them.
yougov.com   Overview
01 Operational highlights
02 YouGov at a glance
03 Business model and strategy
14 Chairman’s statement
  Operating review
16  Chief Executive’s review
20 Review of operations
22  Chief Financial Officer’s report
  Governance
24  Board of Directors
26  Corporate Governance Report
29  Remuneration Report
32  Directors’ Report
36   Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement 
 37   Independent Auditors’ Report 
to the Members of YouGov plc 
on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
  Additional information
 82  Notice of Annual General Meeting
  Financial statements
 38  Consolidated Income Statement
 39   Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
40   Consolidated Statement of 
Financial Position
41   Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity
42   Consolidated Statement of  
Cash Flows
43   Principal Accounting Policies 
of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
53   Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
72  Independent Auditors’ Report to 
the Members of YouGov plc on 
the Parent Company Financial 
Statements
73  Company Balance Sheet
74  Accounting Policies
77    Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements
01
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Operating review Governance Additional information Financial statements
Overview
Operational highlights
  Group revenue increased by 8%  
  Adjusted operating profit up by 7%
  Adjusted profit before tax up by 13%
  Adjusted earnings per share up by 1 4%
  The Group generated £6.9m in cash 
from operations (before paying 
interest and tax) (2012: £4.9m); Good 
cash conversion at 1 16% of adjusted 
operating profit (2012: 88%)
  Net cash balances of £6.7m  
(2012: £7 .2m) after making £2m 
of earn-out payments for previous 
acquisitions
  Dividend increased by 20% to 
0.6p per share 
  Current trading in line with the Board’s 
expectations
  Revenue from Data Products and 
Services up by 17%; now represents 
24% of total 
  BrandIndex revenue increased by 
22% to £5m
  Omnibus revenue increased by 20% 
to £7.6m
  Revenue from Custom Research up 
by 5%, ahead of the global market
  US revenues increased by 8% to 
£20.8m but adjusted operating profit 
fell by 15% to £2.3m 
  UK revenue up by 1 1% to £17 .4m; 
adjusted operating profit up 19%
  Middle East revenue grew by 22% 
reflecting expansion across regional 
markets 
  German performance improved with 
adjusted operating profit up by 36% 
to £0.9m 
  Nordic turnaround in progress with 
cost reductions achieved of £0.5m 
on an annualised basis
  French revenue doubled as planned
Key financials
1.  Adjusted operating profit is defined as group operating profit before amortisation of 
intangibles, impairment charge and exceptional items; in the year to 31 July 2013, 
amortisation of intangibles was £3.3m (2012: £4.4m) and exceptional costs were £1.2m 
(2012: £0.5m). Adjusted profit before tax and earnings per share are calculated based 
on the adjusted operating profit.
Turnover 
£m
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
62.6
58.1
56.1
44.2
44.3
Adjusted operating profit
1
 
£m
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
6.0
5.6
5.3
3.8
3.1
Operating cash generation 
£m
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
6.9
4.9
5.6
4.9
5.3
Adjusted profit before tax
1
£m
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
6.8
6.1
5.8
4.0
3.9
Adjusted earning per share
1
pence
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
5.6
4.9
4.7
2.5
2.7
Reported profit before tax 
£1.5m
(2012: £0.4m)
Reported operating profit  
£1.5m
(2012: £0.8m)
016612_YouGov_AR13_p1_15_Overview (Working Copy).indd   1 01/11/2013   13:16 02
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview
Y ouGov at a glance
YouGov plc is an international full-service market research agency which is considered the 
pioneer of market research through online methods. Our suite of syndicated, proprietary data 
products includes: BrandIndex, the daily brand perception tracker; SoMA, the social media 
audience analysis tool; and SixthSense reports which provide comprehensive market 
intelligence on a range of sectors. The market-leading YouGov Omnibus provides a fast and 
cost-effective service for obtaining answers to research questions from both national and 
selected samples. Our custom research business conducts a wide range of quantitative and 
qualitative research, tailored by our specialist teams to meet our clients’ specific requirements.  
YouGov is the most quoted 
research company in the 
UK. In the last year, YouGov 
was quoted more than twice 
as often as any other market 
researcher in the UK
YOuGOv h AS Been 
nAMed One Of T he 
wORld’ S TOp 25 
ReSeARch c OMpAnIeS 
BY The R eSpec Ted 
hOn OMIchl Gl OBAl 
TOp 25 RepORT 2013 
we hA ve A pAnel 
Of SOM e
3 million
people worldwide across 33 countries
20
Off Ice S
worldwide, in 10 countries 
covering the UK, Europe, 
the Nordics, the Middle East 
and the USA
511
employees worldwide
OuR pAnell ISTS  
cOMple Ted
17 million
YouGov surveys in the 
12 months to 31 July 2013 
(an increase of 13% in the 
last year)
ThIS YeAR we 
SeRved OveR
 
2,000
clients worldwide
All figures as at 31 July 2013
016612_YouGov_AR13_p1_15_Overview (Working Copy).indd   2 01/11/2013   13:16 03
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Operating review Governance Additional information Financial statements
Overview
 Business model and strategy
Mission statement
It is Y ouGov’s ambition to supply a live stream of continuous, 
accurate data and actionable insight into what people are thinking 
and doing all over the world, all of the time, so that companies, 
governments and institutions can better serve the people that 
sustain them.
core business model
Established in the UK in 2000 as the first online pollster , Y ouGov 
quickly developed a very strong brand widely recognised for 
accurate political opinion polling. Our highly-responsive proprietary 
panel and strong reputation opened the doors for Y ouGov to 
expand quickly beyond the public service sector to much larger 
and more profitable commercial market research activity . Y ouGov’s 
success was also boosted by our aptitude for developing 
innovative high-margin research products, and our sector expertise 
that addresses the strategic research needs of both large 
corporate and public sector organisations. 
The key to our business is our panel. We have developed a number 
of procedures for recruiting, validating and sampling that enable 
us to use internet samples to represent the population as a whole. 
We believe that internet research is as accurate as traditional 
methods, while being faster and more flexible and thereby freeing 
up resources for the vital interpretation and implementation 
of results.
T oday , Y ouGov has proprietary online panels in 33 countries 
worldwide and we continue to engage in opportunities to take our 
online market research core business model – of a strong brand 
and panel, coupled with innovative products and sector expertise 
– to new markets.
Strategy for growth 
A key objective for the Group is to increase the proportion of 
revenue from data products and services over the medium term 
and bring these closer to parity with custom research. We are 
focusing on growing revenue from our core product suite across all 
our existing geographies. This involves bringing to market new 
products, as well as continuing to innovate with new products. 
In addition to making targeted investments in growing and 
expanding our syndicated data products and services suite, 
we are also continuing to explore opportunities to expand our 
core model geographically .
Our five key strategic objectives
• Grow our syndicated products suite
• Integrate custom research and syndicated data
• Enhance our user experience 
• Boost our public profile
• Expand our geographic footprint
Our strategy for growth
Our five  
key strategic 
objectives
Boost 
our public 
profile
expand our 
geographic 
footprint
Grow our 
syndicated 
products  
suite
Integrate 
custom 
research and 
syndicated 
data
enhance 
our user 
experience
016612_YouGov_AR13_p1_15_Overview (Working Copy).indd   3 01/11/2013   13:16 04
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview
 Business model and strategy
Grow our syndicated products suite
BrandIndex
BrandIndex, Y ouGov’s flagship brand intelligence 
service, tells our clients what the world thinks of their 
brands and their competitors at any given moment 
and helps our clients understand the link between 
their media and advertising efforts, brand perception, 
and consumer response. BrandIndex data is updated 
daily and holds up to six years of historical data about 
our client and competitor brands, which is all instantly 
available to our clients through our user-friendly 
BrandIndex portal. 
BrandIndex is currently available in the US, UK, 
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany , Japan, Mexico, 
Netherlands, Norway , Saudi Arabia, Sweden, United 
Arab Emirates, Brazil and China. Every day we survey 
multitudes of consumers across these territories – 
conducting over 2.5 million BrandIndex interviews 
every year – about thousands of brands across 
dozens of industry segments.
The latest version (6.0) of BrandIndex includes 
enhancements for weekend data collection as well 
as weekday coverage and an extended range of 
valuable information from consumers, including media 
awareness and expected and reported purchase 
behaviour .
This year we also launched an extension of the 
BrandIndex service – BrandIndex CategoryView . 
This additional service provides an even deeper 
investigation of a given market sector (e.g. telecoms 
or dining), focusing on product ownership, spending 
patterns and brand switching behaviour and more. 
It provides additional insight for brand and business 
decision-makers and also for financial investors, such 
as fund managers and analysts. 
T o-date, CategoryView has been introduced for 
selected sectors in the US, UK and China and is 
being marketed initially to the investment community , 
especially in the US. 
Omnibus
This financial year marked the tenth birthday of 
Omnibus, Y ouGov’s very first product. Y ouGov’s 
Omnibus is now the market-leading online omnibus 
service in the UK and in recent years has been 
extended to our French, German, Middle East, Nordic 
and US operations. T oday , the service can provide 
clients with data from some 20 countries.
Omnibus surveys are run daily , providing nationally 
representative responses to clients within a 24 or 48 
hour turnaround.
The size and diversity of the Y ouGov panel has also 
enabled us to expand our Omnibus offering to include 
a number of selected target samples. Omnibus 
segmental services include International, Children 
and Parent, Shoppers, B2B, Independent Financial 
Advisors and T eachers. We also run regular Omnibus 
surveys covering “influential” audiences in the UK 
including Members of Parliament. We recently 
launched the OmniDeepDive service where we 
provide professionally moderated online focus groups 
with a selection of Omnibus respondents.
The key areas of growth this year , in addition to 
launching in the US, were the International and B2B 
Omnibus and both solutions will be a major focus of 
our FY14 strategy for Omnibus. Also planned is the 
expansion of the offerings in existing Omnibus 
markets and rollout of the service to newly opened 
Y ouGov territories including China.
A key objective for the Group is to increase the proportion of revenue from data products 
and services over the medium term and bring these closer to parity with custom research. 
In addition to to our regular Omnibus service, we have a suite of syndicated, proprietary 
data products which includes BrandIndex, SoMA and SixthSense reports.
016612_YouGov_AR13_p1_15_Overview (Working Copy).indd   4 01/11/2013   13:16 05
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Operating review Governance Additional information Financial statements
SoMA
SoMA is our revolutionary social media analysis 
tool which allows our clients to measure what their 
target audience is hearing about them on social 
media. With SoMA, YouGov brings research rigour 
to the world of understanding social media 
effectiveness, providing valuable insights into the 
“customer journey”. SoMA is being incorporated 
by commercial and agency clients into their wider 
research data suites. 
SoMA ’s foundations lie in the representative 
samples of YouGov panellists who have given us 
permission to access and monitor their private 
Facebook and Twitter feeds. SoMA collects and 
analyses the tweets and posts appearing on our 
panellists social media network feeds to provide 
audience metrics that can be extrapolated for the 
UK Facebook and Twitter populations at large. 
By overlaying YouGov’s proprietary demographic 
data with comments made on these social media 
platforms, SoMA provides real meaning to the 
noise of social media.
The latest stage of SoMA development has been 
the tying in of BrandIndex data, thereby allowing 
us to measure the impact of social media 
campaigns on brand perception and purchase 
intent to create real world ROI. 
SixthSense
SixthSense provides comprehensive market 
reports packed with original consumer research 
data and analysis, supplemented by information 
on market sizes, brand analysis, competitive 
benchmarking and market forecasts.
Central to the SixthSense model is using the 
YouGov proprietary online panel to identify niche 
demographics. We work closely with clients 
to identify areas in a market that are quickly 
changing and produce up-to-date insights into 
changing consumer behaviour and attitudes.
Today , our market intelligence report portfolio 
consists of over 300 report titles covering 1,000+ 
topic areas ranging across the finance, 
technology , retail, utilities, media, legal services 
and food & drink sectors. YouGov produces 
reports in multiple countries including the UK, 
Sweden, Denmark, France, Germany and the US. 
Reports can be bought as single copies, as a 
package or , increasingly , for an annual 
subscription covering multiple topics and reports. 
SixthSense has over 500 clients.
HEAt
The Household Economic Activity T racker (HEAT) 
is Y ouGov’s economic confidence tracker . HEAT is 
available in the UK, US and China and can provide 
early indications of changes to both the national and 
global macroeconomic environment. Essentially , 
HEAT is an early warning system for changes in key 
economic indicators before consumer behaviour 
feeds through to official economic measures. 
HEAT examines over 70 economic indicators 
including change in household income, job security , 
business activity , house prices, workplace activity 
levels, government confidence, inflation perceptions 
and expectations, debt and borrowing, propensity to 
save and willingness to spend. Subscribers receive 
a first-to-market, monthly report produced by expert 
economic analysts who review the findings within the 
context of the wider economy and key political and 
economic events and provide analysis not only of 
current conditions but also of future outlook. In 2013 
we went into partnership with the Centre for 
Economics and Business Research in the UK, who 
are providing additional expert macroeconomic 
analysis. Unlike other trackers and indices with 
significant processing time or quarterly or annual 
results, our HEAT reports are delivered within days 
of month-end and we also update the online 
dashboard throughout the month. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p1_15_Overview (Working Copy).indd   5 01/11/2013   13:16 06
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
l ynx: campaign effectiveness
In March 2013 Y ouGov produced a report for The Guardian’s 
Changing Media Summit, looking into current media consumption 
patterns, profiles of audiences on different platforms and media 
types, and the effectiveness of advertising across platforms, using 
the Lynx Apollo Space Academy campaign as a case study .
In January 2013, the deodorant brand Lynx launched a competition 
to send 20 people into space as part of the campaign for its Apollo 
product line. T o publicise the competition the campaign undertook 
activity across TV , online and outdoor media. Y ouGov examined the 
effectiveness of the advertising campaign.
We used connected data – from our existing “Profile Data Library” 
(PDL), a bespoke survey , media consumption data and media plan 
data – to track brand perception based on real exposure to the 
advertising campaign. We examined three samples of 
respondents based on the campaign’s media plan:
1. A UK nationally representative sample
2.  A sample of people we knew to have been exposed to the  
TV adverts
3.  A sample of people we knew to have been exposed to the 
campaign through social media
We used a logistic regression model to take into account the 
different attributes of the samples in terms of demographics and 
whether or not they had ever previously bought Lynx products. 
The results of our study showed that those exposed to the TV 
campaign were significantly more likely than a nationally 
representative sample to express a positive impression of Lynx. 
Unsurprisingly , those who specifically recalled seeing the Lynx ads 
tended to have a positive impression of the brand. However , those 
known to have watched TV programmes containing the Lynx ads 
were significantly more likely to express a positive overall 
impression, irrespective of recall. In other words, we saw a 
significant uplift in brand perception of Lynx among those exposed 
to the ad but did not recall seeing it. 
The results of this study illustrate that relying on recall to track 
the effectiveness of media campaigns is not enough anymore. 
By looking at advertising effectiveness using exposure (not recall) 
and using connected data to understand audiences, Y ouGov can 
finally solve John Wanamaker’s notorious problem (“Half the money 
I spend on advertising is wasted; the trouble is I don’t know which 
half.”). Leveraging the work done for this study , we now have a new 
media planning and buying tool in development.
 Integrate custom research 
and syndicated data
Overview
 Business model and strategy
YouGov’s panel centric approach enables us to provide clients with the information they require 
on opinions and behaviours using the data that our panellists continuously provide to us, 
supplemented as necessary with tailored surveys or questions added to our regular surveys. 
we have been significantly expanding and organising our p rofile data l ibrary (pdl ) and, more 
and more, we are integrating this “connected data” with our custom research to provide 
stronger and more innovative solutions to our clients. 
On a scale of 0 to 10 (10 being the most positive) 
how would you describe your overall impression 
of Lynx?
Rated Lynx 8, 9 or 10
Q:
A:
Nat Rep TV  
Exposed
Social Media 
Exposed
31% 36% 16%
016612_YouGov_AR13_p1_15_Overview (Working Copy).indd   6 01/11/2013   13:16 07
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Operating review Governance Additional information Financial statements
TSB: new brand 
The creation of the new TSB Bank by Lloyds Banking Group 
followed a ruling by the European Commission aimed at bringing 
more competition to the UK banking market and promoting greater 
separation between retail and investment banking. Following their 
contribution to Y ouGov’s Public T rust in Banking report, Lloyds 
Banking Group approached Y ouGov to help them develop and 
refine the brand positioning for TSB Bank, ahead of its launch.
Straightaway we were able to share with them a wealth of existing 
and available data and insight through our prior work on reputation, 
our bank of knowledge of the industry via our SixthSense market 
intelligence reports, our Household Economic Activity T racker 
(HEAT) and our continuous monitoring of the financial services 
sector through BrandIndex. We also found that we already held 
a wealth of data on some of the customer groups about whom 
Lloyds Banking Group were seeking insight, in our Profile Data 
Library (PDL).
Building on this existing foundation, our qualitative specialists 
conducted a number of online and face-to-face interviews across 
the country , covering all potential customer groups, exploring the 
key elements of the new positioning proposed for TSB. Finally , 
having identified the most viable pillars, we then conducted a 
quantitative study to further test the propositions. 
The results of Y ouGov’s study were presented to executive 
management at Lloyds Banking Group and the new bank and 
contributed to decisions regarding the brand positioning for TSB.
flydubai: brand positioning review
Established by the Government of Dubai in 2008 and launched 
in 2009, flydubai has a fleet of more than 30 brand new Boeing 
737-800 aircraft and flies to more than 65 destinations across the 
Middle East, Subcontinent, Southeast Europe, Russia, Ukraine, 
Central Asia and North & East Africa.
In September 2012, to further consolidate its market position, 
flydubai commissioned Y ouGov to gain a deeper understanding 
of its customer profile, uncover what drives “core” customers to 
use flydubai and to explore how flydubai is positioned in the 
market vis-à-vis other airlines. 
As outlined below , the study required a two-phase exploration 
involving quantitative research followed by a qualitative phase:
1.  The quantitative phase involved an online survey with a total 
of 15,040 respondents successfully interviewed. This initial  
stage of research was vital to profile flydubai’s customer base 
demographically , behaviourally and attitudinally . Based on their 
responses, customers were then segmented to help flydubai 
identify its “core” customers. 
2.  The follow up qualitative phase involved 8 face-to-face focus 
groups with flydubai “core” consumers. This element of the 
study allowed flydubai to explore how this critical target 
audience perceives the brand vs. its competitors as well as 
to identify the “needs” answered by each of these brands. 
Ultimately , insights gained through Y ouGov’s research were 
leveraged by flydubai to develop a strategic brand positioning 
and further consolidate the airline’s position in an increasingly 
competitive market. 
Telekom deutschland: product design
In September 2012, T elekom Deutschland approached Y ouGov 
to help them understand how to best optimise the design of their 
flagship cable media bundle service, Entertain by T elekom 
Deutschland. Over 2 million German households currently 
subscribe to Entertain by T elekom Deutschland and this number 
is rising rapidly year-on-year .
For this study , Y ouGov conducted online interviews with several 
different sample groups, including existing and potential 
customers. The interviews explored recent television use, the 
attractiveness of different entertainment packages and the 
attractiveness of add-on services such as additional Pay TV 
channels and the Entertain-to-go service which allows viewers to 
access premium content on mobile devices. We then applied 
conjoint analysis methodology to the results to uncover the 
optimal compositions of service bundles in terms of pricing 
and customer appeal.
The results of this study helped T elekom Deutschland to optimise 
their Entertain by T elekom Deutschland price positioning according 
to customer’s and target customer’s needs, to optimise take-up 
rates from prospective customers, and also gave them an 
estimation of future market potential. Following on from this study , 
T elekom Deutschland commissioned Y ouGov to conduct a further 
study examining the pricing policy of their media receiver product.
016612_YouGov_AR13_p1_15_Overview (Working Copy).indd   7 01/11/2013   13:16 08
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 Enhance our user experience
Overview
 Business model and strategy
Integrated data, and user experience in producing that data, are two parts of the same process. 
It follows that YouGov’s success depends on us keeping panel members engaged and 
responsive. Our current panel engagement activity includes two recent innovations, Opigram 
and “You Made the news!” alerts.
Opigram: t op Gear
Type TV Programme
channel Dave
Genre Cars and Motoring TV Programmes
T op Gear is a British television show about motor 
vehicles, primarily cars, and is the world’s most 
widely watched factual television programme.  
It began in 1977 as a conventional motoring 
magazine sh (…) read full article at Wikipedia
St At ISt Ic S
Percentile Scores Compared to… All TV Programmes
?
Fan Profile (Skew)
politics Gender Age
Male Female Left Right Old Young
People who like this TV Programme also tend to…
Ot HER c ORRELAt IONS ?
like Jeremy clarkson
be interested in Motorsports
like James May
like Richard Hammond
be interested in c ars and Motoring
be interested in c omputers and Technology
like Stephen f ry
SHARE
Opinion Report
Member 8822 on Top Gear
Published: 1 month ago
Love this show! What makes it great is that the presenters 
seem to be friends and well as colleagues.
My husband loves the banter but i find it all a bit blokeish!
It’s the banter between Clarkson, May and Hammond 
thats makes the show .
ReSpOnd
lATeST ReSpOnSeS…
BONKERS SENSIBLE
SILLY WELL ExPRESSEd 
SPOt ON
INtEREStING
ORIGINAL
Now showing: All members (click on the graph to see who said what…) 
StRONGLY 
dISAGREE
MILdLY  
AGREE
MILdLY  
dISAGREE
StRONGLY 
AGREE
215 peOple
152 peOple
352 peOple
367 peOple
People who like this TV Programme also tend to like…
cORRELA t Ed t V PROGRAMMES ?
Formula 1 Blackadder t he d warf Men Behaving Badly
Reach 100
the volume of 
opinion about this 
tV Programme
positivity 84
the strength of 
positive feeling for 
this tV Programme
controversy 46
the strength of 
negative feeling for 
this tV Programme
016612_YouGov_AR13_p1_15_Overview (Working Copy).indd   8 01/11/2013   13:16 09
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Operating review Governance Additional information Financial statements
Opigram
Opigram is Y ouGov’s “Wikipedia of opinion”. Opigram is a new 
technology for recording and measuring opinion online which sits 
on Y ouGov’s panel-facing websites. Opigram allows Y ouGov 
panellists to proactively share their opinion on anything they like, 
whenever they like – and for it to be counted. Through a 
combination of ratings, inputting opinions, and agreeing or 
disagreeing with other panellists, panellists build up a 360 degree 
profile of their tastes, habits and interests (their personal Opigram). 
At the same time, opinions come together to form detailed 
pen-portraits (Opigrams) of brands, movies, celebrities, books 
and much more. 
Developed in partnership with CoEditor Limited, Opigram is 
an integral part of Y ouGov’s panel engagement and website 
strategies. It is designed to keep our panellists actively engaged, 
regularly and consistently , as opposed to them having to wait to 
receive a survey to express their opinion. It provides people with 
a way to record their opinions and experiences that is organised 
to be useful to them, and to other people. The platform also offers 
a social network via which panellists can get to know one another 
over a shared opinion, hobby or passion.
As the heart of Y ouGov’s panel engagement strategy , the next year 
will be an ambitious one for Opigram. Development plans include 
functionality for sharing profile pages and activity on social media, 
as well as the capability for live polling and live results. Opigram 
data will also be made available for commercial use across the 
company .
You Made the news!
Our global panel of respondents join Y ouGov in order to have their 
say . Whether the subject is Government policy , a new product, or 
the fortunes of a particular brand, we know panellists engage with 
Y ouGov because they know our research moves the news agenda. 
Internal research also shows that the stronger the “feedback loop” 
between a Y ouGov panellist expressing an opinion and then seeing 
the results in print, the happier – and more engaged – they are.
Building on this insight, towards the end of this financial year we 
began trialling a new instant alert that provides almost real-time 
feedback to panellists. Going forward, when a news article which 
references survey results to which they contributed is published, 
panellists will receive an alert informing them that “Y ou Made 
the News!” 
Beta testing using our UK panel and Y ouGov’s own news content 
shows that highlighting the effect of panellists’ opinions in this way 
correlates with a significant increase (up to 30%) in panellist 
responsiveness. Clearly , Y ouGov panellists appreciate that their 
views really do shape the news!
For the next stage of the project we will begin to circulate links not 
only to Y ouGov’s own news content, but also external press articles 
featuring Y ouGov polling results. From this, we expect to see further 
significant improvements in panel responsiveness and overall 
engagement. It is our intention to roll the project out across all 
our key territories during the next year .
28% 72%
YouGov  
panellist… 
…completes 
YouGov 
survey
…survey 
results 
published by
YouGov
…a 
“You Made 
the News!” 
email alert  
is sent to…
…Press article 
quotes results 
of Y ouGov 
survey…
Feedback 
loop
016612_YouGov_AR13_p1_15_Overview (Working Copy).indd   9 01/11/2013   13:16 10
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
YouGov-cambridge 
In 2011, the Department of Politics and International Studies 
(POLIS) at Cambridge University established a partnership with 
Y ouGov to facilitate collaboration between academic experts and 
opinion research professionals. The partnership’s aim is to find 
innovative ways to use public opinion data within academic 
programmes and to produce research that informs the public 
policy debate. This partnership has proven to be very successful, 
generating research on a wide range of topics, initiated and 
analysed by staff and students from POLIS and other parts 
of the University , with examples including studies of political 
representation, climate change policy and foreign policy .
Y ouGov and POLIS recently agreed to extend their partnership 
through the Y ouGov-Cambridge Programme of Public Opinion 
Research. This programme will continue to encourage staff and 
students at Cambridge to use Y ouGov research, while Y ouGov 
professionals will contribute to some of the teaching programmes 
in POLIS including the Master’s Degree in Public Policy (MPP) 
launching at the University in October 2013.
In addition to ongoing research, the partnership has since 
developed a programme of annual conferences, held in London 
and Cambridge. In March 2013, Y ouGov and POLIS partnered with 
The Guardian to hold a one-day forum on the themes of “Public 
T rust in Banking” and “Reversing or Advancing Thatcher’s Legacy”; 
in September 2013, the annual forum was held on the theme of 
“Public Opinion and the Evolving State”. Our event partners 
included The Guardian, the British Council and the Royal United 
Services Institute. These conferences have become a regular 
fixture for Cambridge academics to interact with opinion research 
professionals and practitioners from the public and private sectors.
Overview
 Business model and strategy
 Boost our public profile
Follow Y ouGov-Cambridge on Twitter
@YouGovcam
YouGov’s reputation for providing accurate and authoritative information is enhanced by  
the strength of our public profile. YouGov is the pollster for a number of the world's leading 
media organisations including The Times, The Sun, The Sunday Times, Huffington Post,  
The Economist, Al Aan TV, MediaQuest, MetroXpress, Berlingske, Die Zeit and Bild. We also 
undertake strategic partnerships with academic institutions and media organisations for a 
variety of events and projects.
uSA presidential election
The 6 November 2012 USA Presidential Election provided a great 
opportunity for Y ouGov to increase its brand presence in the US. 
Y ouGov undertakes regular polling of political sentiment in 
America, including our annual Cooperative Congressional Election 
Study (CCES) which involves a consortium of universities, our 
weekly polling for The Economist (now in its fifth year) and our 
more recent partnership with the Huffington Post which sees 
our polling widget sitting on one of the largest news sites on the 
internet. For the Presidential Election year , we expanded our 
politcal polling efforts with two new partnerships.
We joined forces with Microsoft to undertake live polling during 
the Presidential Debates using the Xbox platform in order to target 
young adult voters. We asked Xbox users approximately 70 
questions per debate, with over 30,000 respondents weighing 
in per question.
We also partnered with CBS News to produce the CBS News/
Y ouGov Electoral Vote T racker , one of the most extensive opinion 
polling projects ever conducted. We interviewed 36,000 American 
Y ouGov panellists, across 25 states, three times – once in 
September at the beginning of the campaign, again in October 
after the first Presidential Debate, and finally a third time on the 
eve of the election. 
The survey included all the battleground states, and also the 
largest states such as New Y ork, California and T exas. Y ouGov’s 
final prediction was one of the most accurate out of all pollsters 
covering the election. We believe that the demonstrable superior 
accuracy of online research methods in this election has clearly 
tilted the debate over US political polling in favour of online.
c BS/YouGov Simulation: if the election were held today
c BS news/YouGov electoral vote tracker as at 20 September 2012
Obama Romney
016612_YouGov_AR13_p1_15_Overview (Working Copy).indd   10 01/11/2013   13:16 11
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Operating review Governance Additional information Financial statements
UAE Among h Ap pi Er mEn A n At ions The “Happiness and Wellbeing in the Mena” survey conducted by Bayt.com and 
Yougov, an independent research and consulting organisation, has revealed that 
respondents in the UAE are highly satisfied with life in general… On the other hand, 
the highest dissatisfaction noted by respondents is with financial independence across 
all three regions (GCC, Levant, and North Africa).
The Gulf T oday, 23 July 2013
       
 
Big-st At E 
Brit Ain? 
UK vot Ers’ 
s Ymp Ath Y 
for th E poor
Britons are less inclined than the French 
to regard the workless as indulged, 
readier than the Germans to pay taxes to 
help them, and decidedly less relaxed 
about top salaries than the Americans, 
according to a major transnational study 
by the academic thinktank Yougov-
Cambridge.
The Guardian, 15 April 2013
hv Er An DEn DAns KEr 
h Ar KØrt for st Ær Kt 
for n YLig
Halvdelen af danskerne har kørt for 
stærkt på de danske veje inden for den 
seneste måned – mens kun 17 procent 
aldrig har gjort det, ifølge en ny 
undersøgelse foretaget af Yougov...
metroXpress, 23 May 2013
WomEn oWn mAjorit Y 
o f UK’s t ABLEt s for 
first tim E 
Despite the stereotype of gadget-fixated 
males, a new study from Youg ov has 
found that for the first time the majority 
of tablet devices in the UK are owned 
by women.
The Independent, 18 July 2013
sUBW A Y , WEn DY’s, Chipot LE off Er BEst 
vALUE for q UALit Y , Cons Um Ers s A Y
Is it possible to find out which fast food 
chain offers customers the best bang for 
their buck? The statisticians at Yougov 
BrandIndex seem to think so. They used 
data from their daily tracking index of 
consumer perception of fast food chains…
Huffington Post, 25 October 2012
LA Croiss An CE, 
priorité DEs f r Anç Ais
Une large majorité des Français estime 
que la France et l'Union européenne 
doivent relancer la croissance plutôt que 
de chercher à respecter l'objectif d'un 
déficit limité à 3% du PIB, selon un 
sondage de Yougov…
Le Figaro, 14 March 2013
DEUts Ch LAn Ds BELiEBt Est E 
gro ss stä Dt E
Berlin ist der coolste Standort 
Deutschlands? Vielleicht – aber wohnen 
wollen dort viele eher nicht. Lieber in 
Hamburg ist die beliebteste Großstadt 
Deutschlands. Bei einer repräsentativen 
Umfrage des Meinungsforschungs 
instituts Yougov…
Bild, 19 April 2013
t h E X fAC tor fin AL: Yo Ur Big 
vEr DiCt on Who WiLL Win
Nicole was ecstatic to see both of her 
remaining acts joint favourites to win at 
Ladbrokes… But there was little joy for 
two of her fellow judges as fans in our 
exclusive survey – conducted by 
pollsters Yougov – gave their verdicts…
The Sun, 7 December 2012
rED t ro Us Ers Ar E 
o ffi CiALL Y A f As hion f AUX 
p As , Yo Ug ov po LL fin Ds A poll by respected researchers 
Yougov…  found that just 12 per cent of 
the population think well of men in red. 
The T elegraph, 31 July 2013
rE t Urn of th E f EELgoo D f ACtor As 
UK p LC pi CKs Up th E p ACE
A report published today by polling 
experts Yougov and the Centre for 
Economics and Business Research 
think tank shows the mood among UK 
households is the most optimistic since 
April 2010.
Daily Mail, 15 July 2013
016612_YouGov_AR13_p1_15_Overview (Working Copy).indd   11 04/11/2013   15:55 12
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview
 Business model and strategy
The YouGov Group has 20 offices 
worldwide, covering the UK, 
europe, the nordics, the Middle 
east and the uSA. 
During FY13, YouGov began 
establishing a panel in China 
– see page 18 for more details.
USA UK
All figures as at 31 July 2013.
Revenue
£20.8m
Adjusted operating profit
£2.3m
no. of employees
107
Offices
6
panel size
1,704,900
Revenue
£17.4m
Adjusted operating profit
£4.4m
no. of employees
161
Offices
1
panel size
442, 100
 Expand our geographic 
footprint  
Palo Alto, c .A.
Portland, OR. 
Waterbury, ct .
New York, N. Y .
Washington, d.c .
Lawrenceville, N.J.
c openhagen, d enmark
016612_YouGov_AR13_p1_15_Overview (Working Copy).indd   12 01/11/2013   13:16 13
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Operating review Governance Additional information Financial statements
Middle East Nordic Germany France
Revenue
£7.3m
Adjusted operating profit
£1.5m
no. of employees
65
Offices
4
panel size
326,400
Revenue
£8.5m
Adjusted operating profit
£0.3m
no. of employees
65
Offices
6
panel size
101,700
Revenue
£9.4m
Adjusted operating profit
£0.9m
no. of employees
108
Offices
2
panel size
140,500
Revenue
£0.3m
Adjusted operating loss
(£0.1m)
no. of employees
5
Offices
1
panel size
83,300
London, UK
Paris, France
c openhagen, d enmark
Fredericia, d enmark
Helsinki, Finland
Oslo, Norway
Malmö, Sweden
Stockholm, Sweden
c ologne, Germany
Berlin, Germany
d ubai, U.A.E.
Riyadh, K.S.A.
c hina
d ammam, K.S.A. 
Jeddah, K.S.A.
016612_YouGov_AR13_p1_15_Overview (Working Copy).indd   13 01/11/2013   13:16 14
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Introduction
In the year ended 31 July 2013, we are pleased to report that 
Y ouGov has delivered a good financial performance, in line with the 
Board’s expectations. The Group’s revenue has once again grown 
well ahead of the global market research industry and we have 
also made further progress towards our stated goal of increasing 
our focus on real-time research based on our increasingly global 
online panel. Our profits and earnings per share have increased 
while we have continued to invest in developing our products 
and technologies as well as entering new markets. Given this 
performance, together with our continued robust financial position, 
the Board is recommending an increase of 20% in the dividend 
payable to shareholders.  
This year’s revenue of £62.6m was 8% higher than the prior year . 
Significantly , revenues in the second half year grew by 15%, 
compared to the same period in 2011/12, as we converted the 
strong sales reported at the interim stage. The Group’s adjusted 
operating profit increased by 7% to £6.0m, in line with its revenue 
growth. We continued to tighten our operating expense ratio, by 1 
percentage point, although gross margins fell slightly due to higher 
external data collection costs as more international off-panel work 
was conducted. Our adjusted profit before tax rose by 13% and 
adjusted earnings per share by 14% reflecting the strong operating 
performance and higher net finance income.   
Overview
Chairman’s statement
for the year ended 31 July 2013
1.  Adjusted operating profit is defined as group operating profit before amortisation of 
intangibles, impairment charge and exceptional items; in the year to 31 July 2013, 
amortisation of intangibles was £3.3m (2012: £4.4m) and exceptional costs were £1.2m 
(2012: £0.5m). Adjusted profit before tax and earnings per share are calculated based 
on the adjusted operating profit.
In the year ended 31 July 2013, 
we are pleased to report that 
Y ouGov has delivered good 
financial performance, in line 
with the Board’s expectations.”
 
Turnover 
£m
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
62.6
58.1
56.1
44.2
44.3
Operating cash generation 
£m
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
6.9
4.9
5.6
4.9
5.3
Adjusted operating profit
1
 
£m
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
6.0
5.6
5.3
3.8
3.1
Adjusted earning per share
1
pence
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
5.6
4.9
4.7
2.5
2.7
016612_YouGov_AR13_p1_15_Overview (Working Copy).indd   14 01/11/2013   13:16 15
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Operating review Governance Additional information Financial statements
The success of our strategy of investing in faster growth from data 
products and services was reflected in revenue growth of 17% 
from this part of our business which now accounts for 24% of 
the Group’s total revenue. We are pleased to see these benefits 
resulting from our investments in new and enhanced products as 
well as in the people and technology with which to deliver them. 
Revenue from custom research increased overall by 5%, a growth 
rate which is in itself above the estimated global market growth rate 
of 3% for 2012/13. We believe that our innovations in breaking 
down the traditional divide between syndicated and custom 
research will enable Y ouGov to increase further the value that can 
be generated from the data that we collect as well as our business 
scalability . 
Given our diversified geographic footprint, different regions 
performed at varying speeds as expected.
The UK remains the territory where Y ouGov’s core business model 
is most developed. UK revenue increased by 11% to £17.4m 
reflecting significant new custom business wins among global 
corporate and institutional clients as well as continued growth in 
data products and services, especially for our market-leading 
Omnibus service. The higher revenue fed through to a 19% 
increase in its adjusted operating profits compared to the previous 
year , reflecting the scalability of the model. 
There was a mixed performance in the US which is our largest 
market by revenue. We achieved overall revenue growth of 8%, with 
BrandIndex continuing to grow strongly and our polling accuracy 
for the 2012 Presidential Election helping to increase awareness of 
our brand. However , US adjusted operating profit was £0.4m lower 
at £2.3m compared to £2.7m in the prior year . This was due to 
slower growth in the US custom research business in the second 
half of the year as two major clients unexpectedly reduced their 
activity . Following management actions, including cost savings, 
implemented since the year-end, we expect the US custom 
business and overall US profitability to be back on course in the 
current year .
The Middle East reported revenue growth of 22% and adjusted 
operating profit growth of 18%, both of which were well ahead of 
expectations due to continued new business wins in UAE and in 
the Kurdistan region of Iraq whose rapid economic development 
has created significant opportunities to exploit our research model 
along with our understanding of the region. In Germany , the 
progress reported at the interim stage was maintained resulting in 
higher profitability and the adjusted operating margin reaching 9%. 
Our Nordic unit, which as previously reported, experienced 
problems in the first half, has undergone a restructuring 
programme which started in January 2013, led by an interim CEO. 
This addressed the year-on-year revenue decline seen in the first 
half and led to cost reductions which will yield annualised savings 
of £0.5m. These actions should enable the unit to deliver a better 
performance in the next financial year . Our nascent French 
operation achieved its goal of doubling revenue from the previous 
year through several new BrandIndex contracts and a growing 
domestic and international Omnibus business. 
dividend
Following the payment of our maiden dividend of 0.5p per share 
in December 2012, the Board indicated that it intended to follow 
a progressive dividend policy in subsequent years. Having 
considered the Group’s performance in the year ended 31 July 
2013 and future expectations as well as its financial resources, the 
Board is pleased to recommend payment of a final dividend of 
0.6p per share in respect of the year ended 31 July 2013, payable 
in December 2013. This represents an increase of 20% over the 
maiden dividend paid in 2012. 
Roger parry 
chairman
14 October 2013
016612_YouGov_AR13_p1_15_Overview (Working Copy).indd   15 01/11/2013   13:16 16
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Operating review
Chief Executive’s review
for the year ended 31 July 2013
Introduction
In rolling out our strategy , Y ouGov has delivered a good operational 
and financial performance for the year . Our investment in data 
products and services is delivering significant growth while our 
custom research business is also still growing ahead of the market. 
Y ouGov remains the pioneer of real-time research based on 
continuous interaction with our engaged panel. This data enables 
us to offer clients cost-effective and highly accurate insights 
through packaged products like our proprietary BrandIndex and 
our market-leading Omnibus service.
Our investment in data products 
and services is delivering 
significant growth while our 
custom research business is 
also still growing ahead of the 
market.”
 
Custom Research 
up 5%
Data Products & Services 
up 17%
Changes in revenue
£m
FY13 FY12
22%
24%
70.0
60.0
50.0
40.0
30.0
20.0
10.0
0.0
016612_YouGov_AR13_p16_25_Operating review (Working Copy).indd   16 01/11/2013   13:17 Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
17
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Delivering the growth strategy 
Our clearly stated aim is to make our core offering of opinion data, 
derived from our highly responsive panel of respondents, into a 
systematic research and marketing platform delivering data and 
related analyses and reports that can be used to plan, manage 
and refine all types of campaigns whether they have commercial, 
political, social or other objectives. 
In delivering this, we have defined five key strategic objectives. 
We describe these below together with our progress in achieving 
them in the year under review . 
Grow our suite of data products and services
We made further progress in increasing the proportion of Group 
revenue derived from data products and services to bring this 
closer to parity with custom research over the medium term. Overall 
revenue from data products and services grew by 17% to £15m 
from £13m in the year ended 31 July 2013.  
BrandIndex, our flagship brand intelligence service, continued 
to gain clients globally and achieved 22% revenue growth to £5m. 
It now serves over 150 subscribers across all our geographic 
units. The development of BrandIndex as a currency for brand 
measurement has been facilitated by our close collaborations with 
leading global media agencies including OMD and Universal 
McCann who continue to support its global expansion. New client 
wins in the year included Barclaycard, Energizer , Heathrow and 
T ravelodge. During the year , we launched an enhanced version 
(6.0) of BrandIndex which includes weekend data collection as 
well as weekday coverage and an extended range of valuable 
information from consumers, including media awareness and 
expected and reported purchase behaviour . We also launched an 
extension of the BrandIndex service – CategoryView . This provides 
in-depth data on specific market sectors (e.g. telecoms or dining) 
focusing on product ownership, spending patterns and brand 
switching behaviour . It provides additional insight for brand and 
business decision-makers and also for financial investors, such as 
fund managers and analysts. CategoryView has been introduced 
for selected sectors in the US, UK and China and is being 
marketed initially to the investment community , especially in the US. 
Our Omnibus service, which celebrated its tenth birthday in 2013, 
achieved global revenue growth of 20% to nearly £8m. This reflects 
the geographical expansion of the Omnibus service as well as 
continued good growth (18%) in the UK where it is the clear 
market-leader . We launched a daily Omnibus in the USA in January 
2013, overseen by our Group Omnibus Director who is now based 
in New Y ork, which is performing as planned. In the US, as well as 
in other newer Omnibus territories such as France and Middle East, 
we have successfully begun to build media and PR agency 
relationships in support of Omnibus, following the successful UK 
model. New European clients in the year included Money Advice 
Service and Henkel, while new US clients included Diffusion PR 
and KIND. The global roll-out of Omnibus is also enabling us to 
service demand for multi-country Omnibus surveys using the 
Group’s own panels which we expect will contribute to future 
growth. New segmental services covering specific groups such as 
Children and Parents, Shoppers and B2B have also been launched 
which will extend the client base that can be served using the 
common Omnibus platform. 
We have continued to develop SoMA, our measurement tool for 
social media audiences which uniquely includes Facebook 
messages as well as Twitter , so that clients can apply their own 
segmentations to data derived from social media. This provides 
the ability to track social media communications across target 
audiences as defined by a given business or organisation. SoMA 
gives valuable insights into the “customer journey” and is being 
incorporated by clients into their wider research data suite.
Our five  
key strategic 
objectives
Boost 
our public 
profile
Expand our 
geographic 
footprint
Grow our 
syndicated 
products  
suite
Integrate 
custom 
research and 
syndicated 
data
Enhance 
our user 
experience
016612_YouGov_AR13_p16_25_Operating review (Working Copy).indd   17 01/11/2013   13:17 18
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Expand our geographic footprint
Y ouGov already has twenty offices worldwide covering the USA, 
UK, France, Germany , Nordics and the Middle East and our online 
panels operate in 33 countries with some 3 million panellists 
registered on them. In meeting our clients’ needs for Y ouGov’s data 
we have been expanding our operations across the major global 
markets around a repeatable version of our core offering. We aim 
to do this mainly by organic investment but will consider selective 
acquisitions if these can accelerate our development. Our French 
office, which opened two years ago, is successfully meeting its 
goals. Early in 2013, we set up our first panel of Chinese 
consumers which has enabled us to launch a BrandIndex version 
for China to which clients are already subscribing. 
Integrate custom research and syndicated data 
Y ouGov’s panel centric approach enables us to provide clients with 
the information they require on opinions and behaviours using the 
data that our panellists continuously provide to us, supplemented 
as necessary with tailored surveys or questions added to our 
regular surveys. We have been significantly expanding and 
organising our Profile Data Library (PDL) so that this “connected 
data” enables our clients to understand people’s attitudes and 
consumption decisions. This data already feeds into our syndicated 
products, for example economic confidence data from our 
Household Economic Activity T racker (HEAT) can be overlaid with 
customer segmentations and BrandIndex data can be filtered by 
media consumption types. More and more, we are integrating this 
data with our custom research to make the whole offering stronger 
and have been applying this approach to provide innovative 
solutions to our clients. For example, Y ouGov’s precise media 
consumption data can be used to measure the impact of 
advertising that respondents have seen but do not recall. Our 
innovative solution was demonstrated at the Guardian’s Changing 
Media Summit, in a case study on the advertising campaign for 
“Lynx” a well-known personal care product. A number of clients, 
including RSPB and SHS-Drinks, are already using these new 
methods to measure the impact of their advertising and 
sponsorship campaigns. Delivery of complex data sets tailored 
for our clients also requires sophisticated tools for data delivery , 
analysis and visualisation which our investment in these 
technologies helps us to fulfil. This allows us to capitalise on the 
opportunity that we have identified to integrate syndicated data 
into custom research projects.    
Enhance user experience 
Integrated data, and user experience in producing that data, are 
two parts of the same process. That is why one of Y ouGov’s key 
differentiators is that we treat panel management as part of our 
panel-centric methodology . This centres on using online panels 
with engaged long-term respondents to build up an ever-growing 
web of data. For example, by adding the data from today’s 
interview to that from last month’s interview and so on, we can build 
a full picture of the complexity of consumers’ interactions and can 
track when and how these change. This is a marked shift from the 
old world in which people were stopped in the street or contacted 
by telephone for a one-off survey which provided a single 
snapshot or slice of data and the interviewee then yielded no 
further value. Our panellists are happy to share their lives with us 
with many giving Y ouGov access to their Facebook pages and 
Twitter identities and allowing us to track their online activities.
It follows from the centrality of this method that Y ouGov’s success 
depends on us keeping panel members engaged and responsive. 
During this financial year , we strengthened the management of our 
panels by appointing a Group Director of User Experience who will 
ensure consistent, active management of the relationship with our 
panellists across the Group. This also improves the returns from our 
investment in panel recruitment. We have also continued to develop 
innovative ways for our panellists to extend their interactions with 
Y ouGov beyond responding to surveys. These include “Y ou Made 
the News!" alerts and Opigram. 
“Y ou Made the News!” alerts inform respondents to a survey about 
articles published covering the results of that survey . This feature 
provides panellists with feedback on how the data that they provide 
is being used and satisfies their interest in the overall results 
of surveys that they take. This currently only covers publication 
of results on Y ouGov’s UK and US websites but will be extended 
to other units and to external media coverage.
Opigram, developed in partnership with CoEditor Limited, is a new 
technology for recording and measuring opinions that our panellists 
choose to offer . It is becoming an integral part of Y ouGov’s 
panel-facing websites and allows Y ouGov panellists proactively to 
share their opinion on any subject, whenever they like and to build 
Operating review
Chief Executive’s review continued
for the year ended 31 July 2013
016612_YouGov_AR13_p16_25_Operating review (Working Copy).indd   18 01/11/2013   13:17 Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
19
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
up their own profile through a combination of ratings, opinions, 
and agreeing or disagreeing with the opinions of other panellists. 
It provides people with a way to record their opinions and 
experiences that is organised to be useful to them, and to other 
people. The platform also offers a social network through which 
panellists can exchange opinions. As well as entertaining our 
panellists, Opigram is building a valuable database of how 
opinions on one area or issue correlate with attitudes on others (for 
example, consumer preferences with media usage and changing 
attitudes) and this extends the range of usable data that Y ouGov 
can offer its clients (as always, on an anonymised basis). Opigram 
is the new searchable data-base of the “long tail” of changing 
respondent data and is therefore itself a data product. It is helping 
transform Y ouGov from a company that uses the Internet to an 
actual Internet company .
After a successful soft-launch in the UK, Opigram was rolled-out in 
the USA in July 2012, and the level of engagement across both the 
UK and US websites has demonstrably increased. Since January 
2013, the number of unique visitors has increased by 76% to our 
UK site and by 32% to our US site. Reflecting the importance of 
this technology , Y ouGov has increased its effective holding in 
CoEditor , the company which is developing Opigram, to 57%. 
Boost our public profile
Y ouGov’s reputation for providing accurate and authoritative 
information is enhanced by the strength of our public profile and 
this in turn means that our panellists know that their opinions count. 
In the UK, Y ouGov is quoted twice as often as any of our 
competitors and we are also increasingly quoted in traditional and 
digital media around the world. During the 2012 US Presidential 
Election our regular polling and collaborations with CBS and 
Huffington Post generated significant publicity for Y ouGov . 
We believe that the demonstrable superior accuracy of the online 
methods in this election has clearly tilted the debate over US 
political polling in favour of online. Another innovation during the 
US Presidential Debates was our live polling in partnership with 
Microsoft using the Xbox platform to measure instantly the 
reactions of young adult voters. Y ouGov’s media engagement 
model is being applied in other units too. In France, for example, 
collaboration with Huffington Post has helped our new operation 
to gain rapid media exposure and in Germany , daily polling is 
conducted for a number of media outlets including two national 
newspapers: Die Zeit and Bild. 
We are also ensuring that our brand’s public profile is fully 
leveraged among market research buyers in all geographies. 
We are therefore planning to appoint a global Chief Marketing 
Officer to lead the Group’s marketing activities and increase the 
awareness and understanding of our brand proposition among 
all constituencies. This role will be based in New Y ork with an initial 
focus on the US market. 
Looking ahead
The nature of the market research industry is changing. The old 
model of seeking the views of a structured sample and then 
using statistical techniques to extrapolate a valid answer for the 
population is proving expensive and slow . We are seeing clear 
signs that clients in all types of organisation are increasingly 
demanding accurate, real-time information including analysis of 
social media commentary of the kind that Y ouGov has set itself 
up to provide through the immediate responses of registered and 
documented panellists. This allows far more accurate and rapid 
insights to be obtained. Even the global research groups which   
have large, historic investments in traditional methods are publicly 
acknowledging this trend.  
As Y ouGov is an acknowledged world leader in real-time research, 
we believe we are well placed to benefit from these changes 
that are driven by the growing impact of digital technologies. 
By continuing with our innovation and investment we will be able to 
build on our already strong position and deliver the growth strategy 
to which we have previously committed.
Our focus in the coming year will remain on maintaining the growth 
from our expanding suite of data products and services and on 
focusing resources in all our existing operations so as to exploit 
further the advantages of our core operating model. We will also 
continue to develop opportunities for geographical expansion. 
The Board is confident that Y ouGov will deliver further growth in 
revenue and profits in the current year . 
By continuing with our 
innovation and investment 
we will be able to build on our 
already strong position and 
deliver the growth strategy 
to which we have previously 
committed.”
016612_YouGov_AR13_p16_25_Operating review (Working Copy).indd   19 01/11/2013   13:17 20
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Operating review
Review of operations
for the year ended 31 July 2013
UK 
Year to 
31 July 2013 
£m
Y ear to 
31 July 2012 
£m
% 
Change
Revenue 17.4 15.7 11%
Adjusted Operating Profit 4.4 3.7 19%
Adjusted Operating Profit 
Margin (%) 26% 24% 
Our UK business achieved another successful performance with 
operating profit growth of 19% based on revenue growth of 11% 
which reflected continued market share gains and on operating 
margins increasing from their already impressive base. In line with 
our overall strategy , the UK‘s revenue from data products and 
services grew proportionately faster (20% up) than that from 
custom research (7% up). Good progress was also made in our 
aim of combining Y ouGov’s proprietary data with additional 
bespoke surveys in our offerings to clients. 
Data products and services now represent 46% of the total 
revenue and its scalability helps to make the UK our highest margin 
unit. Within this, BrandIndex revenue grew by 41% with 20 new 
subscribers, including Barclaycard and T ravelodge, signed in the 
year bringing the total number of UK BrandIndex customers to 50. 
Revenue from UK Omnibus, which is already the clear leader in its 
marketplace, grew by 18% due in part to more clients taking up 
its international offerings as well as the segmental Omnibus’s (such 
as “Main Shopper” and “Parents and Children”) which are 
becoming a valuable extension to the service range. SixthSense, 
our reports business, achieved revenue growth of 15% with 
particular success in sales to the financial services sector 
including  clients such as Santander and Prudential.
As anticipated at the interim stage, strong sales in the first half 
fed through to above-market annual growth in custom research 
revenue. These included a number of significant new contracts, 
notably in financial services (Barclays and Blackrock), technology 
(Docomo Europe) and media (ITV) as well as renewals from 
existing major clients such as Asda, Costa Coffee and News UK. 
Our specialist Reputation practice also extended its client base 
to include a global bank and a leading professional service firm. 
Our Political team remains at the forefront of its field and in 2013 
has entered into a new partnership with The Times in addition 
to our long-standing relationship with The Sunday Times. 
USA 
Year to 
31 July 2013 
£m
Y ear to 
31 July 2012 
£m
% 
Change
Revenue 20.8 19.2 8%
Adjusted Operating Profit 2.3 2.7 (15%)
Adjusted Operating Profit 
Margin (%) 11% 14% 
Although we continued to grow our market share in the US, with 8% 
overall revenue growth and data products revenue growing strongly 
at 43%, the US adjusted operating profit fell by 15%. This was due 
to lower than expected revenue in the custom business in the 
second half, which was not offset by cost reductions, although 
actions now taken to strengthen sales and reduce the overhead 
cost base are expected to improve profitability .
Growth in data products and services revenue was largely due 
to BrandIndex whose market awareness in the US continues to 
develop, supported by active public relations campaigns and 
collaboration with leading media buying agencies. The new 
BrandIndex CategoryView which provides in-depth tracking of 
consumer attitude and buying habits in an individual sector was 
launched commercially in the US during the year , targeted 
particularly at the investment sector . US BrandIndex clients include 
Bank of America, Subway and Western Union. There was a small 
revenue contribution from the new Omnibus service, launched in 
the USA in January 2013, which is performing as planned as well 
as continued growth in the specialist HospitalIndex product.
The custom business continued to win new clients and achieved 
revenue growth of 3%, in line with the US research market as a 
whole, despite the unexpected reduction in commissions from two 
major clients. It continued to extend the range of corporate clients 
that Y ouGov serves in the USA (which now include Coca-Cola, 
Georgia Pacific, Microsoft, NetJets, Remy Martin and T ravelocity). 
Polling work in connection with the 2012 Presidential election, 
including collaborations with Huffington Post and CBS also helped 
to increase awareness of Y ouGov’s reputation for accuracy as well 
as of Y ouGov generally in the US.  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p16_25_Operating review (Working Copy).indd   20 01/11/2013   13:17 Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
21
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Middle East 
Year to 
31 July 2013 
£m
Y ear to 
31 July 2012 
£m
% 
Change
Revenue 7.3 6.0 22%
Adjusted Operating Profit 1.5 1.3 18%
Adjusted Operating Profit 
Margin (%) 21% 22% 
Our Middle East business has continued to exploit our region-wide 
reputation for accuracy and quality as well as our local relationships 
so as to deliver revenue growth of 22%, which was higher than 
our original expectations for the year . This enabled it to increase 
adjusted operating profit by 18% to £1.5m, also better than 
planned, with operating margins remaining broadly stable. 
In addition to winning business in Dubai and Saudi Arabia from 
clients such as Emirates Airlines, Pepsico, Saudi T elecom and 
various UAE public bodies, we have also won major contracts 
in Kurdistan for commercial market research and public opinion 
polling which led to the establishment of a branch office in 
this rapidly expanding economy . Our panel, which now covers 
21 countries in the Middle East and North Africa, continues to 
be regarded as the regional leader in terms of quality and has 
supported growth of our online data services (including 
BrandIndex and Omnibus) which grew revenue by 26% in the 
year . The partnership with Al-Aan TV to provide surveys for their 
pan-regional Arab language channels continues to help promote 
our brand regionally . The economic opportunities in the Middle East 
region, including its young population profile, continue to attract 
interest and investment from international and regional businesses 
despite the political instabilities. Y ouGov’s regional footprint and 
panel make us well positioned to service the resulting research 
requirements and deliver further growth.    
Germany 
Year to 
31 July 2013 
£m
Y ear to 
31 July 2012 
£m
% 
Change
Revenue 9.4 9.4 –
Adjusted Operating Profit 0.9 0.6 36%
Adjusted Operating Profit 
Margin (%) 9% 7% 
Our clear priority in Germany has been to increase profitability 
and align the business more closely with Y ouGov’s core operating 
model. We are pleased to be able to report a continued 
performance improvement in 2012/13 with 36% operating profit 
growth and a 9% margin being achieved. This achievement was 
due in part to the cost savings implemented in the prior year and 
also to a 2% point increase in gross margins this year to 80% 
resulting from the focus on winning higher margin business. This 
selective approach contributed to the overall revenue remaining 
static compared to the previous year . The financial services 
remained the largest sector in the business with clients including 
Commerzbank and many of Germany’s savings and regional 
banks. T echnology and media is also growing with clients such as 
Deutsche T elekom and Vodafone. BrandIndex has continued to 
gain new subscribers and the Omnibus service has moved onto 
a full daily basis. The goal remains to increase margins further 
as we expand the penetration of Y ouGov core services in the 
German market. 
Nordic 
Year to 
31 July 2013 
£m
Y ear to 
31 July 2012 
£m
% 
Change
Revenue 8.5 8.8 (4)%
Adjusted Operating Profit 0.3 0.8 (55)%
Adjusted Operating Profit 
Margin (%) 4% 9% 
As reported at the interim stage, our Nordic business experienced 
a challenging year , due largely to poor trading in Sweden which led 
to overall revenue falling by 4% although the Danish office which 
accounts for nearly 50% of the business grew revenue by 1%. In 
January 2013, a turnaround programme was instituted under the 
leadership of an interim CEO with the aim of restoring growth and 
improving margins by shifting the business model closer to that of 
the UK with a higher proportion of Omnibus and data products 
business. Staff numbers have been reduced resulting in cost 
savings of £0.5m on an annual basis. As a result there was a 
return to profitability in the second half of the year . Major clients 
in the year included OMD, Carlsberg and Steen & Strom 
(the retail group).    
France
Our French business which is in its second year of operation, 
doubled its revenue as planned to £0.3m. It is delivering Y ouGov’s 
core products and services (BrandIndex and Omnibus) into the 
French market as well as providing French data for international 
survey projects. Its panel has now grown to 83,000 members.  
French BrandIndex sales have been made to existing international 
clients as well as locally to companies such as KFC, Danone Baby 
Nutrition and Sarenza. The unit is on course for further strong 
growth in the coming year . 
Stephan Shakespeare  
Chief Executive Officer
14 October 2013 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p16_25_Operating review (Working Copy).indd   21 01/11/2013   13:17 22
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Operating review
Chief Financial Officer’s report
for the year ended 31 July 2013
1.  Adjusted operating profit is defined as 
group operating profit before amortisation 
of intangibles, impairment charge and 
exceptional items; in the year to 31 July 
2013, amortisation of intangibles was 
£3.3m (2012: £4.4m) and exceptional 
costs were £1.2m (2012: £0.5m). Adjusted 
profit before tax and earnings per share 
are calculated based on the adjusted 
operating profit.
Turnover 
£m
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
62.6
58.1
56.1
44.2
44.3
Adjusted earning per share
1
pence
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
5.6
4.9
4.7
2.5
2.7
Adjusted operating profit
1
 
£m
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
6.0
5.6
5.3
3.8
3.1
The average number of staff (full-time equivalents) employed 
during the year increased by 20 to 502 from 482 in the previous 
year to support business growth. Average revenue per head 
increased to £125,000 from £121,000 and staff cost as a 
percentage of revenue was unchanged at 50%. 
Adjusted Group operating profit increased by 7% to £6.0m 
compared to £5.6m in the previous year . Net finance income was 
£0.1m compared to a cost of £0.2m last year , primarily due to foreign 
exchange gains, resulting in adjusted profit before taxation rising by 
13% to £6.8m. Adjusted earnings per share1 for the year rose by 
0.7p to 5.6p. The reported profit before taxation (after charging 
amortisation and exceptional items of £4.5m) rose £1.1m to £1.5m. 
Amortisation of intangible assets and impairment
Amortisation charges for intangible assets of £3.3m were £1.1m 
lower than the previous year , largely due to lower costs relating to 
intangible assets acquired through business combinations which 
fell to £0.8m (2012: £2.0m). £1.2m of the remaining charge related 
to separately acquired assets, as in the prior year and £1.3m (2012: 
£1.2m) to those created through the Group’s own internal 
development activities.
Exceptional items
Exceptional costs of £1.2m (2012: £0.5m) were incurred in the year . 
These included £0.6m of restructuring costs, primarily in relation to 
the Nordic business, £0.3m of acquisition related expenditure, 
£0.2m of employment termination costs incurred in the US and 
£0.1m in relation to the closure of the panel in Chile previously 
operated through a local partner . 
Analysis of operating profit and earnings per share
 31 July 2013 
£’000
31 July 2012 
£’000
Group operating profit before amortisation of 
intangibles, impairment and exceptional costs 5,982 5,585
Share-based payments 767 641
Imputed interest 71 150
Net finance income/(cost) 118 (240)
Share of post-tax loss in associates (122) (83)
Adjusted profit before tax 6,816 6,053
Adjusted profit after tax 5,312 4,663
Adjusted earnings per share
1
 (pence) 5.6 4.9
1.  Adjusted earnings per share is calculated based on the post-tax result derived from the 
adjusted profit before tax.
Cash flow
The Group generated £6.9m in cash from operations (before 
paying interest and tax) (2012: £4.9m), cash conversion was good 
at 116% of adjusted operating profit (2012: 88%), and included a 
£0.7m inflow due to lower working capital. Expenditure on investing 
and financing activities was £6.5m (2012: £5.9m), £4.0m of this 
(2012: £3.3m) related to capital expenditure on tangible and 
intangible assets and £2.0m (2012: £2.6m) to acquisitions including 
deferred consideration.  
Income statement review
Group revenue for the year to 31 July 2013 of £62.6m was 8% 
higher than the prior year . The highest growth was in the Middle 
East at 22%, while the UK grew at 11% and the US 8%. Revenue in 
Germany was in line with the previous financial year and Nordic 
declined by 4%.
The Group’s gross profit (after deducting costs of panel incentives 
and external data collection) increased by £2.4m to £47.1m 
although the gross margin fell by 2 percentage points to 75% from 
77%, due equally to higher panel incentives and external data 
collection costs. 
Operating expenses (excluding amortisation and exceptional 
items) of £41.1m were £1.9m higher than last year , a total increase 
of 5%. However , the operating expense ratio fell to 66% compared 
to 67% in the prior year reflecting prior year cost savings and 
continued focus on controlling staff and other costs.  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p16_25_Operating review (Working Copy).indd   22 01/11/2013   13:17 Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
23
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Taxation 
The Group had a tax credit of £0.6m (2012: £0.1m charge) on a 
reported basis, the current tax charge of £0.5m (2012: £0.4m) 
being offset by a deferred tax credit of £1.1m (2012: £0.3m).  
On an adjusted basis, the tax charge was £1.5m (2012: £1.4m) 
which represents an implied tax rate of 22% on the adjusted profit 
before tax, one percentage point lower than the prior year .   
Balance sheet 
T otal shareholders’ funds increased to £61.1m from £55.9m at 
31 July 2012 and total net assets increased to £61.1m compared 
to £56.0m at 31 July 2012. Net cash balances fell by £0.5m to 
£6.7m from £7.2m as at 31 July 2012, due largely to the cash 
expenditure on deferred consideration in respect of the US 
acquisitions made in prior years. Net current assets increased to 
£11.0m from £10.3m. Debtor days increased to 68 days from 63 
days. Current liabilities increased by £2.8m to £19.7m from 
£16.9m. Creditor days decreased to 31 days from 35 days in 2012.  
Panel development
During the year we have amended the definition that we use to 
measure panel size to bring it into line with the ISO 26362 definition 
of size which counts only active participants. As a result the 
number of panellists reported at 31 July 2012 has been restated 
from 3.3m to 2.9m. As at 31 July 2013, the Group’s online panels 
comprised a total of 2.8m panellists, a decrease of 3% from the 
restated total of 2.9m as at 31 July 2012. The panel sizes by 
region were:
Region
 Panel size
at 31 July 
2013 
 Panel size
at 31 July 
2012*
UK 442,100 437,200
Middle East 326,400 346,800
Germany 140,500 194,300
Nordic 101,700 101,600
USA 1,704,900 1,717,000
France 83,300 81,900
Total 2,798,900 2,878,800
* Restated
Corporate development activities
A final payment of $1.8m (£1.1m) was made during the year in 
respect of the acquisition of Harrison Group as anticipated and 
previously provided for in the accounts, which brings the total 
consideration to $14.4m (£8.9m). 
A payment of $0.8m (£0.5m) was made in respect of the 
acquisition of Definitive Insights bringing the total consideration 
to date to $2.0m (£1.2m). Additional payments totalling $0.8m 
(£0.6m) will be payable in two instalments in 2014 and 2015. 
A final payment of $0.6m (£0.4m) was also made in respect of the 
acquisition of Clear Horizons LLC bringing the total consideration 
paid to $2.3m (£1.5m).
On 6 September 2013, after the end of the financial year , a 40% 
shareholding was acquired in Doughty Media 2 Limited (“DM2”) 
which has a 69% shareholding in CoEditor Limited, the company 
which has developed the Opigram service and in which Y ouGov 
already owned a 29.6% shareholding. Following this purchase, 
Y ouGov now effectively controls 57% of CoEditor Limited. 
The shareholding was purchased from the director of Co-Editor 
responsible for the Opigram development who has become an 
employee of Y ouGov following the transaction. 
The maximum purchase price for the shareholding acquired in 
DM2 is £497,000 of which £37,000 was paid in cash on 
completion. The remaining balance will be payable in Y ouGov 
shares in February 2015 with the majority (up to £348,000) being 
contingent on the achievement of certain performance criteria 
relating to the delivery of expected benefits arising from the 
incorporation of the Opigram service within Y ouGov’s online 
presence. The number of Y ouGov shares to be issued in February 
2015 will be calculated by reference to their average price over the 
five dealing days prior to 6 September 2013. 
The remaining 60% shareholding in DM2 is held by Stephan 
Shakespeare (CEO of Y ouGov plc) and his wife, Rosamund 
Shakespeare. The Directors of Y ouGov (other than Stephan 
Shakespeare who has been excluded from these discussions due 
to his conflict) believe that it is in Y ouGov’s best interests to take full 
control of the Opigram technology . They have therefore approved 
an offer to purchase the 60% shareholding in DM2 held by 
Stephan and Rosamund Shakespeare, for a maximum price of 
£744,000. This is on an equivalent valuation and terms to those 
agreed for the purchase of the 40% shareholding set out above, 
except that there will be no cash element and therefore the entire 
consideration will be payable in February 2015 in Y ouGov shares, 
with up to £522,000 of this being contingent upon the achievement 
of the performance criteria described above. The implied valuation 
of CoEditor is also equivalent to that upon which Y ouGov 
previously acquired its 29% shareholding. The Directors (other 
than Stephan Shakespeare) consider these terms to be fair and 
reasonable and in the best interests of the Company . As this 
transaction would be a substantial property transaction as defined 
by S190 of the Companies Act 2006, the Board proposes at the 
forthcoming AGM to seek approval for it from the shareholders of 
the Company as required by the Act. As a result of the transaction, 
Y ouGov will effectively control 98% of CoEditor Limited.
Proposed dividend
The Board is recommending the payment of a final dividend of 
0.6p per share for the year ended 31 July 2013. If shareholders 
approve this payment at the AGM, it will be paid on 16 December 
2013 to all shareholders who were on the Register of Members at 
close of business on 6 December 2013.
Alan Newman 
Chief Financial Officer
14 October 2013
016612_YouGov_AR13_p16_25_Operating review (Working Copy).indd   23 01/11/2013   13:17 24
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Governance
Board of Directors
Roger Parry Non-Executive Chairman
Experience:  
Roger is Chairman of Y ouGov plc, MSQ Partners Ltd and Mobile Streams 
Plc. He is a Visiting Fellow of Oxford University . Roger was previously a 
consultant with McKinsey & Co, CEO of More Group plc, Chairman and 
CEO of Clear Channel International, Chairman of Johnston Press plc, 
Chairman of Future plc and Chairman of Shakespeare’s Globe T rust.  
Roger was educated at the universities of Oxford (M.Litt Economics) and 
Bristol (BSc Geology). He is the author of four books: People Businesses; 
Enterprise; Making Cities Work; and The Ascent of Media.
Stephan Shakespeare Chief Executive Officer
Experience:  
Stephan co-founded Y ouGov in 2000 (in collaboration with Nadhim Zahawi). 
One of the pioneers of internet research, Stephan has been the driving 
force behind Y ouGov’s innovation-led strategy . He also founded 
PoliticsHome.com and ConservativeHome.com. He was chair of the Data 
Strategy Board for the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills 
2012–2013 and led the Shakespeare Review of Public Sector Information. 
He is currently a member of the Government’s Public Sector T ransparency 
Board, a trustee of the National Portrait Gallery and Chairman of Flooved 
Ltd. Stephan has an MA in English Language and Literature from Oxford 
University .
Alan Newman Chief Financial Officer
Experience:  
Alan has been Y ouGov's Group Chief Financial Officer since 2008. Prior to 
joining Y ouGov , Alan was a Partner with Ernst & Y oung LLP and KPMG LLP 
where he led the TMT sector financial management consulting practice. 
Alan’s previous corporate management roles include International Finance 
Director of Longman and Group Development Manager of MAI plc (now 
United Business Media). He is a T rustee of the Freud Museum London 
and a Director of the Quoted Companies Alliance. Alan is a Fellow of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants and has an MA in Modern Languages 
(French and Spanish) from Cambridge University .
Doug Rivers Chief Innovations Officer
Experience:  
Doug was CEO of Y ouGov’s American business from 2007 to 2011, 
following Y ouGov’s acquisition of Polimetrix which Doug founded in 2004. 
Prior to this he was CEO of Knowledge Networks. He has also been a 
Professor of Political Science at Stanford University in California since 1989, 
and is a Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution. Doug holds a PhD from 
Harvard University and a BA from Columbia University .
016612_YouGov_AR13_p16_25_Operating review (Working Copy).indd   24 01/11/2013   13:17 Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
25
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Sir Peter Bazalgette Non-Executive Director
Committees:  
Chair of Remuneration Committee, member of the Audit Committee
Experience:  
Sir Peter is Chair of Arts Council England and former Chair of English 
National Opera. He has raised funds for arts and media organisations, 
notably as Chair of The Crossness Engines T rust and as Deputy Chair 
of The National Film and T elevision School. He has a number of media 
interests, serving on the Boards of ITV and MirriAd and the Advisory Board 
of BBH. He is active in the television industry and is the president of The 
Royal T elevision Society , served as the Chief Creative Officer of Endemol, 
served on the Board of Channel 4 and devised several internationally 
successful television formats. He was also a Non-Executive Director of 
DCMS. Peter writes a regular food column for the Financial Times.  
Nick Jones Non-Executive Director
Committees:  
Chair of Audit Committee, member of the Remuneration Committee
Experience:  
Nick is currently Chief Financial Officer of Achilles Group, the global 
provider of professional procurement services. Prior to this, he was Global 
Head of Finance for Reuters plc where he also led the integration of 
Thomson and Reuters. Nick has held senior financial roles in technology 
and media businesses in the UK, the US and Europe including Virgin 
Media, Phillips Electronics and RR Donnelley . He is a Fellow of the 
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and holds a BA (Hons) 
in Accounting and Finance.
Ben Elliot Non-Executive Director
Experience:  
Ben is the co-founder of Quintessentially , the luxury lifestyle group and 
24-hour global concierge service, which he started in London in December 
2000. The Quintessentially Group operates in 60 cities globally and has 
32 sister businesses in the luxury lifestyle market. Ben is the chairman of the 
Quintessentially Foundation. Since it was established in 2008, it has raised 
over 2.5 million pounds for charity . He was also proudly involved in 
the fundraising for Her Majesty the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee in 2012. 
Ben is Executive Producer of the award-winning feature documentary 
Fire in Babylon. He graduated from the University of Bristol with a degree 
in Politics.
016612_YouGov_AR13_p16_25_Operating review (Working Copy).indd   25 01/11/2013   13:17 26
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Governance
Corporate Governance Report
for the year ended 31 July 2013
Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code
Y ouGov is not required to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 as it is listed on the AIM Index but the Board 
considers that the Group should work towards compliance with it to the extent appropriate for a business of our size and complexity . 
Full compliance has not yet been achieved and the Board and Audit committee monitor the Company’s compliance on a regular basis. 
A copy of the Code is publicly available at www .frc.org.uk.
The Board
At 31 July 2013, the Board consisted of three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman and 
the senior Non-Executive Director . The names of the Directors and their respective responsibilities are shown on pages 24 and 25.
The Board operates both formally , through Board and committee meetings, and informally , through regular contact amongst Directors. 
High level decisions on such matters as strategy , financial performance and reporting, dividends, risk management, major capital 
expenditure, acquisitions and disposals are reserved for the Board or Board committees. For its regular formal meetings, the Board 
receives appropriate information in advance from management.
The Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s own expense in the performance of their duties as Directors.
The Board formally approves the appointment of all new Directors. All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at the 
first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and subsequent to this at the Annual General Meeting on a rotational basis, 
which ensures that each Director is submitted for re-election approximately every three years. Proposals to re-elect Directors have been 
set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Board committees
Remuneration committee – The Remuneration committee was established at the time of flotation. The composition of the Remuneration 
committee is shown below and the statement of the remuneration policy developed by the committee and details of each Director’s 
remuneration are given within the Directors’ Remuneration Report set out on pages 29 to 31.
Audit committee - The composition of the Audit committee is shown below . The Audit committee operates under terms of reference 
agreed by the whole Board and meets with the external auditors to consider the Company’s financial reporting in advance of its 
publication.
Board and committee attendance
The following table sets out the attendance of Directors at Board and committee meetings during 2012/13.
Director
Board Meetings 
Maximum 8
Remuneration 
Committee Meetings 
Maximum 2
Audit Committee 
Meetings 
Maximum 2
Stephan Shakespeare 8 – –
Alan Newman 8 – 2 (in attendance)
Doug Rivers 8 – –
Roger Parry 8 – –
Sir Peter Bazalgette 8 2 2
Nick Jones 8 2 2
Ben Elliot 8 – –
Shareholder communications
The Board’s assessment of the Company’s position and prospects are set out in the Chairman’s Statement on pages 14 and 15 and 
the Chief Financial Officer’s Report on pages 22 and 23.
The Executive Directors meet regularly with institutional shareholders to discuss the Company’s performance and future prospects. 
At these meetings the views of institutional shareholders are canvassed and subsequently reported back to the Board. The Annual 
General Meeting is used as a forum for communication with private shareholders.
016612_YouGov_AR13_p26_p37_Governance (Working Copy).indd   26 01/11/2013   13:17 Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
27
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Audit committee
The Audit committee comprises the two Non-Executive Directors, Nick Jones (its Chairman) and Peter Bazalgette. Nick Jones has recent 
and relevant financial experience. 
The Audit committee reports to the Board on any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and 
makes recommendations as to the steps to be taken. In particular the committee is responsible for:
•	 ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is properly monitored and reported;
•	 monitoring the formal announcements relating to financial performance;
•	 meeting the external auditors and agreeing audit strategy;
•	 reviewing reports from the auditors and management relating to accounts and internal control systems; and
•	 making recommendations to the Board in respect of external auditor appointment and remuneration.
The effectiveness of the internal control systems is under constant review and a formal assessment of internal controls has been 
conducted. The Audit committee will monitor the implementation of a series of detailed steps to improve the control environment. 
Although there was no formal internal audit during the year , the accounting functions were subject to periodic internal review . As the 
business continues to grow we keep the Group’s need for an internal audit function under constant review .
Key controls and procedures
The Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues, and has put 
in place an organisational structure with defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority . 
The annual budget and forecasts are reviewed by the Board prior to approval being given. This includes the identification and 
assessment of the business risks inherent in the Group and the media sector as a whole, along with associated financial risks.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives in addition to 
providing reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. These include controls in relation to the financial 
reporting process and the preparation of consolidated accounts. These procedures have been in place during the financial year up to 
the date of approval of the annual report. This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and is in accordance with the T urnbull 
guidance. The key procedures include;
•	 detailed budgeting programme with an annual budget approved by the Board;
•	 regular review by the Board of actual results compared with budget and forecasts;
•	 regular reviews by the Board of year end forecasts;
•	 establishment of procedures for acquisitions, capital expenditure and expenditure incurred in the ordinary course of business;
•	 detailed budgeting and monitoring of costs incurred on the development of new products;
•	 reporting to, and review by , the Board of changes in legislation and practices within the sector and accounting and legal 
developments pertinent to the Company;
•	 appointing experienced and suitably qualified staff to take responsibility for key business functions to ensure maintenance of high 
standards of performance; and
•	 appraisal and approval of proposed acquisitions by the Board.
Auditor independence
The Audit committee also undertakes a formal assessment of the auditors’ independence each year which includes:
•	 confirmation of the auditors’ objectivity and independence in the provision of non-audit services to the Company by the use 
of separate teams to provide such services where appropriate;
•	 discussion with the auditors of a written report detailing relationships with the Company and any other parties that could affect 
independence or the perception of independence;
•	 a review of the auditors’ own procedures for ensuring independence of the audit firm and partners and staff involved in the audit, 
including the regular rotation of the audit partner; and
•	 obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that, in their professional judgement, they are independent.
Any analysis of the fees payable to the external audit firm in respect of both audit and non-audit services during the year is set out in 
Note 2 to the financial statements.
016612_YouGov_AR13_p26_p37_Governance (Working Copy).indd   27 01/11/2013   13:17 28
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Risk management
The Board reviews risks facing the business on a regular basis. The following paragraphs describe the principal risks and uncertainties 
identified. 
Early stage of development – Although the Company has grown substantially since it was formed ten years ago, it remains a relatively 
small company in an early stage of development. The Company faces competition from both large established international companies 
as well as small local businesses operating in the same sector .
Currency fluctuations – The Group is exposed to currency risk as the Group operates in multiple geographic regions. This manifests 
itself in different forms. We seek to reduce this risk by invoicing in local currency thus reducing exposure in normal trading. The Group is 
exposed to currency translation risk in the consolidation of accounting records. The main reporting currencies of Group subsidiaries are 
Sterling, US Dollar , Euro, Danish Kroner and Arab Emirate Dirham. 
Projected growth – The Company’s plans incorporate continued growth in the coming years. This growth will be in part dependent on 
the marketing and research budgets of target clients over which Y ouGov has little control. This is mitigated through effective key client 
relationship management and continually reviewing order pipelines and sales targets. 
Competition – Y ouGov has developed an internet based research strategy which other large and established research organisations are 
also beginning to adopt. Some of these more established research organisations have well developed brands and substantial resources 
and may be able to use these to compete very effectively in developing online panels and competing software. This is achieved by the 
use of patents and trademarks where appropriate and also by managing our T echnology risk as detailed below .
Staff – The success of Y ouGov will be influenced by the recruitment and retention of high calibre staff. Senior staff that manage key client 
relationships and those with software expertise are particularly important to the continuing development and smooth running of the 
Company . T o mitigate this risk, Y ouGov has built account and project management teams for key clients and larger research projects. 
In this way the client relationships and project related knowledge are shared among a number of individuals rather than concentrated 
with one person. We also incentivise key personnel through participation in long-term incentive programmes such as the LTIP share 
option scheme.
Internationalisation – Y ouGov now has wide geographical spread. Monitoring and reporting these businesses performance relies upon 
the operation of key controls. There is a risk that these controls may not operate effectively in each jurisdiction.
Acquisitions – The Directors plan to expand and develop the business through a strategy of targeted acquisitions. The risk exists that 
integration of any acquired business will be unsuccessful or that key employees or clients of the acquired business will be lost. Directors 
will attempt to mitigate this risk by careful due diligence and communication with the clients of target companies. The Directors will also 
seek to communicate Y ouGov’s strategy to staff and ensure that levels of remuneration and benefits are appropriate to retain key 
employees.
Technology – A strong software platform is essential for carrying out online research. This software must be reviewed and updated on 
a regular basis to ensure that it does not become superseded by newer technologies in other companies. Y ouGov has sought to remain 
competitive in this area by recruiting an experienced team of software specialists with responsibility for developing the proprietary 
software systems. Employees in this area must provide three months’ notice on departure and Y ouGov has developed a succession 
planning document with sufficient detail on the structure of proprietary software applications and the IT infrastructure to assist in an 
orderly transition period in the event of staff leaving. A disaster recovery plan is in place and is reviewed by the Audit committee annually .
Governance
Corporate Governance Report continued
for the year ended 31 July 2013
016612_YouGov_AR13_p26_p37_Governance (Working Copy).indd   28 01/11/2013   13:17 Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
29
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Governance
Remuneration Report
for the year ended 31 July 2013
The Remuneration committee comprised at 31 July 2013 two Non-Executive Directors, Peter Bazalgette and Nick Jones.
Remuneration Report
A resolution will be put to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 December 2013, inviting them to consider 
and approve this report. The remuneration report is unaudited, except where stated.
Compliance
The constitution and operation of the Committee is in compliance with the principles and best practice provisions as set out in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code as if it were followed and full consideration was given to these in determining the remuneration packages 
for the executive Directors for 2012/13.
This is not a remuneration report as defined by Company law .
Policy on remuneration of Executive Directors
The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of Executive Directors and sets the scale and structure of their remuneration and 
the basis of their service agreements with due regard to the interests of shareholders. In determining that remuneration the Remuneration 
Committee seeks to offer a competitive remuneration structure to maintain the high calibre of its executive board. The Committee believes 
that maintaining the Company’s business growth and profit record requires an overall compensation policy with a strong performance-
related element.
The main components of the Executive Directors’ remuneration are:
1. Basic salary
Basic salary for each Director is determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the performance of the individual and 
external market data. The Committee’s policy is to review salaries annually .
2. Bonus scheme
The Remuneration Committee has determined that the bonus scheme for the Executive Directors should be based on the achievement of 
medium-term goals that are linked to the Group’s stated strategy and its financial performance over the three years ended 31 July 2015 
as well as to each Director’s individual role. The Remuneration Committee will make annual bonus awards for 2012/13 and 2013/14 
dependent upon the Directors’ performance relative to the targets and a final award for the year ended 2014/15 relating to the cumulative 
three-year performance.  
3. Share options
The Company believes that share ownership by non-business owner Executive Directors strengthens the link between their personal 
interests and those of the shareholders in respect of shareholder value. 
Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)
The Long T erm Incentive Plan was established in 2009 in which Executive Directors and senior managers of the Company and its 
subsidiaries are eligible to participate.
Under the rules of the LTIP , participants are conditionally awarded nil cost options to acquire shares. Awards are usually made annually .  
The number of such shares will normally be calculated by reference to a percentage of the participant’s salary and the Company’s 
closing share price on the date of the Preliminary Announcement of the Group’s annual results. The shares subject to the LTIP awards 
will be released to the recipients at the end of a holding period, normally three years, subject to their continued employment (with 
exceptions in certain circumstances). The performance criteria attached to these awards are earnings per share growth and total 
shareholder return versus companies in the AIM Media Index. If adjusted earnings per share growth exceeds the Retail price Index 
(“RPI”) by 5% or more the options will vest in full, if it exceeds RPI by 3%, 50% of the options will vest subject to, in each instance, total 
shareholder return exceeding the average of the AIM Media Index.
No LTIP shares were awarded in the year ended 31 July 2013. Approximately 2.4 million LTIP shares were awarded conditionally in the 
year ended 31 July 2012 to participants in the Plan. These include conditional awards to the Executive Directors of the Company as set 
out below .
Deferred Stock Scheme
The Deferred Stock Scheme was established in December 2010 with the aim of encouraging the retention of key employees including 
Executive Directors and senior managers of the Company . A participant must remain employed for a fixed period determined by the 
Remuneration Committee at the date of grant, before the shares can be issued to them. This period will usually be three years and the 
Committee may at its discretion vary these terms or impose other conditions.
Awards which vest under this scheme will primarily be satisfied by the allocation of shares already held by the Company’s Employee 
Benefit T rust. No deferred share awards were made in the two years ended 31 July 2013 and 31 July 2012. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p26_p37_Governance (Working Copy).indd   29 01/11/2013   13:17 30
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ service contracts
The table below summarises key details in respect of each Director’s contract.
Executive Directors Contract date Notice period
Stephan Shakespeare 18 April 2005 12 months
Alan Newman 5 June 2009 6 months
Doug Rivers 7 August 2007 90 days
Non-Executive Directors
Date of initial 
appointment Notice period
Roger Parry 6 February 2007 30 days
Sir Peter Bazalgette 2 March 2005 30 days
Nick Jones 2 June 2009 30 days
Ben Elliot 2 August 2010 30 days
Save as set out above, there are no existing or proposed service contracts between any of the Directors serving at 31 July 2013 and the 
Company or any member of the Company . 
The total aggregate remuneration (including benefits-in-kind and pension contributions) paid to the Directors by all members of the 
Group for the year ended 31 July 2013 amounted to £946,000 (2012: £817,000).
No Director has or has had any interest in any transaction which is or was unusual in its nature or conditions or which is or was significant 
in relation to the business of the Company and which was effected by the Company either: (i) during the current or immediately 
preceding financial year; or (ii) during any earlier financial year and which remains in any aspect outstanding or unperformed.
External appointments
Executive Directors are permitted to serve on other boards, at present they receive no remuneration in respect of external non-executive 
appointments.
Policy on remuneration of Non-Executive Directors
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is set by the Board as a whole. The Board of Directors believes that ownership of the 
Company’s shares by Non-Executive Directors helps to align their interests with those of the Company’s shareholders. During the year , 
the Company’s policy was amended so that a proportion of each Non-Executive Director’s annual fee will be paid in the form of ordinary 
shares in lieu of cash except if the Non-Executive Director has an existing substantial shareholding.
Directors’ Remuneration (audited)
Directors’ remuneration in aggregate for the year ended 31 July 2013 was as follows:
Salary
£
Annual
bonus
£
Benefits- 
in-kind
£
Total
31 July 2013
£
T otal 
31 July 2012
£
Executives
Stephan Shakespeare 218,263 54,832 1,473 274,568 234,213
Alan Newman 181,220 45,526 – 226,746 193,025
Doug Rivers 209,316 52,329 – 261,645 224,931
Non-Executives Directors
Roger Parry 89,000 – – 89,000 80,000
Sir Peter Bazalgette 32,917 – – 32,917 30,000
Nick Jones 32,917 – – 32,917 30,000
Ben Elliot 27,917 – – 27,917 25,000
Total 791,550 152,687 1,473 945,710 817,169
The benefit-in-kind received consists of private health insurance. In the year ended 31 July 2012, the remuneration paid to Stephan 
Shakespeare, Alan Newman and Doug Rivers included bonus payments of £21,294, £17,680 and £20,475 respectively . Doug Rivers also 
participates in a US defined contribution pension arrangement. During the year , the Group contributed £3,993 (2012: £4,376).
Governance
Remuneration Report continued
for the year ended 31 July 2013
016612_YouGov_AR13_p26_p37_Governance (Working Copy).indd   30 01/11/2013   13:17 Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
31
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ share options (audited) 
The following unexercised nil cost options over shares were held by Directors under the LTIP:
Date of grant Earliest exercise date Expiry date
Number at  
31 July 2012 Exercised in year
Number at 
 31 July 2013
Stephan Shakespeare
29 July 2010 15 October 2012 28 July 2020 388,060 – 388,060
21 July 2011 14 October 2013 20 July 2021 426,563 – 426,563
30 July 2012 13 October 2014 29 July 2022 373,579 – 373,579
1,188,202 – 1,188,202
Alan Newman
29 July 2010 15 October 2012 28 July 2020 288,557 (288,557) –
21 July 2011 14 October 2013 20 July 2021 354,167 – 354,167
30 July 2012 13 October 2014 29 July 2022 310,175 – 310,175
952,899 (288,557) 664,342
Doug Rivers
29 July 2010 15 October 2012 28 July 2020 94,584 (94,584) –
21 July 2011 14 October 2013 20 July 2021 97,050 – 97,050
30 July 2012 13 October 2014 29 July 2022 363,757 – 363,757
555,391 (94,584) 460,807
During the year ended 31 July 2013, Alan Newman exercised 288,557 options which vested under the LTIP (when the market price was 
70p) and Doug Rivers exercised 94,584 LTIP options when the market price was 74p. No options were exercised during the year ended 
31 July 2012. 
Deferred Stock Scheme (audited)
The following deferred shares were held by Directors under the Deferred Stock Scheme.
Number 
outstanding 
at 31 July 2013
Date of  
potential 
vesting
Stephan Shakespeare 162,500 December 2013
Alan Newman 162,500 December 2013
Doug Rivers 375,000 December 2013
016612_YouGov_AR13_p26_p37_Governance (Working Copy).indd   31 01/11/2013   13:17 32
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Governance
Directors’ Report
for the year ended 31 July 2013
The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 July 2013.
Principal activities
Y ouGov carries out online research using proprietary software to produce accurate market research, political and media opinion polling 
and stakeholder consultation. The use of internet-based research enables Y ouGov to produce accurate research using larger sample 
sizes while keeping costs lower than traditional research companies that use telephone and face-to-face interview techniques.
Business review
The business review is discussed on pages 16 to 23.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The principal risks and uncertainties are discussed in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 26 to 28.
Financial summary
The financial summary is discussed on pages 22 and 23 of the Chief Financial Officer’s Report.
Dividends
A maiden final dividend in respect to the year ended 31 July 2012 of 0.5p per share amounting to £479,000 was paid on 17 December 
2012. A dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2013 of 0.6p per share, amounting to a total dividend of £577,000 is to be 
proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 11 December 2013.
Future developments
Future developments are discussed in more detail in the Chief Executive’s review on pages 16 to 21.
Events after the reporting date
On 6 September 2013, Y ouGov plc purchased a 40% shareholding in Doughty Media 2, a company 60% owned by Stephan 
Shakespeare, an Executive Director of Y ouGov plc, for a purchase price of £497,000. £37,000 of this was paid in cash on completion, 
the remaining balance will be payable in Y ouGov shares in February 2015, contingent on the achievement of certain performance criteria.
Doughty Media 2 has a 69% shareholding in CoEditor Limited and following this purchase, Y ouGov now effectively controls 57% of 
CoEditor Limited.  
Further details of this purchase are disclosed in Note 27 on page 71.  
Directors
The Directors of the Company who were in office during the year and at any point up to the date of signing this report were:
Roger Parry (Chairman)
Stephan Shakespeare
Alan Newman 
Doug Rivers
Sir Peter Bazalgette
Nick Jones
Ben Elliot 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p26_p37_Governance (Working Copy).indd   32 01/11/2013   13:17 Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
33
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company 31 July 2013 and 31 July 2012 were as follows:
 
31 July 2013 
Number of Shares
31 July 2012 
Number of Shares
Stephan Shakespeare
1
9,069,110 9,439,110
Alan Newman 100,557 25,000
Doug Rivers 1,572,617 1,972,617
Roger Parry 52,000 52,000
Sir Peter Bazalgette 263,976 263,976
Nick Jones 7,092 _
Ben Elliot 7,092 –
1. Includes five ordinary shares held by Stephan’s wife, Rosamund Shakespeare.
There have been no changes to Directors’ interests in shares since the year end. 
The Directors’ Interests in share options are detailed in the Remuneration Report on page 31.
No Director had either , during or at the end of the year , a material interest in any contract which was significant in relation to the 
Group’s business.
Employee involvement and communication 
The Company has continued its practice of keeping employees informed of matters affecting them as employees and the financial and 
economic factors affecting the performance of the Company . 
Applications for employment by disabled persons are given full and fair consideration for all vacancies in accordance with their particular 
aptitudes and abilities. In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to retrain them in order that their employment 
with the Company may continue.
It is the policy of the Company that training, career development and promotion opportunities should be available to all employees.
Employees are encouraged to own shares in the Company , and many employees are shareholders and/or hold options under the 
Company’s share option schemes including the LTIP scheme. Information about the Company’s affairs is communicated to employees 
through regular management meetings, our newsletter , intranet and social events.
Policy on supplier payments
The Company aims to pay all its suppliers within a reasonable period of their invoices being received and approved, provided that the 
supplier has performed in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions. At 31 July 2013, the number of days credit taken for 
purchases by the Group was 31 days (2012: 35 days). The number of days credit taken for purchases by the Company was 36 days 
(2012: 41 days).
Treasury Shares
The total number of shares in treasury at 31 July 2013 was 954,000 (0.98% of the issued share capital) (2012: 2,000,000). The purpose 
of treasury shares is to satisfy future share and/or option awards.
016612_YouGov_AR13_p26_p37_Governance (Working Copy).indd   33 01/11/2013   13:17 34
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Substantial shareholders 
At 31 July 2013 the following had notified the Company of disclosable interests in 3% or more of the nominal value of the Company’s 
shares:
Name
 
Shareholding %
BlackRock 14,454,832 14.87%
Balshore Investments 10,029,100 10.32%
Kabouter Management 9,777,567 10.06%
Stephan Shakespeare
1
 9,069,110 9.33%
T Rowe Price Global Investments 8,871,720 9.13%
J O Hambro Capital Management 7,030,000 7.23%
Baillie Gifford 4,905,411 5.05%
Standard Life Investments 4,404,862 4.53%
Herald Investment Management 2,950,000 3.03%
1. Includes 5 ordinary shares held by Stephan’s wife, Rosamund Shakespeare.
Key performance indicators
Business performance is monitored via four financial key performance indicators, revenue, adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating 
profit margin and adjusted earnings per share. Performance measured against these key performance indicators is discussed in more 
detail on page 1 and in the Chief Financial Officer’s Report on pages 22 and 23.
Financial risks
The financial risks facing the Group are discussed in more detail in Note 20 on page 68.
Research and development
The Group’s research and development activities centre on the development of bespoke software solutions to support and advance our 
online capabilities. No research and development was charged to the consolidated income statement in either 2013 or 2012 and £1.9m 
(2012: £1.6m) was capitalised and included within intangible fixed assets. Capitalised development is amortised to the income statement 
over a period of three years, the amortisation charge in respect of capitalised development was £1.3m (2012: £1.2m).
Social responsibility
The Group recognises the importance of respecting and supporting the communities in which it operates and, thus, improving the 
positive impact of business in society .
Ethical behaviour
Y ouGov expects its employees to exercise high ethical and moral standards at all times whilst representing the Company .
The environment
The Group recognises that the wise use of resources delivers both environmental and financial benefits. As part of our overall approach 
to Corporate Responsibility we aim to promote the maintenance of a healthy environment through responsible and sustainable 
consumption and production. 
Our operations are predominately office based, and here we try to minimise our impacts where practicable. As part of this policy we:
•	 ensure that all waste is stored and disposed of responsibly , and recycle where possible;
•	 ensure that paper used comes from reputable managed forests; and
•	 comply , where required, with the Packaging (Essential Requirements) Regulations and the Packaging Waste Regulations.
Health and safety
The Group takes all reasonable and practicable steps to safeguard the health, safety and welfare of its employees and recognises 
its responsibilities for the health and safety of others who may be affected by its activities.
Diversity in the workplace
The Group is committed to providing a working environment in which its employees are able to realise their potential and to contribute 
to business success irrespective of gender , marital status, ethnic origin, nationality , religion, disability , sexual orientation or age.
Governance
Directors’ Report continued
for the year ended 31 July 2013
016612_YouGov_AR13_p26_p37_Governance (Working Copy).indd   34 01/11/2013   13:17 Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
35
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Charitable and political contributions 
Donations to charitable organisations amounted to £73,000 (2012: £51,000). This included an annual subscription of £70,000 
(2012: £45,000) in respect of the “Y ouGov-Cambridge” programme, an academic partnership established with Cambridge University’s 
Department of Politics and International Studies. No political donations were made in the year or in the previous year . 
Insurance of company officers
The Company has maintained during the financial year , Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any 
legal action brought against its Directors. In accordance with Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, qualifying third-party indemnity 
provisions are in place for the Directors and Company Secretary in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, to the extent 
permitted by law . This insurance was in force at the date of signing of the financial statements.
Going concern
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its bank facilities. The current economic conditions continue to 
create uncertainty particularly over (a) the level of demand for the Group’s products; and (b) the availability of bank finance for the 
foreseeable future. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show 
that the Group should be able to operate without bank finance. After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that 
the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The Group therefore continues to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
Independent auditors
In accordance with section 418(2) of the Companies Act 2006, each of the Company’s Directors in office as at the date of this report 
confirms that:
•	 so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
•	 all steps that ought to have been taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
The Group auditors are PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP . A resolution to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors to the 
Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting 
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 11 December 2013 at our offices at 50 Featherstone Street,  
London EC1Y 8RT
 8RT. 
Alan Newman 
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary 
On behalf of the Board 
14 October 2013
016612_YouGov_AR13_p26_p37_Governance (Working Copy).indd   35 01/11/2013   13:17 36
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Governance
Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year . Under that law the Directors have prepared 
the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union, and the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 
(United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the 
profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•	 make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
•	 state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively;
•	 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue 
in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
On behalf of the Board
Alan Newman 
Chief Financial Officer 
14 October 2013
016612_YouGov_AR13_p26_p37_Governance (Working Copy).indd   36 01/11/2013   13:17 Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
37
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Governance
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Y ouGov plc 
on the Consolidated Financial Statements
We have audited the Group financial statements of Y ouGov plc for the year ended 31 July 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Income 
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity , the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Principal Accounting Policies and the related notes. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 36, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view . Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion 
on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by 
our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error . This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the Group financial statements: 
•	 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 July 2013 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
•	 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and 
•	 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: 
•	 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Y ouGov plc for the year ended 31 July 2013. 
David A. Snell  
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London
14 October 2013
016612_YouGov_AR13_p26_p37_Governance (Working Copy).indd   37 01/11/2013   13:17 38
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Consolidated Income Statement 
for the year ended 31 July 2013 
 Note  
2013 
£’000 
2012
£’000
Revenue 1 62,551 58,145
Cost of sales  (15,440) (13,399)
Gross profit  47,111 44,746
Operating expenses*  (41,129) (39,161)
Adjusted operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets 
and exceptional items 1 5,982 5,585
Amortisation of intangibles  (3,280) (4,350)
Exceptional items 4 (1,212) (472)
Operating profit   1,490 763
Finance income 5 207 94
Finance costs 5 (89) (334)
Share of post-tax loss in joint ventures and associates   (122) (83)
Profit before taxation 1 1,486 440
Tax credit/(charge) 6 623 (79)
Profit after taxation 1 2,109 361
Attributable to:   
– Owners of the parent   2,042 333
– Non-controlling interests  67 28
  2,109 361
Earnings per share    
Basic earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent 8 2.1p 0.4p
Diluted earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent 8 2.0p 0.3p
* Total 2013 operating expenses including amortisation of intangibles and the items detailed in Note 4 are £45.621m (2012: £43.983m). 
All operations are continuing. 
The notes and accounting policies on pages 43 to 71 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
Financial statements 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
for the year ended 31 July 2013 
Note  
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Profit for the year  2,109 361
Other comprehensive income/(loss):  
Currency translation differences    2,706 (973)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year  2,706 (973)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year   4,815 (612)
Attributable to:  
– Owners of the parent  4,743 (635)
– Non-controlling interests  72 23
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year  4,815 (612)
Items in the statement above are disclosed net of tax. The tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income is disclosed in 
Note 19. 
The notes and accounting policies on pages 43 to 71 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   38 01/11/2013   13:37 39
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Consolidated Income Statement 
for the year ended 31 July 2013 
 Note  
2013 
£’000 
2012
£’000
Revenue 1 62,551 58,145
Cost of sales  (15,440) (13,399)
Gross profit  47,111 44,746
Operating expenses*  (41,129) (39,161)
Adjusted operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets 
and exceptional items 1 5,982 5,585
Amortisation of intangibles  (3,280) (4,350)
Exceptional items 4 (1,212) (472)
Operating profit   1,490 763
Finance income 5 207 94
Finance costs 5 (89) (334)
Share of post-tax loss in joint ventures and associates   (122) (83)
Profit before taxation 1 1,486 440
Tax credit/(charge) 6 623 (79)
Profit after taxation 1 2,109 361
Attributable to:   
– Owners of the parent   2,042 333
– Non-controlling interests  67 28
  2,109 361
Earnings per share    
Basic earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent 8 2.1p 0.4p
Diluted earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent 8 2.0p 0.3p
* Total 2013 operating expenses including amortisation of intangibles and the items detailed in Note 4 are £45.621m (2012: £43.983m). 
All operations are continuing. 
The notes and accounting policies on pages 43 to 71 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
Financial statements 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
for the year ended 31 July 2013 
Note  
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Profit for the year  2,109 361
Other comprehensive income/(loss):  
Currency translation differences    2,706 (973)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year  2,706 (973)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year   4,815 (612)
Attributable to:  
– Owners of the parent  4,743 (635)
– Non-controlling interests  72 23
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year  4,815 (612)
Items in the statement above are disclosed net of tax. The tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income is disclosed in 
Note 19. 
The notes and accounting policies on pages 43 to 71 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   39 01/11/2013   13:37 40
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
as at 31 July 2013 
Assets Note  
31 July 
2013 
£’000 
31 July
2012
£’000
Non-current assets   
Goodwill 10 38,800 36,239
Other intangible assets 11 9,210 8,544
Property, plant and equipment 12 2,256 2,310
Investments in joint ventures and associates 13 363 485
Deferred tax assets 19 2,847 2,204
Total non-current assets   53,476 49,782
Current assets   
Trade and other receivables 14 22,951 19,231
Current tax assets  834 442
Cash and cash equivalents 15 6,929 7,477
Total current assets   30,714 27,150
Total assets   84,190 76,932
Liabilities   
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables 16 16,235 12,453
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 18 2,737 2,150
Borrowings 15 273 327
Current tax liabilities  128 42
Contingent consideration 17 301 1,906
Total current liabilities   19,674 16,878
Net current assets   11,040 10,272
Non-current liabilities   
Trade and other payables  55 23
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 18 770 800
Contingent consideration 17 250 453
Deferred tax liabilities 19 2,327 2,774
Total non-current liabilities   3,402 4,050
Total liabilities   23,076 20,928
Net assets   61,114 56,004
Equity   
Issued share capital 21 195 195
Share premium 21 30,961 30,947
Merger reserve  9,239 9,239
Foreign exchange reserve  10,493 7,792
Retained earnings  10,195 7,776
Total shareholders’ funds   61,083 55,949
Non-controlling interests in equity   31 55
Total equity   61,114 56,004
The notes and accounting policies on pages 43 to 71 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
The financial statements on pages  38 to 71 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 14 October 2013 and signed on its 
behalf by: 
 
 
Alan Newman 
Chief Financial Officer 
YouGov plc  
Registered no. 03607311  
Financial statements 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
as at 31 July 2013 
  Attributable to equity holders of the Company 
  
Share 
capital 
£’000 
Share 
premium 
£’000 
Merger 
reserve
 £’000 
Foreign 
exchange 
reserve 
£’000 
Retained 
earnings  
£’000  
Total  
£’000  
Non-
controlling 
interest 
£’000 
Total 
£’000
Balance at 1 August 2011  195 30,947 9,239 8,760 6,658 55,799 95 55,894
Changes in equity for 2012    
Exchange differences on translating 
foreign operations  – – – (968) – (968) (5) (973)
Net loss recognised directly in equity  – – – (968) – (968) (5) (973)
Profit for the year  – – – – 333 333 28 361
Total comprehensive (loss)/income 
for the year  – – – (968) 333 (635) 23 (612)
Dividends paid to non-controlling 
interests  ––– –– – (63) (63)
Share-based payments  – – – – 785 785 – 785
Balance at 31 July 2012  195 30,947 9,239 7,792 7,776 55,949 55 56,004
Changes in equity for 2013    
Exchange differences on translating 
foreign operations  – – – 2,701 – 2,701 5 2,706
Net income recognised directly  
in equity  – – – 2,701 – 2,701 5 2,706
Profit for the year  – – – – 2,042 2,042 67 2,109
Total comprehensive income 
for the year  – – – 2,701 2,042 4,743 72 4,815
Issue of shares  – 14 – – – 14 – 14
Dividends paid  – – – – (479) (479) (96) (575)
Share-based payments  – – – – 856 856 – 856
Balance at 31 July 2013  195 30,961 9,239 10,493 10,195 61,083 31 61,114
The notes and accounting policies on pages 43 to 71 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   40 01/11/2013   13:37 41
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
as at 31 July 2013 
Assets Note  
31 July 
2013 
£’000 
31 July
2012
£’000
Non-current assets   
Goodwill 10 38,800 36,239
Other intangible assets 11 9,210 8,544
Property, plant and equipment 12 2,256 2,310
Investments in joint ventures and associates 13 363 485
Deferred tax assets 19 2,847 2,204
Total non-current assets   53,476 49,782
Current assets   
Trade and other receivables 14 22,951 19,231
Current tax assets  834 442
Cash and cash equivalents 15 6,929 7,477
Total current assets   30,714 27,150
Total assets   84,190 76,932
Liabilities   
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables 16 16,235 12,453
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 18 2,737 2,150
Borrowings 15 273 327
Current tax liabilities  128 42
Contingent consideration 17 301 1,906
Total current liabilities   19,674 16,878
Net current assets   11,040 10,272
Non-current liabilities   
Trade and other payables  55 23
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 18 770 800
Contingent consideration 17 250 453
Deferred tax liabilities 19 2,327 2,774
Total non-current liabilities   3,402 4,050
Total liabilities   23,076 20,928
Net assets   61,114 56,004
Equity   
Issued share capital 21 195 195
Share premium 21 30,961 30,947
Merger reserve  9,239 9,239
Foreign exchange reserve  10,493 7,792
Retained earnings  10,195 7,776
Total shareholders’ funds   61,083 55,949
Non-controlling interests in equity   31 55
Total equity   61,114 56,004
The notes and accounting policies on pages 43 to 71 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
The financial statements on pages  38 to 71 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 14 October 2013 and signed on its 
behalf by: 
 
 
Alan Newman 
Chief Financial Officer 
YouGov plc  
Registered no. 03607311  
Financial statements 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
as at 31 July 2013 
  Attributable to equity holders of the Company 
  
Share 
capital 
£’000 
Share 
premium 
£’000 
Merger 
reserve
 £’000 
Foreign 
exchange 
reserve 
£’000 
Retained 
earnings  
£’000  
Total  
£’000  
Non-
controlling 
interest 
£’000 
Total 
£’000
Balance at 1 August 2011  195 30,947 9,239 8,760 6,658 55,799 95 55,894
Changes in equity for 2012    
Exchange differences on translating 
foreign operations  – – – (968) – (968) (5) (973)
Net loss recognised directly in equity  – – – (968) – (968) (5) (973)
Profit for the year  – – – – 333 333 28 361
Total comprehensive (loss)/income 
for the year  – – – (968) 333 (635) 23 (612)
Dividends paid to non-controlling 
interests  ––– –– – (63) (63)
Share-based payments  – – – – 785 785 – 785
Balance at 31 July 2012  195 30,947 9,239 7,792 7,776 55,949 55 56,004
Changes in equity for 2013    
Exchange differences on translating 
foreign operations  – – – 2,701 – 2,701 5 2,706
Net income recognised directly  
in equity  – – – 2,701 – 2,701 5 2,706
Profit for the year  – – – – 2,042 2,042 67 2,109
Total comprehensive income 
for the year  – – – 2,701 2,042 4,743 72 4,815
Issue of shares  – 14 – – – 14 – 14
Dividends paid  – – – – (479) (479) (96) (575)
Share-based payments  – – – – 856 856 – 856
Balance at 31 July 2013  195 30,961 9,239 10,493 10,195 61,083 31 61,114
The notes and accounting policies on pages 43 to 71 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   41 01/11/2013   13:37 42
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year ended 31 July 2013 
Note  
2013 
£’000 
2012
£’000
Cash flows from operating activities   
Profit before taxation  1,486 440
Adjustments for:   
Finance income  (207) (94)
Finance costs  89 334
Share of post-tax loss in joint ventures and associates   122 83
Amortisation of intangibles 1 3,280 4,350
Depreciation 1 539 593
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets  3 135
Other non-cash profit items  866 230
Increase in trade and other receivables  (3,113) (1,890)
Increase in trade and other payables  3,381 775
Increase/(Decrease) in provisions  464 (67)
Cash generated from operations  6,910 4,889
Interest paid   (15) (22)
Income taxes paid  (477) (1,295)
Net cash generated from operating activities  6,418 3,572
Cash flow from investing activities   
Loan to associate  (546) –
Acquisition of non-controlling interest in related party 13 – (100)
Settlement of contingent considerations 17 (2,023) (2,513)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 12 (411) (624)
Purchase of intangible assets 11 (3,638) (2,703)
Interest received  34 78
Dividends received  41 10
Net cash used in investing activities  (6,543) (5,852)
Cash flows from financing activities   
Proceeds from the issue of share capital  14 1
Proceeds from borrowings  57 33
Repayment of borrowings   (18) (5)
Dividends paid to shareholders  (479) –
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  (96) (63)
Net cash used in financing activities  (522) (34)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents  (647) (2,314)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  7,150 9,400
Exchange gain/(loss) on cash and cash equivalents  153 64
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 15 6,656 7,150
The notes and accounting policies on pages 43 to 71 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
Financial statements 
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 July 2013 
Nature of operations 
YouGov plc and subsidiaries’ (“the Group”) principal activity is the provision of market research. 
YouGov plc is the Group’s ultimate parent company. It is incorporated and domiciled in Great Britain. The address of YouGov plc’s 
registered office is 50 Featherstone Street, London EC1Y 8RT United Kingdom. YouGov plc’s shares are listed on the Alternative 
Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange. 
YouGov plc’s annual consolidated financial statements are presented in UK Sterling, which is also the functional currency of the 
parent company. 
Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements of YouGov plc are for the year ended 31 July 2013. They have been prepared under the historical 
cost convention modified for fair values under IFRS. These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU), International Financial 
Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The policies set out below have been consistently applied to all years presented unless otherwise stated. 
The parent company financial statements are prepared under UK GAAP and are detailed on pages 73 to 81. 
The following new standards and amendments to existing standards are now effective but have no significant impact on the Group: 
 IFRS 13, “Fair value measurement” (effective 1 January 2013); 
 IAS 19 (revised 2011) “Employee benefits” (effective 1 January 2013);  
 Amendment to IFRS 1, ”First time adoption”, on hyperinflation and fixed dates (effective 1 July 2011) (endorsed 1 January 2013); 
 Amendment to IFRS 1, ”First time adoption”, on government grants (effective 1 January 2013);  
 Amendments to IFRS 7, “Financial Instruments : Disclosures”,  on Financial instruments asset and liability offsetting  
(effective 1 January 2013);  
 Annual improvements 2011 (effective 1 January 2013); 
 IFRIC 20, “Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine” (effective 1 January 2013). 
Basis of consolidation 
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings (see Note 13) drawn up to 
31 July 2013. Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control is achieved where the Group has the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. The Group obtains and exercises control through 
voting rights. The Group also assesses existence of control where it does not have more than 50% of the voting power but is able to 
govern the financial and operating policies by virtue of de-facto control. De-facto control may arise in circumstances where the size of 
the Group’s voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of other shareholders give the Group the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation. Amounts reported in the financial 
statements of subsidiaries have been adjusted where necessary to ensure consistency with the accounting policies adopted by 
the Group. 
Acquisitions of subsidiaries are dealt with by the acquisition method. The acquisition method involves the recognition at fair value of all 
identifiable assets and liabilities, including contingent liabilities of the subsidiary, at the acquisition date, regardless of whether or not they 
were recorded in the financial statements of the subsidiary prior to acquisition. On initial recognition, the assets and liabilities of the 
subsidiary are included in the consolidated statement of financial position at their fair values, which are also used as the basis for 
subsequent measurement in accordance with the Group accounting policies. Goodwill is stated after separating out identifiable 
intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets 
of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Acquisition related costs are charged to the income statement in the period in which 
they are incurred. 
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with parties external to the Group. 
Disposals to non-controlling interests result in gains and losses for the Group that are recorded in the Statement of Changes in Equity. 
Purchases of non-controlling interests are recognised directly in reserves, being the difference between any consideration paid and the 
relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   42 01/11/2013   13:37 43
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year ended 31 July 2013 
Note  
2013 
£’000 
2012
£’000
Cash flows from operating activities   
Profit before taxation  1,486 440
Adjustments for:   
Finance income  (207) (94)
Finance costs  89 334
Share of post-tax loss in joint ventures and associates   122 83
Amortisation of intangibles 1 3,280 4,350
Depreciation 1 539 593
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets  3 135
Other non-cash profit items  866 230
Increase in trade and other receivables  (3,113) (1,890)
Increase in trade and other payables  3,381 775
Increase/(Decrease) in provisions  464 (67)
Cash generated from operations  6,910 4,889
Interest paid   (15) (22)
Income taxes paid  (477) (1,295)
Net cash generated from operating activities  6,418 3,572
Cash flow from investing activities   
Loan to associate  (546) –
Acquisition of non-controlling interest in related party 13 – (100)
Settlement of contingent considerations 17 (2,023) (2,513)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 12 (411) (624)
Purchase of intangible assets 11 (3,638) (2,703)
Interest received  34 78
Dividends received  41 10
Net cash used in investing activities  (6,543) (5,852)
Cash flows from financing activities   
Proceeds from the issue of share capital  14 1
Proceeds from borrowings  57 33
Repayment of borrowings   (18) (5)
Dividends paid to shareholders  (479) –
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  (96) (63)
Net cash used in financing activities  (522) (34)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents  (647) (2,314)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  7,150 9,400
Exchange gain/(loss) on cash and cash equivalents  153 64
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 15 6,656 7,150
The notes and accounting policies on pages 43 to 71 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
Financial statements 
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 July 2013 
Nature of operations 
YouGov plc and subsidiaries’ (“the Group”) principal activity is the provision of market research. 
YouGov plc is the Group’s ultimate parent company. It is incorporated and domiciled in Great Britain. The address of YouGov plc’s 
registered office is 50 Featherstone Street, London EC1Y 8RT United Kingdom. YouGov plc’s shares are listed on the Alternative 
Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange. 
YouGov plc’s annual consolidated financial statements are presented in UK Sterling, which is also the functional currency of the 
parent company. 
Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements of YouGov plc are for the year ended 31 July 2013. They have been prepared under the historical 
cost convention modified for fair values under IFRS. These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU), International Financial 
Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The policies set out below have been consistently applied to all years presented unless otherwise stated. 
The parent company financial statements are prepared under UK GAAP and are detailed on pages 73 to 81. 
The following new standards and amendments to existing standards are now effective but have no significant impact on the Group: 
 IFRS 13, “Fair value measurement” (effective 1 January 2013); 
 IAS 19 (revised 2011) “Employee benefits” (effective 1 January 2013);  
 Amendment to IFRS 1, ”First time adoption”, on hyperinflation and fixed dates (effective 1 July 2011) (endorsed 1 January 2013); 
 Amendment to IFRS 1, ”First time adoption”, on government grants (effective 1 January 2013);  
 Amendments to IFRS 7, “Financial Instruments : Disclosures”,  on Financial instruments asset and liability offsetting  
(effective 1 January 2013);  
 Annual improvements 2011 (effective 1 January 2013); 
 IFRIC 20, “Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine” (effective 1 January 2013). 
Basis of consolidation 
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings (see Note 13) drawn up to 
31 July 2013. Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control is achieved where the Group has the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. The Group obtains and exercises control through 
voting rights. The Group also assesses existence of control where it does not have more than 50% of the voting power but is able to 
govern the financial and operating policies by virtue of de-facto control. De-facto control may arise in circumstances where the size of 
the Group’s voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of other shareholders give the Group the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation. Amounts reported in the financial 
statements of subsidiaries have been adjusted where necessary to ensure consistency with the accounting policies adopted by 
the Group. 
Acquisitions of subsidiaries are dealt with by the acquisition method. The acquisition method involves the recognition at fair value of all 
identifiable assets and liabilities, including contingent liabilities of the subsidiary, at the acquisition date, regardless of whether or not they 
were recorded in the financial statements of the subsidiary prior to acquisition. On initial recognition, the assets and liabilities of the 
subsidiary are included in the consolidated statement of financial position at their fair values, which are also used as the basis for 
subsequent measurement in accordance with the Group accounting policies. Goodwill is stated after separating out identifiable 
intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets 
of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Acquisition related costs are charged to the income statement in the period in which 
they are incurred. 
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with parties external to the Group. 
Disposals to non-controlling interests result in gains and losses for the Group that are recorded in the Statement of Changes in Equity. 
Purchases of non-controlling interests are recognised directly in reserves, being the difference between any consideration paid and the 
relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   43 01/11/2013   13:37 44
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
Associates and joint ventures 
Entities whose economic activities are controlled jointly by the Group and by other venturers independent of the Group are accounted 
for using the equity method. Associates are those entities over which the Group has significant influence (defined as the power to 
participate in the financial and operating decisions of the investee but not control or joint control over those policies) but which are 
neither subsidiaries nor interests in joint ventures. The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint ventures are incorporated 
in these consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting, under which investments in associates and 
investments in joint ventures are carried in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition 
changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint venture less any impairment in the value of individual investments. 
The Group’s share of its associates’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement, and its share 
of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income. 
However, when the Group’s share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, 
including any unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments 
on behalf of the associate or joint venture. If the associate or joint venture subsequently reports profits, the Group resumes recognising 
its share of those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share of losses not recognised. 
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates or joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s 
interests in the associates or joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an 
impairment of the asset transferred. Amounts reported in the financial statements of associates and joint ventures have been adjusted 
where necessary to ensure consistency with the accounting policies adopted by the Group. 
Segmental analysis 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. 
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, 
has been identified as the Executive Directors. 
Revenue 
Revenue is measured by reference to the fair value of consideration received or receivable by the Group for services provided, 
excluding Value Added Tax and trade discounts. Accrued income is the difference between the revenue recognised and the amounts 
actually invoiced to customers. Where invoicing exceeds the amount of revenue recognised, these amounts are included in 
deferred income. 
Market research 
Revenue arises from the provision of market research services. Within this revenue stream are syndicated and non-syndicated services. 
Syndicated services 
Syndicated services are the consistent provision of data over a specified period of time. Revenue is recognised from the point in time at 
which access passwords have been made available to the customer. Revenue is recognised in equal monthly instalments over the life 
of the contract. 
Non-syndicated services 
Non-syndicated services vary in size and complexity. Revenue is recognised on each contract in proportion to the level of services 
performed by reference to the project manager’s estimates and time records against budgeted and assigned resource. Revenue is 
recognised on long-term contracts, if the outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty, by including in the income statement 
revenue and related costs as contract activity progresses. 
Non-cash transactions 
The Group enters into contracts for the provision of market research services in exchange for advertising rather than for cash or other 
consideration. When barter transactions are agreed the value of the work provided to the counterparty is equal in value to that which 
would be provided in an ordinary cash transaction. As required by IAS 18 the value of advertising receivable in all significant barter 
transactions is ensured to be reliably measurable by referencing to the counterparty’s rate card. 
 
 
 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position when a Group company has a present obligation (legal 
or constructive) as a result of a past event; it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to 
settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The amount recognised as a provision is the 
best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date. 
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. 
Staff gratuity costs 
The staff gratuity provision is a statutory obligation under UAE labour law, whereby each employee on termination of their contract is due 
a payment dependent upon their number of years service and nature of the termination. The liability is weighted against historical rates 
of resignation and redundancy. 
Panel incentive costs 
The Group invites consumer panel members to fill out surveys in return for a cash or points-based incentives. Although these amounts 
are not paid until a predetermined target value has accrued on a panellist’s account, an assessment of incentives likely to be paid 
(present obligation) is made taking into account past panellist behaviour and is recognised as a cost of sale in the period in which the 
service is provided. This assessment takes into account the expected savings from the prize draw offered in various territories. 
Interest 
The Group receives interest income for cash funds that are held on short-term instant access deposit. Where interest receipts are 
received after the balance sheet date the interest due is accrued for the requisite period at the prevailing rate on the deposit. 
Interest is recognised using the effective interest method which calculates the amortised cost of a financial liability and allocates the 
interest income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts 
through the expected life of the financial asset to the net carrying amount of the financial asset. 
Exceptional items 
Items are highlighted as exceptional in the consolidated income statement when they are material in their nature or amount and when 
separate disclosure is considered helpful in understanding the underlying performance of the business. Examples include acquisition 
costs, restructuring costs and any other costs that are not incurred as part of normal operating activities. 
Taxation 
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date 
in the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates 
positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes 
provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. 
Deferred income taxes are calculated using the liability method on temporary differences. Deferred tax is generally provided on the 
difference between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases. However, deferred tax is not provided on the initial 
recognition of goodwill, nor on the initial recognition of an asset or liability unless the related transaction is a business combination or 
affects tax or accounting profit. Deferred tax on temporary differences associated with shares in subsidiaries and joint ventures is not 
provided if reversal of these temporary differences can be controlled by the Group and it is probable that reversal will not occur in the 
foreseeable future. In addition, tax losses available to be carried forward as well as other income tax credits to the Group are assessed 
for recognition as deferred tax assets. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that the underlying deductible temporary differences will be able to 
be offset against future taxable income. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at tax rates that are expected to apply to their 
respective period of realisation, provided they are enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets 
and liabilities on a net basis. 
Changes in deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised as a component of tax expense in the consolidated income statement, 
except where they relate to items that are charged or credited directly to equity in which case the related deferred tax is also charged 
or credited directly to equity. 
  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   44 01/11/2013   13:37 45
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
Associates and joint ventures 
Entities whose economic activities are controlled jointly by the Group and by other venturers independent of the Group are accounted 
for using the equity method. Associates are those entities over which the Group has significant influence (defined as the power to 
participate in the financial and operating decisions of the investee but not control or joint control over those policies) but which are 
neither subsidiaries nor interests in joint ventures. The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint ventures are incorporated 
in these consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting, under which investments in associates and 
investments in joint ventures are carried in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition 
changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint venture less any impairment in the value of individual investments. 
The Group’s share of its associates’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement, and its share 
of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income. 
However, when the Group’s share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, 
including any unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments 
on behalf of the associate or joint venture. If the associate or joint venture subsequently reports profits, the Group resumes recognising 
its share of those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share of losses not recognised. 
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates or joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s 
interests in the associates or joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an 
impairment of the asset transferred. Amounts reported in the financial statements of associates and joint ventures have been adjusted 
where necessary to ensure consistency with the accounting policies adopted by the Group. 
Segmental analysis 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. 
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, 
has been identified as the Executive Directors. 
Revenue 
Revenue is measured by reference to the fair value of consideration received or receivable by the Group for services provided, 
excluding Value Added Tax and trade discounts. Accrued income is the difference between the revenue recognised and the amounts 
actually invoiced to customers. Where invoicing exceeds the amount of revenue recognised, these amounts are included in 
deferred income. 
Market research 
Revenue arises from the provision of market research services. Within this revenue stream are syndicated and non-syndicated services. 
Syndicated services 
Syndicated services are the consistent provision of data over a specified period of time. Revenue is recognised from the point in time at 
which access passwords have been made available to the customer. Revenue is recognised in equal monthly instalments over the life 
of the contract. 
Non-syndicated services 
Non-syndicated services vary in size and complexity. Revenue is recognised on each contract in proportion to the level of services 
performed by reference to the project manager’s estimates and time records against budgeted and assigned resource. Revenue is 
recognised on long-term contracts, if the outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty, by including in the income statement 
revenue and related costs as contract activity progresses. 
Non-cash transactions 
The Group enters into contracts for the provision of market research services in exchange for advertising rather than for cash or other 
consideration. When barter transactions are agreed the value of the work provided to the counterparty is equal in value to that which 
would be provided in an ordinary cash transaction. As required by IAS 18 the value of advertising receivable in all significant barter 
transactions is ensured to be reliably measurable by referencing to the counterparty’s rate card. 
 
 
 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position when a Group company has a present obligation (legal 
or constructive) as a result of a past event; it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to 
settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The amount recognised as a provision is the 
best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date. 
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. 
Staff gratuity costs 
The staff gratuity provision is a statutory obligation under UAE labour law, whereby each employee on termination of their contract is due 
a payment dependent upon their number of years service and nature of the termination. The liability is weighted against historical rates 
of resignation and redundancy. 
Panel incentive costs 
The Group invites consumer panel members to fill out surveys in return for a cash or points-based incentives. Although these amounts 
are not paid until a predetermined target value has accrued on a panellist’s account, an assessment of incentives likely to be paid 
(present obligation) is made taking into account past panellist behaviour and is recognised as a cost of sale in the period in which the 
service is provided. This assessment takes into account the expected savings from the prize draw offered in various territories. 
Interest 
The Group receives interest income for cash funds that are held on short-term instant access deposit. Where interest receipts are 
received after the balance sheet date the interest due is accrued for the requisite period at the prevailing rate on the deposit. 
Interest is recognised using the effective interest method which calculates the amortised cost of a financial liability and allocates the 
interest income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts 
through the expected life of the financial asset to the net carrying amount of the financial asset. 
Exceptional items 
Items are highlighted as exceptional in the consolidated income statement when they are material in their nature or amount and when 
separate disclosure is considered helpful in understanding the underlying performance of the business. Examples include acquisition 
costs, restructuring costs and any other costs that are not incurred as part of normal operating activities. 
Taxation 
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date 
in the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates 
positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes 
provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. 
Deferred income taxes are calculated using the liability method on temporary differences. Deferred tax is generally provided on the 
difference between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases. However, deferred tax is not provided on the initial 
recognition of goodwill, nor on the initial recognition of an asset or liability unless the related transaction is a business combination or 
affects tax or accounting profit. Deferred tax on temporary differences associated with shares in subsidiaries and joint ventures is not 
provided if reversal of these temporary differences can be controlled by the Group and it is probable that reversal will not occur in the 
foreseeable future. In addition, tax losses available to be carried forward as well as other income tax credits to the Group are assessed 
for recognition as deferred tax assets. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that the underlying deductible temporary differences will be able to 
be offset against future taxable income. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at tax rates that are expected to apply to their 
respective period of realisation, provided they are enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets 
and liabilities on a net basis. 
Changes in deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised as a component of tax expense in the consolidated income statement, 
except where they relate to items that are charged or credited directly to equity in which case the related deferred tax is also charged 
or credited directly to equity. 
  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   45 01/11/2013   13:37 46
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
Dividends 
Dividends are recognised when the shareholders’ right to receive payment is established. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill representing the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired 
is capitalised and reviewed annually for impairment. Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. If the Group’s 
interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities of the acquired entity exceeds the cost of the 
business combination, this value is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement. 
On disposal of a business, goodwill is allocated based on calculated fair value of assets disposed and included in the calculation of the 
profit or loss on disposal. 
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets represent identifiable non-monetary assets without physical substance. Intangible assets are valued at either their 
directly attributable costs or using valuation methods such as discounted cash flows and replacement cost in the case of acquired 
intangible assets. 
The Directors estimate the useful economic life of each asset and use these estimates in applying amortisation rates.The Directors 
periodically review economic useful life estimates. 
Intangible assets are stated at cost net of amortisation and any provision for impairment. 
The Directors conduct an annual impairment review of intangible assets where necessary for assets with an indefinite life. Where 
impairment arises, losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
Amortisation of intangible assets is shown on the face of the consolidated income statement. 
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination 
In accordance with IFRS3 Business Combinations, an intangible asset acquired in a business combination is deemed to have a cost to 
the Group of its fair value at the acquisition date. The fair value of the intangible asset reflects market expectations about the probability 
that the future economic benefits embodied in the asset will flow to the Group. Where an intangible asset might be separable, but only 
together with a related tangible or intangible asset, the group of assets is recognised as a single asset separately from goodwill where 
the individual fair values of the assets in the Group are not reliably measurable. Where the individual fair value of the complementary 
assets is reliably measurable, the Group recognises them as a single asset provided the individual assets have similar useful lives. 
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are typically amortised using the straight-line method over the 
following periods: 
Intangible asset   Amortisation period
Consumer panel    5 years
Software and software development    5 years
Customer contracts and lists    10 –11 years
Patents and trademarks    5 –15 years
Order backlog    3 months –1 year
Intangible assets generated internally 
Internally generated intangible assets are only capitalised where they meet all of the following criteria stipulated by IAS38: 
 Completion of the intangible asset is technically feasible so that it will be available for use or sale; 
 The Group intends to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it; 
 The Group has the ability to use or sell the intangible asset; 
 The intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits. Among other things, this requires that there is a market for the 
output from the intangible asset or for the intangible asset itself, or, if it is to be used internally, the asset will be used in generating 
such benefits; 
 There are adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the intangible asset; 
 The expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development can be measured reliably; 
Internally generated intangible assets are capitalised at their directly attributable cost. Development costs not meeting the criteria for 
capitalisation are expensed as incurred. 
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised from the moment at which they become available for use. 
 
 
Amortisation rates applicable to internally generated intangible assets are typically: 
Intangible asset   Amortisation period
Software and software development    3 years
Patents and trademarks    not amortised
Development costs   project by project basis
Consumer panel 
The consumer panel is the core asset from which our online revenues are generated. 
Where a consumer panel or list is acquired as part of a business combination the cost of the asset is recognised at its fair value to the 
Group at the date of acquisition. The fair value is calculated by management using a discounted cash flow model. Amortisation is 
charged to write off the panel acquisition costs over a five-year period, this being the Directors’ estimate of the average active life of 
a panellist. 
Consumer panel costs reflect the direct cost of recruiting new panel members. Consumer panel costs are split between enhancement 
and maintenance of the asset. Enhancement costs are capitalised whilst maintenance costs are expensed. The split is based on 
management estimates derived from current levels of panel churn. Amortisation is charged to write off the panel acquisition costs over 
a three-year period, this being the Directors’ estimate of the average active life of a panellist. 
Software and software development 
Capitalised software includes our survey and panel management software and our BrandIndex platform which are key tools of our 
business. Software and software development also includes purchased off-the-shelf software. 
Where software is acquired as part of a business combination the cost of the asset is recognised at its fair value to the Group at the date 
of acquisition. The fair value is calculated by management using a discounted cash flow model. Amortisation is charged to write off the 
software over a five-year period, this being the Directors’ estimate of the useful life of the software. 
Where software is developed internally, directly attributable costs including employee costs are capitalised as software development. 
Amortisation commences upon completion of the asset. Amortisation is charged to write off the software over a three-year period, this 
being the Directors’ estimate of the useful life of software. 
Customer contract and lists 
Where a customer contract or list is acquired as part of a business combination the cost of the asset is recognised at its fair value to the 
Group at the date of acquisition. The fair value is calculated by management using a discounted cash flow model. Customer contracts 
and lists are amortised over a useful economic life based on Directors’ estimates. 
Patents and trademarks 
Where a patent or trademark is acquired as part of a business combination the cost of the asset is recognised at its fair value to the 
Group at the date of acquisition. The fair value is calculated by management using a discounted cash flow model. 
Patents acquired as part of a business combination are amortised over a useful economic life based on Directors’ estimates. 
Patents and trademarks acquired on an ongoing basis to protect the YouGov brand and its products are included at cost and are not 
amortised, as the trademarks are indefinite in their longevity through legal rights. 
Development costs 
Expenditure on research (or the research phase of an internal project) is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred. 
The cost of an internally generated intangible asset comprises all directly attributable costs necessary to create, produce, and prepare 
the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. 
  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   46 01/11/2013   13:37 47
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
Dividends 
Dividends are recognised when the shareholders’ right to receive payment is established. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill representing the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired 
is capitalised and reviewed annually for impairment. Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. If the Group’s 
interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities of the acquired entity exceeds the cost of the 
business combination, this value is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement. 
On disposal of a business, goodwill is allocated based on calculated fair value of assets disposed and included in the calculation of the 
profit or loss on disposal. 
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets represent identifiable non-monetary assets without physical substance. Intangible assets are valued at either their 
directly attributable costs or using valuation methods such as discounted cash flows and replacement cost in the case of acquired 
intangible assets. 
The Directors estimate the useful economic life of each asset and use these estimates in applying amortisation rates.The Directors 
periodically review economic useful life estimates. 
Intangible assets are stated at cost net of amortisation and any provision for impairment. 
The Directors conduct an annual impairment review of intangible assets where necessary for assets with an indefinite life. Where 
impairment arises, losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
Amortisation of intangible assets is shown on the face of the consolidated income statement. 
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination 
In accordance with IFRS3 Business Combinations, an intangible asset acquired in a business combination is deemed to have a cost to 
the Group of its fair value at the acquisition date. The fair value of the intangible asset reflects market expectations about the probability 
that the future economic benefits embodied in the asset will flow to the Group. Where an intangible asset might be separable, but only 
together with a related tangible or intangible asset, the group of assets is recognised as a single asset separately from goodwill where 
the individual fair values of the assets in the Group are not reliably measurable. Where the individual fair value of the complementary 
assets is reliably measurable, the Group recognises them as a single asset provided the individual assets have similar useful lives. 
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are typically amortised using the straight-line method over the 
following periods: 
Intangible asset   Amortisation period
Consumer panel    5 years
Software and software development    5 years
Customer contracts and lists    10 –11 years
Patents and trademarks    5 –15 years
Order backlog    3 months –1 year
Intangible assets generated internally 
Internally generated intangible assets are only capitalised where they meet all of the following criteria stipulated by IAS38: 
 Completion of the intangible asset is technically feasible so that it will be available for use or sale; 
 The Group intends to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it; 
 The Group has the ability to use or sell the intangible asset; 
 The intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits. Among other things, this requires that there is a market for the 
output from the intangible asset or for the intangible asset itself, or, if it is to be used internally, the asset will be used in generating 
such benefits; 
 There are adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the intangible asset; 
 The expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development can be measured reliably; 
Internally generated intangible assets are capitalised at their directly attributable cost. Development costs not meeting the criteria for 
capitalisation are expensed as incurred. 
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised from the moment at which they become available for use. 
 
 
Amortisation rates applicable to internally generated intangible assets are typically: 
Intangible asset   Amortisation period
Software and software development    3 years
Patents and trademarks    not amortised
Development costs   project by project basis
Consumer panel 
The consumer panel is the core asset from which our online revenues are generated. 
Where a consumer panel or list is acquired as part of a business combination the cost of the asset is recognised at its fair value to the 
Group at the date of acquisition. The fair value is calculated by management using a discounted cash flow model. Amortisation is 
charged to write off the panel acquisition costs over a five-year period, this being the Directors’ estimate of the average active life of 
a panellist. 
Consumer panel costs reflect the direct cost of recruiting new panel members. Consumer panel costs are split between enhancement 
and maintenance of the asset. Enhancement costs are capitalised whilst maintenance costs are expensed. The split is based on 
management estimates derived from current levels of panel churn. Amortisation is charged to write off the panel acquisition costs over 
a three-year period, this being the Directors’ estimate of the average active life of a panellist. 
Software and software development 
Capitalised software includes our survey and panel management software and our BrandIndex platform which are key tools of our 
business. Software and software development also includes purchased off-the-shelf software. 
Where software is acquired as part of a business combination the cost of the asset is recognised at its fair value to the Group at the date 
of acquisition. The fair value is calculated by management using a discounted cash flow model. Amortisation is charged to write off the 
software over a five-year period, this being the Directors’ estimate of the useful life of the software. 
Where software is developed internally, directly attributable costs including employee costs are capitalised as software development. 
Amortisation commences upon completion of the asset. Amortisation is charged to write off the software over a three-year period, this 
being the Directors’ estimate of the useful life of software. 
Customer contract and lists 
Where a customer contract or list is acquired as part of a business combination the cost of the asset is recognised at its fair value to the 
Group at the date of acquisition. The fair value is calculated by management using a discounted cash flow model. Customer contracts 
and lists are amortised over a useful economic life based on Directors’ estimates. 
Patents and trademarks 
Where a patent or trademark is acquired as part of a business combination the cost of the asset is recognised at its fair value to the 
Group at the date of acquisition. The fair value is calculated by management using a discounted cash flow model. 
Patents acquired as part of a business combination are amortised over a useful economic life based on Directors’ estimates. 
Patents and trademarks acquired on an ongoing basis to protect the YouGov brand and its products are included at cost and are not 
amortised, as the trademarks are indefinite in their longevity through legal rights. 
Development costs 
Expenditure on research (or the research phase of an internal project) is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred. 
The cost of an internally generated intangible asset comprises all directly attributable costs necessary to create, produce, and prepare 
the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. 
  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   47 01/11/2013   13:37 48
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
Impairment testing of goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows 
(cash-generating units). As a result, some assets are tested individually for impairment and some are tested at cash-generating unit 
level. Goodwill is allocated to those cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from synergies of the related business 
combination and represent the lowest level within the Group at which management monitors the related cash flows. 
Goodwill, other individual assets or cash-generating units that include goodwill, other intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, and 
those intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually. All other individual assets or cash-generating 
units are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s or cash-generating unit’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount is calculated as value in use based on an internal discounted cash flow evaluation. 
Impairment losses recognised for cash-generating units, to which goodwill has been allocated, are credited initially to the carrying 
amount of goodwill. Any remaining impairment loss is charged pro rata to the other assets in the cash-generating unit. With the 
exception of goodwill, all assets are subsequently reassessed for indications that an impairment loss previously recognised may 
no longer exist. 
Property, plant and equipment and depreciation 
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. Cost includes the original 
purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. No depreciation 
is charged during the period of construction. Leasehold property is included in property, plant and equipment only where it is held under 
a finance lease. Borrowing costs on property, plant and equipment under construction are capitalised during the period of construction 
based on specific funds borrowed. Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost less estimated residual value of all property, plant 
and machinery over their estimated useful economic lives. 
Asset  Depreciation rate
Freehold property  Straight line over 25 years
Leasehold property improvements  Straight line over the life of the lease
Fixtures and fittings  25% on a reducing balance
Computer equipment  33% per annum straight line
Motor vehicles  25% or the life of the lease
The residual values and useful lives of all assets are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. 
Leased assets 
In accordance with IAS17, the economic ownership of a leased asset is transferred to the lessee if the lessee bears substantially all the 
risks and rewards related to the ownership of the leased asset. The related asset is recognised at the time of inception of the lease at the 
fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments plus incidental payments, if any, to be borne 
by the lessee. A corresponding amount is recognised as a finance leasing liability. 
The interest element of leasing payments represents a constant proportion of the capital balance outstanding and is charged to the 
income statement over the period of the lease. 
All other leases are regarded as operating leases and the payments made under them are charged to the income statement on 
a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives are spread over the term of the lease. 
Financial assets 
Financial assets are divided into the following categories: loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets. Financial assets 
are assigned to the different categories by management on initial recognition, depending on the purpose for which they were acquired. 
All financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, 
less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the 
Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the 
debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments (more than 
30 days overdue) are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between 
the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. 
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the 
consolidated income statement within operating expenses. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance 
account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against operating expenses in the 
consolidated income statement. 
  
 
 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
Trade receivables and other financial assets are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are measured subsequent 
to initial recognition at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. Any change in their value 
through impairment or reversal of impairment is recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the 
other categories. 
Provision against trade receivables is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due 
to it in accordance with the original terms of those receivables. The amount of the write-down is determined as the difference between 
the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows. 
An assessment for impairment is undertaken at least at each reporting date. 
A financial asset is derecognised only where the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or the financial asset is 
transferred and that transfer qualifies for derecognition. A financial asset is transferred if the contractual rights to receive the cash flows 
of the asset have been transferred or the Group retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the asset but assumes 
a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients. A financial asset that is transferred qualifies for derecognition 
if the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset, or if the Group neither retains nor transfers 
substantially all the risks and rewards if ownership but does transfer control of that asset. 
Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Financial liabilities are assigned to the different 
categories by management on initial recognition, depending on the purpose for which they were acquired. 
Financial liabilities are obligations to pay cash or other financial assets and are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
They are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. 
Borrowings and lease liabilities are initially recorded at the fair value which is typically the proceeds received, net of any issue costs 
and subsequently carried at amortised cost. Finance charges are accounted for on an effective interest method and are added to the 
carrying value of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise. 
A financial liability is derecognised only when the obligation is extinguished, that is, when the obligation is discharged or cancelled 
or expires. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, together with other short-term, highly liquid investments that 
are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value, with maturities no 
longer than three months. In addition, bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand are included for the purposes of the statement 
of cash flows. 
Equity 
Equity comprises the following: 
 Share capital represents the nominal value of equity shares; 
 Share premium represents the excess over nominal value of the fair value of consideration received for equity shares, net of 
incremental and directly attributable expenses of the share issue; 
 Merger reserve represents the excess over nominal value of the fair value of consideration received for equity shares issued/allotted 
directly to acquire another entity meeting the specific requirements of Section 131 of the Companies Act 2006. The conditions of the 
relief include: 
 Securing at least 90% of the nominal value of equity of another company; 
 The arrangement provides for allotment of equity shares in the issuing company; 
 Foreign exchange reserve represents the differences arising from translation of investments in overseas subsidiaries; 
 Retained earnings represent retained profits. 
  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   48 01/11/2013   13:37 49
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
Impairment testing of goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows 
(cash-generating units). As a result, some assets are tested individually for impairment and some are tested at cash-generating unit 
level. Goodwill is allocated to those cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from synergies of the related business 
combination and represent the lowest level within the Group at which management monitors the related cash flows. 
Goodwill, other individual assets or cash-generating units that include goodwill, other intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, and 
those intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually. All other individual assets or cash-generating 
units are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s or cash-generating unit’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount is calculated as value in use based on an internal discounted cash flow evaluation. 
Impairment losses recognised for cash-generating units, to which goodwill has been allocated, are credited initially to the carrying 
amount of goodwill. Any remaining impairment loss is charged pro rata to the other assets in the cash-generating unit. With the 
exception of goodwill, all assets are subsequently reassessed for indications that an impairment loss previously recognised may 
no longer exist. 
Property, plant and equipment and depreciation 
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. Cost includes the original 
purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. No depreciation 
is charged during the period of construction. Leasehold property is included in property, plant and equipment only where it is held under 
a finance lease. Borrowing costs on property, plant and equipment under construction are capitalised during the period of construction 
based on specific funds borrowed. Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost less estimated residual value of all property, plant 
and machinery over their estimated useful economic lives. 
Asset  Depreciation rate
Freehold property  Straight line over 25 years
Leasehold property improvements  Straight line over the life of the lease
Fixtures and fittings  25% on a reducing balance
Computer equipment  33% per annum straight line
Motor vehicles  25% or the life of the lease
The residual values and useful lives of all assets are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. 
Leased assets 
In accordance with IAS17, the economic ownership of a leased asset is transferred to the lessee if the lessee bears substantially all the 
risks and rewards related to the ownership of the leased asset. The related asset is recognised at the time of inception of the lease at the 
fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments plus incidental payments, if any, to be borne 
by the lessee. A corresponding amount is recognised as a finance leasing liability. 
The interest element of leasing payments represents a constant proportion of the capital balance outstanding and is charged to the 
income statement over the period of the lease. 
All other leases are regarded as operating leases and the payments made under them are charged to the income statement on 
a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives are spread over the term of the lease. 
Financial assets 
Financial assets are divided into the following categories: loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets. Financial assets 
are assigned to the different categories by management on initial recognition, depending on the purpose for which they were acquired. 
All financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, 
less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the 
Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the 
debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments (more than 
30 days overdue) are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between 
the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. 
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the 
consolidated income statement within operating expenses. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance 
account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against operating expenses in the 
consolidated income statement. 
  
 
 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
Trade receivables and other financial assets are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are measured subsequent 
to initial recognition at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. Any change in their value 
through impairment or reversal of impairment is recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the 
other categories. 
Provision against trade receivables is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due 
to it in accordance with the original terms of those receivables. The amount of the write-down is determined as the difference between 
the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows. 
An assessment for impairment is undertaken at least at each reporting date. 
A financial asset is derecognised only where the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or the financial asset is 
transferred and that transfer qualifies for derecognition. A financial asset is transferred if the contractual rights to receive the cash flows 
of the asset have been transferred or the Group retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the asset but assumes 
a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients. A financial asset that is transferred qualifies for derecognition 
if the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset, or if the Group neither retains nor transfers 
substantially all the risks and rewards if ownership but does transfer control of that asset. 
Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Financial liabilities are assigned to the different 
categories by management on initial recognition, depending on the purpose for which they were acquired. 
Financial liabilities are obligations to pay cash or other financial assets and are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
They are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. 
Borrowings and lease liabilities are initially recorded at the fair value which is typically the proceeds received, net of any issue costs 
and subsequently carried at amortised cost. Finance charges are accounted for on an effective interest method and are added to the 
carrying value of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise. 
A financial liability is derecognised only when the obligation is extinguished, that is, when the obligation is discharged or cancelled 
or expires. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, together with other short-term, highly liquid investments that 
are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value, with maturities no 
longer than three months. In addition, bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand are included for the purposes of the statement 
of cash flows. 
Equity 
Equity comprises the following: 
 Share capital represents the nominal value of equity shares; 
 Share premium represents the excess over nominal value of the fair value of consideration received for equity shares, net of 
incremental and directly attributable expenses of the share issue; 
 Merger reserve represents the excess over nominal value of the fair value of consideration received for equity shares issued/allotted 
directly to acquire another entity meeting the specific requirements of Section 131 of the Companies Act 2006. The conditions of the 
relief include: 
 Securing at least 90% of the nominal value of equity of another company; 
 The arrangement provides for allotment of equity shares in the issuing company; 
 Foreign exchange reserve represents the differences arising from translation of investments in overseas subsidiaries; 
 Retained earnings represent retained profits. 
  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   49 01/11/2013   13:37 50
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
Foreign currencies 
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements are presented in GBP, which 
is the Company’s functional and the Group’s presentation currency. 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the reporting date. Non-monetary 
items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.  
Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the 
fair value was determined. 
Any exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items or on translating monetary items at rates different from those at 
which they were initially recorded are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they arise. 
Exchange differences on non-monetary items are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income to the extent that 
they relate to a gain or loss on that non-monetary item taken to the statement of changes in equity, otherwise such gains and losses are 
recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
The assets and liabilities in the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries and associates and related goodwill are translated at the rate 
of exchange ruling at the reporting date. Income and expenses are translated at the actual rate. The exchange differences arising from 
the retranslation of the opening net investment in subsidiaries and joint ventures are taken directly to the “Foreign exchange reserve” 
in equity. 
Employee benefits 
Equity-settled share-based payment 
This fair value is appraised at the grant date and excludes the impact of non-market vesting conditions. 
The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based payment compensation plans under which the entity receives services from 
employees as consideration for equity instruments (options) of the Group. All equity-settled share-based payments are ultimately 
recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement with a corresponding credit to retained earnings. 
If vesting periods or other non-market vesting conditions apply, the expense is allocated over the vesting period, based on the best 
available estimate of the number of share options expected to vest. Estimates are subsequently revised if there is any indication that the 
number of share options expected to vest differs from previous estimates.  
No adjustment is made to any expense recognised in prior periods if share options ultimately exercised are different to that estimated 
on vesting. 
Upon exercise of share options the proceeds received net of attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital, and where 
appropriate share premium. 
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as 
a capital contribution. The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised 
over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity. 
Termination benefits 
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an 
employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is 
demonstrably committed to a termination when the entity has a detailed formal plan to terminate the employment of current employees 
without possibility of withdrawal. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period are discounted to their 
present value. 
Contingent consideration 
Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of earn outs are based on the Directors’ best estimates of future obligations, which 
are dependent on the future performance of the interests acquired and assume the operating companies improve profits in line with 
Directors’ estimates. When consideration payable is deferred, the fair value of the consideration is obtained by discounting to present 
value the amounts expected to be payable in the future at a rate equivalent to a UK 10-year treasury gilt (or foreign equivalent), this 
being, in the Directors’ opinion the most appropriate barometer for a risk-free rate. Subsequent changes in the amount of contingent 
consideration recognised are recorded as exceptional items in the consolidated income statement. 
Imputed interest 
When the outflow of cash or cash equivalents is deferred, and the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, the fair value of the 
consideration is the present value of all future payments determined using an imputed rate of interest. The imputed rate of interest used 
is the risk-free rate, this being, in the Directors’ opinion the most appropriate rate. The difference between the present value of all future 
payments and the nominal amount of the consideration is recognised as an interest charge. Imputed interest is shown within finance 
costs in the consolidated income statement. 
 
 
Going concern 
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its bank facilities. The current economic conditions continue 
to create uncertainty particularly over (a) the level of demand for the Group’s products; and (b) the availability of bank finance for the 
foreseeable future. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show 
that the Group should be able to operate without bank finance. After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that 
the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The Group therefore continues to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements. 
Accounting estimates and judgements 
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies the Directors are required to make estimates and adjustments that may affect 
the financial statements. The Directors believe that the estimates and judgements applied in the financial statements are reasonable. 
Estimates and judgements are evaluated on a regular basis and are based on historical experience (where applicable) and other 
factors, such as expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. 
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. These estimates, by definition, will rarely equal the related actual 
results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below. Where estimates and judgements have been made, the key factors 
taken into consideration are disclosed in the appropriate note in these consolidated financial statements. 
Revenue recognition 
The Group is required to make an estimate of project completion levels on long-term contracts for revenue recognition purposes. This is 
based upon the project manager’s estimates and available time records against budgeted and assigned resource for the initial project 
scope. This involves an element of judgement, and therefore differences may arise between the actual and estimated result. Where 
differences do arise, they are recognised in the consolidated income statement for the following reporting period. 
Share-based payments 
The Group is required to make estimates regarding the assumptions that are used to calculate the income statement charge for share-
based payments. Inputs to the calculations include (but are not limited to) expected volatility, expected life, risk-free rate, expected 
dividend yield and redemption rates. Variances in any of the inputs could lead to the charge being higher or lower than appropriate. 
The estimates used are disclosed in Note 22. 
Income taxes 
The Group is subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. Judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for income 
taxes. There are many transactions/calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of 
business. Where the final tax outcome is different to what is initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred 
tax provisions. Income taxes are disclosed fully in Note 6. 
Goodwill 
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy. The recoverable 
amount is based on value in use calculations. The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows and the choice of a 
suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present values of these cash flows. The estimates used in the impairment review are fully 
disclosed in Note 10. 
All payments to purchase a business are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as debt 
subsequently re-measured through the consolidated income statement. There is a choice on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis to 
measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the 
acquiree’s net assets. All acquisition-related costs are expensed. 
Other intangible assets 
The Group is required to identify and assess the useful life of intangible assets and determine if there is a finite or indefinite life. 
Judgement is required in determining if an intangible asset has a finite life and the extent of this finite life in order to calculate the 
amortisation charge on the asset. The Group tests at each reporting date whether intangible assets have suffered any indicators of 
impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy. The recoverable amount of cash-generating units has been determined based 
on discounted future cash flows. These calculations require estimates to be made. Where there is no method of valuation for an 
intangible asset, management will make use of a valuation technique to determine the value of an intangible if there is no evidence 
of a market value. In doing so certain assumptions and estimates will be made. Intangible assets are fully disclosed in Note 11. 
Panel incentive provision 
The Group is required to assess the likelihood that panel incentives earned by consumer panel members will be redeemed and maintain 
a provision to cover this potential liability. Factors taken into consideration include the absolute liability, redemption rates and panel 
activity rates. Whilst historical data can indicate trends and behaviours it is not an indication of the future. In arriving at the carrying value 
of the provision certain assumptions and estimates have to be made. The estimates used in calculating the panel incentive provision are 
fully disclosed in Note 18. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   50 01/11/2013   13:37 51
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
Foreign currencies 
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements are presented in GBP, which 
is the Company’s functional and the Group’s presentation currency. 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the reporting date. Non-monetary 
items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.  
Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the 
fair value was determined. 
Any exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items or on translating monetary items at rates different from those at 
which they were initially recorded are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they arise. 
Exchange differences on non-monetary items are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income to the extent that 
they relate to a gain or loss on that non-monetary item taken to the statement of changes in equity, otherwise such gains and losses are 
recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
The assets and liabilities in the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries and associates and related goodwill are translated at the rate 
of exchange ruling at the reporting date. Income and expenses are translated at the actual rate. The exchange differences arising from 
the retranslation of the opening net investment in subsidiaries and joint ventures are taken directly to the “Foreign exchange reserve” 
in equity. 
Employee benefits 
Equity-settled share-based payment 
This fair value is appraised at the grant date and excludes the impact of non-market vesting conditions. 
The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based payment compensation plans under which the entity receives services from 
employees as consideration for equity instruments (options) of the Group. All equity-settled share-based payments are ultimately 
recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement with a corresponding credit to retained earnings. 
If vesting periods or other non-market vesting conditions apply, the expense is allocated over the vesting period, based on the best 
available estimate of the number of share options expected to vest. Estimates are subsequently revised if there is any indication that the 
number of share options expected to vest differs from previous estimates.  
No adjustment is made to any expense recognised in prior periods if share options ultimately exercised are different to that estimated 
on vesting. 
Upon exercise of share options the proceeds received net of attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital, and where 
appropriate share premium. 
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as 
a capital contribution. The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised 
over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity. 
Termination benefits 
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an 
employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is 
demonstrably committed to a termination when the entity has a detailed formal plan to terminate the employment of current employees 
without possibility of withdrawal. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period are discounted to their 
present value. 
Contingent consideration 
Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of earn outs are based on the Directors’ best estimates of future obligations, which 
are dependent on the future performance of the interests acquired and assume the operating companies improve profits in line with 
Directors’ estimates. When consideration payable is deferred, the fair value of the consideration is obtained by discounting to present 
value the amounts expected to be payable in the future at a rate equivalent to a UK 10-year treasury gilt (or foreign equivalent), this 
being, in the Directors’ opinion the most appropriate barometer for a risk-free rate. Subsequent changes in the amount of contingent 
consideration recognised are recorded as exceptional items in the consolidated income statement. 
Imputed interest 
When the outflow of cash or cash equivalents is deferred, and the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, the fair value of the 
consideration is the present value of all future payments determined using an imputed rate of interest. The imputed rate of interest used 
is the risk-free rate, this being, in the Directors’ opinion the most appropriate rate. The difference between the present value of all future 
payments and the nominal amount of the consideration is recognised as an interest charge. Imputed interest is shown within finance 
costs in the consolidated income statement. 
 
 
Going concern 
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its bank facilities. The current economic conditions continue 
to create uncertainty particularly over (a) the level of demand for the Group’s products; and (b) the availability of bank finance for the 
foreseeable future. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show 
that the Group should be able to operate without bank finance. After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that 
the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The Group therefore continues to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements. 
Accounting estimates and judgements 
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies the Directors are required to make estimates and adjustments that may affect 
the financial statements. The Directors believe that the estimates and judgements applied in the financial statements are reasonable. 
Estimates and judgements are evaluated on a regular basis and are based on historical experience (where applicable) and other 
factors, such as expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. 
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. These estimates, by definition, will rarely equal the related actual 
results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below. Where estimates and judgements have been made, the key factors 
taken into consideration are disclosed in the appropriate note in these consolidated financial statements. 
Revenue recognition 
The Group is required to make an estimate of project completion levels on long-term contracts for revenue recognition purposes. This is 
based upon the project manager’s estimates and available time records against budgeted and assigned resource for the initial project 
scope. This involves an element of judgement, and therefore differences may arise between the actual and estimated result. Where 
differences do arise, they are recognised in the consolidated income statement for the following reporting period. 
Share-based payments 
The Group is required to make estimates regarding the assumptions that are used to calculate the income statement charge for share-
based payments. Inputs to the calculations include (but are not limited to) expected volatility, expected life, risk-free rate, expected 
dividend yield and redemption rates. Variances in any of the inputs could lead to the charge being higher or lower than appropriate. 
The estimates used are disclosed in Note 22. 
Income taxes 
The Group is subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. Judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for income 
taxes. There are many transactions/calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of 
business. Where the final tax outcome is different to what is initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred 
tax provisions. Income taxes are disclosed fully in Note 6. 
Goodwill 
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy. The recoverable 
amount is based on value in use calculations. The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows and the choice of a 
suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present values of these cash flows. The estimates used in the impairment review are fully 
disclosed in Note 10. 
All payments to purchase a business are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as debt 
subsequently re-measured through the consolidated income statement. There is a choice on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis to 
measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the 
acquiree’s net assets. All acquisition-related costs are expensed. 
Other intangible assets 
The Group is required to identify and assess the useful life of intangible assets and determine if there is a finite or indefinite life. 
Judgement is required in determining if an intangible asset has a finite life and the extent of this finite life in order to calculate the 
amortisation charge on the asset. The Group tests at each reporting date whether intangible assets have suffered any indicators of 
impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy. The recoverable amount of cash-generating units has been determined based 
on discounted future cash flows. These calculations require estimates to be made. Where there is no method of valuation for an 
intangible asset, management will make use of a valuation technique to determine the value of an intangible if there is no evidence 
of a market value. In doing so certain assumptions and estimates will be made. Intangible assets are fully disclosed in Note 11. 
Panel incentive provision 
The Group is required to assess the likelihood that panel incentives earned by consumer panel members will be redeemed and maintain 
a provision to cover this potential liability. Factors taken into consideration include the absolute liability, redemption rates and panel 
activity rates. Whilst historical data can indicate trends and behaviours it is not an indication of the future. In arriving at the carrying value 
of the provision certain assumptions and estimates have to be made. The estimates used in calculating the panel incentive provision are 
fully disclosed in Note 18. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   51 01/11/2013   13:37 52
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
Deferred taxation 
Judgement is required by management in determining whether the Group should recognise a deferred tax asset. Management consider 
whether there is sufficient certainty that its tax losses available to carry forward will ultimately be offset against future earnings. 
This judgement impacts on the degree to which deferred tax assets are recognised. Deferred taxation is disclosed fully in Note 19. 
Contingent consideration 
As part of the acquisitions, contingent consideration is payable to selling shareholders based on the future performance of the 
businesses. Judgement is required in estimating the magnitude of contingent consideration and the likelihood of payment. Contingent 
consideration is disclosed fully in Note 17. 
Standard and interpretations in issue but not yet effective 
A number of new standards and amendments to existing standards and interpretations are not yet effective, and have not been applied 
in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None of these is expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial 
statements of the Group, except the following set out below: 
IFRS10, “Consolidated financial statements” 
Builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included within 
the consolidated financial statements of the parent company. The standard provides additional guidance to assist in the determination of 
control where this is difficult to assess.  
IFRS11, “Joint arrangements” 
Provides for a more realistic reflection of joint arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of the arrangement, rather than its 
legal form. There are two types of joint arrangement: joint operations and joint ventures. Joint operations arise where a joint operator has 
rights to the assets and obligations relating to the arrangement and hence accounts for its interest in assets, liabilities, revenue and 
expenses. Joint ventures arise where the joint operator has rights to the net assets of the arrangement and hence equity accounts for its 
interest. Proportional consolidation of joint ventures is no longer allowed. 
IFRS12, “Disclosures of interests in other entities” 
Includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose 
vehicles and other off-balance-sheet vehicles. 
IAS27 (revised 2011) “Separate financial statements” 
Includes the provisions on separate financial statements that are left after the control provisions of IAS27 have been included in the  
new IFRS10. 
IAS28 (revised 2011) “Associates and joint ventures” 
Includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, to be equity accounted following the issue of IFRS11. 
Amendments to IFRS10, 11 and 12 on transition guidance 
Provide additional transition relief in IFRSs 10, 11 and 12, limiting the requirement to provide adjusted comparative information to only 
the preceding comparative period. For disclosures related to unconsolidated structured entities, the amendments will remove the 
requirement to present comparative information for periods before IFRS12 is first applied. 
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the standards on its results, financial position and cash flows and intends to adopt them 
no later than the accounting period beginning on 1 August 2014. 
The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of other new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed by the 
European Union and require adoption by the Group in future accounting periods.
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 July 2013 
 
1 Revenue and profit before taxation 
Segmental analysis 
For internal reporting purposes the Group is organised into six operating divisions based on geographic lines – UK, Middle East, 
Germany, Nordic, USA and France. These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its segmental information. The Group only 
undertakes one class of business, that of market research. 
Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Executive Directors (which is the 
“chief operating decision-maker”). The Board of Directors review information based on geographic lines – UK, Middle East, Germany, 
Nordic, USA and France. These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its segmental information. The Group only 
undertakes one class of business, that of market research. 
2013 
UK
£’000 
Middle
East 
£’000 
Germany
£’000 
Nordic 
£’000 
USA 
£’000  
France  
£’000  
Consolidation
and 
unallocated 
£’000 
Group 
£’000
Revenue   
External sales 17,055 7,252 9,051 8,438 20,619 136 – 62,551
Inter-segment sales 334 63 330 54 176 203 (1,160) –
Total revenue 17,389 7,315 9,381 8,492 20,795 339 (1,160) 62,551
Inter-segment sales are priced on an arm’s-length basis that would be available to unrelated third parties. 
 
Segment result   
Gross profit 12,777 5,532 7,493 6,720 14,210 267 112 47,111
Adjusted operating profit 4,437 1,547 880 345 2,274 (91) (3,410) 5,982
Amortisation of intangibles (469) (76) (136) (443) (640) (15) (1,501) (3,280)
Exceptional costs (70) – (27) (454) (342) – (319) (1,212)
Finance income   207
Finance costs   (89)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates   (122)
Profit before taxation   1,486
Tax credit   623
Profit after taxation   2,109
Other segment information   
Depreciation 74 99 105 49 65 2 145 539
Share-based payments – – – – – – 767 767
Assets   
Segment assets 29,992 7,847 16,898 13,392 32,788 470 (17,560) 83,827
Investments in associates   363
Total assets   84,190
  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   52 01/11/2013   13:37 53
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
Deferred taxation 
Judgement is required by management in determining whether the Group should recognise a deferred tax asset. Management consider 
whether there is sufficient certainty that its tax losses available to carry forward will ultimately be offset against future earnings. 
This judgement impacts on the degree to which deferred tax assets are recognised. Deferred taxation is disclosed fully in Note 19. 
Contingent consideration 
As part of the acquisitions, contingent consideration is payable to selling shareholders based on the future performance of the 
businesses. Judgement is required in estimating the magnitude of contingent consideration and the likelihood of payment. Contingent 
consideration is disclosed fully in Note 17. 
Standard and interpretations in issue but not yet effective 
A number of new standards and amendments to existing standards and interpretations are not yet effective, and have not been applied 
in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None of these is expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial 
statements of the Group, except the following set out below: 
IFRS10, “Consolidated financial statements” 
Builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included within 
the consolidated financial statements of the parent company. The standard provides additional guidance to assist in the determination of 
control where this is difficult to assess.  
IFRS11, “Joint arrangements” 
Provides for a more realistic reflection of joint arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of the arrangement, rather than its 
legal form. There are two types of joint arrangement: joint operations and joint ventures. Joint operations arise where a joint operator has 
rights to the assets and obligations relating to the arrangement and hence accounts for its interest in assets, liabilities, revenue and 
expenses. Joint ventures arise where the joint operator has rights to the net assets of the arrangement and hence equity accounts for its 
interest. Proportional consolidation of joint ventures is no longer allowed. 
IFRS12, “Disclosures of interests in other entities” 
Includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose 
vehicles and other off-balance-sheet vehicles. 
IAS27 (revised 2011) “Separate financial statements” 
Includes the provisions on separate financial statements that are left after the control provisions of IAS27 have been included in the  
new IFRS10. 
IAS28 (revised 2011) “Associates and joint ventures” 
Includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, to be equity accounted following the issue of IFRS11. 
Amendments to IFRS10, 11 and 12 on transition guidance 
Provide additional transition relief in IFRSs 10, 11 and 12, limiting the requirement to provide adjusted comparative information to only 
the preceding comparative period. For disclosures related to unconsolidated structured entities, the amendments will remove the 
requirement to present comparative information for periods before IFRS12 is first applied. 
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the standards on its results, financial position and cash flows and intends to adopt them 
no later than the accounting period beginning on 1 August 2014. 
The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of other new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed by the 
European Union and require adoption by the Group in future accounting periods.
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 July 2013 
 
1 Revenue and profit before taxation 
Segmental analysis 
For internal reporting purposes the Group is organised into six operating divisions based on geographic lines – UK, Middle East, 
Germany, Nordic, USA and France. These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its segmental information. The Group only 
undertakes one class of business, that of market research. 
Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Executive Directors (which is the 
“chief operating decision-maker”). The Board of Directors review information based on geographic lines – UK, Middle East, Germany, 
Nordic, USA and France. These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its segmental information. The Group only 
undertakes one class of business, that of market research. 
2013 
UK
£’000 
Middle
East 
£’000 
Germany
£’000 
Nordic 
£’000 
USA 
£’000  
France  
£’000  
Consolidation
and 
unallocated 
£’000 
Group 
£’000
Revenue   
External sales 17,055 7,252 9,051 8,438 20,619 136 – 62,551
Inter-segment sales 334 63 330 54 176 203 (1,160) –
Total revenue 17,389 7,315 9,381 8,492 20,795 339 (1,160) 62,551
Inter-segment sales are priced on an arm’s-length basis that would be available to unrelated third parties. 
 
Segment result   
Gross profit 12,777 5,532 7,493 6,720 14,210 267 112 47,111
Adjusted operating profit 4,437 1,547 880 345 2,274 (91) (3,410) 5,982
Amortisation of intangibles (469) (76) (136) (443) (640) (15) (1,501) (3,280)
Exceptional costs (70) – (27) (454) (342) – (319) (1,212)
Finance income   207
Finance costs   (89)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates   (122)
Profit before taxation   1,486
Tax credit   623
Profit after taxation   2,109
Other segment information   
Depreciation 74 99 105 49 65 2 145 539
Share-based payments – – – – – – 767 767
Assets   
Segment assets 29,992 7,847 16,898 13,392 32,788 470 (17,560) 83,827
Investments in associates   363
Total assets   84,190
  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   53 01/11/2013   13:37 54
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
1 Revenue and profit before taxation continued 
2012 
UK
£’000 
Middle
East 
£’000 
Germany
£’000 
Nordic 
£’000 
USA 
£’000  
France  
£’000  
Consolidation
and 
unallocated 
£’000 
Group 
£’000
Revenue   
External sales 15,543 5,827 9,067 8,71018,965 33 –58,145
Inter-segment sales 176 172 330 101 224 122 (1,125) –
Total revenue 15,7195,9999,3978,81119,189 155 (1,125) 58,145
Inter-segment sales are priced on an arm’s-length basis that would be available to unrelated third parties. 
2012 
UK
£’000 
Middle
East 
£’000 
Germany
£’000 
Nordic 
£’000 
USA 
£’000  
France  
£’000  
Consolidation
and 
unallocated 
£’000 
Group 
£’000
Segment result   
Gross profit 11,5114,4597,2907,016 14,435 136 (101) 44,746
Adjusted operating profit 3,7191,3126477672,675 (173) (3,362) 5,585
Amortisation of intangibles (287)(93)(203)(552) (1,777) – (1,438) (4,350)
Exceptional costs (146) (283) (357) – 378 – (64) (472)
Finance income   94
Finance costs   (334)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates   (83)
Profit before taxation   440
Tax charge   (79)
Profit after taxation   361
Other segment information   
Depreciation 98 108 47 41 102 – 197 593
Share-based payments – – – – – – 641 641
Assets   
Segment assets 23,069 8,275 14,763 12,788 29,424 256 (12,128) 76,447
Investments in associates   485
Total assets   76,932
Differences between the origin and destination of revenue are material to the Group. Revenue by destination is presented below. 
2013 
UK
£’000 
Middle
East 
£’000 
Germany
£’000 
Nordic 
£’000 
USA 
£’000  
France  
£’000  
Consolidation
and 
unallocated 
£’000 
Group 
£’000
External sales 17,683 6,071 9,080 8,441 21,036 240 – 62,551
Inter-segment sales 852 107 351 214 699 13 (2,236) –
Total revenue 18,535 6,178 9,431 8,655 21,735 253 (2,236) 62,551
 
2012 
UK
£’000 
Middle
East 
£’000 
Germany
£’000 
Nordic 
£’000 
USA 
£’000  
France  
£’000  
Consolidation
and 
unallocated 
£’000 
Group 
£’000
External sales 16,482 4,100 8,920 8,750 19,750 143 – 58,145
Inter-segment sales 900 194 330 208 410 8 (2,050) –
Total revenue 17,3824,2949,2508,95820,160 151 (2,050) 58,145
Inter-segment sales are priced on an arm’s-length basis that would be available to unrelated third parties. 
  
 
 
 
2 Operating expenditure 
The profit before taxation is stated after charging: 
 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Auditors’ remuneration: 
Fees payable for the audit of the parent company and the consolidated financial statements 148 145
Audit of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 45 53
Audit related assurance services 31 27
Tax compliance services 53 27
Tax advisory services 63 34
Other advisory services 70 –
Disposals, depreciation and amortisation: 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (Note 12) 539 593
Amortisation of intangible assets (Note 11) 3,280 4,350
Loss on disposal of other intangible assets – 38
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3 97
Other operating lease rentals: 
Plant and machinery 121 97
Land and buildings 1,405 1,480
Other expenses: 
Exchange differences 47 184
Share-based payment expenses (Note 22) 767 641
Charitable donations 73 51
3 Staff numbers and costs 
Staff costs (including Directors) charged to operating expenses during the year were as follows: 
 
2013 
£’000
2012
£’000
Wages and salaries  25,307 23,730
Social security costs  2,558 2,463
Share-based payments (Note 22)  767 641
Pension costs  398 463
Other benefits   1,928 1,908
Acquisition cost deemed as staff compensation*  102 87
  31,060 29,292
* Part of the acquisition cost relating to Definitive Insights is deemed as staff compensation and treated as an exceptional cost, as disclosed in Note 4. 
Pension costs are contributions are made on behalf of employees to defined contribution pension schemes. 
Other benefits include staff bonuses and private healthcare insurance. 
The average number of employees of the Group during the year was as follows: 
 
2013 
Number
2012*
Number
Key management personnel  19 20
Administration and operations  483 462
  502 482
*The definition of key management has been revised in the year to include only the Group Board and Divisional, Product and Function Heads and the prior year comparative has been restated. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   54 01/11/2013   13:37 55
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
1 Revenue and profit before taxation continued 
2012 
UK
£’000 
Middle
East 
£’000 
Germany
£’000 
Nordic 
£’000 
USA 
£’000  
France  
£’000  
Consolidation
and 
unallocated 
£’000 
Group 
£’000
Revenue   
External sales 15,543 5,827 9,067 8,71018,965 33 –58,145
Inter-segment sales 176 172 330 101 224 122 (1,125) –
Total revenue 15,7195,9999,3978,81119,189 155 (1,125) 58,145
Inter-segment sales are priced on an arm’s-length basis that would be available to unrelated third parties. 
2012 
UK
£’000 
Middle
East 
£’000 
Germany
£’000 
Nordic 
£’000 
USA 
£’000  
France  
£’000  
Consolidation
and 
unallocated 
£’000 
Group 
£’000
Segment result   
Gross profit 11,5114,4597,2907,016 14,435 136 (101) 44,746
Adjusted operating profit 3,7191,3126477672,675 (173) (3,362) 5,585
Amortisation of intangibles (287)(93)(203)(552) (1,777) – (1,438) (4,350)
Exceptional costs (146) (283) (357) – 378 – (64) (472)
Finance income   94
Finance costs   (334)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates   (83)
Profit before taxation   440
Tax charge   (79)
Profit after taxation   361
Other segment information   
Depreciation 98 108 47 41 102 – 197 593
Share-based payments – – – – – – 641 641
Assets   
Segment assets 23,069 8,275 14,763 12,788 29,424 256 (12,128) 76,447
Investments in associates   485
Total assets   76,932
Differences between the origin and destination of revenue are material to the Group. Revenue by destination is presented below. 
2013 
UK
£’000 
Middle
East 
£’000 
Germany
£’000 
Nordic 
£’000 
USA 
£’000  
France  
£’000  
Consolidation
and 
unallocated 
£’000 
Group 
£’000
External sales 17,683 6,071 9,080 8,441 21,036 240 – 62,551
Inter-segment sales 852 107 351 214 699 13 (2,236) –
Total revenue 18,535 6,178 9,431 8,655 21,735 253 (2,236) 62,551
 
2012 
UK
£’000 
Middle
East 
£’000 
Germany
£’000 
Nordic 
£’000 
USA 
£’000  
France  
£’000  
Consolidation
and 
unallocated 
£’000 
Group 
£’000
External sales 16,482 4,100 8,920 8,750 19,750 143 – 58,145
Inter-segment sales 900 194 330 208 410 8 (2,050) –
Total revenue 17,3824,2949,2508,95820,160 151 (2,050) 58,145
Inter-segment sales are priced on an arm’s-length basis that would be available to unrelated third parties. 
  
 
 
 
2 Operating expenditure 
The profit before taxation is stated after charging: 
 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Auditors’ remuneration: 
Fees payable for the audit of the parent company and the consolidated financial statements 148 145
Audit of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 45 53
Audit related assurance services 31 27
Tax compliance services 53 27
Tax advisory services 63 34
Other advisory services 70 –
Disposals, depreciation and amortisation: 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (Note 12) 539 593
Amortisation of intangible assets (Note 11) 3,280 4,350
Loss on disposal of other intangible assets – 38
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3 97
Other operating lease rentals: 
Plant and machinery 121 97
Land and buildings 1,405 1,480
Other expenses: 
Exchange differences 47 184
Share-based payment expenses (Note 22) 767 641
Charitable donations 73 51
3 Staff numbers and costs 
Staff costs (including Directors) charged to operating expenses during the year were as follows: 
 
2013 
£’000
2012
£’000
Wages and salaries  25,307 23,730
Social security costs  2,558 2,463
Share-based payments (Note 22)  767 641
Pension costs  398 463
Other benefits   1,928 1,908
Acquisition cost deemed as staff compensation*  102 87
  31,060 29,292
* Part of the acquisition cost relating to Definitive Insights is deemed as staff compensation and treated as an exceptional cost, as disclosed in Note 4. 
Pension costs are contributions are made on behalf of employees to defined contribution pension schemes. 
Other benefits include staff bonuses and private healthcare insurance. 
The average number of employees of the Group during the year was as follows: 
 
2013 
Number
2012*
Number
Key management personnel  19 20
Administration and operations  483 462
  502 482
*The definition of key management has been revised in the year to include only the Group Board and Divisional, Product and Function Heads and the prior year comparative has been restated. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   55 01/11/2013   13:37 56
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
3 Staff numbers and costs continued 
Specific disclosures in relation to compensation for key management personnel who held office during the year was as follows: 
 
2013 
£’000 
2012*
£’000
Short-term employee benefits  2,788 2,775
Post-employment benefits  44 43
Share-based payments  602 476
  3,434 3,294
*Restated 
Disclosure of Directors’ remuneration including share options are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 31, which form 
part of the financial statements. 
4 Exceptional costs 
 
2013 
£’000 
2012
£’000
Restructuring costs  645 644
Acquisition related costs  255 132
Change in accounting estimation – contingent consideration  35 (355)
Adjustment to Harrison Group’s acquired balance sheet  – (117)
Employment termination  205 168
Panel closure costs  72 –
  1,212 472
Restructuring costs in the year primarily relate to the restructuring of the Nordic business to improve performance and the cost of 
reorganising the UK and Group management structures. Restructuring costs in the prior year primarily relate to the closing of the 
Company’s operations in Iraq and further rationalisation activity in Germany.  
Acquisition related costs in the current and prior periods include £102,000 of contingent consideration in respect of the Definitive 
Insights acquisition that is deemed under IFRS3 to be staff compensation cost £136,000 incurred in relation to a prospective acquisition 
with which the Group decided not to proceed and £18,000 in respect of the acquisition of a shareholding in Doughty Media 2 which was 
completed in September 2013. Acquisition related costs in the prior financial year include £87,000 of contingent consideration in respect 
of the acquisition of Definitive Insights deemed under IFRS3, to be staff compensation costs and £45,000 of professional fees in respect 
of acquisitions in the previous year and abortive joint-ventures.  
The change in estimated contingent consideration comprises a charge of £70,000 in respect of the acquisition of Clear Horizons, 
a credit of £16,000 in respect of the Harrison Group acquisition and a credit of £19,000 in respect of the Definitive Insights acquisition.  
The change in estimated contingent consideration in the prior year comprises a credit of £434,000 in respect of the Harrison Group 
acquisition and a charge of £79,000 in respect of the Definitive Insights acquisition. 
During the prior year the fair value of the Harrison Group assets acquired was increased by £117,000, as the allowable period of time 
for finalising the valuation under IFRS3 had ended, this adjustment was treated as an exceptional item. 
Employment termination costs relate to redundancies made in the US. Employment termination costs in the prior year relate to 
redundancies made in the UK and the Middle East. 
Panel closure costs arose as a result of the decision taken in the year to close the YouGov Panel in Chile. 
 
 
 
5 Finance income and costs 
 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Interest receivable from bank deposits  27 79
Other interest receivable  – 5
Dividends received  41 10
Foreign exchange gains on cash and intra-Group loans  139 –
Total finance income  207 94
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts  10 4
Interest on obligations under hire purchase and finance leases  4 1
Foreign exchange losses on cash and intra-Group loans  4 179
  18 184
Imputed interest on contingent consideration and provisions  71 150
Total finance costs  89 334
6 Income taxes 
The taxation charge represents: 
 
2013 
£’000
2012
£’000
Current tax on profits for the year  294 400
Adjustments in respect of prior years  196 –
Total current tax charge  490 400
Deferred tax:  
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  (89) (498)
Adjustments in respect of prior years  (1,130) 61
Impact of changes in tax rates  106 116
Total deferred tax credit  (1,113) (321)
Total income statement tax (credit)/charge  (623) 79
The tax assessed for the year is lower (2012: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. 
The differences are explained below: 
 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Profit before taxation  1,486 440
Tax charge calculated at Group’s standard rate of 23.7% (2011: 25.3%)  352 111
Variance in overseas tax rates  (177) (286)
Impact of changes in tax rates  106 116
Gains not subject to tax  (10) (109)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes  134 44
Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised  (123) 121
Adjustment in respect of prior years  (934) 61
Associates results reported net of tax  29 21
Total income statement tax (credit)/charge for the year  (623) 79
  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   56 01/11/2013   13:37 57
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
3 Staff numbers and costs continued 
Specific disclosures in relation to compensation for key management personnel who held office during the year was as follows: 
 
2013 
£’000 
2012*
£’000
Short-term employee benefits  2,788 2,775
Post-employment benefits  44 43
Share-based payments  602 476
  3,434 3,294
*Restated 
Disclosure of Directors’ remuneration including share options are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 31, which form 
part of the financial statements. 
4 Exceptional costs 
 
2013 
£’000 
2012
£’000
Restructuring costs  645 644
Acquisition related costs  255 132
Change in accounting estimation – contingent consideration  35 (355)
Adjustment to Harrison Group’s acquired balance sheet  – (117)
Employment termination  205 168
Panel closure costs  72 –
  1,212 472
Restructuring costs in the year primarily relate to the restructuring of the Nordic business to improve performance and the cost of 
reorganising the UK and Group management structures. Restructuring costs in the prior year primarily relate to the closing of the 
Company’s operations in Iraq and further rationalisation activity in Germany.  
Acquisition related costs in the current and prior periods include £102,000 of contingent consideration in respect of the Definitive 
Insights acquisition that is deemed under IFRS3 to be staff compensation cost £136,000 incurred in relation to a prospective acquisition 
with which the Group decided not to proceed and £18,000 in respect of the acquisition of a shareholding in Doughty Media 2 which was 
completed in September 2013. Acquisition related costs in the prior financial year include £87,000 of contingent consideration in respect 
of the acquisition of Definitive Insights deemed under IFRS3, to be staff compensation costs and £45,000 of professional fees in respect 
of acquisitions in the previous year and abortive joint-ventures.  
The change in estimated contingent consideration comprises a charge of £70,000 in respect of the acquisition of Clear Horizons, 
a credit of £16,000 in respect of the Harrison Group acquisition and a credit of £19,000 in respect of the Definitive Insights acquisition.  
The change in estimated contingent consideration in the prior year comprises a credit of £434,000 in respect of the Harrison Group 
acquisition and a charge of £79,000 in respect of the Definitive Insights acquisition. 
During the prior year the fair value of the Harrison Group assets acquired was increased by £117,000, as the allowable period of time 
for finalising the valuation under IFRS3 had ended, this adjustment was treated as an exceptional item. 
Employment termination costs relate to redundancies made in the US. Employment termination costs in the prior year relate to 
redundancies made in the UK and the Middle East. 
Panel closure costs arose as a result of the decision taken in the year to close the YouGov Panel in Chile. 
 
 
 
5 Finance income and costs 
 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Interest receivable from bank deposits  27 79
Other interest receivable  – 5
Dividends received  41 10
Foreign exchange gains on cash and intra-Group loans  139 –
Total finance income  207 94
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts  10 4
Interest on obligations under hire purchase and finance leases  4 1
Foreign exchange losses on cash and intra-Group loans  4 179
  18 184
Imputed interest on contingent consideration and provisions  71 150
Total finance costs  89 334
6 Income taxes 
The taxation charge represents: 
 
2013 
£’000
2012
£’000
Current tax on profits for the year  294 400
Adjustments in respect of prior years  196 –
Total current tax charge  490 400
Deferred tax:  
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  (89) (498)
Adjustments in respect of prior years  (1,130) 61
Impact of changes in tax rates  106 116
Total deferred tax credit  (1,113) (321)
Total income statement tax (credit)/charge  (623) 79
The tax assessed for the year is lower (2012: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. 
The differences are explained below: 
 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Profit before taxation  1,486 440
Tax charge calculated at Group’s standard rate of 23.7% (2011: 25.3%)  352 111
Variance in overseas tax rates  (177) (286)
Impact of changes in tax rates  106 116
Gains not subject to tax  (10) (109)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes  134 44
Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised  (123) 121
Adjustment in respect of prior years  (934) 61
Associates results reported net of tax  29 21
Total income statement tax (credit)/charge for the year  (623) 79
  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   57 01/11/2013   13:37 58
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
7 Dividend 
On 17 December 2012, a maiden final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2012 of £479,000 (0.5p per share) was paid to 
shareholders. A dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2013 of 0.6p per share, amounting to a total dividend of £577,000 is to 
be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 11 December 2013. These financial statements do not reflect this proposed 
dividend payable. 
8 Earnings per share 
The calculation of the basic earnings per share is based on the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the weighted 
average number of shares in issue during the year. Shares held in employee share trusts are treated as cancelled for the purposes of 
this calculation. 
The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on the basic earnings per share, adjusted to allow for the issue of shares and the 
post-tax effect of dividends and/or interest, on the assumed conversion of all dilutive options and other dilutive potential Ordinary Shares. 
The adjusted earnings per share has been calculated to reflect the underlying profitability of the business by excluding the amortisation 
of intangible assets, share-based payments, imputed interest, impairment charges, exceptional items and any related tax effects. 
 
2013 
£’000 
2012
£’000
Profit after taxation attributable to equity holders of the parent company  2,042 333
Add: amortisation of intangible assets  3,280 4,350
Add: share-based payments  767 641
Add: imputed interest  71 150
Add: exceptional costs  1,212 472
Tax effect of the above adjustments and exceptional tax items  (2,060) (1,283)
Adjusted profit after taxation  5,312 4,663
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below. 
 2013 2012
Number of shares   
Weighted average number of shares during the period: (’000 shares)   
– Basic  95,639 95,141
– Dilutive effect of share options  7,535 5,956
– Diluted  103,174 101,097
The adjustments have the following effect:   
Basic profit per share  2.1p 0.4p
Amortisation of intangible assets  3.4p 4.6p
Share-based payments  0.8p 0.6p
Imputed interest  0.1p 0.2p
Exceptional costs and impairments  1.3p 0.5p
Tax effect of the above adjustments and exceptional tax items  (2.1p) (1.4p)
Adjusted earnings per share  5.6p 4.9p
Diluted profit per share  2.0p 0.3p
Amortisation of intangible assets  3.2p 4.3p
Share-based payments  0.7p 0.6p
Imputed interest  0.0p 0.1p
Exceptional costs and impairment  1.2p 0.5p
Tax effect of the above adjustments and exceptional tax items  (2.0p) (1.2p)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share  5.1p 4.6p
  
 
 
 
9 Business combinations and disposals 
During the prior year the Group invested £0.1m in return for an additional 5% stake in CoEditor Limited increasing its shareholding 
to 30%.The majority shareholder is Doughty Media 2 (60% owned by Stephan Shakespeare, an Executive Director of YouGov plc). 
CoEditor has developed software in the field of news and content aggregation which will be provided exclusively to YouGov for the 
purpose of providing dedicated content and activities for members of YouGov’s online panels. YouGov also has options to acquire 
additional shares, which will enable it to benefit from increases in CoEditor’s equity value resulting from its business development.   
Subsequent to the end of the financial year YouGov has acquired a 40% shareholding in Doughty Media 2 increasing its effective 
ownership of CoEditor Limited to 57%. More details of this post balance sheet event are disclosed in Note 27. 
10 Goodwill 
 
Middle
East 
£’000
USA
£’000
Nordic  
£’000 
Germany
£’000
Total 
£’000
Carrying amount at 1 August 2011 1,342 16,435 8,642 11,376 37,795
Revision to initial carrying values – (413) – – (413)
Exchange differences 63 792 (817) (1,181) (1,143)
Carrying amount at 31 July 2012 1,405 16,814 7,825 10,195 36,239
Exchange differences 44 523 857 1,137 2,561
Carrying amount at 31 July 2013 1,44917,3378,682 11,332 38,800
At 31 July 2013  
Cost 1,449 17,337 8,682 13,845 41,313
Accumulated impairment – – – (2,513) (2,513)
Net book amount 1,449 17,337 8,682 11,332 38,800
In accordance with the Group’s accounting policy, the carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets are reviewed annually for 
impairment. The cash-generating units (CGUs) are consistent with those segments shown in Note 1. The 2013 impairment review was 
undertaken as at 31 July 2013. The recoverable amounts of all CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations. 
This review assessed whether the carrying value of goodwill was supported by the net present value of future cash flows derived from 
assets using an initial projection period of three years for each CGU based on approved budget numbers. Beyond that, EBITDA growth 
was assumed to be 5% for years four and five, which is conservative both in comparison with their historical performance and annual 
growth rates in the internet based market research sector. Annual growth rates of 2.5% have been assumed in perpetuity beyond 
year five. The pre-tax weighted average costs of capital used to discount the future cash flows to their present values are between 
10% and 17% (2012: between 10% and 18%). All CGUs, when subjected to sensitivity analyses, decreasing assumed EBITDA growth 
by 10% and increasing the discount rate by 1% point in each year, including the terminal value year, had sufficient headroom to support 
their carrying value. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   58 01/11/2013   13:37 59
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
7 Dividend 
On 17 December 2012, a maiden final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2012 of £479,000 (0.5p per share) was paid to 
shareholders. A dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2013 of 0.6p per share, amounting to a total dividend of £577,000 is to 
be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 11 December 2013. These financial statements do not reflect this proposed 
dividend payable. 
8 Earnings per share 
The calculation of the basic earnings per share is based on the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the weighted 
average number of shares in issue during the year. Shares held in employee share trusts are treated as cancelled for the purposes of 
this calculation. 
The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on the basic earnings per share, adjusted to allow for the issue of shares and the 
post-tax effect of dividends and/or interest, on the assumed conversion of all dilutive options and other dilutive potential Ordinary Shares. 
The adjusted earnings per share has been calculated to reflect the underlying profitability of the business by excluding the amortisation 
of intangible assets, share-based payments, imputed interest, impairment charges, exceptional items and any related tax effects. 
 
2013 
£’000 
2012
£’000
Profit after taxation attributable to equity holders of the parent company  2,042 333
Add: amortisation of intangible assets  3,280 4,350
Add: share-based payments  767 641
Add: imputed interest  71 150
Add: exceptional costs  1,212 472
Tax effect of the above adjustments and exceptional tax items  (2,060) (1,283)
Adjusted profit after taxation  5,312 4,663
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below. 
 2013 2012
Number of shares   
Weighted average number of shares during the period: (’000 shares)   
– Basic  95,639 95,141
– Dilutive effect of share options  7,535 5,956
– Diluted  103,174 101,097
The adjustments have the following effect:   
Basic profit per share  2.1p 0.4p
Amortisation of intangible assets  3.4p 4.6p
Share-based payments  0.8p 0.6p
Imputed interest  0.1p 0.2p
Exceptional costs and impairments  1.3p 0.5p
Tax effect of the above adjustments and exceptional tax items  (2.1p) (1.4p)
Adjusted earnings per share  5.6p 4.9p
Diluted profit per share  2.0p 0.3p
Amortisation of intangible assets  3.2p 4.3p
Share-based payments  0.7p 0.6p
Imputed interest  0.0p 0.1p
Exceptional costs and impairment  1.2p 0.5p
Tax effect of the above adjustments and exceptional tax items  (2.0p) (1.2p)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share  5.1p 4.6p
  
 
 
 
9 Business combinations and disposals 
During the prior year the Group invested £0.1m in return for an additional 5% stake in CoEditor Limited increasing its shareholding 
to 30%.The majority shareholder is Doughty Media 2 (60% owned by Stephan Shakespeare, an Executive Director of YouGov plc). 
CoEditor has developed software in the field of news and content aggregation which will be provided exclusively to YouGov for the 
purpose of providing dedicated content and activities for members of YouGov’s online panels. YouGov also has options to acquire 
additional shares, which will enable it to benefit from increases in CoEditor’s equity value resulting from its business development.   
Subsequent to the end of the financial year YouGov has acquired a 40% shareholding in Doughty Media 2 increasing its effective 
ownership of CoEditor Limited to 57%. More details of this post balance sheet event are disclosed in Note 27. 
10 Goodwill 
 
Middle
East 
£’000
USA
£’000
Nordic  
£’000 
Germany
£’000
Total 
£’000
Carrying amount at 1 August 2011 1,342 16,435 8,642 11,376 37,795
Revision to initial carrying values – (413) – – (413)
Exchange differences 63 792 (817) (1,181) (1,143)
Carrying amount at 31 July 2012 1,405 16,814 7,825 10,195 36,239
Exchange differences 44 523 857 1,137 2,561
Carrying amount at 31 July 2013 1,44917,3378,682 11,332 38,800
At 31 July 2013  
Cost 1,449 17,337 8,682 13,845 41,313
Accumulated impairment – – – (2,513) (2,513)
Net book amount 1,449 17,337 8,682 11,332 38,800
In accordance with the Group’s accounting policy, the carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets are reviewed annually for 
impairment. The cash-generating units (CGUs) are consistent with those segments shown in Note 1. The 2013 impairment review was 
undertaken as at 31 July 2013. The recoverable amounts of all CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations. 
This review assessed whether the carrying value of goodwill was supported by the net present value of future cash flows derived from 
assets using an initial projection period of three years for each CGU based on approved budget numbers. Beyond that, EBITDA growth 
was assumed to be 5% for years four and five, which is conservative both in comparison with their historical performance and annual 
growth rates in the internet based market research sector. Annual growth rates of 2.5% have been assumed in perpetuity beyond 
year five. The pre-tax weighted average costs of capital used to discount the future cash flows to their present values are between 
10% and 17% (2012: between 10% and 18%). All CGUs, when subjected to sensitivity analyses, decreasing assumed EBITDA growth 
by 10% and increasing the discount rate by 1% point in each year, including the terminal value year, had sufficient headroom to support 
their carrying value. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   59 01/11/2013   13:37 60
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
11 Other intangible assets 
 
Consumer  
panel 
£’000 
Software and 
software 
development 
£’000 
Customer 
contracts 
and lists
£’000 
Patents and 
trademarks 
£’000 
Order  
backlog 
£’000  
Development 
costs 
£’000 
Total 
£’000
At 1 August 2011    
Cost 8,566 6,384 5,459 3,125 229 577 24,340
Accumulated amortisation (6,775) (3,538) (1,030) (1,194) (223) (153) (12,913)
Net book amount 1,791 2,846 4,429 1,931 6 424 11,427
Year ended 31 July 2012    
Opening net book amount 1,791 2,846 4,429 1,931 6 424 11,427
Additions:    
Separately acquired 560 522 – 3 – – 1,085
Fair value revision – – (762) (25) (7) – (794)
Internally developed – 1,574 – – – 44 1,618
Disposals – – – (2) – (36) (38)
Amortisation charge:   
Business combinations (1,060) (186) (428) (369) – – (2,043)
Separately acquired (423) (554) – – – (174) (1,151)
Internally developed – (1,139) – – – (17) (1,156)
Exchange differences (257) (50) 38 (120) 1 (16) (404)
Closing net book amount 611 3,013 3,277 1,418 – 225 8,544
At 31 July 2012    
Cost 9,051 8,238 4,702 2,973 218 548 25,730
Accumulated amortisation (8,440) (5,225) (1,425) (1,555) (218) (323) (17,186)
Net book amount 611 3,013 3,277 1,418 – 225 8,544
Year ended 31 July 2013    
Opening net book amount 611 3,013 3,277 1,418 – 225 8,544
Additions:    
Separately acquired 649 852 – 11 – 247 1,759
Internally developed – 1,811 – – – 68 1,879
Amortisation charge:    
Business combinations – – (479) (332) – – (811)
Separately acquired (422) (624) – (2) – (104) (1,152)
Internally developed – (1,300) – – – (17) (1,317)
Exchange differences 49 16 143 89 – 11 308
Closing net book amount 887 3,768 2,941 1,184 – 430 9,210
At 31 July 2013        
Cost 10,142 10,983 4,963 3,197 232 900 30,417
Accumulated amortisation (9,255) (7,215) (2,022) (2,013) (232) (470) (21,207)
Net book amount 887 3,768 2,941 1,184 – 430 9,210
 
 
 
 
12 Property, plant and equipment 
 
Freehold 
property 
£’000 
Leasehold 
property
improvements
£’000 
Computer
equipment 
£’000 
Fixtures 
and 
fittings 
£’000  
Motor
vehicles
£’000 
Total 
£’000
At 1 August 2011  
Cost 1,333 329 2,038 1,252 118 5,070
Accumulated depreciation (131) (270) (1,397) (828) (106) (2,732)
Net book amount 1,202 59 641 424 12 2,338
Year ended 31 July 2012  
Opening net book amount 1,202 59 641 424 12 2,338
Additions:  
Separately acquired – 69 446 101 8 624
Disposals – (3) (15) (79) – (97)
Depreciation (53) (45) (444) (40) (11) (593)
Reclassifications 32 – 55 (87) – –
Exchange differences 57 (5) (11) (3) – 38
Closing net book amount 1,238 75 672 316 9 2,310
At 31 July 2012  
Cost 1,463 384 1,951 919 73 4,790
Accumulated depreciation (225) (309) (1,279) (603) (64) (2,480)
Net book amount 1,238 75 672 316 9 2,310
Year ended 31 July 2013  
Opening net book amount 1,238 75 672 316 9 2,310
Additions:  
Separately acquired – 2 328 66 15 411
Disposals – – (3) – – (3)
Depreciation (49) (17) (378) (89) (6) (539)
Exchange differences  37 4 17 18 1 77
Closing net book amount 1,226 64 636 311 19 2,256
At 31 July 2013  
Cost 1,449 376 2,439 1,018 74 5,356
Accumulated depreciation (223) (312) (1,803) (707) (55) (3,100)
Net book amount 1,226 64 636 311 19 2,256
The cost of assets held under finance leases is £93,000 (2012: £31,000) and accumulated depreciation is £7,000 (2012: £1,000). 
All property, plant and equipment disclosed above, with the exception of those items held under lease purchase agreement, are free 
from restrictions on title. No property, plant and equipment either in 2013 or 2012 has been pledged as security against the liabilities 
of the Group. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   60 01/11/2013   13:37 61
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
11 Other intangible assets 
 
Consumer  
panel 
£’000 
Software and 
software 
development 
£’000 
Customer 
contracts 
and lists
£’000 
Patents and 
trademarks 
£’000 
Order  
backlog 
£’000  
Development 
costs 
£’000 
Total 
£’000
At 1 August 2011    
Cost 8,566 6,384 5,459 3,125 229 577 24,340
Accumulated amortisation (6,775) (3,538) (1,030) (1,194) (223) (153) (12,913)
Net book amount 1,791 2,846 4,429 1,931 6 424 11,427
Year ended 31 July 2012    
Opening net book amount 1,791 2,846 4,429 1,931 6 424 11,427
Additions:    
Separately acquired 560 522 – 3 – – 1,085
Fair value revision – – (762) (25) (7) – (794)
Internally developed – 1,574 – – – 44 1,618
Disposals – – – (2) – (36) (38)
Amortisation charge:   
Business combinations (1,060) (186) (428) (369) – – (2,043)
Separately acquired (423) (554) – – – (174) (1,151)
Internally developed – (1,139) – – – (17) (1,156)
Exchange differences (257) (50) 38 (120) 1 (16) (404)
Closing net book amount 611 3,013 3,277 1,418 – 225 8,544
At 31 July 2012    
Cost 9,051 8,238 4,702 2,973 218 548 25,730
Accumulated amortisation (8,440) (5,225) (1,425) (1,555) (218) (323) (17,186)
Net book amount 611 3,013 3,277 1,418 – 225 8,544
Year ended 31 July 2013    
Opening net book amount 611 3,013 3,277 1,418 – 225 8,544
Additions:    
Separately acquired 649 852 – 11 – 247 1,759
Internally developed – 1,811 – – – 68 1,879
Amortisation charge:    
Business combinations – – (479) (332) – – (811)
Separately acquired (422) (624) – (2) – (104) (1,152)
Internally developed – (1,300) – – – (17) (1,317)
Exchange differences 49 16 143 89 – 11 308
Closing net book amount 887 3,768 2,941 1,184 – 430 9,210
At 31 July 2013        
Cost 10,142 10,983 4,963 3,197 232 900 30,417
Accumulated amortisation (9,255) (7,215) (2,022) (2,013) (232) (470) (21,207)
Net book amount 887 3,768 2,941 1,184 – 430 9,210
 
 
 
 
12 Property, plant and equipment 
 
Freehold 
property 
£’000 
Leasehold 
property
improvements
£’000 
Computer
equipment 
£’000 
Fixtures 
and 
fittings 
£’000  
Motor
vehicles
£’000 
Total 
£’000
At 1 August 2011  
Cost 1,333 329 2,038 1,252 118 5,070
Accumulated depreciation (131) (270) (1,397) (828) (106) (2,732)
Net book amount 1,202 59 641 424 12 2,338
Year ended 31 July 2012  
Opening net book amount 1,202 59 641 424 12 2,338
Additions:  
Separately acquired – 69 446 101 8 624
Disposals – (3) (15) (79) – (97)
Depreciation (53) (45) (444) (40) (11) (593)
Reclassifications 32 – 55 (87) – –
Exchange differences 57 (5) (11) (3) – 38
Closing net book amount 1,238 75 672 316 9 2,310
At 31 July 2012  
Cost 1,463 384 1,951 919 73 4,790
Accumulated depreciation (225) (309) (1,279) (603) (64) (2,480)
Net book amount 1,238 75 672 316 9 2,310
Year ended 31 July 2013  
Opening net book amount 1,238 75 672 316 9 2,310
Additions:  
Separately acquired – 2 328 66 15 411
Disposals – – (3) – – (3)
Depreciation (49) (17) (378) (89) (6) (539)
Exchange differences  37 4 17 18 1 77
Closing net book amount 1,226 64 636 311 19 2,256
At 31 July 2013  
Cost 1,449 376 2,439 1,018 74 5,356
Accumulated depreciation (223) (312) (1,803) (707) (55) (3,100)
Net book amount 1,226 64 636 311 19 2,256
The cost of assets held under finance leases is £93,000 (2012: £31,000) and accumulated depreciation is £7,000 (2012: £1,000). 
All property, plant and equipment disclosed above, with the exception of those items held under lease purchase agreement, are free 
from restrictions on title. No property, plant and equipment either in 2013 or 2012 has been pledged as security against the liabilities 
of the Group. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   61 01/11/2013   13:37 62
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
13 Investments 
(a) Interests in subsidiaries 
As at 31 July 2013 the Group’s trading subsidiaries were: 
Proportion held 
Country of
incorporation
Class of share
capital held
By parent 
company
By the 
Group Nature of the business
YouGov ME FZ LLC U.A.E. Ordinary100%100% Market research
YouGov Deutschland AG GermanyOrdinary100%100% Market research
Service Rating GmbH GermanyOrdinary 0%100% Rating agency
BeField GmbH
1
 GermanyOrdinary 0% 70% CATI supplier company
YouGov Nordic and Baltic A/S  DenmarkOrdinary100%100% Market research
YouGov Sweden AB  Sweden Ordinary 0%100% Market research
YouGov Norway AS  Norway Ordinary 0%100% Market research
YouGov Finland OY  FinlandOrdinary 0%100% Market research
YouGov America Inc USAOrdinary 0%100% Market research
HG Acquisition LLC USA Ordinary 0%100% Market research
Definitive Insights Inc USAOrdinary 0%100% Market research
YouGov France SASU France Ordinary100%100% Market research
1 
Formerly Psychonomics Field GmbH. 
All subsidiaries have co-terminus year ends and are included in the consolidated financial statements. 
(b) Interest in joint ventures and associates 
 
31 July 2013 
£’000 
31 July 2012
£’000
Total fixed asset investments comprise:   
Carrying amount at 1 August   485 468
Acquisition of associate  – 100
Share of loss in associate   (122) (83)
Interest in joint ventures and associates   363 485
The Group has not recognised losses amounting to £10,000 (2012: £3,000) for YouGov Centaur LLP. 
At 31 July 2013 the Group had interests in the following joint ventures and associates: 
  Proportion held
 Investment  
Country of
incorporation
Class of share
capital held
By parent
company
By the
Group
Nature of the
business
Financial
year end
YouGovCentaur LLP Joint Venture EnglandOrdinary 50% 50%
Specialist business to 
business research 30 June
CoEditor Limited Associate EnglandOrdinary 30% 30% Website developer 31 July
The Group’s share of the revenue and operating loss and assets and liabilities of joint ventures and associates are: 
CoEditor Limited YouGov Centaur LLP 
31 July 2013
£’000
31 July 2012 
£’000 
31 July 2013 
£’000 
31 July 2012
£’000
Revenue – – – –
Expenses (122) (83) (10) (3)
Loss after tax (122) (83) (10) (3)
Non-current assets 124 90 1 1
Current assets 8 9 43 43
Current liabilities (11) (17) (162) (152)
Non-current liabilities (199) (33) – –
Net (liabilities)/assets (78) 49 (118) (108)
Subsequent to the end of the financial year YouGov has acquired a 40% shareholding in Doughty Media 2, the majority shareholder 
of CoEditor Limited, increasing its effective ownership of CoEditor Limited to 57%. More details of this post balance sheet event are 
disclosed in Note 27. 
  
 
 
 
14 Trade and other receivables 
 
31 July 2013
£’000
31 July 2012
£’000
Trade receivables 13,564 10,704
Amounts owed by related parties 205 192
Loans to related parties 646 100
Other receivables 620 895
Prepayments and accrued income 8,066 7,460
 23,101 19,351
Provision for trade receivables (150) (120)
 22,951 19,231
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value. 
Loans to related parties relate to amounts advances to fund working capital, no interest is charged. 
As at 31 July 2013, trade receivables of £8,750,000 (2012: £7,285,000) and amounts owed by related parties of £205,000 (2012: 
£192,000) were overdue but not impaired. These relate to a number of customers for which there is no recent history of default or any 
other indication that the receivable should not be fully collectible. The ageing analysis of past due trade receivables which are not 
impaired is as follows: 
 
31 July 2013 
£’000
31 July 2012
£’000
Up to three months overdue 4,959 4,529
Three to six months overdue 1,636 1,595
Six months to one year overdue 2,060 848
More than one year overdue 95 313
 8,750 7,285
Movement on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: 
 
2013 
£’000
2012
£’000
Provision for receivables impairment at 1 August 120 162
Provision created in the year 128 90
Provision utilised in the year (105) (129)
Exchange differences 7 (3)
Provision for receivables impairment at 31 July 150 120
The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables has been included in the consolidated income statement. The other 
classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date 
is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does not hold any collateral as security. 
The average length of time taken by customers to settle receivables is 68 days (2012: 63 days). Concentrations of credit risk do exist 
with certain clients with which we have trading relationships but none has a history of default and all command a certain stature within 
the marketplace which minimises any potential risk of default. Material balances (defined as greater than £250,000 (2012: greater than 
£250,000)) represent 17% of trade receivables (2012: 8%).  
At 31 July 2013, £544,000 (DKK 4.6m) (2012: £453,000 (DKK 4.3m)) of the trade and other receivables of YouGov Nordic and Baltic A/S 
was used as security against a loan and revolving overdraft facility held by YouGov Nordic and Baltic A/S. 
YouGov Deutschland AG has secured a value of up to £nil (2012: £20,000 (€25,000)) in the event of default on rental payments against 
its trade and other receivables. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   62 01/11/2013   13:37 63
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
13 Investments 
(a) Interests in subsidiaries 
As at 31 July 2013 the Group’s trading subsidiaries were: 
Proportion held 
Country of
incorporation
Class of share
capital held
By parent 
company
By the 
Group Nature of the business
YouGov ME FZ LLC U.A.E. Ordinary100%100% Market research
YouGov Deutschland AG GermanyOrdinary100%100% Market research
Service Rating GmbH GermanyOrdinary 0%100% Rating agency
BeField GmbH
1
 GermanyOrdinary 0% 70% CATI supplier company
YouGov Nordic and Baltic A/S  DenmarkOrdinary100%100% Market research
YouGov Sweden AB  Sweden Ordinary 0%100% Market research
YouGov Norway AS  Norway Ordinary 0%100% Market research
YouGov Finland OY  FinlandOrdinary 0%100% Market research
YouGov America Inc USAOrdinary 0%100% Market research
HG Acquisition LLC USA Ordinary 0%100% Market research
Definitive Insights Inc USAOrdinary 0%100% Market research
YouGov France SASU France Ordinary100%100% Market research
1 
Formerly Psychonomics Field GmbH. 
All subsidiaries have co-terminus year ends and are included in the consolidated financial statements. 
(b) Interest in joint ventures and associates 
 
31 July 2013 
£’000 
31 July 2012
£’000
Total fixed asset investments comprise:   
Carrying amount at 1 August   485 468
Acquisition of associate  – 100
Share of loss in associate   (122) (83)
Interest in joint ventures and associates   363 485
The Group has not recognised losses amounting to £10,000 (2012: £3,000) for YouGov Centaur LLP. 
At 31 July 2013 the Group had interests in the following joint ventures and associates: 
  Proportion held
 Investment  
Country of
incorporation
Class of share
capital held
By parent
company
By the
Group
Nature of the
business
Financial
year end
YouGovCentaur LLP Joint Venture EnglandOrdinary 50% 50%
Specialist business to 
business research 30 June
CoEditor Limited Associate EnglandOrdinary 30% 30% Website developer 31 July
The Group’s share of the revenue and operating loss and assets and liabilities of joint ventures and associates are: 
CoEditor Limited YouGov Centaur LLP 
31 July 2013
£’000
31 July 2012 
£’000 
31 July 2013 
£’000 
31 July 2012
£’000
Revenue – – – –
Expenses (122) (83) (10) (3)
Loss after tax (122) (83) (10) (3)
Non-current assets 124 90 1 1
Current assets 8 9 43 43
Current liabilities (11) (17) (162) (152)
Non-current liabilities (199) (33) – –
Net (liabilities)/assets (78) 49 (118) (108)
Subsequent to the end of the financial year YouGov has acquired a 40% shareholding in Doughty Media 2, the majority shareholder 
of CoEditor Limited, increasing its effective ownership of CoEditor Limited to 57%. More details of this post balance sheet event are 
disclosed in Note 27. 
  
 
 
 
14 Trade and other receivables 
 
31 July 2013
£’000
31 July 2012
£’000
Trade receivables 13,564 10,704
Amounts owed by related parties 205 192
Loans to related parties 646 100
Other receivables 620 895
Prepayments and accrued income 8,066 7,460
 23,101 19,351
Provision for trade receivables (150) (120)
 22,951 19,231
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value. 
Loans to related parties relate to amounts advances to fund working capital, no interest is charged. 
As at 31 July 2013, trade receivables of £8,750,000 (2012: £7,285,000) and amounts owed by related parties of £205,000 (2012: 
£192,000) were overdue but not impaired. These relate to a number of customers for which there is no recent history of default or any 
other indication that the receivable should not be fully collectible. The ageing analysis of past due trade receivables which are not 
impaired is as follows: 
 
31 July 2013 
£’000
31 July 2012
£’000
Up to three months overdue 4,959 4,529
Three to six months overdue 1,636 1,595
Six months to one year overdue 2,060 848
More than one year overdue 95 313
 8,750 7,285
Movement on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: 
 
2013 
£’000
2012
£’000
Provision for receivables impairment at 1 August 120 162
Provision created in the year 128 90
Provision utilised in the year (105) (129)
Exchange differences 7 (3)
Provision for receivables impairment at 31 July 150 120
The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables has been included in the consolidated income statement. The other 
classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date 
is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does not hold any collateral as security. 
The average length of time taken by customers to settle receivables is 68 days (2012: 63 days). Concentrations of credit risk do exist 
with certain clients with which we have trading relationships but none has a history of default and all command a certain stature within 
the marketplace which minimises any potential risk of default. Material balances (defined as greater than £250,000 (2012: greater than 
£250,000)) represent 17% of trade receivables (2012: 8%).  
At 31 July 2013, £544,000 (DKK 4.6m) (2012: £453,000 (DKK 4.3m)) of the trade and other receivables of YouGov Nordic and Baltic A/S 
was used as security against a loan and revolving overdraft facility held by YouGov Nordic and Baltic A/S. 
YouGov Deutschland AG has secured a value of up to £nil (2012: £20,000 (€25,000)) in the event of default on rental payments against 
its trade and other receivables. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   63 01/11/2013   13:37 64
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
15 Cash and cash equivalents 
 
31 July 2013 
£’000 
31 July 2012
£’000
Cash at bank and in hand 6,929 4,179
Short-term bank deposits – 3,298
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 6,929 7,477
Cash and cash equivalents are held at either variable rates or at rates fixed for periods of no longer than three months. 
Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the cash flows: 
 
31 July 2013 
£’000 
31 July 2012
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 6,929 7,477
Bank overdrafts (273) (327)
Cash and cash equivalents excluding overdrafts 6,656 7,150
Bank overdrafts are denominated in Danish Krone and bear interest at 3.2%. 
16 Trade and other payables 
 
31 July 2013 
£’000 
31 July 2012
£’000
Trade payables 1,991 1,998
Accruals and deferred income 11,965 8,528
Other payables 2,279 1,927
 16,235 12,453
The average length of time taken by the Group to settle payables is 31 days (2012: 35 days). The Directors consider that the carrying 
amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value. 
17 Contingent consideration 
Clear 
Horizons
£’000
Harrison  
Group 
£’000 
Definitive 
Insights 
£’000 
Total
£’000
At 1 August 2011 425 3,586 1,653 5,664
Settled during the year (152) (2,244) (117) (2,513)
Released during the year – (444) (639) (1,083)
Discount unwinding 14 68 35 117
Foreign exchange differences 19 148 7 174
Balance at 31 July 2012 306 1,114 939 2,359
Included within current liabilities 306 1,114 486 1,906
Included within non-current liabilities – – 453 453
Settled during the year (377) (1,126) (520) (2,023)
Provided during the year 70 – 102 172
Released during the year – (16) (19) (35)
Discount unwinding – 25 33 58
Foreign exchange differences 1 3 16 20
Balance at 31 July 2013 – – 551 551
Included within current liabilities – – 301 301
Included within non-current liabilities – – 250 250
 
 
 
 
18 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 
Panel  
incentives 
£’000 
Staff
gratuity
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 August 2011 2,910 132 3,042
Provided during the year 3,149 74 3,223
Utilised during the year (2,808) (23) (2,831)
Released during the year (480) (12) (492)
Discount unwinding 33 – 33
Foreign exchange differences (32) 7 (25)
Balance at 31 July 2012 2,772 178 2,950
Included within current liabilities 2,150 – 2,150
Included within non-current liabilities 622 178 800
Provided during the year 4,219 104 4,323
Utilised during the year (3,701) (10) (3,711)
Released during the year (159) (2) (161)
Discount unwinding 13 – 13
Foreign exchange differences 85 8 93
Balance at 31 July 2013 3,229 278 3,507
Included within current liabilities 2,737 – 2,737
Included within non-current liabilities 492 278 770
The panel incentive provision represents the Directors’ best estimate of the future liability in relation to the value of panel incentives that 
have accrued in the panellists’ virtual accounts up to 31 July 2013. The provision of £3.2m represents 34% of the maximum potential 
liability of £9.4m (2012: £2.8m representing 30% of the total liability of £9.2m). The factors considered in estimating the appropriate 
percentage of the total liability to be provided against at each reporting date include: panel churn rates, panel activity rates, current 
redemption patterns and the time value of money.  
The staff gratuity provision is a statutory obligation under UAE labour law, whereby each employee on termination of their contract is due 
a payment dependent upon their number of years service and nature of the termination. The liability of £0.3m at 31 July 2013 (2012: 
£0.2m) represents the liability that the Group is obliged to pay as at the reporting date weighted against historical rates of resignation 
and redundancy. 
19 Deferred taxation assets and liabilities 
Deferred tax asset 
Intangible 
assets
£’000
Property, 
plant and
 equipment
£’000
Tax 
losses 
£’000 
Other timing 
differences
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 August 2011 – 45 1,894 – 1,939
Recognised in the income statement 142 104 (680) 516 82
Recognised in other comprehensive income – – 95 – 95
Recognised in equity – – – 144 144
Foreign exchange differences – (1) (48) (7) (56)
Balance at 31 July 2012 142 148 1,261 653 2,204
Recognised in the income statement (47) 4 38 508 503
Recognised in other comprehensive income – – (73) – (73)
Recognised in equity – – – 91 91
Foreign exchange differences – 1 90 31 122
Balance at 31 July 2013 95 153 1,316 1,283 2,847
£558,000 of the above deferred tax assets are expected to recovered within one year. 
The deferred taxation asset in respect of income tax losses are broken down by jurisdiction as follows: 
 
31 July 2013 
£’000
31 July 2012
£’000
UK 243 475
Nordic 796 732
USA 165 –
France 112 54
 1,316 1,261
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   64 01/11/2013   13:37 65
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
15 Cash and cash equivalents 
 
31 July 2013 
£’000 
31 July 2012
£’000
Cash at bank and in hand 6,929 4,179
Short-term bank deposits – 3,298
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 6,929 7,477
Cash and cash equivalents are held at either variable rates or at rates fixed for periods of no longer than three months. 
Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the cash flows: 
 
31 July 2013 
£’000 
31 July 2012
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 6,929 7,477
Bank overdrafts (273) (327)
Cash and cash equivalents excluding overdrafts 6,656 7,150
Bank overdrafts are denominated in Danish Krone and bear interest at 3.2%. 
16 Trade and other payables 
 
31 July 2013 
£’000 
31 July 2012
£’000
Trade payables 1,991 1,998
Accruals and deferred income 11,965 8,528
Other payables 2,279 1,927
 16,235 12,453
The average length of time taken by the Group to settle payables is 31 days (2012: 35 days). The Directors consider that the carrying 
amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value. 
17 Contingent consideration 
Clear 
Horizons
£’000
Harrison  
Group 
£’000 
Definitive 
Insights 
£’000 
Total
£’000
At 1 August 2011 425 3,586 1,653 5,664
Settled during the year (152) (2,244) (117) (2,513)
Released during the year – (444) (639) (1,083)
Discount unwinding 14 68 35 117
Foreign exchange differences 19 148 7 174
Balance at 31 July 2012 306 1,114 939 2,359
Included within current liabilities 306 1,114 486 1,906
Included within non-current liabilities – – 453 453
Settled during the year (377) (1,126) (520) (2,023)
Provided during the year 70 – 102 172
Released during the year – (16) (19) (35)
Discount unwinding – 25 33 58
Foreign exchange differences 1 3 16 20
Balance at 31 July 2013 – – 551 551
Included within current liabilities – – 301 301
Included within non-current liabilities – – 250 250
 
 
 
 
18 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 
Panel  
incentives 
£’000 
Staff
gratuity
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 August 2011 2,910 132 3,042
Provided during the year 3,149 74 3,223
Utilised during the year (2,808) (23) (2,831)
Released during the year (480) (12) (492)
Discount unwinding 33 – 33
Foreign exchange differences (32) 7 (25)
Balance at 31 July 2012 2,772 178 2,950
Included within current liabilities 2,150 – 2,150
Included within non-current liabilities 622 178 800
Provided during the year 4,219 104 4,323
Utilised during the year (3,701) (10) (3,711)
Released during the year (159) (2) (161)
Discount unwinding 13 – 13
Foreign exchange differences 85 8 93
Balance at 31 July 2013 3,229 278 3,507
Included within current liabilities 2,737 – 2,737
Included within non-current liabilities 492 278 770
The panel incentive provision represents the Directors’ best estimate of the future liability in relation to the value of panel incentives that 
have accrued in the panellists’ virtual accounts up to 31 July 2013. The provision of £3.2m represents 34% of the maximum potential 
liability of £9.4m (2012: £2.8m representing 30% of the total liability of £9.2m). The factors considered in estimating the appropriate 
percentage of the total liability to be provided against at each reporting date include: panel churn rates, panel activity rates, current 
redemption patterns and the time value of money.  
The staff gratuity provision is a statutory obligation under UAE labour law, whereby each employee on termination of their contract is due 
a payment dependent upon their number of years service and nature of the termination. The liability of £0.3m at 31 July 2013 (2012: 
£0.2m) represents the liability that the Group is obliged to pay as at the reporting date weighted against historical rates of resignation 
and redundancy. 
19 Deferred taxation assets and liabilities 
Deferred tax asset 
Intangible 
assets
£’000
Property, 
plant and
 equipment
£’000
Tax 
losses 
£’000 
Other timing 
differences
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 August 2011 – 45 1,894 – 1,939
Recognised in the income statement 142 104 (680) 516 82
Recognised in other comprehensive income – – 95 – 95
Recognised in equity – – – 144 144
Foreign exchange differences – (1) (48) (7) (56)
Balance at 31 July 2012 142 148 1,261 653 2,204
Recognised in the income statement (47) 4 38 508 503
Recognised in other comprehensive income – – (73) – (73)
Recognised in equity – – – 91 91
Foreign exchange differences – 1 90 31 122
Balance at 31 July 2013 95 153 1,316 1,283 2,847
£558,000 of the above deferred tax assets are expected to recovered within one year. 
The deferred taxation asset in respect of income tax losses are broken down by jurisdiction as follows: 
 
31 July 2013 
£’000
31 July 2012
£’000
UK 243 475
Nordic 796 732
USA 165 –
France 112 54
 1,316 1,261
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   65 01/11/2013   13:37 66
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
19 Deferred taxation assets and liabilities continued 
Deferred tax assets have been recognised only to the extent where management budgets and forecasts show sufficient profits being 
generated to discharge these in the short term. Utilisation of tax losses is dependable upon future profits being generated. 
Deferred tax liabilities 
Intangible 
assets
£’000
Property, plant  
and equipment 
£’000 
Other timing 
differences 
£’000 
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 August 2011 3,112 168 331 3,611
Recognised in the income statement (241) (164) 166 (239)
Fair value revision (334) – – (334)
Foreign exchange differences (162) (4) (98) (264)
Balance at 31 July 2012 2,375 – 399 2,774
Recognised in the income statement (532) – (78) (610)
Foreign exchange differences 136 – 27 163
Balance at 31 July 2013 1,979 – 348 2,327
£327,000 of the above deferred tax liabilities are expected to be recovered within one year. 
The gross movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows: 
 
2013 
£’000 
2012
£’000
Balance at 1 August (570) (1,672)
Acquisition of subsidiary – 334
Recognised in the income statement 1,113 321
Recognised in other comprehensive income (73) 95
Recognised in equity 91 144
Foreign exchange differences (41) 208
Balance at 31 July 520 (570)
20 Risk management objectives and policies 
The Group is exposed to foreign currency, liquidity and interest rate risk, which result from both its operating and investing activities. 
The Group’s risk management is co-ordinated in close co-operation with the Board of Directors, and focuses on actively securing the 
Group’s short-to-medium-term cash flows by minimising the exposure to financial markets. The most significant financial risks to which 
the Group is exposed to are described below. Also refer to the accounting policies. 
Foreign currency risk 
The Group is exposed to translation and transaction foreign exchange risk. The currencies where the Group is most exposed to volatility 
are US Dollars, Euro, UAE Dirham and Danish Kroner. 
Currently, the Group aims to align assets and liabilities in a particular market. The Group will continue to review its currency risk position 
as the overall business profile changes. 
The presentational and transactional currency of the Group is considered to be UK Sterling. 
Foreign currency denominated financial assets and liabilities, translated into UK Sterling at the closing rate are as follows: 
 
2013 
£’000 
2012 
£’000 
 
US
$
Euro
€
Dirham
AED
Other
currencies
US 
$ 
Euro 
€ 
Dirham
AED
Other
currencies
Financial assets 4,217 5,022 1,890 1,782 7,804 4,419 4,498 2,167
Financial liabilities (3,552) (1,745) (721) (1,569) (4,311) (1,733) (506) (1,864)
Short-term exposure 665 3,277 1,169 213 3,493 2,686 3,992 303
Financial assets – ––– – – – –
Financial liabilities (252) (52) – – (453) (23) – –
Long-term exposure (252) (52) – – (453) (23) – –
  
 
 
 
20 Risk management objectives and policies continued 
The effect of UK Sterling strengthening by 1% against our subsidiaries’ functional currencies (US Dollar, Euro, UAE Dirham and Other 
currencies) would have had the following impact upon translation: 
 
2013 
£’000 
2012 
£’000 
 
US 
$ 
Euro
€
Dirham
AED
Other
currencies
US
$
Euro 
€ 
Dirham
AED
Other
currencies
Net result for the year (12) – (11) 4 (9) 2 (11) 9
Equity (23) 28 (52) 3 (10) 46 (99) 4
If the UK Sterling had weakened by 1% against the US Dollar, Euro, UAE Dirham and Other currencies the inverse of the impact above 
would apply.  
The Group manages currency fluctuations as outlined in the Corporate Governance Report on page 28. 
Liquidity risk 
The Group seeks to manage financial risk by ensuring sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash 
assets safely and profitably. 
The Group currently has no general borrowing arrangement in place (although specific fixed value borrowings are held within the 
Group) and prepares cash flow forecasts which are reviewed at Board meetings to ensure liquidity. 
As at 31 July 2013, the Group’s liabilities have undiscounted contractual maturities which are summarised below: 
Current Non-current 
Within 6 months 
£’000
6 to 12 months 
£’000 
1–5 years 
£’000
Later than 5 years 
£’000
Borrowings 273 – – –
Finance lease liabilities 17 14 55 –
Trade and other payables 4,125 114 – –
Contingent consideration – 301 250 –
This compares to the maturity of the Group’s financial liabilities in the previous reporting period as follows: 
Current Non-current 
Within 6 months
£’000
6 to 12 months 
£’000 
1–5 years 
£’000
Later than 5 years 
£’000
Borrowings 327 – – –
Finance lease liabilities 10 9 42 –
Trade and other payables 3,575 350 – –
Contingent consideration 306 1,709 543 –
The Group has sufficient financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all trade payables are settled within the respective 
credit period. 
Capital risk management 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that all entities within the Group are able to continue as a going concern. The Board has taken 
the decision at this stage to minimise external debt, whilst trying to maximise earnings from the cash currently held. Capital consists of 
the following items:   
 
31 July 2013
£’000
31 July 2012
£’000
Borrowings (bank overdraft) (273) (327)
Cash and cash equivalents 6,929 7,477
Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent company (61,083) (55,949)
 (54,427) (48,799)
The Group has no externally imposed capital requirements. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group manages its interest rate risk by negotiating fixed interest rates on deposits for periods of up to three months. The average 
cash and cash equivalents balance, net of bank overdrafts, over the course of the year was £5.3m (2012: £8.3m) attracting an average 
interest rate of 0.3% (2012: 0.9%). If interest rates had been 1% higher during the year ended 31 July 2013 the increase to profit before 
tax would have been £52,000 (2012: £83,000). If interest rates had been 1% lower during the year ended 31 July 2013 the reduction in 
profit before tax would have been £22,000 (2012: £50,000). The impact upon shareholders’ equity would have been an increase of 
£48,000 (2012: £69,000) and a decrease of £21,000 (2012: £47,000) respectively. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   66 01/11/2013   13:37 67
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
19 Deferred taxation assets and liabilities continued 
Deferred tax assets have been recognised only to the extent where management budgets and forecasts show sufficient profits being 
generated to discharge these in the short term. Utilisation of tax losses is dependable upon future profits being generated. 
Deferred tax liabilities 
Intangible 
assets
£’000
Property, plant  
and equipment 
£’000 
Other timing 
differences 
£’000 
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 August 2011 3,112 168 331 3,611
Recognised in the income statement (241) (164) 166 (239)
Fair value revision (334) – – (334)
Foreign exchange differences (162) (4) (98) (264)
Balance at 31 July 2012 2,375 – 399 2,774
Recognised in the income statement (532) – (78) (610)
Foreign exchange differences 136 – 27 163
Balance at 31 July 2013 1,979 – 348 2,327
£327,000 of the above deferred tax liabilities are expected to be recovered within one year. 
The gross movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows: 
 
2013 
£’000 
2012
£’000
Balance at 1 August (570) (1,672)
Acquisition of subsidiary – 334
Recognised in the income statement 1,113 321
Recognised in other comprehensive income (73) 95
Recognised in equity 91 144
Foreign exchange differences (41) 208
Balance at 31 July 520 (570)
20 Risk management objectives and policies 
The Group is exposed to foreign currency, liquidity and interest rate risk, which result from both its operating and investing activities. 
The Group’s risk management is co-ordinated in close co-operation with the Board of Directors, and focuses on actively securing the 
Group’s short-to-medium-term cash flows by minimising the exposure to financial markets. The most significant financial risks to which 
the Group is exposed to are described below. Also refer to the accounting policies. 
Foreign currency risk 
The Group is exposed to translation and transaction foreign exchange risk. The currencies where the Group is most exposed to volatility 
are US Dollars, Euro, UAE Dirham and Danish Kroner. 
Currently, the Group aims to align assets and liabilities in a particular market. The Group will continue to review its currency risk position 
as the overall business profile changes. 
The presentational and transactional currency of the Group is considered to be UK Sterling. 
Foreign currency denominated financial assets and liabilities, translated into UK Sterling at the closing rate are as follows: 
 
2013 
£’000 
2012 
£’000 
 
US
$
Euro
€
Dirham
AED
Other
currencies
US 
$ 
Euro 
€ 
Dirham
AED
Other
currencies
Financial assets 4,217 5,022 1,890 1,782 7,804 4,419 4,498 2,167
Financial liabilities (3,552) (1,745) (721) (1,569) (4,311) (1,733) (506) (1,864)
Short-term exposure 665 3,277 1,169 213 3,493 2,686 3,992 303
Financial assets – ––– – – – –
Financial liabilities (252) (52) – – (453) (23) – –
Long-term exposure (252) (52) – – (453) (23) – –
  
 
 
 
20 Risk management objectives and policies continued 
The effect of UK Sterling strengthening by 1% against our subsidiaries’ functional currencies (US Dollar, Euro, UAE Dirham and Other 
currencies) would have had the following impact upon translation: 
 
2013 
£’000 
2012 
£’000 
 
US 
$ 
Euro
€
Dirham
AED
Other
currencies
US
$
Euro 
€ 
Dirham
AED
Other
currencies
Net result for the year (12) – (11) 4 (9) 2 (11) 9
Equity (23) 28 (52) 3 (10) 46 (99) 4
If the UK Sterling had weakened by 1% against the US Dollar, Euro, UAE Dirham and Other currencies the inverse of the impact above 
would apply.  
The Group manages currency fluctuations as outlined in the Corporate Governance Report on page 28. 
Liquidity risk 
The Group seeks to manage financial risk by ensuring sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash 
assets safely and profitably. 
The Group currently has no general borrowing arrangement in place (although specific fixed value borrowings are held within the 
Group) and prepares cash flow forecasts which are reviewed at Board meetings to ensure liquidity. 
As at 31 July 2013, the Group’s liabilities have undiscounted contractual maturities which are summarised below: 
Current Non-current 
Within 6 months 
£’000
6 to 12 months 
£’000 
1–5 years 
£’000
Later than 5 years 
£’000
Borrowings 273 – – –
Finance lease liabilities 17 14 55 –
Trade and other payables 4,125 114 – –
Contingent consideration – 301 250 –
This compares to the maturity of the Group’s financial liabilities in the previous reporting period as follows: 
Current Non-current 
Within 6 months
£’000
6 to 12 months 
£’000 
1–5 years 
£’000
Later than 5 years 
£’000
Borrowings 327 – – –
Finance lease liabilities 10 9 42 –
Trade and other payables 3,575 350 – –
Contingent consideration 306 1,709 543 –
The Group has sufficient financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all trade payables are settled within the respective 
credit period. 
Capital risk management 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that all entities within the Group are able to continue as a going concern. The Board has taken 
the decision at this stage to minimise external debt, whilst trying to maximise earnings from the cash currently held. Capital consists of 
the following items:   
 
31 July 2013
£’000
31 July 2012
£’000
Borrowings (bank overdraft) (273) (327)
Cash and cash equivalents 6,929 7,477
Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent company (61,083) (55,949)
 (54,427) (48,799)
The Group has no externally imposed capital requirements. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group manages its interest rate risk by negotiating fixed interest rates on deposits for periods of up to three months. The average 
cash and cash equivalents balance, net of bank overdrafts, over the course of the year was £5.3m (2012: £8.3m) attracting an average 
interest rate of 0.3% (2012: 0.9%). If interest rates had been 1% higher during the year ended 31 July 2013 the increase to profit before 
tax would have been £52,000 (2012: £83,000). If interest rates had been 1% lower during the year ended 31 July 2013 the reduction in 
profit before tax would have been £22,000 (2012: £50,000). The impact upon shareholders’ equity would have been an increase of 
£48,000 (2012: £69,000) and a decrease of £21,000 (2012: £47,000) respectively. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   67 01/11/2013   13:37 68
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
20 Risk management objectives and policies continued 
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities 
Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting 
expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year end foreign exchange rates. 
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations: 
31 July 2013 31 July 2012 
Book value
£’000
Fair value 
£’000 
Book value 
£’000 
Fair value
£’000
Trade and other receivables 22,069 22,069 18,378 18,378
Cash and cash equivalents 6,929 6,929 7,477 7,477
Trade and other payables (10,062) (10,062) (12,920) (12,920)
Bank overdrafts (273) (273) (327) (327)
Contingent consideration   
– Non-current (250) (250) (453) (453)
– Current (301) (301) (1,906) (1,906)
21 Share capital and share premium 
The Company only has one class of share. Par value of each Ordinary Share is 0.2p. All issued shares are fully paid. 
Number of 
shares
Share  
capital 
£’000 
Share 
premium 
£’000 
Total
£’000
At 1 August 2011 97,129,465 195 30,947 31,142
Issue of shares 12,552 – – –
At 31 July 2012 97,142,017 195 30,947 31,142
Issue of shares 61,195 – 14 14
At 31 July 2013 97,203,212 195 30,961 31,156
22 Share-based payments 
The charge in relation to the share-based payments in the year ended 31 July 2013 was £767,000 (2012: £641,000). Details of the 
number of share options and the weighted average exercise price (WAEP) outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2013 WAEP 2012 WAEP 
Approved share option scheme Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 129,056 0.880 129,056 0.880
Granted during the year – – – –
Exercised during the year (24,000) 0.180 – –
Lapsed during the year – – – –
Outstanding at the end of the year 105,056 1.027 129,056 0.880
Exercisable at the end of the year 105,056 1.027 129,056 0.880
 
2013 WAEP 2012 WAEP 
Unapproved share option scheme Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 349,846 0.223 362,398 0.223
Granted during the year – – – –
Exercised during the year (23,011) 0.115 (12,552) 0.083
Lapsed during the year – – – –
Outstanding at the end of the year 326,835 0.286 349,846 0.223
Exercisable at the end of the year 326,835 0.286 349,846 0.223
 
  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
YouGov
 
 
 
69 69
22 Share-based payments continued 
Share options exercised in the current financial year were exercised at prices between £0.099 and £0.204 (2012: between £0.070 
and £0.146). The weighted average share price at the dates of exercise was £0.713 (2012: £0.50). 
The options outstanding under the approved and unapproved share option schemes as at 31 July 2013 and 31 July 2012 have the 
following average exercise prices and expire in the following financial years. 
Expiry 
Exercise  
price 
£ 
2013 
Number
2012
Number
31 July 2013 0.180 – 24,000
31 July 2015 0.180 44,335 44,335
31 July 2017 1.645 82,067 82,067
31 August 2021* 0.191 305,489 328,500
*The Polimetrix options expire on a monthly basis up to and including August 2021. 
Expiry dates as standard are seven years from the vesting date. Vesting criteria are time based and contingent on continued 
employment with YouGov rather than performance based. The charge in relation to share option schemes in the year ended 31 July 
2013 was £nil (2012: £nil). 
During the year ended 31 July 2013, the Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) for Executive Directors, Senior Executives and 
Senior Managers continued to operate. The rules governing the LTIP are summarised in the Remuneration Report on page 29. 
The charge in relation to the LTIP in the year ended 31 July 2013 was £598,000 (2012: £441,000). This charge was valued using 
a Monte Carlo simulation. 
2013 WAEP 2012 WAEP 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 6,512,167 0.000 5,956,860 0.000
Granted during the year – – 2,435,477 0.000
Exercised during the year (1,047,266) 0.000 ––
Lapsed during the year (457,949) 0.000 (1,880,170) 0.000
Outstanding at the end of the year 5,006,952 0.000 6,512,167 0.000
Exercisable at the end of the year 651,278 0.000 ––
The weighted average share price at the date LTIP options were exercised was £0.726. 
During the year ended 31 July 2011, a Deferred Stock Scheme was introduced for Executive Directors and Senior Managers. The rules 
governing the Deferred Stock Scheme are summarised in the Remuneration Report on page 29. The charge in relation to the Deferred 
Stock Scheme in the year ended 31 July 2013 was £169,000 (2012: £200,000). This charge was valued using a Black-Scholes model. 
2013 WAEP 2012 WAEP 
Deferred Stock Scheme Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,500,000 0.000 1,500,000 0.000
Granted during the year – – ––
Exercised during the year – – ––
Lapsed during the year (75,000) 0.000 ––
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,425,000 0.000 1,500,000 0.000
Exercisable at the end of the year – – ––
  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   68 01/11/2013   13:37 69
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
20 Risk management objectives and policies continued 
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities 
Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting 
expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year end foreign exchange rates. 
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations: 
31 July 2013 31 July 2012 
Book value
£’000
Fair value 
£’000 
Book value 
£’000 
Fair value
£’000
Trade and other receivables 22,069 22,069 18,378 18,378
Cash and cash equivalents 6,929 6,929 7,477 7,477
Trade and other payables (10,062) (10,062) (12,920) (12,920)
Bank overdrafts (273) (273) (327) (327)
Contingent consideration   
– Non-current (250) (250) (453) (453)
– Current (301) (301) (1,906) (1,906)
21 Share capital and share premium 
The Company only has one class of share. Par value of each Ordinary Share is 0.2p. All issued shares are fully paid. 
Number of 
shares
Share  
capital 
£’000 
Share 
premium 
£’000 
Total
£’000
At 1 August 2011 97,129,465 195 30,947 31,142
Issue of shares 12,552 – – –
At 31 July 2012 97,142,017 195 30,947 31,142
Issue of shares 61,195 – 14 14
At 31 July 2013 97,203,212 195 30,961 31,156
22 Share-based payments 
The charge in relation to the share-based payments in the year ended 31 July 2013 was £767,000 (2012: £641,000). Details of the 
number of share options and the weighted average exercise price (WAEP) outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2013 WAEP 2012 WAEP 
Approved share option scheme Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 129,056 0.880 129,056 0.880
Granted during the year – – – –
Exercised during the year (24,000) 0.180 – –
Lapsed during the year – – – –
Outstanding at the end of the year 105,056 1.027 129,056 0.880
Exercisable at the end of the year 105,056 1.027 129,056 0.880
 
2013 WAEP 2012 WAEP 
Unapproved share option scheme Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 349,846 0.223 362,398 0.223
Granted during the year – – – –
Exercised during the year (23,011) 0.115 (12,552) 0.083
Lapsed during the year – – – –
Outstanding at the end of the year 326,835 0.286 349,846 0.223
Exercisable at the end of the year 326,835 0.286 349,846 0.223
 
  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
YouGov
 
 
 
69 69
22 Share-based payments continued 
Share options exercised in the current financial year were exercised at prices between £0.099 and £0.204 (2012: between £0.070 
and £0.146). The weighted average share price at the dates of exercise was £0.713 (2012: £0.50). 
The options outstanding under the approved and unapproved share option schemes as at 31 July 2013 and 31 July 2012 have the 
following average exercise prices and expire in the following financial years. 
Expiry 
Exercise  
price 
£ 
2013 
Number
2012
Number
31 July 2013 0.180 – 24,000
31 July 2015 0.180 44,335 44,335
31 July 2017 1.645 82,067 82,067
31 August 2021* 0.191 305,489 328,500
*The Polimetrix options expire on a monthly basis up to and including August 2021. 
Expiry dates as standard are seven years from the vesting date. Vesting criteria are time based and contingent on continued 
employment with YouGov rather than performance based. The charge in relation to share option schemes in the year ended 31 July 
2013 was £nil (2012: £nil). 
During the year ended 31 July 2013, the Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) for Executive Directors, Senior Executives and 
Senior Managers continued to operate. The rules governing the LTIP are summarised in the Remuneration Report on page 29. 
The charge in relation to the LTIP in the year ended 31 July 2013 was £598,000 (2012: £441,000). This charge was valued using 
a Monte Carlo simulation. 
2013 WAEP 2012 WAEP 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 6,512,167 0.000 5,956,860 0.000
Granted during the year – – 2,435,477 0.000
Exercised during the year (1,047,266) 0.000 ––
Lapsed during the year (457,949) 0.000 (1,880,170) 0.000
Outstanding at the end of the year 5,006,952 0.000 6,512,167 0.000
Exercisable at the end of the year 651,278 0.000 ––
The weighted average share price at the date LTIP options were exercised was £0.726. 
During the year ended 31 July 2011, a Deferred Stock Scheme was introduced for Executive Directors and Senior Managers. The rules 
governing the Deferred Stock Scheme are summarised in the Remuneration Report on page 29. The charge in relation to the Deferred 
Stock Scheme in the year ended 31 July 2013 was £169,000 (2012: £200,000). This charge was valued using a Black-Scholes model. 
2013 WAEP 2012 WAEP 
Deferred Stock Scheme Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,500,000 0.000 1,500,000 0.000
Granted during the year – – ––
Exercised during the year – – ––
Lapsed during the year (75,000) 0.000 ––
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,425,000 0.000 1,500,000 0.000
Exercisable at the end of the year – – ––
  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   69 01/11/2013   13:37 70
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
22 Share-based payments continued 
The fair value of shares and share options granted under the Deferred Stock Scheme has been calculated using the Black-Scholes 
option pricing model. No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculation. The fair value per option granted and the 
assumptions made are listed below: 
Black-Scholes model assumptions:  
Share price (p)  40
Exercise price (p)  –
Estimated life (years)  3.0
Risk-free interest rate  n/a
Dividend yield  0.0%
Volatility  n/a
Basic fair value of option (p)  40
Options granted/shares awarded  1,500,000
Fair value of share options (p)  40
Vesting adjustment factor  100%
Total scheme adjusted fair value (£m)  0.6
Performance period (years)  3.0
Annual income statement charge to be applied over the performance period (£m)  0.2
The aggregate profit and loss charge for share-based payments is disclosed in Note 1. 
23 Leasing commitments 
The future aggregate minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 July 2013 are as follows: 
31 July 2013 31 July 2012 
 
Land and 
buildings
£’000
Other 
£’000 
Land and 
buildings 
£’000 
Other
£’000
In one year or less 1,294 106 1,160 90
Between one and five years 2,404 127 3,271 163
In five years or more – – 32 –
 3,698 233 4,463 253
  
 
 
 
24 Capital commitments 
At 31 July 2013, the Group had capital commitments of £71,000 (2012: £74,000). 
25 Major non-cash transactions 
The Group entered into a barter transaction with Centaur plc, a joint venture partner, to exchange the provision of BrandIndex content 
for advertising within its publications for £nil (2012: £327,000). 
The Group also entered into barter transactions with three third parties in the Middle East with a total value of £748,000 (2012: £427,000) 
to exchange the provision of market research for advertising on television, on websites and in magazines. 
26 Transactions with Directors and other related parties 
Other than emoluments there have been no transactions with Directors during the year. 
At 31 July 2013 Privero Capital Advisors Inc, a company 25% owned by Stephan Shakespeare, an Executive Director of YouGov plc, 
owed YouGov £205,000 (2012: £192,000). The movement in the year relates to foreign exchange revaluation.  
During the year ended 31 July 2012, YouGov invested £100,000 in return for an additional 5% stake in CoEditor Limited, a company 
owned by Doughty Media 2 (owned by Stephan Shakespeare), increasing its holding to 30%. The price paid for the additional 
investment was arrived at using the net present value of the projected future cash flows of CoEditor. At 31 July 2013 CoEditor Limited 
owed YouGov £646,000 (2012: £100,000), the movement in the year relates to additional funding of working capital. 
Trading between YouGov plc and group companies is excluded from the related party note as this has been eliminated on 
consolidation. 
27 Events after the reporting period 
On 6 September 2013, YouGov plc purchased a 40% shareholding in Doughty Media 2, a company 60% owned by Stephan 
Shakespeare, an Executive Director of YouGov plc, for a purchase price of £497,000. £37,000 of this was paid in cash on completion, 
the remaining balance will be payable in YouGov shares in February 2015, contingent on the achievement of certain performance 
criteria.  The book value of assets and liabilities as at the completion date was not material. The purchase price allocation has not yet 
been completed. 
Doughty Media 2 has a 69% shareholding in CoEditor Limited and following this purchase YouGov now effectively controls 57% of 
CoEditor Limited.   
No other material events have taken place subsequent to the reporting date. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   70 01/11/2013   13:37 71
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
22 Share-based payments continued 
The fair value of shares and share options granted under the Deferred Stock Scheme has been calculated using the Black-Scholes 
option pricing model. No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculation. The fair value per option granted and the 
assumptions made are listed below: 
Black-Scholes model assumptions:  
Share price (p)  40
Exercise price (p)  –
Estimated life (years)  3.0
Risk-free interest rate  n/a
Dividend yield  0.0%
Volatility  n/a
Basic fair value of option (p)  40
Options granted/shares awarded  1,500,000
Fair value of share options (p)  40
Vesting adjustment factor  100%
Total scheme adjusted fair value (£m)  0.6
Performance period (years)  3.0
Annual income statement charge to be applied over the performance period (£m)  0.2
The aggregate profit and loss charge for share-based payments is disclosed in Note 1. 
23 Leasing commitments 
The future aggregate minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 July 2013 are as follows: 
31 July 2013 31 July 2012 
 
Land and 
buildings
£’000
Other 
£’000 
Land and 
buildings 
£’000 
Other
£’000
In one year or less 1,294 106 1,160 90
Between one and five years 2,404 127 3,271 163
In five years or more – – 32 –
 3,698 233 4,463 253
  
 
 
 
24 Capital commitments 
At 31 July 2013, the Group had capital commitments of £71,000 (2012: £74,000). 
25 Major non-cash transactions 
The Group entered into a barter transaction with Centaur plc, a joint venture partner, to exchange the provision of BrandIndex content 
for advertising within its publications for £nil (2012: £327,000). 
The Group also entered into barter transactions with three third parties in the Middle East with a total value of £748,000 (2012: £427,000) 
to exchange the provision of market research for advertising on television, on websites and in magazines. 
26 Transactions with Directors and other related parties 
Other than emoluments there have been no transactions with Directors during the year. 
At 31 July 2013 Privero Capital Advisors Inc, a company 25% owned by Stephan Shakespeare, an Executive Director of YouGov plc, 
owed YouGov £205,000 (2012: £192,000). The movement in the year relates to foreign exchange revaluation.  
During the year ended 31 July 2012, YouGov invested £100,000 in return for an additional 5% stake in CoEditor Limited, a company 
owned by Doughty Media 2 (owned by Stephan Shakespeare), increasing its holding to 30%. The price paid for the additional 
investment was arrived at using the net present value of the projected future cash flows of CoEditor. At 31 July 2013 CoEditor Limited 
owed YouGov £646,000 (2012: £100,000), the movement in the year relates to additional funding of working capital. 
Trading between YouGov plc and group companies is excluded from the related party note as this has been eliminated on 
consolidation. 
27 Events after the reporting period 
On 6 September 2013, YouGov plc purchased a 40% shareholding in Doughty Media 2, a company 60% owned by Stephan 
Shakespeare, an Executive Director of YouGov plc, for a purchase price of £497,000. £37,000 of this was paid in cash on completion, 
the remaining balance will be payable in YouGov shares in February 2015, contingent on the achievement of certain performance 
criteria.  The book value of assets and liabilities as at the completion date was not material. The purchase price allocation has not yet 
been completed. 
Doughty Media 2 has a 69% shareholding in CoEditor Limited and following this purchase YouGov now effectively controls 57% of 
CoEditor Limited.   
No other material events have taken place subsequent to the reporting date. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   71 01/11/2013   13:37 72
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Y ouGov plc on the 
Parent Company Financial Statements 
We have audited the parent company financial statements of YouGov plc for the year ended 31 July 2013, which comprise the Balance 
Sheet, the Accounting Policies and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent 
company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and 
Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the parent company financial statements: 
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs as at 31 July 2013; 
 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and  
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in 
our opinion: 
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or  
 the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or  
 certain disclosures of directors' remuneration specified by law are not made; or  
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of YouGov plc for the year ended 31 July 2013. 
 
 
 
 
David A. Snell (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
14 October 2013 
Financial statements 
Company Balance Sheet 
as at 31 July 2013 
Note  
31 July
2013
£’000
31 July 2012
(restated)
£’000
Fixed assets  
Intangible assets 4 296 180
Tangible assets 5 176 188
Investments 6 36,751 37,103
  37,223 37,471
Current assets  
Debtors 7 27,641 21,830
Cash at bank and in hand  1,486 1,193
  29,127 23,023
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 (12,170) (9,419)
Net current assets  16,957 13,604
Total assets less current liabilities  54,180 51,075
Provision for liabilities 9 (1,969) (1,678)
Net assets  52,211 49,397
Capital and reserves  
Called up share capital 11 195 195
Share premium 11 30,961 30,947
Merger reserve 10 9,239 9,239
Profit and loss account 10 11,816 9,016
Total Shareholders’ funds 10 52,211 49,397
The accounting policies and notes on pages 74 to 81 form an integral part of these financial statements. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 14 October 2013, and signed on its behalf by:  
 
 
 
 
 
Alan Newman 
Chief Financial Officer 
14 October 2013
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   72 01/11/2013   13:37 73
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Y ouGov plc on the 
Parent Company Financial Statements 
We have audited the parent company financial statements of YouGov plc for the year ended 31 July 2013, which comprise the Balance 
Sheet, the Accounting Policies and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent 
company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and 
Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the parent company financial statements: 
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs as at 31 July 2013; 
 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and  
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in 
our opinion: 
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or  
 the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or  
 certain disclosures of directors' remuneration specified by law are not made; or  
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of YouGov plc for the year ended 31 July 2013. 
 
 
 
 
David A. Snell (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
14 October 2013 
Financial statements 
Company Balance Sheet 
as at 31 July 2013 
Note  
31 July
2013
£’000
31 July 2012
(restated)
£’000
Fixed assets  
Intangible assets 4 296 180
Tangible assets 5 176 188
Investments 6 36,751 37,103
  37,223 37,471
Current assets  
Debtors 7 27,641 21,830
Cash at bank and in hand  1,486 1,193
  29,127 23,023
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 (12,170) (9,419)
Net current assets  16,957 13,604
Total assets less current liabilities  54,180 51,075
Provision for liabilities 9 (1,969) (1,678)
Net assets  52,211 49,397
Capital and reserves  
Called up share capital 11 195 195
Share premium 11 30,961 30,947
Merger reserve 10 9,239 9,239
Profit and loss account 10 11,816 9,016
Total Shareholders’ funds 10 52,211 49,397
The accounting policies and notes on pages 74 to 81 form an integral part of these financial statements. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 14 October 2013, and signed on its behalf by:  
 
 
 
 
 
Alan Newman 
Chief Financial Officer 
14 October 2013
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   73 01/11/2013   13:37 74
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Accounting Policies 
for the year ended 31 July 2013 
 
Basis of preparation 
The separate financial statements of the Company are drawn up in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable 
accounting standards drawn from UK generally accepted accounting principles (UK GAAP). The financial statements are prepared 
under the historical cost convention modified for fair values and on the going concern basis. 
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS1 “Cash Flow 
Statement (revised 1996)”. The cash flows of the Company are disclosed as part of the consolidated cash flow statement within the 
consolidated financial statements. 
The particular accounting policies adopted are detailed below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the current year and 
the prior year. 
The prior year balance sheet has been restated to reclassify panel liability of £1,678,000 from creditors: amounts falling due within one 
year to provision for liabilities, which aligns the Company treatment with that of the Group. 
Related parties 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS8 “Related party disclosures” and has not reported transactions 
with fellow Group undertakings. Further details are included in Note 26 of the consolidated financial statements. 
Panel incentive costs 
The Company invites consumer panel members to fill out surveys for a cash or points based incentive. Although these amounts are not 
paid until a pre-determined target value has accrued on a panellist’s account, an assessment of incentives likely to be paid is made and 
is recognised as a cost of sale in the period in which the service is provided. This assessment now takes into account the likely savings 
expected from the prize draw. 
Share-based payments 
All goods and services received in exchange for the grant of any share-based payment are measured at their fair values. Where 
employees are rewarded using share-based payments, the fair values of employees’ services are determined indirectly by reference 
to the fair value of the instrument granted to the employee. This fair value is appraised at the grant date and excludes the impact of  
non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets). 
Where equity-settled share-based payments relate to employees of the Company these are ultimately recognised as an expense in the 
profit and loss account with a corresponding credit to the profit and loss reserve. Where equity-settled share-based payments relate to 
employees of subsidiaries of the Company these are treated as a capital contribution, increasing the value of the investment in the 
subsidiary with a corresponding credit to the profit and loss reserve. 
If vesting periods or other non-market vesting conditions apply, the expense is allocated over the vesting period, based on the best 
available estimate of the number of share options expected to vest. Estimates are revised subsequently if there is any indication that 
the number of share options expected to vest differs from previous estimates. Any cumulative adjustment prior to vesting is recognised 
in the current period. No adjustment is made to any expense recognised in prior periods if share options that have vested are 
not exercised. 
Upon exercise of share options, the proceeds received net of attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital, and where 
appropriate share premium. 
Intangible fixed asset 
Panel acquisition costs reflect the direct, external cost of recruiting new panel members. A formula based on panel churn for the 
preceding 12 months determines the element which is enhancement and that which is maintenance. Only enhancement is capitalised 
as cost to the Company less accumulated amortisation. Amortisation is charged so as to write off the panel acquisition costs over three 
years, this being the Directors’ estimate of the average active life of a panel member. 
Trademark costs reflect the direct cost of trademarks acquired to protect the YouGov brand and its products. Amortisation is not 
charged as trademarks are infinite in their longevity. The Company conducts an annual impairment review to ensure all trademarks 
are carried at appropriate values. 
  
 
 
 
Tangible fixed assets 
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost of the original purchase or development, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision 
for impairment. 
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost less estimated residual value of all tangible fixed assets by annual instalments over 
their estimated useful economic lives. The rates generally applicable are: 
Leasehold property and improvements  Life of the lease
Fixtures and fittings on a reducing balance basis 25%
Computer software and hardware on a straight-line basis 33%
Software development costs on a straight-line basis 33%
Costs that are directly attributable to the development of new business application software and which are incurred during the period 
prior to the date the software is placed into operational use are capitalised as software development costs. External costs and internal 
costs are capitalised to the extent they generate future economic benefit for the business, whilst internal costs are only capitalised if they 
are incremental to the Group. Once the new business application software is operational it is depreciated at the rates set out in the 
above table. 
Research and development 
Research expenditure is charged to profits in the period in which it is incurred. Software development costs incurred on specific 
projects are recognised to the extent that they comply with the requirements of SSAP 13, i.e. when recoverability can be assessed with 
reasonable certainty and amortised in line with the expected sales arising from the projects. All other development costs are written off 
in the year of expenditure. 
Investments 
Investments are included at cost less provisions for impairment. At each balance sheet date, the Directors review the carrying values 
of its investments to determine whether there is any indication that the assets have suffered an impairment loss. Whenever there is an 
indication that the asset may be impaired an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account. 
Leased assets – operating leases 
Operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Deferred taxation 
Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the transactions or events that give the Company an obligation to pay more 
tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised only 
when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against 
which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted. 
Deferred tax is measured using rates of tax that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. The deferred 
tax provision is held at its current value and not discounted. 
Financial assets 
Financial assets are divided into the following categories: loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets. Financial assets 
are assigned to the different categories by management on initial recognition, depending on the purpose for which they were acquired.  
All financial assets are recognised when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.  
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, 
less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the 
Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of 
the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments (more 
than 30 days overdue) are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference 
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest 
rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in 
the consolidated income statement within operating expenses. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the 
allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against operating 
expenses in the consolidated income statement. 
  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   74 01/11/2013   13:37 75
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Accounting Policies 
for the year ended 31 July 2013 
 
Basis of preparation 
The separate financial statements of the Company are drawn up in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable 
accounting standards drawn from UK generally accepted accounting principles (UK GAAP). The financial statements are prepared 
under the historical cost convention modified for fair values and on the going concern basis. 
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS1 “Cash Flow 
Statement (revised 1996)”. The cash flows of the Company are disclosed as part of the consolidated cash flow statement within the 
consolidated financial statements. 
The particular accounting policies adopted are detailed below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the current year and 
the prior year. 
The prior year balance sheet has been restated to reclassify panel liability of £1,678,000 from creditors: amounts falling due within one 
year to provision for liabilities, which aligns the Company treatment with that of the Group. 
Related parties 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS8 “Related party disclosures” and has not reported transactions 
with fellow Group undertakings. Further details are included in Note 26 of the consolidated financial statements. 
Panel incentive costs 
The Company invites consumer panel members to fill out surveys for a cash or points based incentive. Although these amounts are not 
paid until a pre-determined target value has accrued on a panellist’s account, an assessment of incentives likely to be paid is made and 
is recognised as a cost of sale in the period in which the service is provided. This assessment now takes into account the likely savings 
expected from the prize draw. 
Share-based payments 
All goods and services received in exchange for the grant of any share-based payment are measured at their fair values. Where 
employees are rewarded using share-based payments, the fair values of employees’ services are determined indirectly by reference 
to the fair value of the instrument granted to the employee. This fair value is appraised at the grant date and excludes the impact of  
non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets). 
Where equity-settled share-based payments relate to employees of the Company these are ultimately recognised as an expense in the 
profit and loss account with a corresponding credit to the profit and loss reserve. Where equity-settled share-based payments relate to 
employees of subsidiaries of the Company these are treated as a capital contribution, increasing the value of the investment in the 
subsidiary with a corresponding credit to the profit and loss reserve. 
If vesting periods or other non-market vesting conditions apply, the expense is allocated over the vesting period, based on the best 
available estimate of the number of share options expected to vest. Estimates are revised subsequently if there is any indication that 
the number of share options expected to vest differs from previous estimates. Any cumulative adjustment prior to vesting is recognised 
in the current period. No adjustment is made to any expense recognised in prior periods if share options that have vested are 
not exercised. 
Upon exercise of share options, the proceeds received net of attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital, and where 
appropriate share premium. 
Intangible fixed asset 
Panel acquisition costs reflect the direct, external cost of recruiting new panel members. A formula based on panel churn for the 
preceding 12 months determines the element which is enhancement and that which is maintenance. Only enhancement is capitalised 
as cost to the Company less accumulated amortisation. Amortisation is charged so as to write off the panel acquisition costs over three 
years, this being the Directors’ estimate of the average active life of a panel member. 
Trademark costs reflect the direct cost of trademarks acquired to protect the YouGov brand and its products. Amortisation is not 
charged as trademarks are infinite in their longevity. The Company conducts an annual impairment review to ensure all trademarks 
are carried at appropriate values. 
  
 
 
 
Tangible fixed assets 
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost of the original purchase or development, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision 
for impairment. 
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost less estimated residual value of all tangible fixed assets by annual instalments over 
their estimated useful economic lives. The rates generally applicable are: 
Leasehold property and improvements  Life of the lease
Fixtures and fittings on a reducing balance basis 25%
Computer software and hardware on a straight-line basis 33%
Software development costs on a straight-line basis 33%
Costs that are directly attributable to the development of new business application software and which are incurred during the period 
prior to the date the software is placed into operational use are capitalised as software development costs. External costs and internal 
costs are capitalised to the extent they generate future economic benefit for the business, whilst internal costs are only capitalised if they 
are incremental to the Group. Once the new business application software is operational it is depreciated at the rates set out in the 
above table. 
Research and development 
Research expenditure is charged to profits in the period in which it is incurred. Software development costs incurred on specific 
projects are recognised to the extent that they comply with the requirements of SSAP 13, i.e. when recoverability can be assessed with 
reasonable certainty and amortised in line with the expected sales arising from the projects. All other development costs are written off 
in the year of expenditure. 
Investments 
Investments are included at cost less provisions for impairment. At each balance sheet date, the Directors review the carrying values 
of its investments to determine whether there is any indication that the assets have suffered an impairment loss. Whenever there is an 
indication that the asset may be impaired an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account. 
Leased assets – operating leases 
Operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Deferred taxation 
Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the transactions or events that give the Company an obligation to pay more 
tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised only 
when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against 
which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted. 
Deferred tax is measured using rates of tax that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. The deferred 
tax provision is held at its current value and not discounted. 
Financial assets 
Financial assets are divided into the following categories: loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets. Financial assets 
are assigned to the different categories by management on initial recognition, depending on the purpose for which they were acquired.  
All financial assets are recognised when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.  
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, 
less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the 
Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of 
the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments (more 
than 30 days overdue) are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference 
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest 
rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in 
the consolidated income statement within operating expenses. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the 
allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against operating 
expenses in the consolidated income statement. 
  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   75 01/11/2013   13:37 76
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Accounting Policies continued 
 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
Trade receivables and other financial assets are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are measured subsequent 
to initial recognition at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. Any change in their value 
through impairment or reversal of impairment is recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the 
other categories. 
Provision against trade receivables is made when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts 
due to it in accordance with the original terms of those receivables. The amount of the write-down is determined as the difference 
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.  
An assessment for impairment is undertaken at least at each reporting date. 
A financial asset is derecognised only where the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or the financial asset is 
transferred and that transfer qualifies for derecognition. A financial asset is transferred if the contractual rights to receive the cash flows 
of the asset have been transferred or the Company retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the asset but assumes a 
contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients. A financial asset that is transferred qualifies for derecognition if 
the Company transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset, or if the Company neither retains nor transfers 
substantially all the risks and rewards if ownership but does transfer control of that asset. 
Financial liabilities  
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Financial liabilities are assigned to the different 
categories by management on initial recognition, depending on the purpose for which they were acquired.  
Financial liabilities are obligations to pay cash or other financial assets and are recognised when the Company becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.  
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
They are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. 
Borrowings and lease liabilities are initially recorded at the fair value which is typically the proceeds received, net of any issue costs 
and subsequently carried at amortised cost. Finance charges are accounted for on an effective interest method and are added to the 
carrying value of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.  
A financial liability is derecognised only when the obligation is extinguished, that is, when the obligation is discharged or cancelled 
or expires.
Financial Statements 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 July 2013 
 
1 Profit of parent company 
The parent company has taken advantage of Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not included its own profit and loss 
account in these financial statements. The parent company’s profit for the year was £2,499,000 (2012: £2,020,000). This includes audit 
fees for the Company of £22,000 (2012: £22,000). 
2 Staff numbers and costs  
Staff costs (including Directors) charged to administration expenses during the year were as follows: 
 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Wages and salaries 6,847 6,249
Social security costs 771 708
Share-based payments (Note 12) 364 316
Pension costs 55 56
Other benefits 44 33
 8,081 7,362
The average monthly number of employees of the Company during the year was as follows: 
 
2013
Number
2012
Number
Key management personnel 10 8
Administration and operations 126 121
 136 129
Specific disclosures in relation to compensation for key management personnel (defined as Board and Divisional, Product and Function 
Heads) who held office during the year was as follows: 
 
2013 
£’000
2012
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 1,240 1,248
Share-based payments 312 231
 1,552 1,479
Disclosure of Directors’ remuneration including share options are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 31. 
3 Dividend  
On 17 December 2012, a maiden final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2012 of £479,000 (0.5p per share) was paid to 
shareholders. A dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2013 of 0.6p per share, amounting to a total dividend of £577,000 is to 
be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 11 December 2013. These financial statements do not reflect this proposed 
dividend payable. 
4 Intangible assets 
Panel  
acquisition  
costs 
£’000 
Trademarks
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost  
At 1 August 2012 352 116 468
Additions 173 11 184
At 31 July 2013 525 127 652
Accumulated amortisation  
At 1 August 2012 288 – 288
Provided in the year 68 – 68
At 31 July 2013 356 – 356
Net book amount at 31 July 2013 169 127 296
Net book amount at 31 July 2012 64 116 180
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   76 01/11/2013   13:37 77
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Accounting Policies continued 
 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
Trade receivables and other financial assets are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are measured subsequent 
to initial recognition at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. Any change in their value 
through impairment or reversal of impairment is recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the 
other categories. 
Provision against trade receivables is made when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts 
due to it in accordance with the original terms of those receivables. The amount of the write-down is determined as the difference 
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.  
An assessment for impairment is undertaken at least at each reporting date. 
A financial asset is derecognised only where the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or the financial asset is 
transferred and that transfer qualifies for derecognition. A financial asset is transferred if the contractual rights to receive the cash flows 
of the asset have been transferred or the Company retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the asset but assumes a 
contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients. A financial asset that is transferred qualifies for derecognition if 
the Company transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset, or if the Company neither retains nor transfers 
substantially all the risks and rewards if ownership but does transfer control of that asset. 
Financial liabilities  
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Financial liabilities are assigned to the different 
categories by management on initial recognition, depending on the purpose for which they were acquired.  
Financial liabilities are obligations to pay cash or other financial assets and are recognised when the Company becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.  
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
They are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. 
Borrowings and lease liabilities are initially recorded at the fair value which is typically the proceeds received, net of any issue costs 
and subsequently carried at amortised cost. Finance charges are accounted for on an effective interest method and are added to the 
carrying value of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.  
A financial liability is derecognised only when the obligation is extinguished, that is, when the obligation is discharged or cancelled 
or expires.
Financial Statements 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 July 2013 
 
1 Profit of parent company 
The parent company has taken advantage of Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not included its own profit and loss 
account in these financial statements. The parent company’s profit for the year was £2,499,000 (2012: £2,020,000). This includes audit 
fees for the Company of £22,000 (2012: £22,000). 
2 Staff numbers and costs  
Staff costs (including Directors) charged to administration expenses during the year were as follows: 
 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Wages and salaries 6,847 6,249
Social security costs 771 708
Share-based payments (Note 12) 364 316
Pension costs 55 56
Other benefits 44 33
 8,081 7,362
The average monthly number of employees of the Company during the year was as follows: 
 
2013
Number
2012
Number
Key management personnel 10 8
Administration and operations 126 121
 136 129
Specific disclosures in relation to compensation for key management personnel (defined as Board and Divisional, Product and Function 
Heads) who held office during the year was as follows: 
 
2013 
£’000
2012
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 1,240 1,248
Share-based payments 312 231
 1,552 1,479
Disclosure of Directors’ remuneration including share options are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 31. 
3 Dividend  
On 17 December 2012, a maiden final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2012 of £479,000 (0.5p per share) was paid to 
shareholders. A dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2013 of 0.6p per share, amounting to a total dividend of £577,000 is to 
be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 11 December 2013. These financial statements do not reflect this proposed 
dividend payable. 
4 Intangible assets 
Panel  
acquisition  
costs 
£’000 
Trademarks
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost  
At 1 August 2012 352 116 468
Additions 173 11 184
At 31 July 2013 525 127 652
Accumulated amortisation  
At 1 August 2012 288 – 288
Provided in the year 68 – 68
At 31 July 2013 356 – 356
Net book amount at 31 July 2013 169 127 296
Net book amount at 31 July 2012 64 116 180
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   77 01/11/2013   13:37 78
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued  
5 Tangible assets 
 
Fixtures 
and 
fittings
£’000
Computer  
software  
and hardware 
£’000 
Leasehold  
property and 
improvements 
£’000 
Total
£’000
Cost   
At 1 August 2012 334 741 176 1,251
Provided in the year 3 88 – 91
Disposals – (2) – (2)
At 31 July 2013 337 827 176 1,340
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 August 2012 253 634 176 1,063
Provided in the year 20 81 – 101
Disposals – – – –
At 31 July 2013 273 715 176 1,164
Net book amount at 31 July 2013 64 112 – 176
Net book amount at 31 July 2012 81 107 – 188
6 Fixed asset investments 
Total fixed asset investments comprise: 
 
 
Interest in 
subsidiaries
£’000
Interest in joint 
ventures and 
associates 
£’000 
Capital contributions 
arising from share-
based payments 
£’000 
Total
£’000
At 1 August 2012 35,751 600 752 37,103
Share-based payments charge – – 369 369
Impairment (721) – – (721)
At 31 July 2013 35,030 600 1,121 36,751
The value of investments is determined on the basis of the cost to the Company. 
The Company’s principal trading subsidiaries and joint ventures are listed in Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements. 
7 Debtors 
 
31 July 
2013 
£’000 
31 July 
2012
£’000
Trade debtors 4,420 3,304
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 18,711 14,827
Amounts owed by associates 646 100
Other debtors 121 54
Prepayments and accrued income 2,537 2,069
Deferred taxation 1,206 1,476
 27,641 21,830
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed date of payment and are repayable on demand. 
  
 
8 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
 
31 July 
2013
£’000
31 July 
2012
(restated)
£’000
Trade creditors  882 794
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 5,861 5,414
Taxation and social security 1,030 856
Other creditors 134 44
Accruals and deferred income 4,263 2,311
 12,170 9,419
Some amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed date of payment and are repayable on demand. 
9 Provisions for liabilities 
 
Panel
Incentives
£’000
Balance at 1 August 2012 (restated) 1,678
Provided during the year 2,340
Utilised during the year  (2,049)
Balance at 31 July 2013 1,969
 
10 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds 
Called-up 
share capital 
£’000
Share 
premium 
£’000
Merger  
reserve 
£’000 
Profit and loss 
account
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 August 2011 195 30,947 9,239 6,368 46,749
Changes in equity for 2012  
Profit for the year – – – 2,020 2,020
Total recognised income for the year – – – 2,020 2,020
Share-based payments – – – 628 628
Balance at 31 July 2012 195 30,947 9,239 9,016 49,397
Changes in equity for 2013  
Profit for the year – – – 2,499 2,499
Total recognised income for the year – – – 2,499 2,499
Issue of shares – 14 – – 14
Dividends paid – – – (479) (479)
Share-based payments – – – 780 780
Balance at 31 July 2013 195 30,961 9,239 11,816 52,211
  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   78 01/11/2013   13:37 79
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued  
5 Tangible assets 
 
Fixtures 
and 
fittings
£’000
Computer  
software  
and hardware 
£’000 
Leasehold  
property and 
improvements 
£’000 
Total
£’000
Cost   
At 1 August 2012 334 741 176 1,251
Provided in the year 3 88 – 91
Disposals – (2) – (2)
At 31 July 2013 337 827 176 1,340
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 August 2012 253 634 176 1,063
Provided in the year 20 81 – 101
Disposals – – – –
At 31 July 2013 273 715 176 1,164
Net book amount at 31 July 2013 64 112 – 176
Net book amount at 31 July 2012 81 107 – 188
6 Fixed asset investments 
Total fixed asset investments comprise: 
 
 
Interest in 
subsidiaries
£’000
Interest in joint 
ventures and 
associates 
£’000 
Capital contributions 
arising from share-
based payments 
£’000 
Total
£’000
At 1 August 2012 35,751 600 752 37,103
Share-based payments charge – – 369 369
Impairment (721) – – (721)
At 31 July 2013 35,030 600 1,121 36,751
The value of investments is determined on the basis of the cost to the Company. 
The Company’s principal trading subsidiaries and joint ventures are listed in Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements. 
7 Debtors 
 
31 July 
2013 
£’000 
31 July 
2012
£’000
Trade debtors 4,420 3,304
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 18,711 14,827
Amounts owed by associates 646 100
Other debtors 121 54
Prepayments and accrued income 2,537 2,069
Deferred taxation 1,206 1,476
 27,641 21,830
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed date of payment and are repayable on demand. 
  
 
8 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
 
31 July 
2013
£’000
31 July 
2012
(restated)
£’000
Trade creditors  882 794
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 5,861 5,414
Taxation and social security 1,030 856
Other creditors 134 44
Accruals and deferred income 4,263 2,311
 12,170 9,419
Some amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed date of payment and are repayable on demand. 
9 Provisions for liabilities 
 
Panel
Incentives
£’000
Balance at 1 August 2012 (restated) 1,678
Provided during the year 2,340
Utilised during the year  (2,049)
Balance at 31 July 2013 1,969
 
10 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds 
Called-up 
share capital 
£’000
Share 
premium 
£’000
Merger  
reserve 
£’000 
Profit and loss 
account
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 August 2011 46,749
Changes in equity for 2012  
Profit for the year – – – 2,020 2,020
Total recognised income for the year – – – 2,020 2,020
Share-based payments – – – 628 628
Balance at 31 July 2012 49,397
Changes in equity for 2013  
Profit for the year – – – 2,499 2,499
Total recognised income for the year – – – 2,499 2,499
Issue of shares – 14 – – 14
Dividends paid – – – (479) (479)
Share-based payments – – – 780 780
Balance at 31 July 2013 195 30,961 9,239 11,816 52,211
  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   79 01/11/2013   13:37
195 30,947 9,239 6,368
195 30,947 9,239 9,016 80
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued  
11 Called up share capital 
The Company only has one class of share. Par value of each Ordinary Share is 0.2p. All issued shares are fully paid. 
Number of 
shares
Share  
capital 
£’000 
Share 
premium 
£’000 
Total
£’000
At 1 August 2011 97,129,465 195 30,947 31,142
Issue of shares 12,552 – – –
At 31 July 2012 97,142,017 195 30,947 31,142
Issue of shares 61,195 – 14 14
At 31 July 2013 97,203,212 195 30,961 31,156
 
12 Share-based payments 
The charge included in the profit and loss account of the Company is £364,000 (2012: £316,000). The increase in investment in respect 
of subsidiaries is £369,000 (2012: £311,000). 
Details of the number of share options and the weighted average exercise price (WAEP) outstanding during the year are as follows: 
Approved share option scheme 
2013 WAEP 2012 WAEP 
Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 129,056 0.880 129,056 0.880
Granted during the year – – – –
Exercised during the year (24,000) 0.180 – –
Lapsed during the year – – – –
Outstanding at the end of the year 105,056 1.027 129,056 0.880
Exercisable at the end of the year 108,056 1.027 129,056 0.880
 
Unapproved share option scheme 
2013 WAEP 2012 WAEP 
Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 21,346 1.645 21,346 1.645
Granted during the year – – – –
Exercised during the year – – – –
Lapsed during the year – – – –
Outstanding at the end of the year 21,346 1.645 21,346 1.645
Exercisable at the end of the year 21,346 1.645 21,346 1.645
The share price at the date of exercise of options was £0.725. The options outstanding under the approved and unapproved 
share option schemes as at 31 July 2013 and 31 July 2012, have the following average exercise prices and expire in the following 
financial years. 
Expiry 
Exercise  
price 
£ 
2013 
Number 
2012
Number
31 July 2013 0.180 – 24,000
31 July 2015 0.180 44,335 44,335
31 July 2017 1.645 82,067 82,067
Expiry dates as standard are seven years from the vesting date. Vesting criteria are time based and contingent on continued 
employment with YouGov rather than performance based. 
  
 
During the year ended 31 July 2013, the Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) for Executive Directors, Senior Executives and Senior 
Managers continued to operate. Details of the number of share options and the weighted average exercise price (WAEP) outstanding 
during the year are as follows: 
2013 WAEP 2012 WAEP 
Long term incentive plan (LTIP) Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 3,122,569 0.000 3,330,757 0.000
Granted during the year – – 1,028,822 0.000
Exercised during the year (393,431) 0.000 ––
Lapsed during the year (54,594) 0.000 (1,236,990) 0.000
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,674,544 0.000 3,122,589 0.000
Exercisable at the end of the year 562,170 0.000 ––
The weighted average share price at the dates options were exercised was £0.703. 
During the year ended 31 July 2011, a Deferred Stock Scheme was introduced for Executive Directors and Senior Managers. 
Details of the number of share options and the weighted average exercise price (WAEP) outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2013 WAEP 2012 WAEP 
Deferred Stock Scheme Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 712,500 0.000 712,500 0.000
Granted during the year – – ––
Exercised during the year – – ––
Lapsed during the year (75,000) 0.000 ––
Outstanding at the end of the year 637,500 0.000 712,500 0.000
Exercisable at the end of the year – – ––
13 Leasing commitments 
The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 July 2013 are as follows: 
2013 2012 
 
Land and 
buildings
£’000
Other 
£’000 
Land and 
buildings
£’000
Other
£’000
In one year or less 303 30 300 24
Between one and five years 758 66 910 73
In five years or more – – ––
 1,061 96 1,210 97
14 Major non-cash transactions 
The Company entered into a barter transaction with Centaur plc, a joint venture partner, to exchange the provision of BrandIndex 
content for advertising within its publications for £nil (2012: £327,000). 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   80 01/11/2013   13:37 81
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued  
11 Called up share capital 
The Company only has one class of share. Par value of each Ordinary Share is 0.2p. All issued shares are fully paid. 
Number of 
shares
Share  
capital 
£’000 
Share 
premium 
£’000 
Total
£’000
At 1 August 2011 97,129,465 195 30,947 31,142
Issue of shares 12,552 – – –
At 31 July 2012 97,142,017 195 30,947 31,142
Issue of shares 61,195 – 14 14
At 31 July 2013 97,203,212 195 30,961 31,156
 
12 Share-based payments 
The charge included in the profit and loss account of the Company is £364,000 (2012: £316,000). The increase in investment in respect 
of subsidiaries is £369,000 (2012: £311,000). 
Details of the number of share options and the weighted average exercise price (WAEP) outstanding during the year are as follows: 
Approved share option scheme 
2013 WAEP 2012 WAEP 
Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 129,056 0.880 129,056 0.880
Granted during the year – – – –
Exercised during the year (24,000) 0.180 – –
Lapsed during the year – – – –
Outstanding at the end of the year 105,056 1.027 129,056 0.880
Exercisable at the end of the year 108,056 1.027 129,056 0.880
 
Unapproved share option scheme 
2013 WAEP 2012 WAEP 
Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 21,346 1.645 21,346 1.645
Granted during the year – – – –
Exercised during the year – – – –
Lapsed during the year – – – –
Outstanding at the end of the year 21,346 1.645 21,346 1.645
Exercisable at the end of the year 21,346 1.645 21,346 1.645
The share price at the date of exercise of options was £0.725. The options outstanding under the approved and unapproved 
share option schemes as at 31 July 2013 and 31 July 2012, have the following average exercise prices and expire in the following 
financial years. 
Expiry 
Exercise  
price 
£ 
2013 
Number 
2012
Number
31 July 2013 0.180 – 24,000
31 July 2015 0.180 44,335 44,335
31 July 2017 1.645 82,067 82,067
Expiry dates as standard are seven years from the vesting date. Vesting criteria are time based and contingent on continued 
employment with YouGov rather than performance based. 
  
 
During the year ended 31 July 2013, the Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) for Executive Directors, Senior Executives and Senior 
Managers continued to operate. Details of the number of share options and the weighted average exercise price (WAEP) outstanding 
during the year are as follows: 
2013 WAEP 2012 WAEP 
Long term incentive plan (LTIP) Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 3,122,569 0.000 3,330,757 0.000
Granted during the year – – 1,028,822 0.000
Exercised during the year (393,431) 0.000 ––
Lapsed during the year (54,594) 0.000 (1,236,990) 0.000
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,674,544 0.000 3,122,589 0.000
Exercisable at the end of the year 562,170 0.000 ––
The weighted average share price at the dates options were exercised was £0.703. 
During the year ended 31 July 2011, a Deferred Stock Scheme was introduced for Executive Directors and Senior Managers. 
Details of the number of share options and the weighted average exercise price (WAEP) outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2013 WAEP 2012 WAEP 
Deferred Stock Scheme Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 712,500 0.000 712,500 0.000
Granted during the year – – ––
Exercised during the year – – ––
Lapsed during the year (75,000) 0.000 ––
Outstanding at the end of the year 637,500 0.000 712,500 0.000
Exercisable at the end of the year – – ––
13 Leasing commitments 
The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 July 2013 are as follows: 
2013 2012 
 
Land and 
buildings
£’000
Other 
£’000 
Land and 
buildings
£’000
Other
£’000
In one year or less 303 30 300 24
Between one and five years 758 66 910 73
In five years or more – – ––
 1,061 96 1,210 97
14 Major non-cash transactions 
The Company entered into a barter transaction with Centaur plc, a joint venture partner, to exchange the provision of BrandIndex 
content for advertising within its publications for £nil (2012: £327,000). 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   81 01/11/2013   13:37 82
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Additional information 
Notice of Annual General Meeting  
 
 
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of YouGov PLC will be held at 50 Featherstone Street, London EC1Y 8RT 
on 11 December 2013 at 12.30pm to consider and, if thought fit, pass the resolutions below. 
Resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution. All other resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions. 
Ordinary Resolutions 
1. To receive the Company’s annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 July 2013, together with the Directors’ report and the 
auditors’ report on those accounts. 
2. To approve the Directors’ remuneration report set out in the annual report and accounts for the financial year ended 31 July 2013. 
3. To reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the 
next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid. 
4. To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the auditors. 
5. To reappoint Roger Parry as a Director retiring by rotation in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. 
6. To reappoint Ben Elliot as a Director retiring by rotation in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. 
7. To declare a final dividend of 0.6p per ordinary share to be paid on Monday 16 December 2013 to those shareholders on the 
register of members as at Friday 6 December 2013. 
8. To generally and unconditionally authorise the Directors (in substitution for all subsisting authorities to the extent unused, other than 
in respect of any allotments made pursuant to offers or agreements made prior to the passing of this resolution) for the purposes of 
section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company ("Shares") and 
grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, Shares ("Subscription or Conversion Rights") up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £9,750 provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the 
Company after the passing of this resolution or on 31 December 2014, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may, before 
such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require Shares to be allotted or Subscription or Conversion Rights to 
be granted after such expiry, including an offer or agreement to allot Shares to Stephan Shakespeare and Rosamund Shakespeare 
pursuant to and conditional on the passing of Resolution 9 below, and the Directors may allot Shares and grant Subscription or 
Conversion Rights in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not so expired. 
9. That the proposed acquisition by the Company of all the shares in Doughty Media 2 Limited (“DM2”) held by Stephan Shakespeare 
and Rosamund Shakespeare (the “Shares”) (representing the 60% of the entire issued share capital of DM2 not held by the 
Company at the date of the Notice) for an aggregate consideration of up to £744,000 (the “Consideration”) to be settled by the 
issuance of ordinary shares in the Company (the “Transaction”), being a substantial property transaction involving Stephan 
Shakespeare, a Director of the Company at the date of the Notice, be approved pursuant to and for the purposes of section 190 of 
the Companies Act 2006 and that the Directors of the Company (other than Stephan Shakespeare) (the “Independent Directors”) 
be and are hereby authorised to complete the Transaction and all related matters on such terms as the Independent Directors 
consider reasonable and in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and to do all such other things as they consider 
reasonably necessary, expedient or desirable to facilitate the sale and purchase of the Shares. 
 
  
 
 
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will be proposed as a Special Resolution. 
Special Resolution 
10. That conditional on the passing of Resolution 8 above, that the Directors be and are hereby empowered in accordance with section 
570 and section 573 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities (within the meaning of section 560 of that Act) for cash, 
either pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 8 or by way of a sale of treasury shares, as if section 561(1) of that Act did 
not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: 
(a) the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of such securities: 
(i) to holders of ordinary shares in proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to their respective holdings of such 
shares; and 
(ii) to holders of other securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the directors otherwise consider 
necessary, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient 
in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in or under 
the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange; and 
(b) the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to paragraph (a) above) of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £9,750, and shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the 
passing of this resolution or on 31 December 2014, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may before such 
expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry, 
including an offer or agreement to allot Shares to Stephan Shakespeare and Rosamund Shakespeare pursuant to 
and conditional on the passing of Resolution 9 below, and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of 
any such offers or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired. 
 
By order of the Board 
 
 
 
Alan Newman  
Company Secretary 
14 October 2013 
Registered Office: 
50 Featherstone Street, London EC1Y 8RT 
Registered in England and Wales No. 3607311
 
  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   82 01/11/2013   13:37 83
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
Additional information 
Notice of Annual General Meeting  
 
 
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of YouGov PLC will be held at 50 Featherstone Street, London EC1Y 8RT 
on 11 December 2013 at 12.30pm to consider and, if thought fit, pass the resolutions below. 
Resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution. All other resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions. 
Ordinary Resolutions 
1. To receive the Company’s annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 July 2013, together with the Directors’ report and the 
auditors’ report on those accounts. 
2. To approve the Directors’ remuneration report set out in the annual report and accounts for the financial year ended 31 July 2013. 
3. To reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the 
next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid. 
4. To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the auditors. 
5. To reappoint Roger Parry as a Director retiring by rotation in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. 
6. To reappoint Ben Elliot as a Director retiring by rotation in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. 
7. To declare a final dividend of 0.6p per ordinary share to be paid on Monday 16 December 2013 to those shareholders on the 
register of members as at Friday 6 December 2013. 
8. To generally and unconditionally authorise the Directors (in substitution for all subsisting authorities to the extent unused, other than 
in respect of any allotments made pursuant to offers or agreements made prior to the passing of this resolution) for the purposes of 
section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company ("Shares") and 
grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, Shares ("Subscription or Conversion Rights") up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £9,750 provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the 
Company after the passing of this resolution or on 31 December 2014, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may, before 
such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require Shares to be allotted or Subscription or Conversion Rights to 
be granted after such expiry, including an offer or agreement to allot Shares to Stephan Shakespeare and Rosamund Shakespeare 
pursuant to and conditional on the passing of Resolution 9 below, and the Directors may allot Shares and grant Subscription or 
Conversion Rights in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not so expired. 
9. That the proposed acquisition by the Company of all the shares in Doughty Media 2 Limited (“DM2”) held by Stephan Shakespeare 
and Rosamund Shakespeare (the “Shares”) (representing the 60% of the entire issued share capital of DM2 not held by the 
Company at the date of the Notice) for an aggregate consideration of up to £744,000 (the “Consideration”) to be settled by the 
issuance of ordinary shares in the Company (the “Transaction”), being a substantial property transaction involving Stephan 
Shakespeare, a Director of the Company at the date of the Notice, be approved pursuant to and for the purposes of section 190 of 
the Companies Act 2006 and that the Directors of the Company (other than Stephan Shakespeare) (the “Independent Directors”) 
be and are hereby authorised to complete the Transaction and all related matters on such terms as the Independent Directors 
consider reasonable and in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and to do all such other things as they consider 
reasonably necessary, expedient or desirable to facilitate the sale and purchase of the Shares. 
 
  
 
 
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will be proposed as a Special Resolution. 
Special Resolution 
10. That conditional on the passing of Resolution 8 above, that the Directors be and are hereby empowered in accordance with section 
570 and section 573 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities (within the meaning of section 560 of that Act) for cash, 
either pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 8 or by way of a sale of treasury shares, as if section 561(1) of that Act did 
not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: 
(a) the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of such securities: 
(i) to holders of ordinary shares in proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to their respective holdings of such 
shares; and 
(ii) to holders of other securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the directors otherwise consider 
necessary, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient 
in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in or under 
the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange; and 
(b) the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to paragraph (a) above) of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £9,750, and shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the 
passing of this resolution or on 31 December 2014, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may before such 
expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry, 
including an offer or agreement to allot Shares to Stephan Shakespeare and Rosamund Shakespeare pursuant to 
and conditional on the passing of Resolution 9 below, and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of 
any such offers or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired. 
 
By order of the Board 
 
 
 
Alan Newman  
Company Secretary 
14 October 2013 
Registered Office: 
50 Featherstone Street, London EC1Y 8RT 
Registered in England and Wales No. 3607311
 
  
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   83 01/11/2013   13:37 84
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Additional information 
Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 
 
Notes: 
1. Shareholders are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting. A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to 
the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder. A proxy need not be a shareholder of the 
Company. A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice. If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should have one, or if you 
require additional forms, please contact Neville Registrars, at Neville House, 18 Laurel Lane, Halesowen, West Midlands B63 3DA. 
2. To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by post or (during normal business hours only) by hand at Neville Registrars, Neville House, 18 Laurel Lane, Halesowen, 
West Midlands B63 3DA no later than 12.30pm on 9 December 2013. 
3. The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction (as described in paragraph 6 below) will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting and 
voting in person if he/she wishes to do so. 
4. In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, to be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting (and for the purpose of the determination by the 
Company of the votes they may cast), shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6.00pm on 9 December 2013 (or, in the event of any adjournment, 6.00pm on the 
date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting). Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and 
vote at the meeting. 
5. CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST personal 
members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be able 
to take the appropriate action on their behalf. 
6. In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a “CREST Proxy Instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance 
with the specifications of Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited (the operator of the CREST system), and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual. The 
message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be 
received by the issuer’s agent (ID 7RA11) by 12.30pm on 9 December 2013. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by 
the CREST Application Host) from which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. After this time any change of instructions to proxies 
appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means. 
7. CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any 
particular message. Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or, if the 
CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such action as 
shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or 
voting system service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings. 
8. The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. 
9. In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that: (i) if a corporate shareholder has appointed the chairman of the meeting as 
its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate 
representatives will give voting directions to the chairman and the chairman will vote (or withhold a vote) as corporate representative in accordance with those directions; and (ii) if more than one corporate 
representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate 
representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate 
representative. Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives (www.icsa.org.uk) for 
further details of this procedure. The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the chairman is being appointed as described in (i) above. 
Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting 
Resolution 9   (Approval of the acquisition of substantial non cash asset from a Director) 
Background: 
Opigram, developed in partnership with CoEditor Limited, is a new technology for recording and measuring opinions that our panellists choose to offer. On 6 September 2013, after the end of the financial year, 
a 40% shareholding was acquired in Doughty Media 2 Limited (“DM2”) which has a 69% shareholding in CoEditor Limited, the company which has developed the Opigram service and in which YouGov already 
owned a 29.6% shareholding. Following this purchase, YouGov now effectively controls 57% of CoEditor Limited. The shareholding was purchased from the director of Co-Editor responsible for the Opigram 
development who has become an employee of YouGov following the transaction. The maximum purchase price for the shareholding acquired in DM2 is £497,000 of which £37,000 was paid in cash on 
completion. 
The remaining balance will be payable by the issuance of ordinary  shares in the Company in February 2015 with the majority (up to £348,000) being contingent on the achievement of certain performance criteria 
relating to the delivery of expected benefits arising from the incorporation of the Opigram service within YouGov’s online presence. The number of ordinary shares to be issued in February 2015 will be calculated 
by reference to their average price over the five dealing days prior to 6 September 2013.  
Principal terms of the acquisition: 
The remaining 60% shareholding in DM2 is held by Stephan Shakespeare (CEO of YouGov plc) and his wife, Rosamund Shakespeare. The Directors of YouGov (other than Stephan Shakespeare who has been 
excluded from these discussions due to his conflict) believe that it is in YouGov’s best interests to take full control of the Opigram technology. They have therefore approved an offer to purchase the 60% 
shareholding in DM2 held by Stephan and Rosamund Shakespeare, for a maximum price of £744,000. This is on an equivalent valuation and terms to those agreed for the purchase already made of the 40% 
shareholding in DM2. The consideration will be settled by the issuance of ordinary shares in the Company in February 2015, with up to £522,000 of this being contingent upon the achievement of the performance 
criteria described above. The implied valuation of CoEditor is also equivalent to that upon which YouGov previously acquired its 29% shareholding. As a result of the proposed transaction, YouGov would 
effectively control 98% of CoEditor Limited. The Directors (other than Stephan Shakespeare) consider these terms to be fair and reasonable and in the best interests of the Company. As this transaction would be a 
substantial property transaction with a Director as defined by S190 of the Companies Act 2006, the approval of the shareholders of the Company is required by the Act and is therefore being sought by means of 
this resolution.  
Resolution 10 (Statutory pre-emption rights) 
Under section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, when new shares are allotted, they must first be offered to existing shareholders pro rata to their holdings. This special resolution renews the authorities previously 
granted to the Directors to: (a) allot shares of the Company in connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer; and (b) otherwise allot shares of the Company, or sell treasury shares for cash, up to an 
aggregate nominal value of £9,750 (representing in accordance with institutional investor guidelines, approximately 5% of the share capital in issue as at 31 October 2013 (being the last practicable date prior to 
the publication of this notice)) as if the pre-emption rights of Section 561 did not apply. The authority granted by this resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after 
the passing of this resolution or on 31 December 2014, whichever is the earlier. 
The notes above give an explanation of the proposed resolutions. Resolutions 1 to 9 are proposed as ordinary resolutions. This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more than half of the  
votes cast must be in favour of the resolution. Resolution 10 is proposed as a special resolution. This means that for each resolution to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour  
of the resolution. 
016612_YouGov_AR13_p38-80_Financials.indd   84 01/11/2013   13:37 Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.ry.com using the paperless proofing system Wizardry. 
This material used in the publication of this document is carbon balanced.
Printed on FSC certified paper.
This document is printed on material manufactured at a mill which is ISO14001 accredited. YouGov plc 
50 Featherstone Street 
London EC1Y 8RT
T: +44 (0)20 7012 6000 
F: +44 (0)20 7012 6001
yougov.com
YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2013
