 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report
Introduction
Fifteen years ago, Y ouGov began life as a 
challenger to the market research industry with a 
revolutionary methodology. We grew internationally 
by acquisitions, and needed a period to integrate 
them to become a more efficient organisation.
T oday we are entering our next phase. We have 
a powerful brand, a global platform and now are 
developing a new technology and approach to data 
collection and analysis which will allow Y ouGov to 
fulfil its mission as a true Internet company.
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Contents
yougov .com
Strategic report
01 Operational highlights 
02 YouGov at a glance 
04 Our reach 
06 Chairman’s statement
08 Business model and strategy
09 Chief Executive’s review 
14 Our data products and services 
16 Opigram 
17 Share a Coke: case study 
18 YouGov in the press 
20  Review of geographic 
operations 
24 Chief Financial Officer’s report 
27 Principal risks 
Governance
28  Board of Directors 
30   Corporate Governance Report 
32   Corporate Social Responsibility 
33   Remuneration Report 
37   Directors’ Report 
4 0    D ir e ct o r s ’ R e s p o n s ib i l i t i e s 
Statement 
41    Independent Auditors’ Report to 
the Members of YouGov plc on 
the Group Financial Statements
Financial statements
43   Consolidated Income Statement 
44    Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
45  Consolidated Statement of 
Financial Position
46  Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity 
47  Consolidated Statement of  
Cash Flows 
48   Principal Accounting Policies 
of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements 
57   Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements 
78   Independent Auditors’ Report to 
the Members of YouGov plc on 
the Parent Company Financial 
Statements 
80   Company Balance Sheet
81   Accounting Policies 
84   Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements 
Additional information
89  Notice of Annual General 
Meeting 
91 Retained advisors  Key financials
Strategic report
Operational highlights
Turnover £m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
67.4
62.6
58.1
56.1
44.2
Operating cash generation £m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
9.0
6.9
4.9
5.6
4.9
Adjusted earning per share
1
 pence
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
6.1
5.6
4.9
4.7
2.5
Adjusted operating profit
1
 £m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
7.4
6.0
5.6
5.3
3.8
Adjusted profit before tax
1
 £m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
7.7
6.8
6.1
5.8
4.0
Statutory operating profit 
£1.0m
(2013: £1.5m)
Statutory profit before tax 
£0.7m
(2013: £1.5m)
1.  Adjusted operating profit is defined as group operating profit before amortisation of 
intangibles, impairment charge and exceptional items. In the year to 31 July 2014, 
amortisation of intangibles was £4.0m (2013: £3.3m) and exceptional costs were £2.4m 
(2013: £1.2m). Adjusted profit before tax and earnings per share are calculated based on 
the adjusted operating profit.
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
1
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
  Group revenue increased by 8% (10% in constant 
currency terms) 
  Adjusted operating profit up by 24%
  Adjusted profit before tax up by 12%
  Adjusted earnings per share up by 1 1%
  Cash generated from operations (before paying 
interest and tax) increased to £8.9m (2013: £6.9m)
  Excellent cash conversion of 120% of adjusted 
operating profit (2013: 1 16%)
  Net cash balances of £7 .2m (2013: £6.7m) after 
making £1.0m (2013: £2.0m) of acquisition related 
payments
  Recommended dividend increased by 33% to 0.8p 
per share 
  Revenue from Data Products and Services up by 
30%; now represents 29% of total (2013: 24%) 
  BrandIndex revenue increased by 53% to £8.0m
  Omnibus revenue increased by 20% to £8.8m
  Revenue from Custom Research up by 1% 
to £47 .7m 
  Expanded into Asia Pacific through acquisition of 
Decision Fuel in January 2014
  Opigram service integrated with YouGov.com 
website, increasing site visits and amount of profile 
information
  New YouGov Profiles product developed and due 
to launch in November 3 million
YouGov is the most 
quoted research 
company in the UK.  
In the last year , YouGov 
was quoted more than 
twice as often as any 
other market researcher  
in the UK.
This year we served over
2,000  
clients worldwide
18 million
Y ouGov surveys
in the 12 months to 31 July 2014  
(an increase of 6% over the previous year)
Our panellists completed
591
employees worldwide
Strategic report
Y ouGov at a glance
24 offices
worldwide, in 
16 countries  
covering the UK, Europe, the Nordics, 
the Middle East, Asia and the USA
YouGov was  
named one of the 
world’s top 25 
research companies 
by the respected 
Honomichl Global 
Top 25 Report 2013 
people 
worldwide
We have 
a panel of
2
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
YouGov plc is an international full-service market research agency. Our core offering of 
opinion data is derived from our highly responsive panel of respondents. We combine this 
continuous stream of data with our deep research expertise and broad industry experience 
into a systematic research and marketing platform. This allows us to deliver data, analyses and 
reports that can be used to plan, manage and refine all types of campaigns whether they have 
commercial, political, social or other objectives.
Our suite of syndicated, proprietary data products includes: YouGov BrandIndex, the daily 
brand perception tracker; YouGov Reports which provide comprehensive market intelligence 
on a range of sectors; and YouGov Profiles, our new planning and segmentation tool. The 
market-leading YouGov Omnibus provides a fast and cost-effective service for obtaining 
answers to research questions from both national and selected samples.
Our custom research business conducts a wide range of quantitative and qualitative research, 
tailored by our specialist teams to meet our clients’ specific requirements. An overview of our 
products and services
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
3
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Our new real-time digital behaviour tracker
YouGov Pulse enables brands and agencies 
to capture real-time, in-depth and actual online 
consumer behaviour across laptops, smartphones 
and tablets. Pulse makes it possible to understand 
the full picture of what consumers do online and the 
online journeys they experience.
Quantitative and qualitative research directed by our sector specialists
Using their in-depth sector knowledge, our custom 
research specialists employ both quantitative and 
qualitative methods to identify and analyse markets, 
clarify opportunities and challenges and to generate 
data that provides clients with actionable information. 
Our highly structured and codified profile data library 
(known as the YouGov Cube) allows us to enhance 
our custom offering by minimising the additional 
data collection required to answer clients’ questions 
about the attitudes, behaviours and profiles of the 
population. Our expertise in combining custom 
research with syndicated data helps us to deliver a 
high degree of value for money to our clients.
Our key offerings include: reputation studies 
(measuring public and stakeholder opinion on 
an organisation’s reputation); syndicated studies 
covering sector or product trends, such as our 
YouGov/TIME Inc. Survey of Affluence and Wealth 
(US) and Insurance Industry Customer Satisfaction 
Monitor (Germany); and our full research 
programme providing a range of research, often 
on annual contracts, including tracking studies, 
qualitative research and customer profiling.
Comprehensive market intelligence reports
The YouGov Reports division consists of market 
intelligence reports (previously called SixthSense 
reports), the HEAT economic confidence tracking 
study and specialist syndicated financial, media 
and technology trackers.
Our daily brand perception tracker
YouGov’s flagship brand intelligence service, 
YouGov BrandIndex, tells our clients what the world 
thinks of their brands and their competitors at any 
given moment and helps our clients understand the 
link between their media and advertising efforts, 
brand perception, and consumer response.
Delivering next-day answers
The YouGov Omnibus is the perfect vehicle to find 
out, quickly and cost-effectively, people’s opinions, 
attitudes and behaviours. Omnibus surveys are run 
daily, providing nationally representative responses 
to clients within a 48 hour turnaround (only 24 hours 
in the UK).
Our new planning and segmentation tool
YouGov Profiles will improve the ability of marketers 
to understand the people and audiences that 
matter to them. It will enable media owners to 
identify potential advertisers and make more 
informed content and scheduling decisions so as to 
deliver the target audience that advertisers require.  Palo Alto, CA.
Portland, OR. 
Waterbury, CT.
Lawrenceville, N.J.
New York, N.Y.
Strategic report
Our reach
Y ouGov has 24 offices worldwide, in 16 countries covering the UK,  
Europe, the Nordics, the Middle East, Asia and the USA.
In January 2014, Y ouGov acquired Decision Fuel (now Y ouGov Asia 
Pacific), gaining new offices in Hong Kong, Shanghai and Singapore  
(see page 23 for more detail on the acquisition). We have recently  
opened another office in Jakarta, Indonesia.
 In the Middle East, we recently opened new offices in Cairo, Egypt  
and Erbil, Iraq.
4
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 London
Paris
Helsinki
Oslo
Malmö
Stockholm
Cologne
Berlin
Dubai
Erbil
Dammam
Jeddah
Singapore
Hong Kong
Shanghai
Cairo
Riyadh
Jakarta
Copenhagen
Y ouGov has a proprietary panel of 3 million people across  
33 countries.
We are rapidly growing our coverage in the Asia Pacific region 
and will soon have panels in Thailand and The Philippines, 
taking our reach to 35 countries.
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
5
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The year ended 31 July 2014 was another successful one for 
YouGov. We once again delivered organic revenue growth well 
ahead of the market research sector. We also took further strides 
towards the goal of our revenue from data products and services 
reaching parity with that from custom research services. 
We extended our geographic reach through the acquisition 
of Decision Fuel (since renamed YouGov Asia Pacific), which 
provides the Group with an operational base in China and South-
East Asia. As the Board expected, the successful development 
of our business in line with our stated strategy fed through to 
strong growth in profits and earnings per share in the year (on 
an adjusted basis). We also generated a net cash inflow after 
funding acquisition-related payments and investments in panel, 
technology and other assets to support future business growth. 
This performance together with our continued healthy financial 
position enables the Board to recommend an increase of 33% 
in the dividend payable to shareholders.
YouGov revolutionised market research over a decade ago 
through our use of online data collection methods. We now 
aim to pioneer the development of a real-time and interactive 
dialogue with our panellists which, when combined with 
innovative data analytics, produces extremely rapid, accurate 
and valuable research insights for our clients. YouGov is 
increasingly becoming a true ‘Internet company’ in which 
panellists enjoy interacting with us online which enables us to 
produce data products that are valuable to businesses and 
other public and private organisations as well as to panellists 
themselves. We continue to develop our organisational 
structures and systems to enhance our operation as a company 
with outstanding digital skills, a famous worldwide brand and a 
unified offer of globally consistent and connected data products. 
Based on this strategy, the Board has set ambitious goals for 
the Group with the aim of delivering substantial and consistent 
earnings growth. To support this, we are further developing 
the way that our business and its performance are managed 
and reported. 
As previously announced, Sundip Chahal, the CEO of YouGov’s 
Middle East and North Africa unit, was appointed in August 
2014 to the newly created senior role of Chief Operating Officer, 
reporting to Stephan Shakespeare. He will be responsible for the 
continued scaling of the business globally, ensuring consistency 
of business processes and quality of client service delivery 
across the Group, as well as for overseeing the performance 
of the Group’s geographic units. 
Turnover £m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
67.4
62.6
58.1
56.1
44.2
Adjusted operating profit
1
 £m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
7.4
6.0
5.6
5.3
3.8
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
for the year ended 31 July 2014
6
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Consistent with our strategy, we are moving from our current 
approach of reporting performance mainly by geographic 
unit (which reflects past acquisitions), to a focus on consistent 
global products and services. To reflect this new focus, 
product and service segmental reporting has been introduced 
in the accompanying financial statements for 2013/14 as a 
supplementary analysis to the current geographical reporting. 
We intend to make it the primary analysis from 2014/15 onwards. 
In the coming year, we will be concentrating our resources and 
headcount growth on sales, client service and analytics skills 
with the objective of driving revenues from data products and 
services and from custom research that integrates with the data 
generated from our panel. 
The Board considers it essential for management and 
shareholder interests to be aligned around the creation of long-
term value for shareholders. The Remuneration Committee has 
therefore approved a new Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) for the 
Group’s Directors and senior managers, effective from 1 August 
2014, which is designed to reward the participants for the 
achievement of highly demanding EPS growth targets over the 
five year period ending 31 July 2019. In addition to EPS growth, 
the vesting of LTIP benefits will require the Group to improve 
operating margins over the period and individual participants 
to meet specific personal goals. The Board believes that this 
balance of metrics will encourage the creation of long-term value 
and not just simply drive EPS growth, which is only one measure 
of success. The new stretch targets are significantly higher 
than those in place under the current LTIP . The terms of the new 
LTIP have been developed with advice received from Deloitte’s 
remuneration consulting practice, and after consultation with 
Numis and several major shareholders.
The Board expects the Group to make further investments 
in new technologies to accelerate the development of new 
data products and services, in particular of YouGov Profiles. 
Our focus will remain on achieving this organically although we 
will consider tactical acquisitions that support the delivery of our 
plans if the right opportunities arise. 
We have started the current year well in terms of sales to new 
and existing clients. There is a clear understanding amongst 
the senior team of the very ambitious targets being set by the 
Board and detailed plans have been developed to support their 
achievement. The Board believes that we are well positioned to 
continue growing our share of the market research industry in 
a way that creates a more profitable and robust business.
I
Roger Parry
Chairman
13 October 2014
“ This was another 
successful year for Y ouGov . 
We once again delivered 
organic revenue growth 
well ahead of the market 
research sector . We also 
took further strides towards 
the goal of our revenue 
from data products and 
services reaching parity 
with that from custom 
research services.”
Operating cash generation £m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
9.0
6.9
4.9
5.6
4.9
Adjusted earning per share
1
 pence
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
6.1
5.6
4.9
4.7
2.5
1.  Adjusted operating profit is defined as group operating profit before amortisation of intangibles, impairment charge and exceptional items. In the year to 31 July 2014, amortisation 
of intangibles was £4.0m (2013: £3.3m) and exceptional costs were £2.4m (2013: £1.2m). Adjusted profit before tax and earnings per share are calculated based on the adjusted 
operating profit.
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
7
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report
Business model and strategy
Mission statement
It is YouGov’s ambition to supply a live stream of continuous, 
accurate data and actionable insight into what people are 
thinking and doing all over the world, all of the time, so that 
companies, governments and institutions can better serve the 
people that sustain them. 
Core business model
Established in the UK in 2000 as the first online pollster, YouGov 
quickly developed a very strong brand widely recognised 
for accurate political opinions polling. Our highly-responsive 
proprietary panel and strong reputation opened the doors for 
YouGov to expand quickly beyond the public service sector to 
much larger and more profitable commercial market research 
activity. YouGov’s success was also boosted by our aptitude for 
developing innovative high-margin research products, and our 
sector expertise that addresses the strategic research needs of 
both large corporate and public sector organisations.
The key to our business is our panel. We have developed a 
number of procedures for recruiting, validating and sampling that 
enable us to use Internet samples to represent the population 
as a whole. We believe that Internet research is as accurate as 
traditional methods, while being faster and more flexible and 
thereby freeing up resources for the vital interpretation and 
implementation of results.
Today, YouGov has proprietary online panels in 33 countries 
worldwide and we continue to engage in opportunities to take 
our online market research core business model – of a strong 
brand and panel, coupled with innovative products and sector 
expertise – to new markets.
Strategy for growth 
A key objective for the Group is to increase the proportion of 
revenue from data products and services over the medium term 
and bring these closer to parity with custom research. We are 
focusing on growing revenue from our core product suite across 
all our existing geographies. This involves bringing to market new 
products, as well as continuing to innovate with new products. 
In addition to making targeted investments in growing and 
expanding our syndicated data products and services suite, we 
are also continuing to explore opportunities to expand our core 
model geographically.
Our five key strategic objectives
• Grow our syndicated products suite
• Integrate custom and syndicated data
• Enhance our user experience 
• Boost our public profile
• Expand our geographic footprint
Our five key  
strategic  
objectives
Boost our 
public profile
Expand 
our geographic  
footprint
Grow our  
syndicated  
products  
suite
Integrate 
custom research 
and syndicated 
data
Enhance 
our user 
experience
8
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review
for the year ended 31 July 2014
“ We’re delivering what we set 
out to at the beginning of the 
year . Data products and 
services are growing well, 
with the profit contribution 
from these higher margin 
businesses matching custom 
research for the first time.  
Our geographies are 
performing to plan and we 
have continued to expand  
our footprint, allowing us to 
continue to leverage our 
products internationally . ”
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
9
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Performance in the year 
YouGov’s revenue for the year ended 31 July 2014 increased 
by 8% to £67 .4m (10% in constant currency terms). This is 
significantly above the estimated global market growth of 
between 2% and 3%. In line with our plans, revenue from data 
products and services increased proportionately faster, by 
30% to £20m. This now represents 29% of the total Group 
revenue, compared to 24% in the previous year. Within this, 
BrandIndex grew by 53% and Omnibus by 20%. These high 
growth rates reflect the increased penetration of these products 
in their existing markets as well as their continued geographical 
expansion. Custom research revenue grew by 1% with some 
variation between regions. 
I am also pleased to report a 24% increase in the Group’s 
adjusted operating profit to £7 .4m, compared to £6.0m in 
2012/13 and an increase in the adjusted operating profit margin 
from 10% to 11%. This growth is attributable to the increase in 
revenues together with a 1% point improvement in gross margins 
(to 77%), which was driven by the higher contribution from data 
products and services. The operating cost ratio remained at 
66% of revenue. We maintained a high cash conversion rate with 
cash generated from operations increasing by 29% to £8.9m, 
from £6.9m in the prior year. This represents a conversion rate of 
120% of adjusted operating profit (2013: 116%). The strong cash 
generation was also reflected in a net cash inflow of £1.3m after 
investing £1.0m (2013: £2.0m) in acquisition-related payments 
and £5.8m in the purchase of tangible and intangible fixed 
assets, including £4.7m for the development of our panel and 
technology platforms. 
Our adjusted profit before tax rose by 12% and our adjusted 
earnings per share increased by 11%. These reflected the 
unrealised losses within finance costs arising from the effect of 
£ sterling’s appreciation on cash balances converted from other 
currencies at the year-end. 
We are increasingly managing our business and driving growth 
through our global product and service lines: data products, 
data services and custom research. As we scale our business, 
we aim to harmonise further across all geographies our research 
offerings and approach to the market as well as the operational 
and business processes that enable efficient and effective 
delivery of our research data and services to clients. We also 
expect further operational leverage from the continued growth of 
data products and services. In line with this, we will increasingly 
report our performance in terms of our global service lines.
Changes in revenue £m
FY13 FY14
Custom Research up 1%
Data Products & Services
up 30%
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
24%
29% “ The launch of Y ouGov 
Profiles, a new product that 
allows subscribers to 
interrogate the rich data in the 
Y ouGov engine, marks our 
intent to put our unique 
connected data at the heart 
of the marketing workflow. ”
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review continued
for the year ended 31 July 2014
10
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
The UK version of YouGov Profiles is based on a database of 
some 120,000 separate data points on consumers, collected 
initially from approximately 190,000 YouGov panellists. 
YouGov Profiles connects data on profiles, brand, sector, media, 
digital and social data all in one place. For example, it provides 
brand usage and perception data for some 1,000 brands (plus 
usage for thousands more), TV viewing for 5,000 programmes, 
website usage for the most active commercial websites and 
much more. YouGov Profiles will be offered to the market as a 
subscription service (like BrandIndex) with clients accessing the 
data through a dedicated portal. YouGov Profiles complements 
BrandIndex since it allows users to define and understand their 
potential target customers while BrandIndex allows them to 
measure the effect of campaigns and other events on how their 
own and other brands are perceived. It will improve the ability 
of marketers to understand the people and audiences that 
matter to them and will enable media owners to identify potential 
advertisers and make more informed content and scheduling 
decisions so as to deliver the target audience that advertisers 
require. YouGov Profiles will be delivered through a “point and 
click” tool, which will give users access to a wide range of 
detailed and connected data and provides analytics methods 
with which to interrogate and interpret the data. The full UK 
launch will take place at the Festival of Marketing in November, 
followed by rollouts in the USA and Germany later in the 2014/15 
financial year.
Expand our geographic footprint 
As a result of the acquisition of Decision Fuel in January 2014, 
YouGov has extended its footprint into Asia Pacific where 
the growth of a more sophisticated consumer base is driving 
demand for reliable yet economically priced research data, 
which YouGov is well-placed to provide. The new YouGov Asia 
Pacific team has integrated smoothly with the wider Group. 
The regional operation was extended to Indonesia in September 
2014, and we now have an office in Jakarta in addition to the 
Hong Kong, Shanghai and Singapore offices already in place at 
the time of the acquisition. Consistent with the rest of the Group, 
future growth in the region will be centred on BrandIndex and 
Omnibus both of which are already being rolled out there. 
Grow our suite of data products and services
Data products and services have remained the main driver of 
YouGov’s growth in FY14 and the operational leverage that they 
support also contributed to the significant profit growth in the 
year. In addition to the continued growth and development of 
our existing services, we have made good progress with further 
product innovations that are being introduced to the market. 
Chief among these is the YouGov Profiles product. 
YouGov’s recent product development has focused on 
harnessing the continuous stream of information that panellists 
share with us to provide more detailed and holistic information 
to marketers on the attitudes and behaviours of current 
and potential customers for their products and services. 
The continued expansion of ways in which marketing and 
advertising communications can be exchanged with consumers 
has fragmented audiences and increased the need to tailor 
and target advertising messages to reflect more precisely their 
interests and attitudes. Such targeting requires more detail and 
more precision in audience segmentation when planning media 
campaigns to identify opportunities and efficiencies. YouGov has 
responded to this need by developing YouGov Profiles, a 
ground breaking new tool for media planning and audience 
segmentation for use by brand owners and the agencies who 
serve them. YouGov Profiles is a unique offer in the industry, 
which combines a richer version of the information previously 
available to marketers with additional data on digital and social 
media activity. YouGov Profiles is already being tested by clients 
and will be launched formally in the UK in the autumn of 2014. 
Strategy 
Our clearly stated aim is to make our core offering of opinion 
data, derived from our highly responsive panel of respondents, 
into a systematic research and marketing platform. This delivers 
data and related analyses and reports that can be used to plan, 
manage and refine or adapt all types of campaigns whether they 
have commercial, political, social or other objectives. 
YouGov has continued to pioneer change in the research 
industry, with a focus in the last year on developing new services 
for marketers that build on and extend our range of successful 
data products and custom research. They also incorporate 
more data analytics and technology with which to access and 
manipulate the data. 
We are developing our methodology to produce a new 
class of connected data that allows marketers to understand 
their customers in greater depth, and to evaluate changing 
environments faster and with higher granularity. This is enabled 
for clients by new data-analysis technology that makes its 
everyday application to business needs easy and practical. 
By emphasising public participation in our data creation, we can 
achieve a unique level of completeness, connectedness and 
permissioned detail in our flow of information. Our best-in-class 
scientific custom research uses superior mathematical modelling 
which, together with our data products, answers the needs of 
clients by combining social-attitudinal, consumer-behavioural 
and media-usage information in a single profile of customers. 
We believe that this is a unique market offering in terms of its 
level of granularity, connectedness and speed.
We describe below the progress made in achieving our five key 
strategic objectives over the last year.  Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
11
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
YouGov now has 24 offices in 16 countries and operates panels 
in 33 countries, giving it one of the most widespread international 
research networks beyond those of the four largest global 
research groups.
Integrate custom research and syndicated data 
YouGov’s integrated operations combine our own highly 
responsive online panels, the expertise of our researchers 
and our analytics and technology capabilities. These offerings 
enable us to meet clients’ individual research needs through a 
combination of the ‘connected data’ that panellists provide and 
data generated from bespoke surveys. The highly structured 
and codified profile data library is known as the “YouGov Cube”; 
it underpins the new YouGov Profiles product by allowing us to 
enhance our custom offering and transform the way that custom 
research is undertaken. In simple terms, our aim is to be able 
to provide clients with answers to their questions about the 
attitudes, behaviours and profiles of the population and minimise 
the extent to which additional data collection is required through 
custom surveys. It also means add-on custom research can be 
better targeted and yield richer insights.
In every project we will consider how YouGov Cube can 
add to this – it improves the service we offer to clients and 
the profitability of each job that we do. The YouGov Cube 
enables YouGov to help clients reduce the cost of custom 
research, and thereby deliver more value for money to them. 
This responds to the challenge acknowledged by all the leading 
research groups of an industry whose clients are choosing to 
re-direct their marketing and research budgets to data-rich 
and more analytically based products rather than traditional 
bespoke surveys.
Enhance user experience
A key element of YouGov’s success is the high degree of 
responsiveness of our panellists and their willingness to share 
opinions and personal data with YouGov. Maintaining this relies 
on our ability to keep panel members engaged and interested 
in being members. We therefore focus significant attention on 
measuring and seeking ways to improve the quality of every 
panellist’s experience under the direction of the Group Director 
of User Experience, a post that was created for this purpose in 
2013. As well as obtaining direct feedback from panellists on the 
quality of the survey experience, extensive analysis has been 
conducted into how survey features and complexity may affect it. 
Another way in which we are extending the relationship between 
YouGov and our panellists is to offer more opportunities for 
them to share opinions and information with YouGov whenever 
they choose and not just in response to survey invitations. 
Opigram, which allows panellists to share opinions, build up 
their own profile of likes and dislikes and compare them with 
others has proved very popular with panellists. It is on track to 
meet the targets set as part of the acquisition of CoEditor Ltd, 
the company that developed Opigram, which was completed 
in December 2013. Thus, the number of visitors to YouGov’s UK 
websites increased by 46% in the year to 31 July 2014, and the 
number of freely shared data points has grown significantly, with 
the monthly rate having increased five-fold during the year to 
over 5 million in July 2014. This measure is also significant for the 
cost-effective development of YouGov’s data products, notably 
YouGov Profiles, as it means that much of the core data and all of 
the long-tail data points included in them can now be collected 
without incurring direct cost to YouGov as distinct from survey 
data for which panellists receive incentive payments. 
To support the roll-out of YouGov Profiles, a new YouGov website 
including Opigram will be launched in UK and extended to the 
US and Germany during the 2014/15 financial year. At present, 
Opigram and the full YouGov Online interactive experience have 
been visible only to YouGov panel members. It is intended to 
offer non-members the ability to participate in surveys on key 
questions of the day and to share their opinions on the platform. 
This is a major shift, which will open up YouGov Online as a 
place for many more people to share their views and personal 
profiles. We expect that YouGov Online will assist organic panel 
recruitment and panel retention, and thus enable a reduction 
in expenditure on panel recruitment in the future. It also opens 
up the exciting possibility that, through the Opigram platform, 
YouGov will gain as much data from the continuous, freely-
shared, structured conversation of its members on the website 
as we do from formal surveys.
Recent enhancements to our survey platform have also 
significantly improved our panellists’ experience when using 
mobile devices and places it at the forefront of mobile-friendly 
market research. We expect the majority of survey participation 
to happen on mobile devices in the not-too-distant future and 
we are investing in the development of more opportunities in 
this area. 
Boost our public profile
YouGov has continued to be the most highly cited market 
research agency in the UK. Our position as the most authoritative 
source of data on public opinion was recently demonstrated 
during the campaign leading up to the Scottish independence 
referendum. In the USA, where there has previously been 
significant resistance to the use of online polling methods for 
elections, YouGov has been appointed jointly by CBS and 
The New York Times to provide nationwide polling for the 2014 
Congressional elections. The first poll which was published in 
August 2014 attracted widespread publicity and we expect this 
initiative greatly to boost the awareness of YouGov’s brand in the 
USA, especially among corporate and public sector decision-
makers. YouGov’s media presence also continues to grow in our 
other markets including France, Denmark and Germany in all of 
which we are now among the top four most quoted agencies. 
Under the guidance of our new Global Chief Marketing Officer, 
who joined the Group in December 2013, we have made good 
progress in developing our global marketing activities. A new 
brand architecture has been developed, bringing all of our 
products and services together within a global ‘master brand 
supported by a new suite of marketing collateral and panel 
recruitment tools. We have also developed a unified approach 
to communicating with our digital and social media environment. 
The global marketing team has been further strengthened by 
adding experienced professionals in key positions in a number 
of units. 12
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Overview of Global Products and Services
Revenue
£m
Revenue 
Growth
%
Operating
Profit 
(£m)
Operating
Margin
%
Data Products  
(incl. BrandIndex) 9.6 45% 1.6 17%
Data Services  
(incl. Omnibus) 10.1 18% 3.9 39%
Total Data Products  
& Services 19.7 30% 5.5 28%
Custom Research 47.7 1% 5.5 12%
Central Costs – – (3.6)
Group 67.4 8% 7.4 11%
Data Products and Services
Data Products are comprised of YouGov BrandIndex, our 
flagship brand intelligence tracker, which accounted for 80% 
of this category, and YouGov Reports, which provides market 
intelligence reports and sector trackers. YouGov Omnibus 
(including field and tab services) represents the majority of Data 
Services with the balance being the provision of sample-only 
services in the Nordic and Middle East regions. 
In general, data products generate higher margins than custom 
research once they reach maturity as the input costs, such 
as data collection and analysis, are incurred only once while 
their outputs are sold to multiple clients. However, they also 
require investment in product development, analytics and sales 
resources during their early stages. In FY14, the overall margin 
of 17% reflected this mix with BrandIndex achieving significantly 
higher margins offset by the lower margins of the relatively 
newer products. 
Within Data Products, BrandIndex grew revenue by 53% to 
£8.0m (2013: £5.3m) and passed an important milestone as 
it now accounts for 12% of total Group revenue, generated 
from over 200 subscribers in 15 markets across the world. 
BrandIndex serves major accounts among both advertising and 
media planning agencies on the one hand and brand owners 
and advertisers on the other. Its long-standing clients include 
OMD, Universal McCann, Bank of America, KFC and Subway. 
New client wins in the year include Carnival Cruise Lines, Air 
Berlin and Commercial Bank of Dubai.
BrandIndex’s growth this year was supported by the global roll-
out of an enhanced version (6.0) whose sampling methodology 
represents even better the consumer population in each 
category and which increased its reported metrics from nine 
to sixteen. These provide more granular measurement of paid 
(advertising) vs. earned (word of mouth) media, as well as 
enabling the consumer journey to be tracked in more stages 
from brand discovery through to actual purchase and brand 
advocacy. Version 6.1 was released in June 2014 and further 
extends the flexibility of BrandIndex data, enabling clients to 
view any BrandIndex metric through the filter of any other metric. 
For example, a client can now compare purchase consideration 
among consumers who have and have not seen recent 
advertising, or evaluate the percentage of its customer base who 
are also customers of a competitor (and vice versa). 
The range of business sectors covered has also been expanded 
to include Hospital and Cable & Satellite TV sectors in the 
US, both of which attracted multiple new clients in FY14. 
More sectors will be added in multiple geographies in FY15 
and the geographic coverage will also be expanded to include 
Singapore and Indonesia, supported by the growing YouGov 
Asia Pacific operation. The YouGov Reports business increased 
revenue by 17% to £1.1m. Its portfolio of market intelligence 
reports (previously branded as “SixthSense”) comprises some 
350 report titles. Financial services have become the main sector 
focus over the past year in response to client demand, with other 
sectors covered including food & drink, technology and utilities. 
The Reports segment also includes HEAT, YouGov’s economic 
confidence tracking study (covering UK, US and China) and 
specialist syndicated trackers on issues such as household 
debt, magazine consumption, smartphones and media content. 
Its geographic coverage includes the UK (its largest market), 
France, Germany and the US. The core of YouGov Reports is 
panel-based research data drawn from YouGov’s panel which 
is combined with information on market sizes, brand analysis, 
competitive benchmarking and market forecasts to produce 
comprehensive analyses of a market or topic within it. 
YouGov Omnibus, our online fast-turnaround service, grew 
revenue by 20% to £8.8m in line with our strategy of applying 
the successful UK model to other markets. Its non-UK revenue 
increased by 70% with the recently launched French and US 
Omnibus services, respectively trebling and doubling their 
revenue and the German service also growing well, in line with 
our plans. The UK service, which is the clear market leader, 
maintained solid growth of 7%. Omnibus continues to enhance 
its service offering with innovations designed to meet client’s 
changing needs. These include a faster 24 hour delivery time as 
the standard in the UK instead of the previous 48 hour service 
and a new “Slides!” facility which provides an automated slide 
pack as the default means for delivering Omnibus survey 
results. Major international clients in the year included National 
Geographic and UNICEF . The segmental services (such 
as Children and Parents, Shoppers and B2B) and focused 
geographical samples such as Citybus, which have been 
successful in expanding the service in the UK, are also being 
rolled-out in other markets. Client demand for multi-country 
Omnibus projects has also grown, stimulated by targeted 
marketing to existing single-country users. 
Custom Research
YouGov’s custom research business conducts a wide range of 
quantitative and qualitative research, tailored by our specialist 
teams to meet clients’ specific requirements. The scope, scale 
and complexity of projects varies significantly both within and 
between our geographic markets ranging from large-scale 
multinational tracking studies through to more narrowly focused 
one-off surveys. With evidence of reduced client demand 
for traditional custom research as well as previous mixed 
performance within our own units, our aim has been to improve 
custom research profitability by focusing external sales effort 
and internal resources into the areas that utilise fully YouGov’s 
panel-centric methodology and exploit the strengths of our 
geographic network. Thus while our global custom revenue grew 
by only 1% in the year, in line with the global market, the adjusted 
operating profit grew by 7%. As expected, performance varied 
between regions. The Middle East business continued to build 
on its regional strength to grow revenue by 45% and our UK 
custom revenue grew by 6%, with YouGov’s reputation for 
reporting public opinion accurately also continuing to resonate 
with corporate clients. US custom revenue fell slightly by 4% 
although this was largely in lower margin areas, while there was 
good growth from new and existing clients in the consumer 
and technology sectors as well as in political and academic 
work. In the Nordics, where the strategy has been to reduce 
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review continued
for the year ended 31 July 2014 “ T oday we are entering our 
next phase. We have a 
powerful brand, a global 
platform and now are 
developing a new 
technology and approach 
to data collection and 
analysis that will allow 
Y ouGov to fulfill its mission 
as a true Internet company .”
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
13
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
the proportion of smaller, often less-profitable custom projects, 
custom revenue fell by 16% but operating margins increased 
significantly, reflecting the cost reductions undertaken in the 
previous year. German custom revenue fell by 13%, due partly 
to client consolidation reducing demand in the financial services 
industry and also re-orientation of work away from traditional 
offline methods.
We believe custom research services will continue to be a very 
significant part of YouGov but increasingly they will make full 
use of our panel and data resources rather than being one-off 
projects involving conventional data collection. 
Dividend
The Board has previously indicated that it intends to follow a 
progressive dividend policy. Having considered the Group’s 
performance in the year ended 31 July 2014 and future 
expectations as well as its financial resources, the Board is 
pleased to recommend payment of a final dividend of 0.8p per 
share in respect of the year ended 31 July 2014, payable in 
December 2014. This represents an increase of 33% over the 
dividend paid in 2013.
Prospects 
Fifteen years ago, YouGov began life as a challenger to the 
market research industry by pioneering online data collection. 
We grew internationally by acquisitions, and have now integrated 
these to become a more efficient organisation. Today we are 
entering our next phase. We have a powerful brand, a global 
platform and now are developing a new technology and 
approach to data collection and analysis that will allow YouGov 
to fulfill its mission as a true Internet company.
What do I mean by a ‘true Internet’ company? I mean a company 
that interacts with the world online and which creates its core 
product from that interaction.
The constant conversation we have online with millions of people 
is indeed our core product. As a result, companies can access 
the rich connected data in different forms. It measures the world 
today and how it is changing, helping to predict what will happen 
next and reveal how to influence that direction. Crucially, the 
process is useful for all participants: panellists and clients alike.
The foundation of this conversation was the online survey. 
That is now developing into increasingly sophisticated variations 
including the never-ending opinion profile that is Opigram: 
an enjoyable, panellist-centred programme to create rich, 
structured, shareable, personal profiles. The aggregated, 
crunchable data that it generates helps to power 
YouGov Profiles. 
The new website to be launched this autumn marks our next 
phase, in which our way of interacting with our panellists and 
what we do for our clients is visible as a single system. That is 
what I mean by becoming a true Internet company.
Stephan Shakespeare 
Chief Executive Officer 
13 October 2014  Strategic report
Our data products and services
14
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
YouGov BrandIndex, YouGov’s flagship brand intelligence 
service, tells our clients what the world thinks of their brands 
and their competitors at any given moment and helps our clients 
understand the link between their media and advertising efforts, 
brand perception, and consumer response. BrandIndex data is 
updated daily and holds up to six years of historical data about 
our client and competitor brands, which is all instantly available 
to our clients through our user-friendly BrandIndex portal. 
BrandIndex is currently available in the USA, UK, Denmark, 
Finland, France, Germany, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, 
Norway, Saudi Arabia, Sweden, United Arab Emirates, Brazil 
and China. Every day we survey multitudes of consumers 
across these territories – conducting over 4.5 million 
BrandIndex interviews every year – about thousands of brands 
across dozens of industry segments. 
Following the roll-out of a significantly enhanced version of 
BrandIndex last year (version 6.0), an update was released in 
June 2014 (version 6.1) which has further extended the flexibility 
of BrandIndex data, enabling clients to view any BrandIndex 
metric through the filter of any other metric. For example, a client 
can now compare purchase consideration among consumers 
who have and have not seen recent advertising, or evaluate the 
percentage of its customer base who are also customers of a 
competitor (and vice versa). 
During FY14, the range of business sectors covered by 
BrandIndex was expanded to include Hospital and Cable & 
Satellite TV sectors in the US. More sectors will be added in 
multiple geographies in FY15 and the geographic coverage 
will also be expanded to include Singapore and Indonesia, 
supported by the growing YouGov Asia Pacific operation. 
YouGov’s very first product, YouGov Omnibus, is now the 
market-leading online omnibus service in the UK and in recent 
years has been extended to our French, German, Middle East, 
Nordic and US operations. The YouGov Omnibus is the perfect 
vehicle to find out people’s opinions, attitudes and behaviours, 
quickly and cost-effectively. Omnibus surveys are run daily, 
providing nationally representative responses to clients within 
a 48 hour turnaround. We now conduct over 2 million Omnibus 
surveys every year across our global operations. The service 
can provide clients with data from some 20 countries and 
client demand for multi-country Omnibus projects continues 
to increase.
The size and diversity of the YouGov panel has also enabled 
us to expand our Omnibus offering to include a number 
of selected target samples. Omnibus segmental services 
include International, Children and Parent, B2B, Independent 
Financial Advisors and LGBT. We also run regular Omnibus 
surveys covering “influential” audiences in the UK including 
Members of Parliament. The OmniDeepDive service provides 
professionally moderated online focus groups with a selection 
of Omnibus respondents. 
YouGov Omnibus continues to enhance its service offering 
with innovations designed to meet client’s changing needs. 
These include a faster 24 hour delivery time as the standard 
in the UK and the new “Slides!” facility which provides an 
automated slide pack as the default means for delivering 
Omnibus survey results. 
In addition to our fast-turnaround Omnibus service, we have a suite of syndicated, 
proprietary data products which includes YouGov BrandIndex, YouGov Pulse and YouGov 
Reports. This year, we have added two new syndicated products to our roster: YouGov Pulse, 
our real-time digital and mobile behaviour tracker; and YouGov Profiles, our planning and 
segmentation tool.
YouGov Pulse is our new real-time digital and mobile behaviour 
tracker. Pulse enables brands and agencies to capture real-
time, in-depth and actual online consumer behaviour across 
laptops, smartphones and tablets.
Through Pulse, we collect information on websites visited; 
search terms used; exposure to online advertising banners; 
online e-commerce journeys; and applications used. 
Furthermore, we collect Pulse data from up to three devices to 
form the full picture of their online behaviour. 
The strength of Pulse is the relationship we have with our 
panellists; we have data on respondents who were already 
part of the YouGov community before they were asked to take 
part in Pulse. This means that we know all kinds of different 
background information, ranging from their demographics, 
media habits, consumption and brand affinity. Pulse makes 
it possible to understand the full picture of what consumers 
do online and the online journeys they experience.  Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
15
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
 
The YouGov Reports division consists of market intelligence 
reports (previously called “SixthSense” reports), an economic 
confidence tracking study and specialist syndicated financial, 
media and technology trackers.
The market intelligence report portfolio consists of over 350 
report titles covering 1,000+ topic areas ranging across the 
finance, technology, retail, utilities, media, legal services and 
food and drink sectors. Reports are currently produced for the 
UK, France and Germany and in 2015 they will be rolled out 
to China, the Nordics and the Middle East. YouGov Reports 
place our proprietary online panel at the heart of the proposition 
using opinions from hard to reach groups such as, for example, 
consumers who have made complaints to regulatory bodies, 
those who have switched bank accounts, or families with a 
relative in a care home. This results in our reports being packed 
with original consumer research data and analysis that can 
not be found anywhere else. Our reports use data from the 
YouGov Cube to create extra analysis and insight, allowing 
clients and potential clients to cut YouGov Reports data by 
their own customers and segments. Reports can be bought 
as single copies, as a package or, increasingly, for an annual 
subscription covering multiple topics and reports. New clients in 
the year include Citi Group, Ofcom and the British Library.
The Household Economic Activity Tracker (HEAT) is YouGov’s 
economic confidence tracker. As well as presenting monthly 
indicators of consumer confidence based on household 
financial situation, job security, business activity and house 
prices, it provides over 70 other economic indicators including 
inflation expectations, propensity to save and willingness to 
spend across a range of categories. Subscribers receive a 
detailed view of macro-economic and consumer trends as 
well as forecasts based on the earliest indication of consumer 
confidence and consumer reaction to economic events. 
HEAT is available in the UK, US and China as either a monthly 
report or via an online dashboard that is automatically updated 
throughout each month. The monthly report in the UK is 
produced by the Centre for Economics and Business Research 
(Cebr), who are providing additional expert macroeconomic 
analysis and forecasts. Unlike other trackers and indices with 
significant processing time or quarterly or annual results, our 
HEAT reports are delivered within days of month-end and 
we also update the online dashboard throughout the month. 
New clients in the year include Investec and M&G Investments.
We also have a range of other premium syndicated trackers 
which are updated more quickly than alternative offers in 
the market. These include the Smartphone, Mobile Internet 
eXperience (SMIX) report and tracking studies monitoring the 
effects of the UK Retail Distribution Review.
In autumn 2014, YouGov will launch YouGov Profiles, our 
segmentation and media planning product for brands and 
their agencies. Profiles will improve the ability of marketers to 
understand the people and audiences that matter to them. 
It will enable media owners to identify potential advertisers and 
make more informed content and scheduling decisions so as 
to deliver the target audience that advertisers require.
YouGov Profiles offers the largest, most detailed and real-time 
consumer database in the UK, updated weekly. Powered by 
data collected in the YouGov Cube – our connected data vault 
which holds over 120,000 data points, collected from 190,000 
UK YouGov members – Profiles connects data on profiles, 
brand, sector, media, digital and social data all in one place. 
For example, it provides brand usage and perception data for 
some 1,000 brands (plus usage for thousands more), TV show 
viewing for 5,000 programmes, website usage for a most active 
commercial websites and much more. Profiles allows users 
to profile their target audience across multi-channel data sets 
from a single source, with greater granularity and accuracy than 
ever before.
Profiles will be delivered on a subscription basis (like 
BrandIndex) through a dedicated online portal which gives 
users access to a wide range of detailed and connected data 
and provides analytics methods with which to interrogate and 
interpret the data. 
Our revolutionary social media analysis tool, SoMA, forms 
one of the backbones of YouGov Profiles. At the same time, 
YouGov BrandIndex acts as a complementary tool: Profiles 
allows users to define and understand their potential target 
customers while BrandIndex allows them to measure the effect 
of campaigns and other events on how their own and other 
brands are perceived.
The full UK launch of YouGov Profiles will take place at the 
Festival of Marketing in November 2014, followed by rollouts 
to US and Germany later in FY15. We believe YouGovProfiles 
to be unique to the research industry and of value in the daily 
workflow of every marketer. “ I like to see how many 
people have viewed my 
opinion, skipped it, rated 
it or made a comment.”
Strategic report
Opigram
“ Really pleased I signed up 
for this, great way to hear 
other people’s opinions on 
a whole range of subjects.”
“I spend too much time on 
Y ouGov – it’s addictive.”
“Brilliant, the thinking 
man’s Facebook.”
16
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Opigram is a highly personalised, 
constantly engaging, gamified 
online experience – there’s nothing 
else like it in the research industry. 
Opigram
Opigram is a fun, panellist-centred programme to create rich, 
structured, shareable, personal profiles. By using Opigram, 
our panellists can share opinions and information with 
YouGov whenever they choose and not just in response to 
survey invitations.
Opigram allows YouGov panellists to proactively share opinions, 
build up their own profile of likes and dislikes and to compare 
them with others. Through a combination of ratings, inputting 
opinions, and agreeing or disagreeing with other panellists, 
panellists build up a 360 degree profile of their tastes, habits and 
interests (their personal Opigram). At the same time, opinions 
come together to form detailed profiles of the fans of brands, 
movies, celebrities, books and much more. It provides people 
with a way to record their opinions and experiences that is 
organised to be useful to them, and to other people. The platform 
also offers a social network via which panellists can get to know 
one another over a shared opinion, hobby or passion.
Developed in association with CoEditor Ltd (now 100% 
owned by YouGov), Opigram has proven very popular among 
panellists and quickly become an integral part of YouGov’s 
panel engagement and website strategies. Furthermore, the 
aggregated, crunchable data from Opigram helps to power 
our new product for marketers, YouGov Profiles (described on 
page 15).
The YouGov Online team is preparing the launch of a new 
YouGov website - featuring Opigram - in the US, the UK and 
Germany later this year. We expect the roll-out of Opigram to 
boost the engagement of our panellists in these geographies 
significantly. As an added bonus, we expect the roll-out to also 
boost organic panellist recruitment and increase the amount 
of data freely shared with us. The past 12 months has seen a 
tremendous growth in the number of freely shared data points 
collected from the panel via Opigram, such that in the latest 
complete month of August 2014, almost 6 million data points 
were collected from the UK panel. 
Until now, Opigram and the entirety of the YouGov interactive 
experience has only been visible to existing YouGov panel 
members. Our new website is designed to allow people 
outside of the 3-million-strong YouGov panel to share their 
opinions on the platform by taking part in the key questions 
of the day. This is a major shift which will open up YouGov as 
a place for many more people to share their opinions. It also 
opens up the exciting possibility that, through the Opigram 
platform, YouGov will gain as much data from the continuous, 
freely shared, structured conversation of its members on the 
website as we do from formal surveys.
The commercial aspects of Opigram are discussed in more 
detail in the CEO’s Report on page 11. Strategic report
Share a Coke: case study
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
17
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Campaign
For the ‘Share a Coke’ campaign, the soft-drink giant replaced 
its usual branding with 150 of the UKs most popular first names. 
It was a multi-media effort including TV adverts, billboards and 
experiential marketing. Each bottle also carried the hashtag 
#shareacoke to encourage users to share images on social 
media. YouGov chose to study the innovative campaign’s 
progression and impact with UK consumers.
Our study
We used connected data to combine actual (rather than 
claimed) advertising exposure with daily brand perception 
data to understand the impact of the advertising campaign and 
which elements were most effective. We also conducted online 
qualitative focus groups to gain a deeper understanding of how 
‘Share a Coke’ connected with consumers. Actual exposure 
data comes from panellists who complete our daily media 
consumption surveys, allow us access to their social media feeds 
and let us track their web behaviour. In this case, we looked at 
the impact of TV, Twitter and Facebook by taking those exposed 
on each platform and assessing how their perceptions of Coca-
Cola compared to matched samples who were not exposed. 
Brand perception comes from our daily brand perception 
tracker, YouGov BrandIndex – monitoring views on over 900 UK 
brands across 15 metrics each day.
Results
We saw that consumer perception of Coca-Cola, Diet Coke and 
Coke Zero improved substantially on virtually every measure for 
those who were exposed to ‘Share a Coke’ TV adverts and on 
social media, with consumers who were exposed on Facebook 
showing the most dramatic improvement. While all age 
groups were positively affected by exposure to the campaign, 
18-24-year-olds were the group most positively impacted, with 
the effectiveness decreasing with age.
Lessons
The campaign was so effective because it created unique and 
individual moments and interactions where consumers feel they 
have personally connected with the Coca-Cola brand and at the 
same time it gave them a reason to reach out to other people 
within their own personal network through social media. The fact 
that the ‘Share a Coke’ message was communicated through 
multiple modes of media also contributed to its inclusivity. 
While the social media elements worked best with younger 
consumers, older people still had a positive reaction to the TV 
and physical elements of the campaign. The bottom line for other 
brands hoping to emulate the ‘Share a Coke’ success is that 
in the age of social media, a campaign only works if it can be 
shared, enjoyed and interpreted by consumers in their own way.
Changes in YouGov BrandIndex measures  
of the Coca-Cola brand during the UK  
‘Share a Coke’ campaign
By connecting data from  
YouGov BrandIndex and YouGov Pulse  
with qualitative custom research, we were 
able to measure the effectiveness of  
Coca-Cola’s 2013 UK ‘Share a Coke’ 
campaign across different target groups.
“ If I see a bottle with 
one of my friends 
name on it I’ll tweet 
it to them.”
“I actually took a picture of 
myself with the billboard with 
my name on it and put it on 
Facebook.”
TV exposed vs Nat-Rep
9%
+5%
9%
+10%
28%
21%
+8%
Buzz Impression Recommend
Facebook exposed vs Facebook population
11%
+6%
11%
Buzz Impression Recommend
Twitter exposed vs Twitter population
+10%
26%
22%
+8%
10%
+5%
10%
Buzz Impression Recommend
+19%
24%
+18%
30%
Data from YouGov BrandIndex (daily UK sample size 4,000, September 2013) Y ouGov’s reputation for providing accurate and authoritative information is enhanced by the strength 
of our public profile. Y ouGov conducts public opinion polls in collaboration with a number of the 
world’s leading media organisations and academic institutions.
Partnership with The New Y ork Times and CBS News
In the USA, where there has previously been significant 
resistance to the use of online polling methods for elections, 
YouGov has been appointed jointly by CBS News and The 
New York Times to provide nationwide polling for the 2014 
Congressional elections. In August 2014, The New York Times 
“rocked the polling world” (in the words of Washington Post 
columnist Chris Cillizza*) by announcing the partnership with 
YouGov and CBS News. This ambitious new effort involves 
YouGov polling over 100,000 panellists four times during 
election campaign.
Our polling covers every state and all 435 congressional 
districts. Unlike traditional telephone polls, which usually 
involve samples of a thousand or so, by using our online 
methodology YouGov can deliver consistent, accurate 
and timely readings on every race throughout the election 
cycle. Because YouGov uses a panel methodology and 
most of our panellists were also interviewed during the 
2012 U.S. presidential election campaign, our samples are 
balanced to reflect actual votes cast in the 2012 election 
as well as demographics. This gives us a large advantage 
over traditional polls which lack reliable data on past voting 
behaviour and are forced rely upon demographic weighting 
alone to achieve representativeness.
The Battleground Tracker results are published on The New 
York Times’ new data visualisation and analysis website, The 
Upshot, as well as CBS’s and YouGov’s websites. In explaining 
why The New York Times chose to partner with YouGov, David 
Leonhardt, editor of The Upshot said that he was optimistic 
that “technological change usually brings more benefits 
than drawbacks”. YouGov is leading this technological 
transformation in the polling world.
Y ouGov-Cambridge
Now in its fourth year, the YouGov-Cambridge Programme is 
a unique partnership between YouGov and the Department 
of Politics and International Studies (POLIS) at Cambridge 
University. It’s objectives are: to grow a YouGov hub for survey 
research at a world-leading University; and to support a 
regular programme of public-interest research and events that 
inform the national debate.
To those ends, the past year has been productive, generating 
a wide range of studies on domestic and international 
issues, from compulsory voting in Britain to political optimism 
in the Middle East and American attitudes to Medicare. 
YouGov practitioners have also become guest teachers 
and associate lecturers at the University, giving workshops, 
seminars and lectures as part of postgraduate teaching 
programmes. This now includes annual contributions to 
methodology courses, thereby rooting YouGov’s data and 
expertise in the core syllabus for social science research 
methods at Cambridge.
The annual YouGov-Cambridge Spring event in April 
2014 brought together many of the key players in the UK’s 
household energy market, including both Secretary and 
Shadow Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change, 
plus Big Six CEO’s, the energy press, Ofgem, consumer 
watchdogs and Energy UK, the trade association for the 
energy industry. The debate focused on findings from a 
YouGov special report on “Energy, Politics and the Consumer”, 
which combined extensive surveys of public and industry 
attitudes by Stephan Shakespeare, as well as collaborations 
with the POLIS Department and Energy Policy Research 
Group at the University. After front-page coverage by  
The Times*, the survey results informed a widely 
reported debate. 
Follow YouGov-Cambridge on Twitter 
@YouGovCam
Strategic report
Y ouGov in the press
*The Washington Post, 31 July 2014
*The Times, 31 March 2014
yougov.com
2014 Battleground Tracker
18
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Amour, Haine et 
Pronostics: La Coupe 
du Monde vue par 19 
pays
YouGov, en collaboration 
avec Le New York Times, 
vient de publier une étude 
analysant l’opinion des 
fans de foot sur le Mondial 
tout autour du globe.
GQ France, 11 June 2014
Brits say no to war in Syria
An exclusive YouGov survey for The Sun  
has revealed there is still strong opposition  
to all types of UK involvement in the bitter 
two year long civil war .
The Sun, 28 August 2013
Here are the Brands that Won the  
World Cup
According to YouGov BrandIndex, the big 
winners this World Cup were Pepsi, Coke, 
and Hyundai.
The Wall Street Journal, 16 July 2014
Americans Won’t Stop 
Loving Amazon
Amazon, the world’s 
largest online retailer , kept 
its spot as America’s 
favorite brand in 
YouGov BrandIndex’s 
semi-annual ranking of 
how US consumers feel 
about some of the biggest 
global companies.
The Huffington Post,  
16 July 2014
The New York Times rocked the polling world over the weekend
The New York Times shook up the polling world this weekend when 
the Upshot decided to including Internet polling – conducted by 
YouGov – in election models.
The Washington Post, 31 July 2014
Großes Ranking: Diese 
menschen bewundert 
die welt!
Fünf kontinente, 13 länder , 
14,000 personen und die 
frage des umfrageinstituts 
YouGov: welche person 
bewundern sie am 
meisten? Die antworten 
sind oft erwartbar – aber 
ebenso oft erstaunlich!
Bild, 7 February 2014
YouGov’s Scottish 
poll has investors 
rushing for cover
Until this week’s polls, 
investors had largely 
disregarded the 
September 18 Scottish 
independence 
referendum, pointing 
to the consistently 
large lead enjoyed by 
the No camp as a 
reason not to worry. 
But yesterday’s survey 
from YouGov 
changed that – not by 
suggesting the Yes 
camp could win but by 
implying such an 
outcome could no 
longer be ruled out.
The Financial Times,  
3 September 2014
UAE police forces have the 
trust of their residents, poll 
shows
The YouGov survey , which 
was commissioned by The 
National newspaper and is the 
first of its kind in the UAE, 
revealed that the vast majority 
of those polled felt confident in 
local police.
The National,  
21 September 2014
Hver anden synes at 
kæresten er for tyk eller slap
“Skat, synes du, jeg er blevet 
tyk?” Det spørgsmål ved 
enhver , der nogensinde har 
været i et parforhold, at man 
skal besvare med yderst stor 
forsigtighed. I en helt ny 
undersøgelse, som YouGov 
har foretaget for Metroxpress, 
svarer danskerne dog mere frit.
Metroxpress, 4 July 2014
Revealed: the world’s most  
admired people
Bill Gates is the most admired person in the 
world, according to a global survey for The 
Times by YouGov.
The Times, 11 January 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
19
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report
Review of geographic operations
for the year ended 31 July 2014
UK USA
20
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
The UK business recorded another successful year with 
revenue growth of 11%, again well ahead of the overall market 
and adjusted operating profit increasing by 13%. As with the 
Group as a whole, data products and services revenue grew 
strongly by 16% to £9.4m and further increased its share of 
total UK revenue to 48%. This is a key driver of the UK’s high 
profit margins since BrandIndex and Omnibus are both more 
scalable than custom research. 
BrandIndex revenue grew by 61% due in part to the benefit 
of previous investment in sales and client services resources. 
The UK BrandIndex version now has 74 UK clients. It is 
increasingly being adopted as an important source of brand 
health data by leading UK as well as international brands 
including Intercontinental Hotels Group, LV= and PapaJohns. 
The UK is also beginning to follow the US business in 
securing multi-country contracts with its clients. Revenue from 
UK Omnibus grew by 7% to £6.3m, helped by good growth 
in the segmental omnibuses including the recently launched 
SME Omnibus and the Parents and Children’s. The launch of 
the new 24 hour standard service and of the “Slides!” facility 
has been well received by clients and is expected to help to 
maintain YouGov Omnibus UK market leadership position. 
YouGov Reports increased its revenue by 17% to £1.1m. 
It increased its focus on the financial services sector where it 
has achieved good penetration and the proportion of clients 
contracting for a package of reports also grew as planned. 
UK custom research grew revenue by 6% with the specialist 
Reputation practice in particular winning business among 
major corporate clients such as Barclays and BNP Paribas. 
The Political team and indeed the business as a whole 
continued to benefit from the close partnership with News UK 
and the coverage of YouGov polls that this provides. The UK’s 
major clients in the year included Asda, Bill & Melinda 
Gates Foundation, ITV, JUST EAT, Morrisons, Prudential 
and Santander.
Our US business has built on the progress reported at 
the interim stage and delivered overall revenue growth 
as well as a substantial improvement in profitability with 
adjusted operating profit increasing by 32% to £3.0m. 
This performance was due in part to the continued strong 
growth of the data products and services element whose 
revenue grew by 43% to £5.3m. It now represents 24% of 
total US revenue. Custom research revenue fell by 4% but its 
profitability increased significantly. 
BrandIndex, for which the US remains the largest market, 
increased revenue by 44% to £4.4m and now has 80 US 
clients. New clients signed up in the year include Carnival 
Cruise Lines and The Weather Channel and it continues 
to enjoy strong relationships with agencies such as OMD, 
Universal McCann and Mediacom as well as corporate clients 
such as Bank of America and Subway.
The corrective actions taken in the custom research business 
over the last twelve months to improve sales effectiveness 
and reduce costs have succeeded in improving its 
performance and profitability. A number of senior roles were 
reduced which will yield annual savings of £1m. As a result, 
custom research operating margins increased to 11% from 
6%. Sales orders grew by 20% compared to the prior year 
with the technology, electronic games and FMCG sectors 
performing strongly. However, sales were higher towards the 
end of the financial year so that the revenue effect will partly 
be seen in the next year. Leading clients included Coca-
Cola, Sonos, Amazon and several leading global Internet 
companies including Facebook and Google. The traditionally 
strong academic and political business is already benefiting 
from the CBS/New York Times polling collaboration and the 
overall US business is well-positioned for future growth. 
Year to 
31 July  
2014 
£m
Year to 
31 July  
2013 
£m
% 
Change
Revenue 21.9 20.8 5%
Adjusted Operating Profit 3.0 2.3 32%
Adjusted Operating Profit 
Margin (%) 14% 11%
Year to 
31 July  
2014 
£m
Year to 
31 July  
2013 
£m
% 
Change
Revenue 19.4 17.4 11%
Adjusted Operating Profit 5.0 4.4 13%
Adjusted Operating Profit 
Margin (%) 26% 26% Middle East Germany
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
21
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
The Middle East region delivered another year of strong 
growth with revenue increasing by 38% and adjusted 
operating profit up by 45%. Custom research makes up 
most (90%) of the Middle East business and grew by 45%. 
This performance reflected the expansion of the new 
operation in Kurdistan as well as the continued development 
of the existing YouGov operation, based in the United Arab 
Emirates (Dubai) and Saudi Arabia. During the year, sales 
included major contracts from public economic development 
bodies, notably the Saudi Commission for Tourism and 
Antiquities and the Dubai Tourism Commission as well 
as further work from existing regional and international 
commercial clients such as PepsiCo, Saudi Telecom and 
Yahoo. In Kurdistan, major studies are being conducted 
for commercial and public sector clients, focused 
around public opinion polling. While data products and 
services still represent a small part of the business, more 
resources are being devoted to their growth in the region. 
Development of both parts of the business is supported by 
the strong reputation for quality of YouGov’s regional panel, 
which covers 21 countries. In the coming year, an operation 
will be started in Egypt, largely in response to client demand. 
New heads have recently been appointed to manage the 
Dubai and Saudi operations following the promotion of 
the regional CEO to a Group role. Although the region’s 
political instability is of concern, the economic strength of 
the countries in which YouGov is based continues to attract 
local and international investment. YouGov’s knowledge of the 
region gives us the confidence that it will continue to provide 
opportunities for our business to grow there. 
While this year’s decline in profitability of our German 
business was disappointing, especially following the progress 
achieved in the previous two years, the two main elements of 
the business performed very differently. Data products and 
services continued to grow well with BrandIndex increasing 
revenue by 35% and Omnibus by 33%. This element now 
accounts for 25% of total revenue and is achieving margins 
approaching 20%. BrandIndex now has 30 clients in Germany 
including Air Berlin and Plan.Net. Omnibus growth reflected 
the move to a full daily service at the beginning of the year 
and a new Qualitative Omnibus that was launched during the 
year. Custom research however, faced challenging market 
conditions and its revenue fell by 13% due both to general 
weakness in the German research market and changing 
demands among its important financial services client base 
and this led to a reduction in profitability. Actions were taken 
in the year to address this and especially to improve sales 
effectiveness and reduce costs. Active marketing and PR 
campaigns together with collaborations with leading media 
organisations such as the Deutsche Presse-Agentur (DPA) 
and Handelsblatt are helping to build more awareness of 
the YouGov brand in Germany. As the core YouGov offer 
is working well here in spite of the local market challenges, 
we have decided to accelerate its development through 
the planned launch of the new YouGov Profiles product 
in Germany early in 2015. These initiatives, together with 
the continued expansion of BrandIndex and Omnibus, 
are expected to lead to an improved overall performance 
in the coming year. 
Year to 
31 July  
2014 
£m
Year to 
31 July  
2013 
£m
% 
Change
Revenue 8.9 9.4 (5%)
Adjusted Operating Profit 0.5 0.9 (43%)
Adjusted Operating Profit 
Margin (%) 6% 9%
Year to 
31 July  
2014 
£m
Year to 
31 July  
2013 
£m
% 
Change
Revenue 10.1 7.3 38%
Adjusted Operating Profit 2.2 1.5 45%
Adjusted Operating Profit 
Margin (%) 22% 21% Nordic France
Strategic report
Review of geographic operations continued
22
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
The significant improvement in the profitability of the Nordic 
business, which more than doubled adjusted operating profit 
despite a revenue decline of 6%, reflects the success of the 
turnaround programme which, as previously reported, began 
in 2013 under an interim CEO. This included a re-organisation 
of the sales and research resources and a shift towards a 
structure that more closely reflects the UK model, including 
stronger focus in the region on the YouGov core services. 
Data products and services revenue grew significantly by 
73%, driven especially by Omnibus, which more than trebled 
its revenue following the launch of a more frequent service. 
Custom research revenue fell by 16% although this reflected 
in part the aim of reducing the number of smaller, less 
profitable projects undertaken. In geographic terms, the re-
organisation focused especially on the Swedish market where 
YouGov’s position is less established. YouGov Denmark 
in contrast, is now the most often quoted market research 
agency in the media. A new CEO was appointed in February 
2014, with a background in global data products and we 
expect the region to make further good progress in line with 
our strategy. Major regional clients include Carlsberg, Danske 
Bank, Orkla Foods and Omnicom.
Now in its third year, our French operation doubled revenue 
in line with its planned development. It focuses on developing 
YouGov’s core products in France with BrandIndex and 
Omnibus each accounting for approximately half the revenue. 
The London office provides operational support. The local 
team was doubled during the year to drive further strong 
growth in the coming year. BrandIndex clients include 
international groups such as KFC and OMD and a number 
of leading French companies including La Banque Postale. 
Other clients include Bic, Havas and Mercer. 
Year to 
31 July  
2014 
£m
Year to 
31 July  
2013 
£m
% 
Change
Revenue 8.0 8.5 (6%)
Adjusted Operating Profit 0.8 0.3 139%
Adjusted Operating Profit 
Margin (%) 10% 4%
Year to 
31 July  
2014 
£m
Year to 
31 July  
2013 
£m
% 
Change
Revenue 0.8 0.3 123%
Adjusted Operating Profit (0.1) (0.1) – Asia Pacific
Stephan Shakespeare 
Chief Executive Officer
13 October 2014 
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
23
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
YouGov Asia Pacific is reported on for the first time 
following the acquisition of Decision Fuel in January 2014. 
This business, which has offices in Hong Kong, Shanghai and 
Singapore, started trading in the middle of 2013 and is still in 
start-up mode although now fully integrated within the YouGov 
Group. It achieved revenue of £0.2m in the six months 
following the acquisition, which was as expected. This was 
mainly generated from custom projects using the proprietary 
mobile platform developed by the founders. In line with the 
business plan, the focus over the six months to July 2014 was 
on expanding sales resources in order to launch the YouGov 
Omnibus and to support growth of BrandIndex in the region 
following the launch of a Chinese version by YouGov in 2013. 
The team had grown to 24 by 31 July 2014 and the regional 
coverage was extended in September with the opening of an 
office in Jakarta, Indonesia. We consider the Asia Pacific unit 
to be well positioned to achieve its planned future growth.  Strategic report
Chief Financial Officer’s report
for the year ended 31 July 2014
1.  Staff costs are defined for this purpose as excluding the deemed remuneration element 
of acquisition consideration charged.
“Group revenue for the year 
to 31 July 2014 of £67.4m 
was 8% higher than the 
prior year , while adjusted 
group operating profit 
increased by 24% to £7.4m 
compared to £6.0m in the 
previous year .”
24
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Key performance indicators
The Board monitors business performance via six financial key 
performance indicators: revenue, adjusted operating profit, 
adjusted earnings per share (shown on page 1), adjusted 
operating profit margin, revenue per head and staff costs as 
a percentage of revenue.
Adjusted operating profit margin %
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
11.0
9.6
9.6
9.4
8.6
Income statement review
Group revenue for the year to 31 July 2014 of £67 .4m was 8% 
higher than the prior year. 
The Group’s gross profit (calculated after deducting costs of panel 
incentives and external data collection) increased by £4.5m to 
£51.6m and the gross margin increased by 1.2% points to 77% 
reflecting the higher proportion of survey work conducted on 
YouGov’s proprietary panels. 
Operating expenses (excluding amortisation and exceptional 
items) of £44.2m increased by £3.0m. The growth rate of 7% was 
broadly in line with revenue so that the operating expense ratio 
stayed constant at 66% of revenue. 
The average number of staff (full-time equivalents) employed 
during the year increased by 76 to 578 from 502. 47 of the 
additional staff reflected hiring to support organic growth (an 
increase of 9%) while 29 of the new staff joined at the time of or 
following the acquisitions of YouGov Asia Pacific (added 18 staff) 
and CoEditor (added 1 1 staff). Average revenue per head fell 
slightly to £1 17 ,000 from £125,000, due in part to the Asia Pacific 
acquisition (which is still in start-up mode) and to the increase 
in analytics and technical resources. However, staff cost as a 
percentage of revenue fell by 2% points to 48% as most of the 
staff growth was in relatively junior positions. 
Adjusted Group operating profit increased by 24% to £7 .4m 
compared to £6.0m in the previous year. There was a net finance 
cost of £0.3m compared to income of £0. 1m last year, primarily 
due to unrealised foreign exchange translation losses on cash 
balances. This resulted in an adjusted profit before taxation of 
£7 .7m, an increase of 12% over the prior year. Adjusted earnings 
per share for the year rose by 0.5p to 6. 1p. 
The statutory operating profit (which is after charging amortisation 
of £4.0m and exceptional items of £2.4m) fell by £0.5m to £1.0m 
due to the higher amortisation charges and exceptional items. 
This was reflected in the reduction of £0.8m in statutory profit 
before taxation to £0.7m.
Staff costs as a percentage of revenue
1
 %
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
48
50
50
49
51
Revenue per head £’000
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
117
125
121
118
105 Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
25
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Analysis of operating profit and earnings per share
 31 July 
2014 
£’000
31 July 
2013 
£’000
Group operating profit before amortisation of 
intangibles, impairment & exceptional costs 7,389 5,982
Share-based payments 547 767
Imputed interest 32 71
Net finance income/(cost) (292) 118
Share of post-tax loss in associates (14) (122)
Adjusted profit before tax 7,662 6,816
Adjusted profit after tax attributable to  
owners of the parent 6,027 5,312
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 6.1 5.6
1.  Adjusted earnings per share is calculated based on the post-tax result derived from the 
adjusted profit before tax.
Amortisation of intangible assets and impairment
Amortisation charges for intangible assets of £4.0m were £0.7m 
higher than the previous year. Amortisation of the consumer 
panel increased by £0.3m to £0.7m reflecting the additional 
investment made to grow the panel. Amortisation of software 
increased by £0.5m to £2.5m, partly due to amortisation on 
assets acquired through business combinations of £0.2m. 
Of the remaining software charge, £1.6m (2013: £1.3m) related 
to assets created through the Group’s own internal development 
activities and £0.7m (2012: £0.6m) to separately acquired assets.
Exceptional items
Exceptional costs of £2.4m (2013: £1.2m) were incurred 
in the year. £1.2m of this related to acquisitions, of which 
£0.9m represents contingent consideration which is deemed 
under IFRS3 to be staff compensation costs. £0.6m of the 
total acquisition related cost related to CoEditor, £0.5m 
to YouGov Asia Pacific and £0.1m to Definitive Insights. 
The remaining balance of exceptional costs (£1.2m) related 
to the costs of restructuring, of which £0.5m was incurred in 
the Nordic business and £0.3m respectively, in the US and 
German businesses. 
Cash flow
The Group generated £8.9m (2013: £6.9m) in cash from operations 
(before paying interest and tax) which reflected a higher cash 
conversion rate of 120% (2013: 1 16%) of adjusted operating 
profit, including a £1.8m (2013: £0.7m) net working capital inflow. 
Expenditure on investing and financing activities remained at 
a similar level at £6.7m (2013: £6.5m). £1.0m (2013: £2.0m) of 
this related to acquisitions, including the payment of deferred 
consideration, and £5.8m (2013: £4.0m) to capital expenditure. 
£1.0m (£2013: £0.4m) of the capital expenditure was spent 
on purchasing tangible assets including £0.5m relating to the 
expansion of the London office. £4.7m (£3.6m) was spent on 
intangible assets, of which £1.7m was for panel recruitment which 
increased by £1. 1m reflecting the higher recruitment activity and 
£2.9m (2013: £2.7m) on software development of which £2.3m 
(2013: £1.8m) arose from internally generated assets. 
Taxation 
The Group had a tax charge of £0.3m (2013: £0.6m credit) on 
a reported basis, the current tax charge of £0.5m (2013: £0.5m) 
being offset by a deferred tax credit of £0.2m (2013: £1.1m). 
On an adjusted basis, the tax charge was £1.6m (2013: £1.5m), 
which represents a tax rate of 22% on the adjusted profit before 
tax. This was unchanged from the prior year. 
Balance sheet 
Total shareholders’ funds decreased to £57 .9m from £61. 1m at 
31 July 2013 and total net assets decreased to £58.0m compared 
to £61. 1m at 31 July 2013. Net cash balances increased by 
£0.6m to £7 .2m. Net current assets fell to £8.4m from £1 1.0m. 
Current assets decreased by £0.8m to £29.9m, with debtor days 
decreasing to 64 days from 68 days. Current liabilities increased 
by £1.8m to £21.5m, with creditor days increasing to 44 days from 
31 days in 2013.
Panel development
As at 31 July 2014, the Group’s online panels comprised a 
total of 3.0m panellists, an increase in increase of 7% from 
the total of 2.8m as at 31 July 2013. There was substantial 
investment in panellist recruitment during the year both to 
support development of the newer panels such as in France and 
Germany and to extend the coverage of more mature panels 
such as in the UK and USA. All the panels grew as a result 
although there was a small net reduction in the reported US 
panel numbers as the addition of 240,000 active panellists was 
offset by the removal of 427 ,000 non-active registrations from 
the database. The panel sizes by region were:
Region
 Panel size
at 31 July 
2014 
 Panel size
at 31 July 
2013*
UK 600,106 442,100
Middle East 388,546 326,400
Germany 170,775 140,500
Nordic 140,994 101,700
USA 1,526,001 1,704,900
France 108,723 83,300
Asia Pacific 61,862 N/A
Total 2,997,007 2,798,900
* Restated 26
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report
Chief Financial Officer’s report continued
Corporate development activities
During the year, the Group acquired 100% of Doughty Media 
2 Limited (“DM2”) which owns 67% of CoEditor Limited, 
the company that has developed the Opigram service. 
YouGov already owned 30% of CoEditor and now owns 97%. 
This acquisition was made in two stages: 40% was acquired 
in September 2013 and 60% in December 2013, following the 
approval by shareholders at the 2013 AGM. The maximum 
purchase price for DM2 is £1.2m, payable in February 2015. 
£0.9m of this is contingent upon the achievement of performance 
criteria relating to the delivery of expected benefits arising from 
the incorporation of the Opigram technology within YouGov’s 
online presence. As the entire deferred consideration is 
dependent upon Stephan Shakespeare and the other vendor 
(the Opigram manager) remaining in YouGov’s employment, 
it has been treated under IFRS as an employment cost and 
charged to the income statement. 
On 9 January 2014, the Group acquired the entire issued capital 
of Decision Fuel (“DF”), later renamed YouGov Asia Pacific. 
The initial purchase consideration payable was £0.6 million. 
Additional earn-out consideration is payable (in cash and/or  
YouGov shares, at YouGov’s option) dependent on the 
performance of the business in the two financial years ended 
31 July 2016 and 2017 . The total purchase consideration in the 
balance sheet is expected to remain at approximately £0.6m as 
97% of the deferred payment relates to the management team 
and is dependent on their continued employment, so this portion 
will be treated under IFRS as an employment cost and charged 
to the income statement. 
In December 2013, YouGov entered into a joint development 
agreement with Crunch.io, a US company in which Doug Rivers 
(a Director of YouGov) has an equity interest of 40%. YouGov  
and Crunch.io have agreed jointly to fund the development of a 
cloud-based data analytics software application. Both parties 
have rights to use the application. YouGov intends to use it to 
support delivery of services for both custom research and data 
products. Crunch.io intends to develop a business based on 
selling the application to third-parties. The benefit for YouGov is 
that the joint development is accelerating the delivery of costs of 
an application that offers important commercial benefits as well 
as reducing its net costs.
Proposed dividend
The Board is recommending the payment of a final dividend of 
0.8p per share for the year ended 31 July 2014. If shareholders 
approve this dividend at the AGM, it will be paid on 15 December 
2014 to all shareholders who were on the Register of Members at 
close of business on 5 December 2014.
Alan Newman
Chief Financial Officer
13 October 2014 Strategic report
Principal risks
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
27
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Risk Description Mitigation
Financial Risks*
Currency risk The Company is exposed to currency translation risk 
in the consolidation of accounting records. The main 
reporting currencies of Company subsidiaries are 
Sterling, US Dollar, Euro, Danish Kroner and Arab 
Emirate Dirham.
The Company aims to align assets and liabilities in a particular 
market. It also seeks to reduce currency risk by invoicing in 
local currency thus reducing exposure in normal trading.
Liquidity risk The Company is exposed to liquidity risk in both its 
operating and investing activities. 
The Company seeks to ensure that sufficient liquidity is 
available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets 
safely and profitably. The Company currently has no general 
borrowing arrangement in place.
Interest rate risk The Company is exposed to interest rate risk, which 
results largely from its investing activities. 
Where possible, the Company manages its interest rate risk on 
cash balances by negotiating fixed interest rates on deposits for 
periods of up to three months. 
Capital risk The risk of the Company making a loss on the value 
of capital investments, such as acquired businesses.
The Company manages its capital to ensure that all entities 
within the Company are able to continue as a going concern. 
It undertakes a detailed investment appraisal process prior to 
making any material capital investments. 
Operational Risks
Projected growth The Company’s plans incorporate continued growth in 
the coming years. This growth will be in part dependent 
on the marketing and research budgets of target clients 
over which YouGov has little control.
This is mitigated through effective key client relationship 
management and continually reviewing order pipelines and 
sales targets.
Competition YouGov faces competition both from larger international 
research groups with well-developed brands as well 
as smaller businesses operating in each geography. 
Although it is a leader in Internet based research, other 
research organisations have adopted online methods. 
The Company’s strategy is to focus on business areas in which 
it has demonstrable competitive advantages; these include its 
data products and services and custom research services that 
are centred around data generated from its proprietary panels. 
Technology A strong software platform is essential for carrying out 
online research. This software must be reviewed and 
updated on a regular basis to ensure that it does not 
become superseded by newer technologies in other 
companies. 
YouGov has an experienced team of software specialists with 
responsibility for developing its proprietary software systems.  
A disaster recovery plan is in place and is reviewed by the  
Audit Committee annually.
Staff The success of YouGov will be influenced by the 
recruitment and retention of high calibre staff. Senior 
staff that manage key client relationships and those 
with software expertise are particularly important to 
the continuing development and smooth running of 
the Company. 
YouGov has built account and project management teams 
for key clients and larger research projects. In this way the 
client relationships and project related knowledge are shared 
among a number of individuals rather than concentrated with 
one person. We also incentivise key personnel and encourage 
retention through participation in the LTIP .
Internationalisation YouGov now has wide geographical spread. Monitoring 
and reporting these businesses performance relies upon 
the operation of key controls. There is a risk that these 
controls may not operate effectively in each jurisdiction.
The performance of all of YouGov’s units is monitored and 
managed through control and reporting processes that are 
applied consistently and supported by the use by all units of a 
Group-wide ERP system that includes CRM, financial reporting 
and budgeting and forecasting applications. 
Acquisitions The Directors plan to expand and develop the business 
through a strategy of targeted acquisitions. The risk 
exists that integration of any acquired business will be 
unsuccessful or that key employees or clients of the 
acquired business will be lost. 
Directors aim to mitigate this risk by careful due diligence 
and communication with the clients of target companies. The 
Directors also seek to communicate YouGov’s strategy to staff 
and ensure that acquisition terms, levels of remuneration and 
benefits are appropriate to retain key employees.
* The financial risks facing the Group are discussed in more detail in Note 20 on pages 73 and 74.
This Strategic Report is approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Stephan Shakespeare
Chief Executive Officer
13 October 2014
The Board reviews risks facing the business on a regular basis. The following paragraphs 
describe the principal risks and uncertainties identified.  Doug Rivers Chief Scientist
Experience:
Doug was CEO of Y ouGov’s American business from 2007 
to 2011, following Y ouGov’s acquisition of Polimetrix which 
Doug founded in 2004. Prior to this he was CEO of Knowledge 
Networks. He has been a Professor of Political Science at 
Stanford University in California since 1989, and is a Senior 
Fellow at the Hoover Institution. Doug holds a PhD from Harvard 
University and a BA from Columbia University . 
Governance
Board of Directors
28
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Roger Parry CBE Non-Executive Chairman
Experience: 
Roger is also Chairman of Aves Enterprises, MSQ Partners 
and Mobile Streams. He is a Visiting Fellow of Oxford University . 
Roger was previously a consultant with McKinsey & Co; CEO 
of More Group, and Clear Channel International, Chairman of 
Johnston Press, Future and Shakespeare’s Globe T rust. Roger 
was educated at the universities of Oxford and Bristol. He was 
awarded the CBE in 2014. He is the author of five books: People 
Businesses; Enterprise; Making Cities Work; Delivering the Neural 
Nudge and The Ascent of Media.
Stephan Shakespeare Chief Executive Officer
Experience: 
Stephan co-founded Y ouGov in 2000. One of the pioneers of 
Internet research, Stephan has been the driving force behind 
Y ouGov’s innovation-led strategy . He also founded  
PoliticsHome.com. He was chair of the Data Strategy Board for 
the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills 2012-2013 and 
led the Shakespeare Review of Public Sector Information. He is a 
now a member of the Government’s Public Sector T ransparency 
Board and a trustee of the National Portrait Gallery . Stephan 
also sits on the Advisory Board of the Oxford-Man Institute of 
Quantitative Finance. 
Alan Newman Chief Financial Officer
Experience: 
Alan has been Y ouGov’s Group Chief Financial Officer since 
2008. Prior to joining Y ouGov , Alan was a Partner with Ernst & 
Y oung LLP and KPMG LLP where he led the TMT sector financial 
management consulting practice. Alan’s previous corporate 
management roles include International Finance Director of 
Longman and Group Development Manager of MAI plc (now 
United Business Media). He is a T rustee of the Freud Museum 
London and a Director of the Quoted Companies Alliance. Alan 
is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and has an 
MA in Modern Languages (French and Spanish) from Cambridge 
University .  Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
29
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Nick Jones Non-Executive Director
Roles: 
Chair of the Audit Committee, member of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Experience: 
Nick is Chief Financial Officer of Achilles Group, who create 
global collaborative communities of trading partners. Prior to this, 
he was Global Head of Finance for Reuters plc where he also 
led the integration of Thomson and Reuters. Nick has held senior 
financial roles in technology and media businesses in the UK, the 
US and Europe including Virgin Media, Phillips Electronics and RR 
Donnelley . He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants and holds a BA (Hons) in Accounting and Finance.
Ben Elliot Non-Executive Director
Experience: 
Ben Elliot is the co-founder of Quintessentially , the luxury lifestyle 
group and 24 hour global concierge service, which he started in 
London in December 2000. The Quintessentially Group operates 
in 60 cities globally and has 32 sister businesses in the luxury 
lifestyle market. Ben is the chairman of the Quintessentially 
Foundation. Since it was established in 2008, the Foundation has 
raised over four million pounds for charity . He was also proudly 
involved in the fundraising for Her Majesty Queen’s Diamond 
Jubilee in 2012. Ben is Executive Producer of the award-winning 
feature documentary Fire in Babylon. Ben holds a number of non-
executive board positions and was rated by GQ magazine as one 
of the top 100 most connected men in Britain, 2014.
Sir Peter Bazalgette Non-Executive Director
Roles: 
Senior Independent Director , Chair of the Remuneration Committee, 
member of the Audit Committee.
Experience: 
Sir Peter is Chair of Arts Council England and former Chair of 
English National Opera. He has raised funds for arts and media 
organisations, notably as Chair of The Crossness Engines T rust 
and as Deputy Chair of The National Film and T elevision School. He 
has a number of media interests, serving on the Boards of ITV and 
MirriAd and the Advisory Board of BBH. He is active in the television 
industry and is the president of The Royal T elevision Society , served 
as the Chief Creative Officer of Endemol, served on the Board of 
Channel 4 and devised several internationally successful television 
formats. He was also a Non-Executive Director of DCMS. Peter 
writes a regular food column for The Financial Times.  Governance
Corporate Governance Report
for the year ended 31 July 2014
30
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
The Y ouGov plc Board is committed to delivering high standards of corporate governance – commensurate with its size, stage 
of growth and the nature of the Company’s activities – to its shareholders and other stakeholders including employees, panellists, 
customers, suppliers and the wider community . 
As an AIM-listed company , it is up to the Board to decide which, if any , corporate governance code it wishes to adopt for the Company . 
The Board has decided to follow the principles of the Quoted Companies Alliance Corporate Governance Code for Small and  
Mid-Size Quoted Companies (the QCA Code) wherever possible and as appropriate to the size, nature and resources of the Company . 
The Quoted Companies Alliance is the membership organisation which represents the interests of small and mid-size quoted 
companies, of which Y ouGov is a member . The QCA Code aims to apply the key elements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and other relevant governance guidance to the needs of small and medium-sized listed PL Cs. 
The Board 
At 31 July 2014, the Board consisted of three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors, including a Non-Executive 
Chairman. The names of the Directors and their respective responsibilities are shown on pages 28 and 29. 
The Board operates both formally , through Board and committee meetings, and informally , through regular contact amongst Directors. 
High level decisions on such matters as strategy , financial performance and reporting, dividends, risk management, major capital 
expenditure, acquisitions and disposals are reserved for the Board or Board committees. The Board receives regular information from 
management on the Company’s performance and appropriate information relating to the agenda for formal Board and Committee 
meetings is sent to members in advance of those meetings. 
All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and 
subsequently on a rotational basis, which ensures that each Director is submitted for re-election approximately every three years. 
Proposals to re-elect Directors are set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting. 
Board evaluation
The Board undertakes an evaluation of its own performance on an annual basis. As part of this evaluation, the Chairman undertakes 
an individual assessment with each Director and holds a meeting with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors 
present. The Board meets once a year without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairman’s performance. This conclusion of these 
assessments undertaken during the year was that the Board and its individual members continue to perform effectively . 
Shareholder communications 
The Board’s assessment of the Company’s position and prospects are set out in the Chairman’s Statement on pages 6 to 7, the Chief 
Executive Officer’s review on pages 9 to 13 and the Chief Financial Officer’s Report on pages 24 to 26. The Executive Directors meet 
regularly with institutional shareholders to discuss the Company’s performance and future prospects. At these meetings the views of 
institutional shareholders are canvassed and subsequently reported back to the Board. The Annual General Meeting is available as a 
forum for communication with private shareholders. The Investor Relations section of the Company website is regularly updated and 
amended with the aim of providing information to shareholders. 
Board committees 
Board and committee attendance 
The following table sets out the attendance of Directors at Board and Committee Meetings during 2013/14. 
Director
Board Meetings 
Maximum 8
Remuneration 
Committee Meetings 
Maximum 3
Audit 
Committee Meetings 
Maximum 2
Stephan Shakespeare 8 1 (in attendance) –
Alan Newman 8 2 (in attendance) 2 (in attendance)
Roger Parry 8 – –
Sir Peter Bazalgette 8 3 2
Nick Jones 8 3 2
Ben Elliot 8 – –
Doug Rivers 8 – –
Remuneration committee 
The Remuneration Committee operates under T erms of Reference agreed by the whole Board. Its members are Sir Peter Bazalgette 
(Chairman) and Nick Jones. The Remuneration Policy developed by the Committee and details of each Director’s remuneration are 
presented in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 36.
Nomination committee 
The whole Board acts as the Nomination Committee, when the need arises, to determine the process for and make recommendations 
on the nomination of Directors of the Company . It operates as such under T erms of Reference agreed by the whole Board.  Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
31
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee operates under T erms of Reference agreed by the whole Board and meets with the auditors to consider 
the Company’s financial reporting in advance of its publication. Its members are Nick Jones (Chairman) and Sir Peter Bazalgette. 
Nick Jones has recent and relevant financial experience. The Audit Committee reports to the Board on any matters in respect of 
which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and makes recommendations as to the steps to be taken. In particular the 
Committee is responsible for: 
• ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is properly monitored and reported;
• monitoring the formal announcements relating to financial performance;
• meeting the auditors and agreeing audit strategy;
• reviewing reports from the auditors and management relating to accounts and internal control systems; and
• making recommendations to the Board in respect of external auditor appointment and remuneration.
The effectiveness of the internal control systems is under constant review and a formal assessment of internal controls has been 
conducted. The Audit Committee will monitor the implementation of a series of detailed steps to improve the control environment. 
Although there was no formal internal audit during the year , the accounting functions were subject to periodic internal review . As the 
business continues to grow we keep the Group’s need for an internal audit function under constant review . 
Key controls and procedures 
The Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues, and has put 
in place an organisational structure with defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority . 
The annual budget and forecasts are reviewed by the Board prior to approval being given. This includes the identification and 
assessment of the business risks inherent in the Group and the media sector as a whole, along with associated financial risks. 
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives in addition 
to providing reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. These include controls in relation to the 
financial reporting process and the preparation of consolidated accounts. These procedures have been in place during the financial 
year up to the date of approval of the annual report. This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and is in accordance with the 
T urnbull guidance. The key procedures include; 
• detailed budgeting programme with an annual budget approved by the Board; 
• regular review by the Board of actual results compared with budget and forecasts; 
• regular reviews by the Board of year end forecasts; 
• establishment of procedures for acquisitions, capital expenditure and expenditure incurred in the ordinary course of business; 
• detailed budgeting and monitoring of costs incurred on the development of new products; 
•  reporting to, and review by , the Board of changes in legislation and practices within the sector and accounting and legal 
developments pertinent to the Company; 
•  appointing experienced and suitably qualified staff to take responsibility for key business functions to ensure maintenance of high 
standards of performance; and 
• appraisal and approval of proposed acquisitions by the Board. 
Auditor independence 
The Audit Committee also undertakes a formal assessment of the auditors’ independence each year which includes: 
•  confirmation of the auditors’ objectivity and independence in the provision of non-audit services to the Company by the use 
of separate teams to provide such services where appropriate; 
•  discussion with the auditors of a written report detailing relationships with the Company and any other parties that could affect 
independence or the perception of independence; 
•  a review of the auditors’ own procedures for ensuring independence of the audit firm and partners and staff involved in the audit, 
including the regular rotation of the audit partner; and 
•  obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that, in their professional judgement, they are independent.
Any analysis of the fees payable to the external audit firm in respect of both audit and non-audit services during the year is set out in 
Note 2 to the financial statements. 
Advisors
All Directors have access to all of the Company’s selected advisors and can obtain independent professional advice at the 
Company’s own expense in performance of their duties as Directors. Board committees are authorised to obtain, at the Company’s 
expense, professional advice on any matter within their T erms of Reference. The Audit Committee works with the Company’s auditor , 
PricewaterhouseCoopers. The Company Secretary is supported on Company Secretarial matters by Numis (NOMAD), Olswang 
(Solicitors) and Neville Registrars (Registrar). During the year , the Remuneration Committee engaged Deloitte to provide advice on the 
company’s executive remuneration policy and incentive schemes. The Company’s retained advisors are detailed on page 91. Governance
Corporate Social Responsibility
32
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Community
The Company recognises the importance of respecting and supporting the communities in which it operates and, thus improving the 
positive impact of business in society .
Employee involvement
The Company’s employee involvement policy and activities are outlined in the Directors’ Report on page 37.
Health and safety
The Company takes all reasonable and practicable steps to safeguard the health, safety and welfare of its employees and recognises 
its responsibilities for the health and safety of others who may be affected by its activities.
Diversity in the workplace
The Company is committed to providing a working environment in which its employees are able to realise their potential and to 
contribute to business success irrespective of gender , marital status, ethnic origin, nationality , religion, disability , sexual orientation 
or age.
Ethical behaviour
Y ouGov expects its employees to exercise high ethical and moral standards at all times whilst representing the Company . The Company 
has an established Whistleblowing Procedure and Anti-Bribery Policy . The Company also maintains an awareness of human rights 
issues and observance of the pertinent law .
Supplier payments
The Company aims to pay all its suppliers within a reasonable period of their invoices being received and approved, provided that the 
supplier has performed in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
The environment
The Company recognises that the wise use of resources delivers both environmental and financial benefits. As part of our overall 
approach to Corporate Responsibility we aim to promote the maintenance of a healthy environment through responsible and 
sustainable consumption and production. Our operations are predominately office based, and here we try to minimise our impacts 
where practicable. As part of this policy we:
• ensure that all waste is stored and disposed of responsibly , and recycled where possible;
• ensure that paper used comes from reputable managed forests; 
• comply , where required, with the relevant packaging and waste regulations; and
•  minimise air travel by utilising conference and video calling technology , when appropriate. Governance
Remuneration Report
for the year ended 31 July 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
33
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
As an AIM-listed company , Y ouGov is not obliged to implement the new remuneration reporting requirements for premium listed 
companies set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. 
However , the Remuneration Committee has taken note of those elements of the Regulations which it considers are appropriate to the 
Company . Accordingly , certain disclosures have also been amended and expanded.
The Remuneration Committee sets the strategy , structure and levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors and also reviews the 
remuneration of senior management. It does so in the context of aligning the financial interests of the Executive Directors, management 
and employees with the achievement of the Company’s stated strategic objectives (which are outlined on page 8). 
This report outlines the Remuneration Committee’s activities during the year , describes the Directors’ remuneration policy and then sets 
out the payments and awards made to the Directors, detailing the link between company performance and remuneration for the year 
ended 31 July 2014. 
During the year , the Committee conducted a review of the remuneration policy and incentive plans for the company’s Executive 
Directors and senior managers, with advice from the remuneration consulting practice of Deloitte. Its objectives were to ensure 
that these plans are effective in aligning management and shareholder interests and in incentivising the personal contributions of 
Executive Directors and senior managers towards delivering the Company’s goals. As a result of the review , the Committee approved 
the adoption of a new Long T erm Incentive Plan for Executive Directors and senior managers and a Deferred Share Bonus Plan for 
a wider group of managers both of which will take effect from 1 August 2014. Details of these new plans are set out in this report for 
shareholders’ information.
The Committee takes the views of shareholders and best practice guidance into account when setting remuneration policy . As part 
of its review of the Company’s executive remuneration policy and incentive schemes, the Committee actively engaged with major 
shareholders regarding the proposed changes. 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Policy on remuneration of Executive Directors 
The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of Executive Directors and sets the scale and structure of their remuneration 
and the basis of their service agreements with due regard to the interests of shareholders. In determining that remuneration the 
Remuneration Committee seeks to offer a competitive remuneration structure to maintain the high calibre of its Executive Board. 
The Committee believes that maintaining the Company’s business growth and profit record requires an overall compensation policy 
with a strong performance-related element. 
The main components of the Executive Directors’ remuneration are: 
1. Basic salary 
Basic salary for each Director is determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the performance of the individual 
and external market data. The Committee’s policy is to review salaries annually . 
2. Bonus scheme 
The Remuneration Committee determined that the bonus scheme for the Executive Directors for the three years ended 31 July 2015 
should be based on the achievement of medium-term goals over that period, linked to the Company’s stated strategy and its financial 
performance as well as to each Director’s individual role. The Remuneration Committee has made interim annual bonus awards for 
2012/13 and 2013/14 based upon the Directors’ performance relative to the targets and will make a final award for the year ended 
2014/15 dependent on the cumulative three-year performance. 
3. Shares
The Company believes that share ownership by Executive Directors strengthens the link between their personal interests and those 
of the shareholders in respect of shareholder value. It therefore established a Long T erm Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) in 2009, designed 
to reflect an individual manager’s contribution to long-term value creation and this has been in operation up to and including the 
year ended 31 July 2014. The Remuneration Committee has recently approved a new Long T erm Incentive Plan (“New LTIP”) for the 
Company’s Executive Directors and senior managers, which takes effect from 1 August 2014. 
Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) 
Executive Directors and senior managers of the Company and its subsidiaries have been eligible to participate in the Long T erm 
Incentive Plan first established in 2009. Under the rules of the LTIP , participants are conditionally awarded nil cost options to acquire 
shares (or conditional stock awards, if US residents). These awards are usually made annually . The number of such shares awarded is 
normally calculated by reference to a percentage of the participant’s salary and the Company’s closing share price for an appropriate 
reference period. The shares subject to the LTIP awards will be released to the recipients at the end of a holding period, normally three 
years, subject to their continued employment (with exceptions in certain circumstances). The performance criteria attached to these 
awards relate to earnings per share (“EPS”) growth and total shareholder return (“TSR”) versus companies in the AIM Media Index. 
The conditions applying to awards made in the year ending 31 July 2014 were as follows: the options will vest in full if adjusted earnings 
per share (“EPS”) growth exceeds the Retail Price Index (“RPI”) by 7% or more; 50% of the options will vest if adjusted EPS growth 
exceeds RPI by 5%. In addition, vesting is subject to total shareholder return exceeding the average growth of the AIM Media Index 
over the three years ending on the date that the relevant year’s results are announced.
For the awards made in each of the three years ending 31 July 2012, the adjusted EPS growth performance conditions were as follows: 
the options vest in full if adjusted earnings per share growth exceeds the RPI by 5% or more; 50% of the options will vest if adjusted 
EPS growth exceeds RPI by 3%. Governance
Remuneration Report continued
34
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Approximately 1.6 million LTIP shares were awarded conditionally in the year ended 31 July 2014 to participants in the Plan. These will 
vest in 2016 dependent on the Company’s performance during the three years ended 31 July 2016. These include awards to the 
Executive Directors of the Company as set out below . No LTIP shares were awarded in the year ended 31 July 2013. 
New Long Term Incentive Plan (“New LTIP”) 
The new LTIP is designed to reward the participants for the achievement of highly demanding EPS growth targets over the five 
year period ending 31 July 2019. These growth targets are significantly higher than those which are in place under the current LTIP . 
The participants will be the three Executive Directors and a small group of senior managers whom the Board considers have a key 
role to play in the delivery of Y ouGov’s strategic plans. Awards under the new LTIP will be made in the form of nil-cost options as in the 
current LTIP . The maximum total number of shares to be awarded to each participant will be set based on their salary in the year ended 
31 July 2015 and the share price at the start of the plan. These awards will be granted in three equal tranches over FY15 to FY17. 
Receipt of an award in each of those years will be dependent upon the achievement of specific and demanding personal targets set 
for that individual in the previous financial year . 
Vesting of awards will depend on the Company achieving the targets for compound EPS growth as set out in the table below:
5 Y ear EPS CAGR
1
% of award vesting
Below 10% Nil
10% 15%
15% 30%
25% 100%
1  
EPS is defined as the adjusted earnings per share calculated in accordance with the Group’s accounts (i.e. excluding the amortisation of intangible assets, share-based payments and 
exceptional items).
An important objective for the Company is to improve the underlying profitability of the business, in line with its plans. Thus vesting will 
also be subject to Y ouGov’s average operating margin being at least 12% over the five year period. (Average operating margin is the 
average of the adjusted operating profit, as defined in the accounts, divided by the revenue with each year’s margin percentage being 
calculated first). If this underpin condition is not achieved, the shares awarded will not vest.  If it is met, then the five year EPS growth 
performance will be assessed against the targets set out in the table above.
The new awards (which cover five years) will be made at varying levels to participants as set out in the table below:
Role
Maximum cumulative award after 5 years as % 
of salary in FY15
Chief Executive Officer 850% 
Executive Director 500%
Senior Managers Between 150% and 250%
In addition, the Chief Executive Officer will be entitled to an enhanced award if the Company’s share price grows by more than 200% 
over the five year period and if the other vesting conditions are also met in full. This additional award will equate to 255% of his annual 
salary in the year ended 31 July 2015. The combined maximum potential award for the Chief Executive Officer will thus be 1105% of his 
annual salary . 
Deferred Bonus Share Plan 
A separate new Deferred Bonus Share Plan will be established for those senior managers in the Company who do not participate in 
the new LTIP . This deferred bonus plan will entitle participants to an award of shares which must be retained for a period of two years 
and whose vesting is subject to their continued employment during that time. The value of the award will be linked to the assessment of 
performance made in determining their annual bonus. The maximum award level will normally be 10% of basic salary . As distinct from 
the LTIP , awards of deferred bonus shares may be made annually . 
Deferred Stock Scheme 
As announced on 28 January 2014, 1,262,500 shares awarded under the Deferred Stock Scheme vested during the year . This scheme 
was established in December 2010 with the aim of encouraging the retention of key employees including Executive Directors and 
senior managers of the Company . Participants must remain employed for a fixed period determined by the Remuneration Committee at 
the date of grant. For the 2010 awards, this period was three years. As at 31 July 2014, there were no conditional awards outstanding 
under this Scheme. 
External appointments 
Executive Directors are permitted to serve on other Boards. No Director received any remuneration in the year in respect of their 
external Non-Executive appointments. 
Policy on remuneration of Non-Executive Directors 
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is set by the Board as a whole. The Board of Directors believes that ownership of the 
Company’s shares by Non-Executive Directors helps to align their interests with those of the Company’s shareholders.  Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
35
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accordingly , the Company’s policy is that a proportion (currently set at £5,000 of each Non-Executive Director’s annual fee) will be paid 
in the form of ordinary shares in lieu of cash, save if the Non-Executive Director has an existing substantial shareholding. During the 
year , 4,057 shares each were issued to Ben Elliot and Nick Jones. (2013: 6,992 shares were issued).
Annual Report on Remuneration
A resolution will be put to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 December 2014, inviting them to consider 
and approve this report. The remuneration report is unaudited, except where stated. 
Compliance 
The constitution and operation of the Committee is in compliance with the principles and best practice provisions as set out in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code as if it were followed and full consideration was given to these in determining the remuneration packages 
for the Executive Directors for 2013/14. This is not a remuneration report as defined by Company law . 
Directors’ service contracts 
The table below summarises key details in respect of each Director’s contract. 
Executive Directors Contract date Notice period
Stephan Shakespeare 18 April 2005 12 months
Alan Newman 5 June 2009 6 months
Doug Rivers 7 August 2007 90 days
Non-Executive Directors
Date of initial 
appointment Notice period
Roger Parry 6 February 2007 30 days
Sir Peter Bazalgette 2 March 2005 30 days
Nick Jones 2 June 2009 30 days
Ben Elliot 2 August 2010 30 days
Save as set out above, there are no existing or proposed service contracts between any of the Directors serving at 31 July 2014 and 
the Company or any member of the Company . 
The total aggregate remuneration (including benefits-in-kind and pension contributions) paid to the Directors by all members of the 
Company for the year ended 31 July 2014 amounted to £1,144,000 (2013: £946,000). 
Save as disclosed, no Director has or has had any interest in any transaction which is or was unusual in its nature or conditions or 
which is or was significant in relation to the business of the Company and which was effected by the Company either: (i) during the 
current or immediately preceding financial year; or (ii) during any earlier financial year and which remains in any aspect outstanding 
or unperformed.
Directors’ Remuneration (audited) 
Directors’ remuneration in aggregate for the year ended 31 July 2014 was as follows: 
Name
Salary
£
Annual Bonus
£
Benefits in kind
£
Total 
31 July 2014  
£
T otal 
31 July 2013 
£
Executive Directors
Stephan Shakespeare 226,639 125,456 1,791 353,886 274,568
Alan Newman 188,132 104,136 – 292,268 226,746
Doug Rivers 203,158 114,260 – 317,418 261,645
Non-Executive Directors
Roger Parry 80,000 – – 80,000 89,000
Sir Peter Bazalgette 35,000 – – 35,000 32,917
Nick Jones 35,000 – – 35,000 32,917
Ben Elliot 30,000 – – 30,000 27,917
Totals 797,929 343,852 1,791 1,143,572 945,710
The benefit-in-kind received consists of private health insurance. In the year ended 31 July 2013, the remuneration paid to Stephan 
Shakespeare, Alan Newman and Doug Rivers included bonus payments of £54,832, £45,526 and £52,329 respectively . Doug Rivers 
also participates in a US defined contribution pension arrangement. During the year , the Company contributed £6,095 (2013: £3,993).  36
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Directors’ share options (audited)
The following unexercised nil cost options over shares were held by Directors under the LTIP:
Date of grant
Earliest  
exercise date Expiry date
Number at  
31 July 2013 Awarded in year Exercised in year
Number at  
31 July 2014
Stephan Shakespeare
29 July 2010 15 October 2012 28 July 2020 388,060 – – 388,060
21 July 2011 14 October 2013 20 July 2021 426,563 – – 426,563
30 July 2012 13 October 2014 29 July 2022 373,579 – – 373,579
7 April 2014 17 October 2016 6 April 2024 – 262,185 – 262,185
1,188,202 262,185 – 1,450,387
Alan Newman
21 July 2011 14 October 2013 20 July 2021 354,167 – (354,167) –
30 July 2012 13 October 2014 29 July 2022 310,175 – – 310,175
7 April 2014 17 October 2016 6 April 2024 – 203,218 – 203,218
664,342 203,218 (354,167) 513,393
Doug Rivers
21 July 2011 14 October 2013 20 July 2021 97,050 – (97,050) –
30 July 2012 13 October 2014 29 July 2022 363,757 – – 363,757
7 April 2014 17 October 2016 6 April 2024 – 237,875 – 237,875
460,807 237,875 (97,050) 601,632
During the year ended 31 July 2014, Alan Newman exercised 354,167 options (2013: 288,557 options) which vested under the LTIP 
when the market price was 83p (2013: 70p) and Doug Rivers exercised 97,050 options (2013: 94,584 options) when the market price 
was 83p (2013: 74p).
Deferred Stock Scheme (audited)
The following deferred shares were held by Directors under the Deferred Stock Scheme.
Name
Number at  
31 July 2013 Vested in year
Number at  
31 July 2014
Stephan Shakespeare 162,500 – 162,500
Alan Newman 162,500 (162,500) –
Doug Rivers 375,000 (375,000) –
700,000 (537,500) 162,500
The market price on the date that the above shares vested was 90.5p.
Statement of Directors’ Shareholding and Share Interests 
Name Stephan Shakespeare Alan Newman Doug Rivers
Share options with performance conditions 635,764 513,393 601,632
Share awards without performance conditions 162,500 – –
Scheme interests in shares 798,264 513,393 601,632
Vested but unexercised share options 814,623 – –
Shares beneficially owned 5,719,110 273,657 1,806,257
Total interest in shares 7,331,997 785,050 2,407,889
Governance
Remuneration Report continued Governance
Directors’ Report
for the year ended 31 July 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
37
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 July 2014. 
Operating results
The financial and operational performance of the group is discussed on pages 20 to 23. 
Financial summary 
The financial summary is discussed on pages 24 to 26 of the Chief Financial Officer’s Report. 
Key performance indicators 
Performance measured against key performance indicators is shown on pages 2 and 24.
Principal risks and uncertainties 
The principal risks and uncertainties are discussed on page 27.
Financial risks
The financial risks facing the Group are discussed in more detail in Note 20 on pages 73 and 74.
Dividends 
A final dividend of 0.6p per share in respect of the year ended 31 July 2013 was paid on 16 December 2013, amounting to a total 
payment of £586,000. A dividend of 0.8p per share in respect of the year ended 31 July 2014, amounting to a total payment of 
£794,000 will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 10 December 2014. 
Future developments 
Future developments are discussed in more detail in the Chief Executive’s review on pages 9 to 13. 
Events after the reporting date 
There were no material events between the reporting date and the date of this report. 
Directors 
The Directors of the Company who were in office during the year and at any point up to the date of signing this report were: 
Roger Parry (Chairman)  
Stephan Shakespeare  
Alan Newman  
Doug Rivers  
Sir Peter Bazalgette  
Nick Jones  
Ben Elliot Governance
Directors’ Report continued
38
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Treasury shares 
The total number of shares in treasury at 31 July 2014 was £nil (2013: 954,000). The purpose of treasury shares was to satisfy future 
share and/or option awards.
Directors’ interests in shares 
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company 31 July 2014 and 31 July 2013 were as follows: 
31 July 2014 31 July 2013
Number of Shares Number of Shares
Stephan Shakespeare
1
5,719,110 9,069,110
Alan Newman 273,657 100,557
Roger Parry 52,000 52,000
Sir Peter Bazalgette 293,101 263,976
Nick Jones 11,149 7,092
Ben Elliot 11,149 7,092
Doug Rivers 1,806,257 1,572,617
1. Includes five ordinary shares held by Stephan’s wife, Rosamund Shakespeare. 
There have been no changes to Directors’ interests in shares since the year end. The Directors’ interests in share options are detailed in 
the Remuneration Report on page 36. 
No Director had either , during or at the end of the year , a material interest in any contract which was significant in relation to the 
Group’s business. 
Substantial shareholders 
At 31 July 2014 the following had notified the Company of disclosable interests in 3% or more of the nominal value of the 
Company’s shares: 
Name Shareholding
BlackRock 12,205,800 12.29%
T Rowe Price Global Investments 10,613,209 10.69%
Kabouter Management 9,777,567 9.85%
Standard Life Investments 9,488,715 9.55%
Balshore Investments 8,029,100 8.08%
J O Hambro Capital Management 7,650,000 7.70%
Baillie Gifford 6,454,529 6.50%
Stephan Shakespeare
1
5,719,110 5.76%
Majedie Asset Management 3,218,837 3.24%
1. Includes five ordinary shares held by Stephan’s wife, Rosamund Shakespeare. Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
39
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Research and development 
The Group’s research and development activities centre on the development of bespoke software solutions to support and advance 
our online capabilities. No research and development was charged to the consolidated income statement in either 2014 or 2013 and 
£2.4m (2013: £1.9m) was capitalised and included within intangible fixed assets. Capitalised development is amortised to the income 
statement over a period of three years, the amortisation charge in respect of capitalised development was £1.6m (2013: £1.3m). 
Charitable and political contributions 
Donations to charitable organisations amounted to £71,000 (2013: £73,000). This included an annual subscription of £70,000 
(2013: £70,000) in respect of the “Y ouGov-Cambridge” programme, an academic partnership established with Cambridge University’s 
Department of Politics and International Studies. The Group does not make political donations. 
Employee involvement and communication
The Company has continued its practice of keeping employees informed of matters affecting them as employees and the financial and 
economic factors affecting the performance of the Company . 
Applications for employment by disabled persons are given full and fair consideration for all vacancies in accordance with their 
particular aptitudes and abilities. In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to retrain them in order that their 
employment with the Company may continue.
It is the policy of the Company that training, career development and promotion opportunities should be available to all employees.
Employees are encouraged to own shares in the Company , and many employees are shareholders and/or hold options under the 
Company’s share option schemes including the LTIP scheme. Information about the Company’s affairs is communicated to employees 
through regular management meetings, our newsletter , intranet and social events.
Insurance of Company Officers 
The Company has maintained during the financial year , Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any 
legal action brought against its Directors. In accordance with Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, qualifying third-party indemnity 
provisions are in place for the Directors and Company Secretary in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, to the extent 
permitted by law . This insurance was in force at the date of signing of the financial statements. 
Going concern 
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its own cash resources. The nature of the Group’s business 
means that there is some uncertainty as to the future level of demand for the Group’s products. However , the Group’s forecasts and 
projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to continue 
operating without bank finance. After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements. 
Independent auditors 
In accordance with section 418(2) of the Companies Act 2006, each of the Company’s Directors in office as at the date of this report 
confirms that: 
•  so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and 
•  all steps that ought to have been taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. The Group auditors are PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP . A resolution to  
re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
Annual General Meeting 
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 10 December 2014 at our offices at 50 Featherstone Street,  
London EC1Y 8RT .
Alan Newman 
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary  
On behalf of the Board 
13 October 2014  Governance
Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
40
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year . Under that law the Directors have prepared 
the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union, and the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 
(United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the 
profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
•  state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to 
any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively; 
•  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue 
in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them 
to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Alan Newman 
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary  
On behalf of the Board 
13 October 2014 Governance
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Y ouGov plc  
on the Group Financial Statements 
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
41
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Our opinion
In our opinion the financial statements, defined below:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at 31 July 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
•  have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union; and
•  have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited
The group financial statements (the “financial statements”), which are prepared by Y ouGov plc, comprise:
• the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 31 July 2014;
•  the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended; 
• the Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements; and
•  the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union.
In applying the financial reporting framework, the Directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of 
significant accounting estimates. In making such estimates, they have made assumptions and considered future events.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts, 
rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified 
as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). An audit 
involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error . This includes an assessment of: 
•  whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and 
• the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility . 
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility .  Governance
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Y ouGov plc  
on the Group Financial Statements continued
42
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 40, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view .
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the company financial statements of Y ouGov plc for the year ended 31 July 2014.
 
Julian Jenkins (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London
13 October 2014 Financial statements 
Consolidated Income Statement 
for the year ended 31 July 2014 
 Note  
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Revenue 1 67,375 62,551
Cost of sales  (15,811) (15,440)
Gross profit  51,564 47,111
Operating expenses*  (44,175) (41,129)
Adjusted operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets 
and exceptional items 1 7,389 5,982
Amortisation of intangibles  (3,965) (3,280)
Exceptional items 4 (2,385) (1,212)
Operating profit   1,039 1,490
Finance income 5 171 207
Finance costs 5 (463) (89)
Share of post-tax loss in joint ventures and associates   (14) (122)
Profit before taxation 1 733 1,486
Tax (charge)/credit 6 (316) 623
Profit after taxation 1 417 2,109
Attributable to:  
– Owners of the parent   433 2,042
– Non-controlling interests  (16) 67
  417 2,109
Earnings per share   
Basic earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent 8 0.4p 2.1p 
Diluted earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent 8 0.4p 2.0p 
* Total 2014 operating expenses including amortisation of intangibles and the items detailed in Note 4 are £48.250m (2013: £45.621m). 
All operations are continuing. 
The notes and accounting policies on pages 48 to 77 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
43
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
for the year ended 31 July 2014 
 
2014 
£’000 
2013
£’000
Profit for the year  417 2,109
Other comprehensive (loss)/income:   
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss   
Currency translation differences    (4,774) 2,706 
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year  (4,774) 2,706 
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year   (4,357) 4,815 
Attributable to:   
– Owners of the parent  (4,338) 4,743
– Non-controlling interests  (19) 72 
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year  (4,357) 4,815
Items in the statement above are disclosed net of tax. The tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income is disclosed 
in Note 19. 
The notes and accounting policies on pages 48 to 77 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
44
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
for the year ended 31 July 2014 
Assets Note  
31 July
2014
£’000
31 July
2013
£’000
Non-current assets  
Goodwill 10 36,329 38,800
Other intangible assets 11 10,321 9,210
Property, plant and equipment 12 2,489 2,256
Investments in joint ventures and associates 13 − 363
Deferred tax assets 19 3,120 2,847
Total non-current assets   52,259 53,476
Current assets  
Trade and other receivables 14 21,687 22,951
Current tax assets  757 834
Cash and cash equivalents 15 7,429 6,929
Total current assets   29,873 30,714
Total assets   82,132 84,190
Liabilities  
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables 16 17,530 16,235
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 18 3,127 2,737
Borrowings 15 184 273
Current tax liabilities  341 128
Contingent consideration 17 298 301
Total current liabilities   21,480 19,674
Net current assets   8,393 11,040
Non-current liabilities  
Trade and other payables  23 55
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 18 684 770
Contingent consideration 17 169 250
Deferred tax liabilities 19 1,824 2,327
Total non-current liabilities   2,700 3,402
Total liabilities   24,180 23,076
Net assets   57,952 61,114
Equity  
Issued share capital 21 199 195
Share premium 21 31,014 30,961
Merger reserve  9,239 9,239
Foreign exchange reserve  5,722 10,493
Retained earnings  11,755 10,195
Total shareholders’ funds   57,929 61,083
Non-controlling interests in equity   23 31
Total equity   57,952 61,114
The notes and accounting policies on pages 48 to 77 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
The financial statements on pages 43 to 77 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 13 October 2014 and signed on its 
behalf by: 
 
 
Alan Newman 
Chief Financial Officer 
YouGov plc  
Registered no. 03607311  
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
45
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
for the year ended 31 July 2014 
  Attributable to equity holders of the Company 
 Note 
Share 
capital 
£’000 
Share 
premium 
£’000 
Merger 
reserve
 £’000 
Foreign 
exchange 
reserve 
£’000 
Retained 
earnings  
£’000  
Total  
£’000  
Non-
controlling 
interest 
£’000 
Total 
£’000
Balance at 31 July 2012  195 30,947 9,239 7,792 7,776 55,949 55 56,004
Changes in equity for 2013    
Exchange differences on translating 
foreign operations  − − − 2,701 − 2,701 5 2,706
Net profit recognised directly in equity  − − − 2,701 − 2,701 5 2,706
Profit for the year  − − − − 2,042 2,042 67 2,109
Total comprehensive income for  
the year 
 
− − − 2,701 2,042 4,743 72 4,815
Issue of shares 21 − 14 −−− 14 − 14
Dividends paid 7 − − − − (479) (479) (96) (575)
Share-based payments 22 − − − − 856 856 − 856
Total transactions with owners  
recognised directly in equity 
 
− 14 − − 377 391 (96) 295
Balance at 31 July 2013  195 30,961 9,239 10,493 10,195 61,083 31 61,114
Changes in equity for 2014    
Exchange differences on translating 
foreign operations  − − − (4,771) − (4,771) (3) (4,774)
Net loss recognised directly  
in equity  − − − (4,771) − (4,771) (3) (4,774)
Profit/(Loss) for the year  − − − − 433 433 (16) 417
Total comprehensive (loss)/income 
for the year  − − − (4,771) 433 (4,338) (19) (4,357)
Issue of shares 21 4 53 −−− 57 − 57
Purchase of subsidiary with a minority 
interest 9 −− −−− − 11 11
Dividends paid 7 − − − − (586) (586) (35) (621)
Purchase of non-controlling interest in 
subsidiary 9 − − − − (35) (35) 35 −
Consideration for purchase of subsidiary 9 − − − − 700 700 − 700
Share-based payments 22 − − − − 1,048 1,048 − 1,048
Total transactions with owners  
recognised directly in equity  
4 53 − − 1,422 1,184 11 1,195
Balance at 31 July 2014  199 31,014 9,239 5,722 11,755 57,929 23 57,952
The notes and accounting policies on pages 48 to 77 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
 
46
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year ended 31 July 2014 
Note  
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Cash flows from operating activities  
Profit before taxation  733 1,486
Adjustments for:  
Finance income  (171) (207)
Finance costs  463 89
Share of post-tax loss in joint ventures and associates   14 122
Amortisation of intangibles 2 4,120 3,280
Depreciation 2 631 539
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets  − 3
Other non-cash profit items  1,334 866
Increase in trade and other receivables  (1,088) (3,113)
Increase in trade and other payables  2,411 3,381
Increase in provisions  445 464 
Cash generated from operations  8,892 6,910
Interest paid   (4) (15)
Income taxes paid  (287) (477)
Net cash generated from operating activities  8,601 6,418
Cash flow from investing activities  
Loan to associate  − (546)
Purchase of subsidiary (net of cash acquired) 9 (643) −
Acquisition of non-controlling interest in associates 13 (28) – 
Settlement of contingent considerations 17 (332) (2,023)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 12 (1,048) (411)
Purchase of intangible assets 11 (4,723) (3,638)
Proceeds from sale of plant, property and equipment  12 −
Interest received  1 34
Dividends received  55 41
Net cash used in investing activities  (6,707) (6,543)
Cash flows from financing activities  
Proceeds from the issue of share capital  57 14
Proceeds from borrowings  − 57
Repayment of borrowings   (32) (18)
Dividends paid to shareholders  (586) (479)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  (35) (96)
Net cash used in financing activities  (596) (522)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  1,299 (647)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  6,656 7,150
Exchange (loss)/gain on cash and cash equivalents  (710) 153
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 15 7,245 6,656
The notes and accounting policies on pages 48 to 77 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
47
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 July 2014 
Nature of operations 
YouGov plc and subsidiaries’ (“the Group”) principal activity is the provision of market research. 
YouGov plc is the Group’s ultimate parent company. It is incorporated and domiciled in Great Britain. The address of YouGov plc’s 
registered office is 50 Featherstone Street, London EC1Y 8RT United Kingdom. YouGov plc’s shares are listed on the Alternative 
Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange. 
YouGov plc’s annual consolidated financial statements are presented in UK Sterling, which is also the functional currency of the 
parent company. 
Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements of YouGov plc are for the year ended 31 July 2014. They have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention modified for fair values under IFRS. These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU), 
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to 
companies reporting under IFRS. 
The policies set out below have been consistently applied to all years presented unless otherwise stated. 
The parent company financial statements are prepared under UK GAAP and are detailed on pages 80 to 88. 
The following new amendments to standards and interpretations, which do not have a material impact, are mandatory for the first time 
for the financial year beginning 1 August 2013 and are relevant to the preparation of the Group’s financial statements: 
 Amendment to IFRS 7, ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’, on asset and liability offsetting. This amendment includes new 
disclosures to facilitate comparison between those entities that prepare IFRS financial statements to those that prepare financial 
statements in accordance with other accounting frameworks.  
 Annual improvements 2011. These annual improvements, address six issues in the 2009-2011 reporting cycle. It includes 
changes to the following standards which are relevant to the Group: 
 IAS 1, ‘Financial statement presentation’ − Clarification of the requirements for comparative information 
 IAS 16, ‘Property plant and equipment’ − Classification of servicing equipment 
 IAS 32, ‘Financial instruments; Presentation’ − Tax effect of distribution to holders of equity instruments 
 IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’. IFRS 13 aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition 
of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs. The adoption of 
IFRS 13 within the Group’s accounts has not materially impacted the financial statements.  
 Amendments to IAS 36, ‘Impairment of assets’. This amendment, issued in conjunction with IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’, 
introduces additional disclosures about fair value measurements where there has been impairment or a reversal of impairment. 
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and have been early adopted by 
the Group. 
Basis of consolidation 
The Group financial statements consolidate the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings (see Note 13) drawn up to 31 July 
2014. Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control is achieved where the Group has the power to govern the financial and 
operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. The Group obtains and exercises control through voting rights. 
The Group also assesses existence of control where it does not have more than 50% of the voting power but is able to govern the 
financial and operating policies by virtue of de-facto control. De-facto control may arise in circumstances where the size of the Group’s 
voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of other shareholders give the Group the power to govern the financial and 
operating policies. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation. Amounts reported in the financial 
statements of subsidiaries have been adjusted where necessary to ensure consistency with the accounting policies adopted by 
the Group. 
Acquisitions of subsidiaries are dealt with by the acquisition method. The acquisition method involves the recognition at fair value of all 
identifiable assets and liabilities, including contingent liabilities of the subsidiary, at the acquisition date, regardless of whether or not 
they were recorded in the financial statements of the subsidiary prior to acquisition. On initial recognition, the assets and liabilities of the 
subsidiary are included in the consolidated statement of financial position at their fair values, which are also used as the basis for 
subsequent measurement in accordance with the Group accounting policies. Goodwill is stated after separating out identifiable 
intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net 
assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Acquisition-related costs are charged to the income statement in the period 
in which they are incurred. 
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with parties external to the Group. 
Disposals to non-controlling interests result in gains and losses for the Group that are recorded in the Statement of Changes in Equity. 
Purchases of non-controlling interests are recognised directly in reserves, being the difference between any consideration paid and the 
relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary. 
48
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
 
Associates and joint ventures 
Entities whose economic activities are controlled jointly by the Group and by other venturers independent of the Group are accounted 
for using the equity method. Associates are those entities over which the Group has significant influence (defined as the power to 
participate in the financial and operating decisions of the investee but not control or joint control over those policies) but which are 
neither subsidiaries nor interests in joint ventures. The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint ventures are incorporated 
in these consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting, under which investments in associates and 
investments in joint ventures are carried in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition 
changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint venture less any impairment in the value of individual investments. 
The Group’s share of its associates’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement, and its share 
of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income. 
However, when the Group’s share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint 
venture, including any unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made 
payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture. If the associate or joint venture subsequently reports profits, the Group resumes 
recognising its share of those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share of losses not recognised. 
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates or joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s 
interests in the associates or joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an 
impairment of the asset transferred. Amounts reported in the financial statements of associates and joint ventures have been adjusted 
where necessary to ensure consistency with the accounting policies adopted by the Group. 
Segmental analysis 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. 
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating 
segments, has been identified as the Board of Directors. 
Revenue 
Revenue is measured by reference to the fair value of consideration received or receivable by the Group for services provided, 
excluding Value Added Tax and trade discounts. Accrued income is the difference between the revenue recognised and the amounts 
actually invoiced to customers. Where invoicing exceeds the amount of revenue recognised, these amounts are included in 
deferred income. 
Market research 
Revenue arises from the provision of market research services. Within this revenue stream are syndicated and non-syndicated 
services. 
Syndicated services 
Syndicated services are the consistent provision of data over a specified period of time. Revenue is recognised from the point in time at 
which access passwords have been made available to the customer. Revenue is recognised in equal monthly instalments over the life 
of the contract. 
Non-syndicated services 
Non-syndicated services vary in size and complexity. Revenue is recognised on each contract in proportion to the level of services 
performed by reference to the project manager’s estimates and time records against budgeted and assigned resource. Revenue is 
recognised on long-term contracts, if the outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty, by including in the income statement 
revenue and related costs as contract activity progresses. 
Media buying 
Where we act as an agent, the revenue recorded is the net amount retained when the fee or commission is earned. Although the 
Group may bear credit risk in respect of these activities, the arrangements with our clients are such that we consider that we are acting 
as an agent on their behalf. In such cases, costs incurred with external suppliers (such as media suppliers) which are passed on to 
customers are excluded from our revenue. 
Non-cash transactions 
The Group enters into contracts for the provision of market research services in exchange for advertising rather than for cash or other 
consideration. When barter transactions are agreed, the value of the work provided to the counterparty is equal in value to that which 
would be provided in an ordinary cash transaction. As required by IAS 18 the value of advertising receivable in all significant barter 
transactions is reliably measurable by referencing to the counterparty’s rate card. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position when a Group company has a present obligation (legal 
or constructive) as a result of a past event; it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to 
settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The amount recognised as a provision is the 
best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date. 
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.  
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
49
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
Staff gratuity costs 
The staff gratuity provision is a statutory obligation under UAE labour law, whereby each employee on termination of their contract is 
due a payment dependent upon their number of years service and nature of the termination. The liability is weighted against historical 
rates of resignation and redundancy. 
Panel incentive costs 
The Group invites consumer panel members to fill out surveys in return for a cash or points-based incentive. Although these amounts 
are not paid until a predetermined target value has accrued on a panellist’s account, an assessment of incentives likely to be paid 
(present obligation) is made taking into account past panellist behaviour and is recognised as a cost of sale in the period in which the 
service is provided. This assessment takes into account the expected savings from the prize draw offered in various territories. 
Interest 
The Group receives interest income for cash funds that are held on short-term instant access deposit. Where interest receipts are 
received after the balance sheet date the interest due is accrued for the requisite period at the prevailing rate on the deposit. 
Interest is recognised using the effective interest method which calculates the amortised cost of a financial liability and allocates the 
interest income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts 
through the expected life of the financial asset to the net carrying amount of the financial asset. 
Exceptional items 
The Group’s Income Statement separately identifies exceptional items. Such items are those that in the Directors’ judgment are one-off 
in nature or need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size and incidence. In determining whether an item or transaction should 
be classified as an exceptional item, the Directors’ consider quantitative as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency, 
predictability of occurrence and significance. This is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management 
and reported to the Board. Exceptional items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Disclosing 
exceptional items separately provides additional understanding of the performance of the Group. Examples include acquisition costs, 
restructuring costs and any other items that are not incurred as part of normal operating activities. 
Taxation 
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date 
in the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates 
positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes 
provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. 
Deferred income taxes are calculated using the liability method on temporary differences. Deferred tax is generally provided on the 
difference between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases. However, deferred tax is not provided on the 
initial recognition of goodwill, nor on the initial recognition of an asset or liability unless the related transaction is a business combination 
or affects tax or accounting profit. Deferred tax on temporary differences associated with shares in subsidiaries and joint ventures is not 
provided if reversal of these temporary differences can be controlled by the Group and it is probable that reversal will not occur in the 
foreseeable future. In addition, tax losses available to be carried forward as well as other income tax credits to the Group are assessed 
for recognition as deferred tax assets. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that the underlying deductible temporary differences will be able to 
be offset against future taxable income. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at tax rates that are expected to apply to their 
respective period of realisation, provided they are enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. The deferred tax provision is 
held at its current value and not discounted. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax 
assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
Changes in deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised as a component of tax expense in the consolidated income statement, 
except where they relate to items that are charged or credited directly to equity in which case the related deferred tax is also charged 
or credited directly to equity. 
Dividends 
Dividends are recognised when the shareholders’ right to receive payment is established. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill representing the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets 
acquired is capitalised and reviewed annually for impairment. Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. If the 
Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities of the acquired entity exceeds the cost  
of the business combination, this value is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement. 
On disposal of a business, goodwill is allocated based on calculated fair value of assets disposed and included in the calculation  
of the profit or loss on disposal. 
  
50
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
 
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets represent identifiable non-monetary assets without physical substance. Intangible assets are valued at either their 
directly attributable costs or using valuation methods such as discounted cash flows and replacement cost in the case of acquired 
intangible assets. The Directors estimate the useful economic life of each asset and use these estimates in applying amortisation 
rates.The Directors periodically review useful economic life estimates. Intangible assets are stated at cost net of amortisation and any 
provision for impairment. The Directors conduct an annual impairment review of intangible assets where necessary for assets with an 
indefinite life. Where impairment arises, losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement. Amortisation of intangible assets 
is shown on the face of the consolidated income statement, except for the amortisation of panel incentive costs incurred in product 
development which is recognised in cost of sales. 
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination 
In accordance with IFRS3 Business Combinations, an intangible asset acquired in a business combination is deemed to have a cost to 
the Group of its fair value at the acquisition date. The fair value of the intangible asset reflects market expectations about the probability 
that the future economic benefits embodied in the asset will flow to the Group. Where an intangible asset might be separable, but only 
together with a related tangible or intangible asset, the group of assets is recognised as a single asset separately from goodwill where 
the individual fair values of the assets in the Group are not reliably measurable. Where the individual fair value of the complementary 
assets is reliably measurable, the Group recognises them as a single asset provided the individual assets have similar useful lives. 
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are typically amortised using the straight-line method over the 
following periods: 
Intangible asset   Amortisation period
Consumer panel    5 years
Software and software development    3 – 5 years
Customer contracts and lists    10 – 11 years
Patents and trademarks    5 – 15 years
Order backlog    3 months – 1 year
Intangible assets generated internally 
Internally generated intangible assets are only capitalised where they meet all of the following criteria stipulated by IAS38: 
 Completion of the intangible asset is technically feasible so that it will be available for use or sale; 
 The Group intends to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it; 
 The Group has the ability to use or sell the intangible asset; 
 The intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits. Among other things, this requires that there is a market for 
the output from the intangible asset or for the intangible asset itself, or, if it is to be used internally, the asset will be used in 
generating such benefits; 
 There are adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the intangible asset; 
 The expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development can be measured reliably; 
Internally generated intangible assets are capitalised at their directly attributable cost. Development costs not meeting the criteria for 
capitalisation are expensed as incurred. 
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised from the moment at which they become available for use. Amortisation rates 
applicable to internally generated intangible assets are typically: 
Intangible asset   Amortisation period
Software and software development    3 years
Patents and trademarks    not amortised
Development costs   2 – 5 years
Consumer panel 
The consumer panel is the core asset from which our online revenues are generated. 
Where a consumer panel or list is acquired as part of a business combination the cost of the asset is recognised at its fair value to the 
Group at the date of acquisition. The fair value is calculated by management using a discounted cash flow model. Amortisation is charged 
to write off the panel acquisition costs over a five year period, this being the Directors’ estimate of the average active life of a panellist. 
Consumer panel costs reflect the direct cost of recruiting new panel members. Consumer panel costs are split between enhancement 
and maintenance of the asset. Enhancement costs are capitalised whilst maintenance costs are expensed. The split is based on 
management estimates derived from current levels of panel churn. Amortisation is charged to write off the panel acquisition costs over 
a three-year period, this being the Directors’ estimate of the average active life of a panellist.  
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
51
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
Software and software development 
Capitalised software includes our survey and panel management software and other items including our BrandIndex platform which 
are key tools of our business. Software and software development also includes purchased off-the-shelf software. 
Where software is acquired as part of a business combination the cost of the asset is recognised at its fair value to the Group at the 
date of acquisition. The fair value is calculated by management using a replacement cost model. Amortisation is charged to write off 
the software over a five year period, this being the Directors’ estimate of the useful life of the software. 
Where software is developed internally, directly attributable costs including employee costs are capitalised as software development. 
Amortisation commences upon completion of the asset. Amortisation is charged to write off the software over a three year period, this 
being the Directors’ estimate of the useful life of software. 
Customer contract and lists 
Where a customer contract or list is acquired as part of a business combination the cost of the asset is recognised at its fair value to the 
Group at the date of acquisition. The fair value is calculated by management using a discounted cash flow model. Customer contracts 
and lists are amortised over a useful economic life based on Directors’ estimates. 
Patents and trademarks 
Where a patent or trademark is acquired as part of a business combination the cost of the asset is recognised at its fair value to the 
Group at the date of acquisition. The fair value is calculated by management using a discounted cash flow model. 
Patents acquired as part of a business combination are amortised over a useful economic life based on Directors’ estimates. 
Patents and trademarks acquired on an ongoing basis to protect the YouGov brand and its products are included at cost and are not 
amortised, as the trademarks are indefinite in their longevity through legal rights. 
Development costs 
Expenditure on research (or the research phase of an internal project) is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred. 
The cost of an internally generated intangible asset comprises all directly attributable costs necessary to create, produce, and prepare 
the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. 
Impairment testing of goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash 
flows (cash-generating units). As a result, some assets are tested individually for impairment and some are tested at cash-generating 
unit level. Goodwill is allocated to those cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from synergies of the related business 
combination and represent the lowest level within the Group at which management monitors the related cash flows. 
Goodwill, other individual assets or cash-generating units that include goodwill, other intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, and 
those intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually. All other individual assets or cash-
generating units are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be 
recoverable. 
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s or cash-generating unit’s carrying amount exceeds its 
recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is calculated as value in use based on an internal discounted cash flow evaluation. 
Impairment losses recognised for cash-generating units, to which goodwill has been allocated, are credited initially to the carrying 
amount of goodwill. Any remaining impairment loss is charged pro rata to the other assets in the cash-generating unit. With the 
exception of goodwill, all assets are subsequently reassessed for indications that an impairment loss previously recognised may 
no longer exist. 
Property, plant and equipment and depreciation 
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. Cost includes the original 
purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. No depreciation 
is charged during the period of construction. Leasehold property is included in property, plant and equipment only where it is held 
under a finance lease. Borrowing costs on property, plant and equipment under construction are capitalised during the period of 
construction based on specific funds borrowed. Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost less estimated residual value of all 
property, plant and machinery over their estimated useful economic lives. 
Asset  Depreciation rate
Freehold property  Straight line over 25 years
Leasehold property improvements  Straight line over the life of the lease
Fixtures and fittings  25% on a reducing balance
Computer equipment  33% per annum straight line
Motor vehicles  25% or the life of the lease
The residual values and useful lives of all assets are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. 
  
52
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
 
Leased assets 
In accordance with IAS17, the economic ownership of a leased asset is transferred to the lessee if the lessee bears substantially all the 
risks and rewards related to the ownership of the leased asset. The related asset is recognised at the time of inception of the lease at 
the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments plus incidental payments, if any, to be 
borne by the lessee. A corresponding amount is recognised as a finance leasing liability. 
The interest element of leasing payments represents a constant proportion of the capital balance outstanding and is charged to the 
income statement over the period of the lease. 
All other leases are regarded as operating leases and the payments made under them are charged to the income statement on 
a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives are spread over the term of the lease. 
Financial assets 
Financial assets are divided into the following categories: loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets. Financial assets 
are assigned to the different categories by management on initial recognition, depending on the purpose for which they were acquired. 
All financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence 
that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial 
difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in 
payments (more than 30 days overdue) are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision  
is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original 
effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the  
loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement within operating expenses. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is 
written off against the allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited 
against operating expenses in the consolidated income statement. 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
Trade receivables and other financial assets are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are measured subsequent 
to initial recognition at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. Any change in their value 
through impairment or reversal of impairment is recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the 
other categories. 
Provision against trade receivables is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due 
to it in accordance with the original terms of those receivables. The amount of the write-down is determined as the difference between 
the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows. 
An assessment for impairment is undertaken at least at each reporting date. 
A financial asset is derecognised only where the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or the financial asset is 
transferred and that transfer qualifies for derecognition. A financial asset is transferred if the contractual rights to receive the cash flows 
of the asset have been transferred or the Group retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the asset but assumes 
a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients. A financial asset that is transferred qualifies for derecognition 
if the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset, or if the Group neither retains nor transfers 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership but does transfer control of that asset. 
Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Financial liabilities are assigned to the different 
categories by management on initial recognition, depending on the purpose for which they were acquired. 
Financial liabilities are obligations to pay cash or other financial assets and are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
They are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. 
Borrowings and lease liabilities are initially recorded at the fair value which is typically the proceeds received, net of any issue costs 
and subsequently carried at amortised cost. Finance charges are accounted for on an effective interest method and are added to the 
carrying value of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise. 
A financial liability is derecognised only when the obligation is extinguished, that is, when the obligation is discharged or cancelled 
or expires. 
  
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
53
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, together with other short-term, highly liquid investments that 
are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value, with maturities no 
longer than three months. In addition, bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand are included for the purposes of the statement 
of cash flows. 
Equity 
Equity comprises the following: 
 Share capital represents the nominal value of equity shares; 
 Share premium represents the excess over nominal value of the fair value of consideration received for equity shares, net of 
incremental and directly attributable expenses of the share issue; 
 Merger reserve represents the excess over nominal value of the fair value of consideration received for equity shares 
issued/allotted directly to acquire another entity meeting the specific requirements of Section 131 of the Companies Act 2006. 
The conditions of the relief include: 
 Securing at least 90% of the nominal value of equity of another company; 
 The arrangement provides for allotment of equity shares in the issuing company; 
 Foreign exchange reserve represents the differences arising from translation of investments in overseas subsidiaries; 
 Retained earnings represent retained profits. 
Foreign currencies 
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, 
which is the Company’s functional and the Group’s presentation currency. 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the reporting date. Non-monetary 
items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.  
Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the 
fair value was determined. 
Any exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items or on translating monetary items at rates different from those at 
which they were initially recorded are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they arise. 
Exchange differences on non-monetary items are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income to the extent 
that they relate to a gain or loss on that non-monetary item taken to the statement of changes in equity, otherwise such gains and 
losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
The assets and liabilities in the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries and associates and related goodwill are translated at the 
rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date. Income and expenses are translated at the actual rate. The exchange differences arising 
from the retranslation of the opening net investment in subsidiaries and joint ventures are taken directly to the “Foreign exchange 
reserve” in equity. 
Employee benefits 
Equity-settled share-based payment 
This fair value is appraised at the grant date and excludes the impact of non-market vesting conditions. 
The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based payment compensation plans under which the entity receives services 
from employees as consideration for equity instruments (options) of the Group. All equity-settled share-based payments are ultimately 
recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement with a corresponding credit to retained earnings. 
If vesting periods or other non-market vesting conditions apply, the expense is allocated over the vesting period, based on the best 
available estimate of the number of share options expected to vest. Estimates are subsequently revised if there is any indication that 
the number of share options expected to vest differs from previous estimates.  
No adjustment is made to any expense recognised in prior periods if share options ultimately exercised are different to that estimated 
on vesting. 
Upon exercise of share options the proceeds received net of attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital, and where 
appropriate share premium. 
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as 
a capital contribution. The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised 
over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity. 
  
54
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
 
Termination benefits 
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an 
employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is 
demonstrably committed to a termination when the entity has a detailed formal plan to terminate the employment of current employees 
without possibility of withdrawal. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period are discounted to their 
present value. 
Contingent consideration 
Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of earn outs are based on the Directors’ best estimates of future obligations, which 
are dependent on the future performance of the interests acquired and assume the operating companies improve profits in line with 
Directors’ estimates. When consideration payable is deferred, the fair value of the consideration is obtained by discounting to present 
value the amounts expected to be payable in the future at a rate equivalent to a UK 10 year treasury gilt (or foreign equivalent), this 
being, in the Directors’ opinion the most appropriate barometer for a risk-free rate. Subsequent changes in the amount of contingent 
consideration recognised are recorded as exceptional items in the consolidated income statement. 
Imputed interest 
When the outflow of cash or cash equivalents is deferred, and the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, the fair value of the 
consideration is the present value of all future payments determined using an imputed rate of interest. The imputed rate of interest used 
is the risk-free rate, this being, in the Directors’ opinion the most appropriate rate. The difference between the present value of all future 
payments and the nominal amount of the consideration is recognised as an interest charge. Imputed interest is shown within finance 
costs in the consolidated income statement. 
Going concern 
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its bank facilities. The current economic conditions continue 
to create uncertainty particularly over (a) the level of demand for the Group’s products; and (b) the availability of bank finance for the 
foreseeable future. The Group’s forecasts, projections and Board approved five year plan, taking account of reasonable possible 
changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate without bank finance. After making enquiries, the 
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements. 
Accounting estimates and judgements 
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies the Directors are required to make estimates and adjustments that may 
affect the financial statements. The Directors believe that the estimates and judgements applied in the financial statements are 
reasonable. 
Estimates and judgements are evaluated on a regular basis and are based on historical experience (where applicable) and other 
factors, such as expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. 
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. These estimates, by definition, will rarely equal the related actual 
results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below. Where estimates and judgements have been made, the key factors 
taken into consideration are disclosed in the appropriate note in these consolidated financial statements. 
Revenue recognition 
The Group is required to make an estimate of project completion levels on long-term contracts for revenue recognition purposes.  
This is based upon the project manager’s estimates and available time records against budgeted and assigned resource for the initial 
project scope. This involves an element of judgement, and therefore differences may arise between the actual and estimated result. 
Where differences do arise, they are recognised in the consolidated income statement for the following reporting period. 
Share-based payments 
The Group is required to make estimates regarding the assumptions that are used to calculate the income statement charge for share-
based payments. Inputs to the calculations include (but are not limited to) expected volatility, expected life, risk-free rate, expected 
dividend yield and redemption rates. Variances in any of the inputs could lead to the charge being higher or lower than appropriate. 
The estimates used are disclosed in Note 22. 
Income taxes 
The Group is subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. Judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for income 
taxes. There are many transactions/calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of 
business. Where the final tax outcome is different to what is initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred 
tax provisions. Income taxes are disclosed fully in Note 6. 
Goodwill 
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy. The recoverable 
amount is based on value in use calculations. The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows and the choice of a 
suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present values of these cash flows. The estimates used in the impairment review are fully 
disclosed in Note 10. 
 
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
55
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Principal Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
All payments to purchase a business are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as debt 
subsequently re-measured through the consolidated income statement. There is a choice on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis to 
measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the 
acquiree’s net assets. All acquisition-related costs are expensed. 
Other intangible assets 
The Group is required to identify and assess the useful life of intangible assets and determine if there is a finite or indefinite life. 
Judgement is required in determining if an intangible asset has a finite life and the extent of this finite life in order to calculate the 
amortisation charge on the asset. The Group tests at each reporting date whether intangible assets have suffered any indicators of 
impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy. The recoverable amount of cash-generating units has been determined based 
on discounted future cash flows. These calculations require estimates to be made. Where there is no method of valuation for an 
intangible asset, management will make use of a valuation technique to determine the value of an intangible if there is no evidence 
of a market value. In doing so certain assumptions and estimates will be made. Intangible assets are fully disclosed in Note 11. 
Panel incentive provision 
The Group is required to assess the likelihood that panel incentives earned by consumer panel members will be redeemed and 
maintain a provision to cover this potential liability. Factors taken into consideration include the absolute liability, redemption rates  
and panel activity rates. Whilst historical data can indicate trends and behaviours it is not an indication of the future. In arriving at the 
carrying value of the provision certain assumptions and estimates have to be made. The estimates used in calculating the panel 
incentive provision are fully disclosed in Note 18. 
Deferred taxation 
Judgement is required by management in determining whether the Group should recognise a deferred tax asset. Management 
consider whether there is sufficient certainty that its tax losses available to carry forward will ultimately be offset against future earnings. 
This judgement impacts on the degree to which deferred tax assets are recognised. Deferred taxation is disclosed fully in Note 19. 
Contingent consideration 
As part of the acquisitions, contingent consideration is payable to selling shareholders based on the future performance of the 
businesses. Judgement is required in estimating the magnitude of contingent consideration and the likelihood of payment. Contingent 
consideration is disclosed fully in Note 17. 
New standards and interpretations not applied 
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued, but are not effective (or not effective  
in the EU) for the financial year beginning 1 August 2013 and have not been early adopted: 
 IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated financial statements’ is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, but has 
been endorsed by the EU only for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. It has therefore not been applied within these 
financial statements.  
 IFRS 11, ‘Joint arrangements’ is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, but has been endorsed by 
the EU only for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. It has therefore not been applied within these financial statements.  
 IFRS 12, ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’ is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, but 
has been endorsed by the EU only for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. It has therefore not been applied within 
these financial statements.  
 Amendment to IFRSs 10, 11 and 12 on transitional guidance. Given these standards have not been endorsed by the EU in 
respect of this reporting period, the Group has not applied these amendments either.  
 IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments − classification and measurement of financial assets’, which is effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2018, and has not yet been endorsed for adoption in the EU. 
Management will assess the impact on the Group of these standards prior to the effective date of implementation. There are no other 
IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
56
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 July 2014 
 
1 Segmental analysis 
For internal reporting purposes the Group is organised into six operating divisions based on geographic lines – UK, Middle East, 
Germany, Nordic, USA and France. These divisions are the primary basis on which the Group reports its segmental information.  
The Group has three product lines – Custom Research, Data Products and Data Services. Supplementary segmental information  
has been provided on this basis. 
Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Board of Directors (which is the 
“chief operating decision-maker”). During the year ended 31 July 2014 the Board of Directors primarily reviewed information based on 
geographic lines but also reviewed information based on product lines. For the year ending 31 July 2015 the Board will primarily review 
information based on product lines with supplemental geographical information. As a result product lines will form the basis for the 
segmental analysis in future years. 
2014 
UK
£’000 
Middle
East 
£’000 
Germany
£’000 
Nordic 
£’000 
USA 
£’000  
France  
£’000  
Consolidation
and 
unallocated 
£’000 
Group 
£’000
Revenue   
External sales 18,795 9,963 8,571 7,844 21,588 445 169 67,375
Inter-segment sales 564 163 374 141 270 311 (1,823) −
Total revenue 19,359 10,126 8,945 7,985 21,858 756 (1,654) 67,375
Inter-segment sales are priced on an arm’s-length basis that would be available to unrelated third parties. 
 
Segment result   
Gross profit 14,720 7,449 6,669 6,504 15,550 581 91 51,564
Adjusted operating profit 5,007 2,246 503 823 3,012 (121) (4,081) 7,389
Amortisation of intangibles 681 82 91 480 702 27 1,902 3,965
Exceptional costs 152 42 273 498 394 − 1,026 2,385
Finance income   171
Finance costs   (463)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates   (14)
Profit before taxation   733
Tax charge   (316)
Profit after taxation   417
Other segment information   
Depreciation 90 129 103 42 121 1 145 631
Share-based payments − − − − − − 547 547
Assets   
Segment assets 31,064 7,741 15,234 12,130 32,882 1,094 (18,013) 82,132
Investments in associates   −
Total assets   82,132
  
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
57
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
1 Segmental analysis continued 
2013 
UK
£’000 
Middle
East 
£’000 
Germany
£’000 
Nordic 
£’000 
USA 
£’000  
France  
£’000  
Consolidation
and 
unallocated 
£’000 
Group 
£’000
Revenue   
External sales 17,055 7,252 9,051 8,438 20,619 136 – 62,551
Inter-segment sales 334 63 330 54 176 203 (1,160) –
Total revenue 17,389 7,315 9,381 8,492 20,795 339 (1,160) 62,551
Inter-segment sales are priced on an arm’s-length basis that would be available to unrelated third parties. 
Segment result   
Gross profit 12,777 5,532 7,493 6,720 14,210 267 112 47,111
Adjusted operating profit 4,437 1,547 880 345 2,274 (91) (3,410) 5,982
Amortisation of intangibles (469) (76) (136) (443) (640) (15) (1,501) (3,280)
Exceptional costs (70) – (27) (454) (342) – (319) (1,212)
Finance income   207
Finance costs   (89)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates   (122)
Profit before taxation   1,486
Tax credit   623
Profit after taxation   2,109
Other segment information   
Depreciation 74 99 105 49 65 2 145 539
Share-based payments – – – – – – 767 767
Assets   
Segment assets 29,992 7,847 16,898 13,392 32,788 470 (17,560) 83,827
Investments in associates   363
Total assets   84,190
 
Differences between the origin and destination of revenue are material to the Group. Revenue by destination is presented below. 
2014 
UK
£’000 
Middle
East 
£’000 
Germany
£’000 
Nordic 
£’000 
USA 
£’000  
France  
£’000  
Consolidation
and 
unallocated 
£’000 
Group 
£’000
External sales 18,507 8,770 8,647 7,822 22,634 727 268 67,375
Inter-segment sales 1,071 131 334 247 1,302 41 (3,126) −
Total revenue 19,578 8,901 8,981 8,069 23,936 768 (2,858) 67,375
2013   
External sales 17,683 6,071 9,080 8,441 21,036 240 – 62,551
Inter-segment sales 852 107 351 214 699 13 (2,236) –
Total revenue 18,535 6,178 9,431 8,655 21,735 253 (2,236) 62,551
Inter-segment sales are priced on an arm’s-length basis that would be available to unrelated third parties. 
Supplementary information by product line 
2014 
Custom 
research
£’000 
Data 
products  
£’000  
Data  
services  
£’000  
Unallocated
£’000 
Group 
£’000
Revenue 47,689 9,604 10,082 − 67,375
Adjusted operating profit 5,485 1,639 3,947 (3,682) 7,389
2013   
External sales 47,400 6,641 8,510 − 62,551
Adjusted operating profit 5,126 834 3,246 (3,224) 5,982
  
58
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
 
 
2 Operating expenditure 
The profit before taxation is stated after charging: 
 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Auditors’ remuneration: 
Fees payable for the audit of the parent company and the consolidated financial statements 147 148
Audit of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation  78 45
Audit related assurance services 29 31
Tax compliance services 27 53
Tax advisory services 44 63
Other advisory services 31 70
Total auditors’ remuneration 356 410
Disposals, depreciation and amortisation: 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (Note 12) 631 539
Amortisation of intangible assets per the income statement 3,965 3,280
Amortisation of intangible assets recognised in cost of sales 155 −
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment − 3
Other operating lease rentals: 
Plant and machinery 75 121
Land and buildings 1,700 1,405
Other expenses: 
Exchange losses 62 47
Share-based payment expenses (Note 22) 547 767
Charitable donations 71 73
3 Staff numbers and costs 
Staff costs (including Directors) charged to operating expenses during the year were as follows: 
 
2014 
£’000
2013
Restated +
£’000
Wages and salaries  24,519 24,492
Social security costs  2,732 2,558
Share-based payments (Note 22)  547 767
Pension costs  492 398
Other benefits   3,113 2,743
Acquisition cost deemed as staff compensation*  687 102
  32,090 31,060
+ The prior year comparative has been restated to reclassify £815,000 of staff bonuses from wages and salaries to other benefits. 
* Part of the acquisition cost relating to Definitive Insights, CoEditor and Decision Fuel is deemed as staff compensation and treated as an exceptional cost, as disclosed in Note 9. 
In addition to the amounts disclosed above, staff costs totalling £2,322,000 (2013: £1,879,000) were capitalised in relation to internally 
developed software. Further details are provided in Note 11. 
Pension costs are contributions made on behalf of employees to defined contribution pension schemes. Other benefits include staff 
bonuses and private healthcare insurance. 
The monthly average number of employees of the Group during the year was as follows: 
 
2014 
Number
2013
Number
Key management personnel  22 19
Administration and operations  556 483
  578 502
  
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
59
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
3 Staff numbers and costs continued 
Specific disclosures in relation to compensation for key management personnel (defined as Board and Divisional, Product and 
Function Heads) who held office during the year was as follows: 
 
2014 
£’000 
2013
£’000
Short-term employee benefits  3,305 2,788
Post-employment benefits  56 44
Share-based payments  409 602
Acquisition cost deemed as staff compensation  554 −
 4,324 3,434
Disclosure of Directors’ remuneration including share options are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 36, which form 
part of the financial statements. 
4 Exceptional items 
 
2014 
£’000 
2013
£’000
Restructuring costs  1,192 645
Acquisition-related costs  1,226 255
Change in accounting estimation – contingent consideration  92 35
Cost of establishing new entities  44 –
Gain on re-measurement of associates on acquisition of control  (169) −
Employment termination  − 205
Panel closure costs  − 72
  2,385 1,212
Restructuring costs in the year are the cost of reorganising the management structure of the Nordic £498,000, US £302,000, German 
£284,000 and UK £108,000 businesses.Restructuring costs in the prior year primarily relate to the restructuring of the Nordic business 
to improve performance and the cost of reorganising the UK and Group management structures.  
Acquisition related costs in the year comprise: 
 £729,000 in relation to the acquisition of Doughty Media 2 including £699,000 in respect of contingent consideration that is 
deemed under IFRS to be staff compensation costs and £30,000 of transaction costs. 
 £524,000 in relation to the acquisition of Decision Fuel including £286,000 of transaction costs, £163,000 of deemed staff costs 
and £75,000 of loyalty bonuses. 
 A credit of £27,000 in respect of prior year acquisition fees. 
Acquisition related costs in the prior year include £102,000 of contingent consideration in respect of the Definitive Insights acquisition 
that is deemed under IFRS3 to be staff compensation cost, £136,000 incurred in relation to a prospective acquisition with which the 
Group decided not to proceed and £18,000 in respect of the acquisition of a shareholding in Doughty Media 2.  
The change in estimated contingent consideration in the year is in respect of the Definitive Insights acquisition. The change in 
estimated contingent consideration in the prior year comprises a charge of £70,000 in respect of the acquisition of Clear Horizons, 
a credit of £16,000 in respect of the Harrison Group acquisition and a credit of £19,000 in respect of the Definitive Insights acquisition. 
The cost of establishing new entities relate to the professional and regulatory fees incurred in establishing new operations in Kurdistan, 
Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Indonesia.  
The Group acquired an additional 27% equity interest in CoEditor on 6 September 2013. This additional equity interest resulted in 
YouGov Plc acquiring control of CoEditor. Under International Financial Reporting Standard 3, 'Business Combinations' ('IFRS 3'), the 
interest previously held by the Group has been re-measured to its fair value at the acquisition date. This has resulted in a gain of 
£169,000 arising on the revaluation of our existing interest which has been included in exceptional items in the income statement.  
IFRS 3 requires that the interest should be treated on the same basis as would be required if the acquirer had disposed directly of the 
previously held interest and then required at fair value. Prior to the acquisition the interest in CoEditor was proportionally consolidated 
as disclosed in the 31 July 2013 accounting policies note. The Group has shown the disposal of the previously held interest and re-
acquisition within Note 9 of the financial statements. 
Employment termination costs in the prior year relate to redundancies in the US. Panel closure costs in the prior year arose as a result 
of the decision taken in the year to close the YouGov Panel in Chile. 
  
60
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
 
 
5 Finance income and costs 
 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Interest receivable from bank deposits  − 27
Dividends received  55 41
Foreign exchange gains on cash and intra-Group loans  116 139
Total finance income  171 207
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts  9 10
Interest on obligations under hire purchase and finance leases  3 4
Other interest payable  3 −
Foreign exchange losses on cash and intra-Group loans  416 4
  431 18
Imputed interest on contingent consideration and provisions  32 71
Total finance costs  463 89
6 Income taxes 
The taxation charge represents: 
 
2014 
£’000
2013
£’000
Current tax on profits for the year  458 294
Adjustments in respect of prior years  57 196
Total current tax charge  515 490
Deferred tax:  
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  (91) (89)
Adjustments in respect of prior years  (117) (1,130)
Impact of changes in tax rates  9 106
Total deferred tax credit  (199) (1,113)
Total income statement tax charge/(credit)  316 (623)
The tax assessed for the year is higher (2013: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. 
The differences are explained below: 
 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Profit before taxation  733 1,486
Tax charge calculated at Group’s standard rate of 22.3% (2013: 23.7%)  164 352
Variance in overseas tax rates  (37) (177)
Impact of changes in tax rates  9 106
Gains not subject to tax  − (10)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes  225 134
Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised  12 (123)
Adjustment in respect of prior years  (60) (934)
Associates results reported net of tax  3 29
Total income statement tax charge/(credit) for the year  316 (623)
On 2 July 2013, the UK corporation tax rate was reduced from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015. This change 
has been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, is included in these financial statements. As deferred tax 
assets and liabilities are measured at the rates that are expected to apply in the periods of the reversal, deferred tax balances at  
31 July 2014 have been calculated using a rate of 21% or 20%, as appropriate, giving rise to a reduction in the net deferred tax asset 
of £9,000 (2013: £106,000).   
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
61
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
7 Dividend 
On 16 December 2013, a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2013 of £586,000 (0.6p per share) (2012: £479,000 (0.5p 
per share)) was paid to shareholders. A dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2014 of 0.8p per share, amounting to a total 
dividend of £794,000 is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 10 December 2014. These financial statements do not 
reflect this proposed dividend payable.  
8 Earnings per share 
The calculation of the basic earnings per share is based on the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the weighted 
average number of shares in issue during the year. Shares held in employee share trusts are treated as cancelled for the purposes of 
this calculation. 
The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on the basic earnings per share, adjusted to allow for the issue of shares and the 
post-tax effect of dividends and/or interest, on the assumed conversion of all dilutive options and other dilutive potential Ordinary 
Shares. 
The adjusted earnings per share has been calculated to reflect the underlying profitability of the business by excluding the amortisation 
of intangible assets, share-based payments, imputed interest, impairment charges, exceptional items and any related tax effects. 
 
2014 
£’000 
2013
£’000
Profit after taxation attributable to equity holders of the parent company  433 2,042
Add: amortisation of intangible assets  3,965 3,280
Add: share-based payments  547 767
Add: imputed interest  32 71
Add: exceptional costs  2,385 1,212
Tax effect of the above adjustments and exceptional tax items  (1,335) (2,060)
Adjusted profit after taxation  6,027 5,312
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below. 
 2014 2013
Number of shares   
Weighted average number of shares during the period: (’000 shares)   
– Basic  98,044 95,639
– Dilutive effect of share options  5,434 7,535
– Diluted  103,478 103,174
The adjustments have the following effect:   
Basic earnings per share  0.4p 2.1p
Amortisation of intangible assets  4.1p 3.4p
Share-based payments  0.6p 0.8p
Imputed interest  0.0p 0.1p
Exceptional costs and impairments  2.4p 1.3p
Tax effect of the above adjustments and exceptional tax items  (1.4p) (2.1p)
Adjusted earnings per share  6.1p 5.6p
Diluted earnings per share  0.4p 2.0p
Amortisation of intangible assets  3.9p 3.2p
Share-based payments  0.5p 0.7p
Imputed interest  0.0p 0.0p
Exceptional costs and impairment  2.3p 1.2p
Tax effect of the above adjustments and exceptional tax items  (1.3p) (2.0p)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share  5.8p 5.1p
  
62
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
 
 
9 Business combinations and disposals 
a) Doughty Media 2 Limited (“DM2”)  
During the year, YouGov acquired 100% of Doughty Media 2 (“DM2”) which owned 68% of CoEditor Limited (“CoEditor”), the 
company which developed the Opigram service and in which YouGov already owned a 30% shareholding. This acquisition was made 
in two stages: 40% was acquired in September 2013 and the remaining 60% in December 2013. 
i. Acquisition of 40% shareholding in DM2 
On 6 September 2013, YouGov plc purchased a 40% shareholding in DM2 from Freddie Sayers, an Executive Director of CoEditor,  
for a purchase price of £497,000. £37,000 of this was paid in cash on completion, the remaining balance of £460,000 will be payable  
in YouGov shares in February 2015 contingent on Freddie Sayers’ continuing employment of which £348,000 is also contingent on the 
achievement of certain performance criteria relating to the delivery of expected benefits arising from the incorporation of the Opigram 
technology within YouGov’s online presence. 
DM2 has a 68% shareholding in CoEditor and following this purchase, YouGov's effective interest in CoEditor increased to 57% which 
constituted control.  
The payment due in February 2015 has been discounted to a net present value of £456,000 resulting in a finance charge of £4,000  
to be taken to the income statement over the earn-out period. All of this contingent consideration is contingent upon continuing 
employment and therefore will be treated as staff compensation under IFRS. 
Professional fees of £30,000 were incurred during the year relating to the acquisition and in accordance with IFRS3 (revised) these 
professional fees have been expensed in the period in which they have been incurred. 
The amounts recognised for each class of CoEditor’s assets recognised at the acquisition date are as follows: 
 
 
Fair value
£’000
Intangible assets − software and software development  768
Property plant and equipment  15
Cash  12
Other working capital  (60)
Deferred tax liability  (62)
Net assets  673
Non-controlling interests (11)
Attributable to owners of the parent 662
Goodwill arising on acquisition 569
Total consideration 1,231
Total consideration analysed as:    
Carrying value of investment in CoEditor    377
Re-measurement of the investment in CoEditor to fair value   169
Fair value of existing investment in CoEditor    546
Settlement of existing loan   648
Cash   37
Total consideration   1,231
The gain of £169,000 on the re-measurement of the investment in CoEditor to fair value has been recognised in the income statement 
as an exceptional gain in the year. 
The goodwill is attributable to the benefits expected, in terms of data collection, panel recruitment and retention and new product 
opportunities, from the integration of the YouGov and Opigram websites. 
Ownership and control passed to YouGov on 6 September 2013 and DM2 has been consolidated within the Group financial 
statements from that date. Since the acquisition DM2 has not contributed to Group revenue and has reduced Group adjusted 
operating profit by £232,000. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 August 2013 DM2 would have contributed £nil to Group revenue  
and would have reduced Group operating profit by £250,000. 
  
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
63
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
9 Business combinations and disposals continued 
ii. Acquisition of 60% shareholding in DM2 
On 20 December 2013, YouGov plc purchased the remaining 60% shareholding in DM2 from Stephan Shakespeare, an Executive 
Director of YouGov plc on the same terms and conditions agreed for the prior purchase of the 40% shareholding. The maximum 
purchase price will be £744,000, payable in YouGov shares in February 2015 contingent on Stephan Shakespeare’s continuing 
employment, of which £521,000 is also contingent on the achievement of certain performance criteria relating to delivery of expected 
benefits arising from the incorporation of the Opigram technology within YouGov’s online presence. 
As a result of this transaction YouGov’s effective interest in CoEditor increased to 97%.  
The payment due in February 2015 has been discounted to a net present value of £739,000 resulting in a finance charge of £5,000 to 
be taken to the income statement over the earn-out period. As this contingent consideration is contingent upon continuing employment 
it will therefore be treated as staff compensation under IFRS. 
As a result of this treatment consideration for this purchase was £nil and the book value of the non-controlling interest at the transaction 
date was a deficit of £35,000. The difference of £35,000 has been reflected directly in reserves in accordance with IAS27 (revised). 
b) Acquisition of Decision Fuel (“DF”) 
On 9 January 2014, YouGov plc purchased a 100% shareholding in Decision Fuel (“DF”), an Asian based research and technology 
company with offices in Hong Kong, Shanghai and Singapore. The basic purchase consideration payable is the sum of six times the 
EBITDA of DF in the year ending 31 July 2016 and two times EBITDA (capped at 1.5 times 2016 EBITDA) in the year ending 31 July 
2017 less any working capital funding provided by YouGov to DF prior to the end of the performance period. An initial payment 
of $1,000,000 (£608,000) was paid upon completion and the balance will be paid in two instalments in December 2017 and 
December 2018. 
The payments due in 2017 and 2018 are estimated to total $1.5m (£0.9m) approximately 97% of this contingent consideration  
is contingent upon continuing employment and therefore will be treated as staff compensation under IFRS. 
Professional fees of £286,000 and loyalty bonuses of £75,000 were incurred during the year relating to the acquisition and in 
accordance with IFRS3 (revised) these costs have been expensed in the period in which they have been incurred. 
The amounts recognised for each class of DFs’ assets recognised at the acquisition date are as follows: 
 
Fair value
£’000
Intangible assets − software and software development 250
Property plant and equipment 5
Cash and borrowings (10)
Other working capital (258)
Deferred tax liability (9)
Net assets (22)
Goodwill arising on acquisition 657
Total consideration 635
Total consideration analysed as: 
Contingent consideration  27
Cash 608
Total consideration 635
Ownership and control passed to YouGov on 8 January 2014 and DF has been consolidated within the Group financial statements 
from that date. Since the acquisition DF has contributed £192,000 to Group revenue and has reduced Group adjusted operating profit 
by £268,000. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 August 2013 DF would have contributed £290,000 to Group revenue and would have 
reduced Group operating profit by £393,000. 
  
64
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
 
 
10 Goodwill 
 
Middle
East 
£’000
USA
£’000
Nordic 
£’000
Germany
£’000
CoEditor 
£’000  
Asia Pacific
£’000
Total 
£’000
Carrying amount at 1 August 2012 1,405 16,814 7,825 10,195 − − 36,239
Exchange differences 44 523 857 1,137 − − 2,561
Carrying amount at 31 July 2013 1,449 17,337 8,682 11,332 − − 38,800
Additions through business combinations − − − − 569 657 1,226
Exchange differences (143) (1,713) (792) (1,031) − (18) (3,697)
Carrying amount at 31 July 2014 1,30615,624 7,890 10,301 569 639 36,329
At 31 July 2014  
Cost 1,306 15,624 7,890 12,585 569 639 38,613
Accumulated impairment − − − (2,284) − − (2,284)
Net book amount 1,306 15,624 7,890 10,301 569 639 36,329
In accordance with the Group’s accounting policy, the carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets are reviewed annually for 
impairment. The cash-generating units (CGUs) are consistent with those segments shown in Note 1. The 2014 impairment review was 
undertaken as at 31 July 2014. The recoverable amounts of all CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations. This 
review assessed whether the carrying value of goodwill was supported by the net present value of future cash flows derived from 
assets using a projection period of five years for each CGU, other than Germany, based on approved budget numbers. For Germany, 
more conservative projections were used as a result of recent performance, with approved budget numbers used for years one to 
three and EBITDA growth in years four and five assumed to be 5%. 
Annual growth rates of 2.25% have been assumed in perpetuity beyond year five. The pre-tax weighted average costs of capital used 
to discount the future cash flows to their present values are between10% and 17% (2013: between 10% and 17%). The compound 
average revenue growth rates assumed for each CGU were Middle East 1%, USA 13%, Nordic 8%, Germany 7% and Asia Pacific 
111%. 
Management has performed a sensitivity analysis in respect of the discounted cash flow model supporting the carrying value of 
goodwill attributable to the Group's operations in Germany. If the growth forecasts in the model are delayed by one year, an 
impairment of c. £1.1m would be required. For the other CGUs management has considered reasonable possible changes in key 
assumptions and performed sensitivity analyses under these scenarios. This analysis shows that sufficient headroom exists and would 
not give rise to any impairment. 
  
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
65
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
11 Other intangible assets 
 
Consumer  
panel 
£’000 
Software and 
software 
development 
£’000 
Customer 
contracts 
and lists
£’000 
Patents and 
trademarks 
£’000 
Order  
backlog 
£’000  
Development  
costs 
£’000  
Total 
£’000
At 1 August 2012    
Cost 9,051 8,238 4,702 2,973 218 548 25,730
Accumulated amortisation (8,440) (5,225) (1,425) (1,555) (218) (323) (17,186)
Net book amount 611 3,013 3,277 1,418 − 225 8,544
Year ended 31 July 2013    
Opening net book amount 611 3,013 3,277 1,418 − 225 8,544
Additions:    
Separately acquired 649 852 − 11 − 247 1,759
Internally developed − 1,811 − − − 68 1,879
Amortisation charge:    
Business combinations − − (479) (332) − − (811)
Separately acquired (422) (624) − (2) − (104) (1,152)
Internally developed − (1,300) − − − (17) (1,317)
Exchange differences 49 16 143 89 − 11 308
Closing net book amount 887 3,768 2,941 1,184 − 430 9,210
At 31 July 2013    
Cost 10,142 10,983 4,963 3,197 232 900 30,417
Accumulated amortisation (9,255) (7,215) (2,022) (2,013) (232) (470) (21,207)
Net book amount 887 3,768 2,941 1,184 − 430 9,210
Year ended 31 July 2014    
Opening net book amount 887 3,768 2,941 1,184 − 430 9,210
Additions:    
Business combinations − 1,014 − − − − 1,014
Separately acquired 1,743 540 − 2 − 116 2,401
Internally developed − 2,315 − − − 7 2,322
Amortisation charge:    
Business combinations − (169) (464) (324) − − (957)
Separately acquired (706) (696) − − − (172) (1,574)
Internally developed − (1,573) − − − (16) (1,589)
Exchange differences (85) (46) (271) (87) − (17) (506)
Closing net book amount 1,839 5,153 2,206 775 − 348 10,321
At 31 July 2014        
Cost 10,917 14,106 4,485 2,907 210 969 33,594
Accumulated amortisation (9,078) (8,953) (2,279) (2,132) (210) (621) (23,273)
Net book amount 1,839 5,153 2,206 775 − 348 10,321
 
66
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
 
 
12 Property, plant and equipment 
 
Freehold 
property 
£’000 
Leasehold 
property
improvements
£’000 
Computer
equipment 
£’000 
Fixtures 
and 
fittings 
£’000  
Motor
vehicles
£’000 
Total 
£’000
At 1 August 2012  
Cost 1,463 384 1,951 919 73 4,790
Accumulated depreciation (225) (309) (1,279) (603) (64) (2,480)
Net book amount 1,238 75 672 316 9 2,310
Year ended 31 July 2013  
Opening net book amount 1,238 75 672 316 9 2,310
Additions:  
Separately acquired − 2 328 66 15 411
Disposals − − (3) − − (3)
Depreciation (49) (17) (378) (89) (6) (539)
Exchange differences 37 4 17 18 1 77
Closing net book amount 1,226 64 636 311 19 2,256
At 31 July 2013  
Cost 1,449 376 2,439 1,018 74 5,356
Accumulated depreciation (223) (312) (1,803) (707) (55) (3,100)
Net book amount 1,226 64 636 311 19 2,256
Year ended 31 July 2014  
Opening net book amount 1,226 64 636 311 19 2,256
Additions:  
Business combinations − − 16 4 − 20
Separately acquired − 447 400 134 67 1,048
Disposals − − (1) − (12) (13)
Depreciation (59) (35) (428) (92) (17) (631)
Exchange differences  (119) (8) (37) (24) (3) (191)
Closing net book amount 1,048 468 586 333 54 2,489
At 31 July 2014  
Cost 1,305 799 2,443 1,100 72 5,719
Accumulated depreciation (257) (331) (1,857) (767) (18) (3,230)
Net book amount 1,048 468 586 333 54 2,489
All property, plant and equipment disclosed above, with the exception of those items held under lease purchase agreements, are free 
from restrictions on title. No property, plant and equipment either in 2014 or 2013 has been pledged as security against the liabilities 
of the Group. 
The net book value of assets held under finance leases is as follows 
 
Freehold 
property 
£’000 
Leasehold 
property
improvements
£’000 
Computer
equipment 
£’000 
Fixtures 
and 
fittings 
£’000  
Motor
vehicles
£’000 
Total 
£’000
At 31 July 2013  
Cost − − 59 35 − 94
Accumulated depreciation − − (4) (4) − (8)
Net book amount − − 55 31 − 86
At 31 July 2014  
Cost − − 54 31 − 85
Accumulated depreciation − − (14) (6) − (20)
Net book amount − − 40 25 − 65
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
67
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
13 Investments 
(a) Interests in subsidiaries 
The table below gives details of the Group's trading subsidiaries at 31 July 2014.  
Proportion held 
Country of
incorporation
Class of share
capital held
By parent 
company
By the 
Group Nature of the business
YouGov ME FZ LLC U.A.E. Ordinary 100% 100% Market research
YouGov M.E. Egypt LLC Egypt Ordinary 0% 100% Market research
Iridescent Productions Iraq Ordinary 0% 100% Media production
YouGov Deutschland AG Germany Ordinary 100% 100% Market research
Service Rating GmbH Germany Ordinary 0% 100% Rating agency
BeField GmbH Germany Ordinary 0% 70% CATI supplier company
YouGov Nordic and Baltic A/S  Denmark Ordinary 100% 100% Market research
YouGov Sweden AB  Sweden Ordinary 0% 100% Market research
YouGov Norway AS  Norway Ordinary 0% 100% Market research
YouGov Finland OY  Finland Ordinary 0% 100% Market research
YouGov America Inc USA Ordinary 0% 100% Market research
HG Acquisition LLC USA Ordinary 0% 100% Market research
Definitive Insights Inc USA Ordinary 0% 100% Market research
YouGov Services Limited UK Ordinary 100% 100% Software development
YouGov France SASU France Ordinary 100% 100% Market research
YGV Finance Limited UK Ordinary 0% 100% Intra-group financing
CoEditor Limited UK Ordinary 0% 100% Software development
Consilium Limited Hong Kong Ordinary 100% 100% Market research
Decision Fuel Pte Limited Singapore Ordinary 0% 100% Market research
All subsidiaries have co-terminus year ends and are included in the consolidated financial statements. The list therefore includes only 
those entities that have a significant impact on the revenue, profit or assets of the Group. A full list of subsidiaries will be annexed to the 
Company’s next annual return filed with the Registrar of Companies. 
(b) Interest in joint ventures and associates 
 
31 July 2014 
£’000 
31 July 2013
£’000
Investments in joint ventures and associates comprise:   
Carrying amount at 1 August   363 485
Acquisition of associate  (349) –
Share of loss in associate   (14) (122)
Interest in joint ventures and associates   − 363
The Group has not recognised losses amounting to £2,000 (2013: £10,000) for YouGov Centaur LLP. 
At 31 July 2014 the Group had interests in the following joint ventures and associates: 
  Proportion held
 Investment  
Country of
incorporation
Class of share
capital held
By parent
company
By the
Group
Nature of the
business
Financial
year end
YouGovCentaur LLP Joint Venture England Ordinary 50% 50% Not trading 30 June
SMG Insight Limited Investment England Ordinary 20% 20% Market research 31 March
  
68
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
 
 
13 Investments continued 
The Group’s share of the revenue and operating loss and assets and liabilities of joint ventures and associates are: 
 CoEditor Limited YouGov Centaur LLP SMG Insight Limited 
 
31 July 2014
£’000
31 July 2013
£’000
31 July 2014
£’000
31 July 2013 
£’000 
31 July 2014
£’000
31 July 2013
£’000
Revenue − – − – 171 138
Profit/(Loss) after tax (14) (122) (2) (10) 55 36
Non-current assets − 124 − 1 2 −
Current assets − 8 42 43 32 28
Current liabilities − (11) (162) (162) (34) (27)
Non-current liabilities − (199) − – − −
Net (liabilities)/assets − (78) (120) (118) − 1
During the financial year YouGov acquired a100% shareholding in Doughty Media 2, the majority shareholder of CoEditor Limited, 
increasing its effective ownership of CoEditor Limited to 97%, as a result CoEditor is now classified as a subsidiary undertaking.  
More details of this business combination are disclosed in Note 9. 
14 Trade and other receivables 
 
31 July 2014
£’000
31 July 2013
£’000
Trade receivables 13,547 13,564
Amounts owed by related parties − 205
Loans to related parties − 646
Other receivables 786 620
Prepayments and accrued income 7,584 8,066
 21,917 23,101
Provision for trade receivables (230) (150)
 21,687 22,951
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair value. 
Loans to related parties relate to amounts advanced to fund working capital, no interest is charged. 
As at 31 July 2014, trade receivables of £6,081,000 (2013: £8,750,000) and amounts owed by related parties of £nil (2013: £205,000) 
were overdue but not impaired. These relate to a number of customers for which there is no recent history of default or any other 
indication that the receivable should not be fully collectible. The ageing analysis of past due trade receivables which are not impaired  
is as follows: 
 
31 July 2014 
£’000
31 July 2013
£’000
Up to three months overdue 4,206 4,959
Three to six months overdue 960 1,636
Six months to one year overdue 603 2,060
More than one year overdue 312 95
 6,081 8,750
  
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
69
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
14 Trade and other receivables continued 
Movement on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: 
 
2014  
£’000 
2013
£’000
Provision for receivables impairment at 1 August 150 120
Provision created in the year 201 128
Provision utilised in the year (109) (105)
Exchange differences (12) 7
Provision for receivables impairment at 31 July 230 150
The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables has been included in the consolidated income statement. The other 
classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date 
is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does not hold any collateral as security. 
The average length of time taken by customers to settle receivables is 64 days (2013: 68 days). Concentrations of credit risk do exist 
with certain clients with which we have trading relationships but none has a history of default and all command a certain stature within 
the marketplace which minimises any potential risk of default. Material balances (defined as greater than £250,000 (2013: greater than 
£250,000)) represent 26% of trade receivables (2013:17%).  
At 31 July 2014, £474,000 (DKK 4.5m) (2013: £544,000 (DKK 4.6m)) of the trade and other receivables of YouGov Nordic and Baltic 
A/S were used as security against a loan and revolving overdraft facility held by YouGov Nordic and Baltic A/S. 
15 Cash and cash equivalents 
 
31 July 2014  
£’000 
31 July 2013
£’000
Cash at bank and in hand 7,429 6,929
Short-term bank deposits − –
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 7,429 6,929
Cash and cash equivalents are held at either variable rates or at rates fixed for periods of no longer than three months. 
Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the cash flows: 
 
31 July 2014  
£’000 
31 July 2013
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 7,429 6,929
Bank overdrafts (184) (273)
Cash and cash equivalents excluding overdrafts 7,245 6,656
Bank overdrafts are denominated in Danish Krone and bear interest at 3.5% (2013: 3.2%). 
16 Trade and other payables 
 
31 July 2014  
£’000 
31 July 2013
£’000
Trade payables 3,102 1,991
Accruals and deferred income 12,252 11,965
Other payables 2,176 2,279
 17,530 16,235
The average length of time taken by the Group to settle payables is 44 days (2013: 31 days). The Directors consider that the carrying 
amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value. 
Included within other creditors are £28,000 (2013: £19,000) of contributions due in respect of defined contribution pension schemes. 
  
70
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
 
 
17 Contingent consideration 
Clear 
Horizons
£’000
Harrison 
Group
£’000
Definitive 
Insights 
£’000 
Decision Fuel
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 August 2012 306 1,114 939 − 2,359
Settled during the year (377) (1,126) (520) − (2,023)
Provided during the year 70 − 102 − 172
Released during the year − (16) (19) − (35)
Discount unwinding − 25 33 − 58
Foreign exchange differences 1 3 16 − 20
Balance at 31 July 2013 − − 551 − 551
Included within current liabilities − − 301 − 301
Included within non-current liabilities − − 250 − 250
Settled during the year − − (314) (18) (332)
Provided during the year − − 92 189 281
Discount unwinding − − 18 1 19
Foreign exchange differences − − (49) (3) (52)
Balance at 31 July 2014 − − 298 169 467
Included within current liabilities − − 298 − 298
Included within non-current liabilities − − − 169 169
18 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 
Panel  
incentives 
£’000 
Staff
gratuity
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 August 2012 2,772 178 2,950
Provided during the year 4,219 104 4,323
Utilised during the year (3,701) (10) (3,711)
Released during the year (159) (2) (161)
Discount unwinding 13 − 13
Foreign exchange differences 85 8 93
Balance at 31 July 2013 3,229 278 3,507
Included within current liabilities 2,737 − 2,737
Included within non-current liabilities 492 278 770
Provided during the year 4,930 131 5,061
Utilised during the year (4,529) (77) (4,606)
Released during the year − (10) (10)
Discount unwinding 13 − 13
Foreign exchange differences (125) (29) (154)
Balance at 31 July 2014 3,518 293 3,811
Included within current liabilities 3,127 − 3,127
Included within non-current liabilities 391 293 684
The panel incentive provision represents the Directors’ best estimate of the future liability in relation to the value of panel incentives that 
have accrued in the panellists’ virtual accounts up to 31 July 2014. The provision of £3.6m represents 37% of the maximum potential 
liability of £9.6m (2013: £3.2m representing 34% of the total liability of £9.4m). The factors considered in estimating the appropriate 
percentage of the total potential liability to be provided against at each reporting date include: panel churn rates, panel activity rates, 
current redemption patterns and the time value of money.  
The staff gratuity provision is a statutory obligation under UAE labour law, whereby each employee on termination of their contract is 
due a payment dependent upon their number of years’ service and nature of the termination. The liability of £0.3m at 31 July 2014 
(2013: £0.3m) represents the liability that the Group is obliged to pay as at the reporting date weighted against historical rates of 
resignation and redundancy. 
  
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
71
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
19 Deferred taxation assets and liabilities 
Deferred tax asset 
Intangible 
assets
£’000
Property, 
plant and
 equipment
£’000
Tax 
losses 
£’000 
Other timing 
differences 
£’000 
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 August 2012 142 148 1,261 653 2,204
Recognised in the income statement (47) 4 38 508 503
Recognised in other comprehensive income – – (73) – (73)
Recognised in equity – – – 91 91
Foreign exchange differences – 1 90 31 122
Balance at 31 July 2013 95 153 1,316 1,283 2,847
Recognised in the income statement (31) 80 136 (378) (193)
Recognised in other comprehensive income − − 124 − 124
Recognised in equity − − − 501 501
Foreign exchange differences − (2) (105) (52) (159)
Balance at 31 July 2014 64 231 1,471 1,354 3,120
£668,000 of the above deferred tax assets are expected to be recovered within one year. 
The deferred taxation asset in respect of income tax losses are broken down by jurisdiction as follows: 
 
31 July 2014  
£’000 
31 July 2013
£’000
UK 436 243
Nordic 670 796
USA 116 165
France 164 112
Asia Pacific 85 −
 1,471 1,316
Deferred tax assets have been recognised only to the extent where management budgets and forecasts show sufficient profits being 
generated to discharge these in the short term. Utilisation of tax losses is dependent upon future profits being generated. 
Deferred tax liabilities 
Intangible  
assets 
£’000 
Other timing 
differences 
£’000 
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 August 2012 2,375 399 2,774
Recognised in the income statement (532) (78) (610)
Foreign exchange differences 136 27 163
Balance at 31 July 2013 1,979 348 2,327
Acquired as a result of business combinations 71 − 71
Recognised in the income statement (261) (131) (392)
Foreign exchange differences (158) (24) (182)
Balance at 31 July 2014 1,631 193 1,824
£170,000 of the above deferred tax liabilities are expected to be recovered within one year. 
The net movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows: 
 
2014  
£’000 
2013
£’000
Balance at 1 August 520 (570)
Acquisition of subsidiary (71) –
Recognised in the income statement 199 1,113
Recognised in other comprehensive income 124 (73)
Recognised in equity 501 91
Foreign exchange differences recognised in other comprehensive income 23 (41)
Balance at 31 July 1,296 520
  
72
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
 
 
20 Risk management objectives and policies 
The Group is exposed to foreign currency, liquidity and interest rate risk, which result from both its operating and investing activities. 
The Group’s risk management is co-ordinated in close co-operation with the Board of Directors, and focuses on actively securing the 
Group’s short-to-medium-term cash flows by minimising the exposure to financial markets. The most significant financial risks to which 
the Group is exposed are described below. Also refer to the accounting policies. 
Foreign currency risk 
The Group is exposed to translation and transaction foreign exchange risk. The currencies where the Group is most exposed  
to volatility are US Dollars, Euro and UAE Dirham. Currently, the Group aims to align assets and liabilities in a particular market.  
The Group will continue to review its currency risk position as the overall business profile changes. 
The presentational and transactional currency of the Group is considered to be UK Sterling. 
Foreign currency denominated financial assets and liabilities, translated into UK Sterling at the closing rate are as follows: 
 
2014 
£’000 
2013 
£’000 
 
US
$
Euro
€
Dirham
AED
Other
currencies
US 
$ 
Euro 
€ 
Dirham
AED
Other
currencies
Financial assets 11,151 4,833 1,512 2,434 11,543 5,022 1,890 1,782
Financial liabilities (3,801) (1,204) (314) (1,294) (4,110) (1,745) (721) (1,569)
Short-term exposure 7,350 3,629 1,198 1,140 7,433 3,277 1,169 213
Financial assets − − − − – – – –
Financial liabilities (169) (23) − − (252) (52) – –
Long-term exposure (169) (23) − − (252) (52) – –
The effect of UK Sterling strengthening by 1% against our subsidiaries’ functional currencies (US Dollar, Euro, UAE Dirham and other 
currencies) would have had the following impact upon translation: 
 
2014 
£’000 
2013 
£’000 
 
US
$
Euro
€
Dirham
AED
Other
currencies
US 
$ 
Euro 
€ 
Dirham
AED
Other
currencies
Net result for the year (19) 2 (1) 10 (12) – (11) 4
Equity (33) 44 (31) (12) (23) 28 (52) 3
If the UK Sterling had weakened by 1% against the US Dollar, Euro, UAE Dirham and other currencies the inverse of the impact above 
would apply.  
The Group manages currency fluctuations as outlined in the Strategic Report on page 27. 
Liquidity risk 
The Group seeks to manage financial risk by ensuring sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash 
assets safely and profitably. 
The Group currently has no general borrowing arrangement in place (although specific fixed value borrowings are held within the 
Group) and prepares cash flow forecasts which are reviewed at Board meetings to ensure liquidity. 
As at 31 July 2014, the Group’s liabilities have undiscounted contractual maturities which are summarised below: 
Current Non-current 
Within 6 months 
£’000
6 to 12 months 
£’000 
1–5 years 
£’000
Later than 5 years 
£’000
Borrowings 184 − − −
Finance lease liabilities 13 13 22 −
Trade and other payables 5,202 50 − −
Contingent consideration − 298 169 −
This compares to the maturity of the Group’s financial liabilities in the previous reporting period as follows: 
Current Non-current 
Within 6 months
£’000
6 to 12 months 
£’000 
1–5 years 
£’000
Later than 5 years 
£’000
Borrowings 273 – – –
Finance lease liabilities 17 14 55 –
Trade and other payables 4,125 114 – –
Contingent consideration – 301 250 –
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
73
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
20 Risk management objectives and policies continued 
The Group has sufficient financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all trade payables are settled within the respective 
credit period. 
Capital risk management 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that all entities within the Group are able to continue as a going concern. The Board has 
taken the decision at this stage to minimise external debt, whilst trying to maximise earnings from the cash currently held. Capital 
consists of the following items:  
 
31 July 2014 
£’000 
31 July 2013
£’000
Borrowings (bank overdraft) (184) (273)
Cash and cash equivalents 7,429 6,929
Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent company (57,929) (61,083)
 (50,684) (54,427)
The Group has no externally imposed capital requirements. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group manages its interest rate risk by negotiating fixed interest rates on deposits for periods of up to three months. The average 
cash and cash equivalents balance, net of bank overdrafts, over the course of the year was £4.6m (2013: £5.3m). Management does 
not believe that the Group is subject to interest rate risk. 
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities 
Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting 
expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year end foreign exchange rates. 
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations: 
31 July 2014 31 July 2013 
Book value
£’000
Fair value 
£’000 
Book value 
£’000 
Fair value
£’000
Trade and other receivables 20,614 20,614 22,069 22,069
Cash and cash equivalents 7,429 7,429 6,929 6,929
Trade and other payables (11,455) (11,455) (10,062) (10,062)
Bank overdrafts (184) (184) (273) (273)
Contingent consideration   
– Non-current (169) (169) (250) (250)
– Current (298) (298) (301) (301)
Fair value estimation 
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined  
as follows: 
 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1). 
 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is,  
as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (Level 2). 
 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (Level 3). 
 
31 July 2014 
£’000 
31 July 2013 
£’000 
Liabilities 
Level 1
£’000
Level 2 
£’000 
Level 3
£’000
Total
£’000
Level 1
£’000
Level 2 
£’000 
Level 3 
£’000 
Total
£’000
Contingent consideration − − 467 467 − – 551 551
The following table presents the changes in Level 3 instruments. 
Contingent consideration 
2014  
£’000 
2013
£’000
Balance at 1 August 551 2,359
Acquisition of Decision Fuel 26 –
Recognised in the income statement 271 195
Recognised in other comprehensive income (49) 20
Settled (332) (2,023)
Balance at 31 July 467 551
74
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
 
 
21 Share capital and share premium 
The Company only has one class of share. Par value of each Ordinary Share is 0.2p. All issued shares are fully paid. 
Number of 
shares
Share  
capital 
£’000 
Share 
premium
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 August 2012 97,142,017 195 30,947 31,142
Issue of shares 61,195 – 14 14
At 31 July 2013 97,203,212 195 30,961 31,156
Issue of shares 2,105,742 4 53 57
At 31 July 2014 99,308,954 199 31,014 31,213
22 Share-based payments 
The charge in relation to the share-based payments in the year ended 31 July 2014 was £547,000 (2013: £767,000). Details of the 
number of share options and the weighted average exercise price (WAEP) outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2014 WAEP 2013 WAEP 
Approved share option scheme Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 105,056 1.027 129,056 0.880
Granted during the year − − ––
Exercised during the year (44,335) 0.180 (24,000) 0.180
Lapsed during the year − − ––
Outstanding at the end of the year 60,721 1.645 105,056 1.027
Exercisable at the end of the year 60,721 1.645 105,056 1.027
2014 WAEP 2013 WAEP 
Unapproved share option scheme Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 326,835 0.286 349,846 0.223
Granted during the year − ––
Exercised during the year (209,200) 0.188 (23,011) 0.115
Lapsed during the year − ––
Outstanding at the end of the year 117,635 0.423 326,835 0.286
Exercisable at the end of the year 117,635 0.423 326,835 0.286
Share options exercised in the current financial year were exercised at prices between £0.180 and £0.188 (2013: between £0.099 
and £0.204). The weighted average share price at the dates of exercise was £0.925 (2013: £0.713). 
The options outstanding under the approved and unapproved share option schemes as at 31 July 2014 and 31 July 2013 have the 
following average exercise prices and expire in the following financial years. 
Expiry 
Exercise  
price 
£ 
2014 
Number
2013
Number
31 July 2015 0.180 − 44,335
31 July 2017 1.645 82,067 82,067
31 August 2021* 0.191 96,289 305,489
*The Polimetrix options expire on a monthly basis up to and including August 2021. 
Expiry dates as standard are seven years from the vesting date. Vesting criteria are time based and contingent on continued 
employment with YouGov rather than performance based. The charge in relation to share option schemes in the year ended  
31 July 2014 was £nil (2013: £nil). 
  
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
75
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 
 
22 Share-based payments continued 
During the year ended 31 July 2014, the Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) for Executive Directors, Senior Executives and 
senior managers continued to operate. The rules governing the LTIP are summarised in the Remuneration Report on page 33. 
The charge in relation to the LTIP in the year ended 31 July 2014 was £479,000 (2013: £598,000). This charge was valued using 
a Monte Carlo simulation. 
2014 WAEP 2013 WAEP 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 5,006,952 0.000 6,512,167 0.000
Granted during the year 1,583,499 0.000 – –
Exercised during the year (1,535,826) 0.000 (1,047,266) 0.000
Lapsed during the year (70,740) 0.000 (457,949) 0.000
Outstanding at the end of the year 4,983,886 0.000 5,006,952 0.000
Exercisable at the end of the year 1,287,524 0.000 651,278 0.000
The weighted average share price at the date LTIP options were exercised was £0.863. 
During the year ended 31 July 2011, a Deferred Stock Scheme was introduced for Executive Directors and senior managers. The rules 
governing the Deferred Stock Scheme are summarised in the Remuneration Report on page 34. The charge in relation to the Deferred 
Stock Scheme in the year ended 31 July 2014 was £68,000 (2013: £169,000). This charge was valued using a Black-Scholes model. 
2014 WAEP 2013 WAEP 
Deferred Stock Scheme Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,425,000 0.000 1,500,000 0.000
Vested during the year (1,262,500) 0.000 – –
Lapsed during the year − − (75,000) 0.000
Outstanding at the end of the year 162,500 0.000 1,425,000 0.000
Exercisable at the end of the year − − – –
The weighted average share price at the date Deferred Stock Scheme Shares vested was £0.905. 
The fair value of shares and share options granted under the Deferred Stock Scheme has been calculated using the Black-Scholes 
option pricing model. No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculation. The fair value per option granted and the 
assumptions made are listed below: 
Black-Scholes model assumptions:  
Share price (p)  40
Exercise price (p)  –
Estimated life (years)  3.0
Risk-free interest rate  n/a
Dividend yield  0.0%
Volatility  n/a
Basic fair value of option (p)  40
Options granted/shares awarded  1,500,000
Fair value of share options (p)  40
Vesting adjustment factor  100%
Total scheme adjusted fair value (£m)  0.6
Performance period (years)  3.0
Annual income statement charge to be applied over the performance period (£m)  0.2
The aggregate profit and loss charge for share-based payments is disclosed in Note 2. 
  
76
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
 
 
23 Leasing commitments 
The future aggregate minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 July 2014 are as follows: 
31 July 2014 31 July 2013 
 
Land and 
buildings
£’000
Other 
£’000 
Land and 
buildings
£’000
Other
£’000
In one year or less 1,339 39 1,294 106
Between one and five years 3,301 39 2,404 127
In five years or more 2,031 − ––
 6,671 78 3,698 233
24 Capital commitments 
At 31 July 2014, the Group had capital commitments of £40,000 (2013: £71,000). 
25 Major non-cash transactions 
During the year the Group entered into barter transactions with two parties in the Middle East with a total value of £468,000 (2013: 
£748,000) to exchange the provision of market research for advertising on television, on websites and in magazines. 
26 Transactions with Directors and other related parties 
Other than emoluments and the transactions set out below there have been no transactions with Directors during the year. 
During the year YouGov plc acquired 60% of Doughty Media 2 from Stephan Shakespeare, an Executive Director of YouGov plc,  
for a purchase price of £744,000 payable in YouGov shares in February 2015, contingent on the achievement of certain performance 
criteria. Further details are disclosed in Note 9. 
At 31 July 2014 Privero Capital Advisors Inc, a company 25% owned by Stephan Shakespeare, an Executive Director of YouGov plc, 
owed YouGov £nil (2013: £205,000), the movement in the year relates to the writing off of the receivable.  
On 10 December 2013, YouGov plc entered into a joint development agreement with Crunch.io, a US company in which Doug Rivers, 
an Executive Director of YouGov plc, has an equity interest of 40%. YouGov and Crunch.io have agreed jointly to fund the development 
of a cloud-based data analytics software application in which both parties have usage rights. During the year Crunch.io recharged 
costs totalling £183,000 (2013: £nil) to YouGov.  
Trading between YouGov plc and group companies is excluded from the related party note as this has been eliminated on 
consolidation. 
27 Events after the reporting period 
No material events have taken place subsequent to the reporting date. 
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
77
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of YouGov plc on the  
Parent Company Financial Statements 
Our opinion 
In our opinion the financial statements, defined below: 
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 July 2014; 
 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report. 
What we have audited 
The Company financial statements (the “financial statements”), which are prepared by YouGov plc, comprise: 
 the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 July 2014;  
 the Accounting Policies; and 
 the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
In applying the financial reporting framework, the Directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of 
significant accounting estimates. In making such estimates, they have made assumptions and considered future events. 
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts, 
rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as 
audited. 
What an audit of financial statements involves 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). An audit 
involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of:  
 whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed;  
 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and  
 the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
 the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
  
78
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
  
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 40, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of YouGov plc for the year ended 31 July 2014. 
 
 
 
 
Julian Jenkins (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
13 October 2014 
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
79
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Company Balance Sheet 
as at 31 July 2014 
Note  
31 July 
2014 
£’000 
31 July 
2013
£’000
Fixed assets   
Intangible assets 4 777 296
Tangible assets 5  683 176
Investments 6 41,085 36,751
  42,545 37,223
Current assets   
Debtors 7 27,733 27,641
Cash at bank and in hand  1,401 1,486
  29,134 29,127
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 9 (14,855) (12,170)
Net current assets  14,279 16,957
Total assets less current liabilities  56,824 54,180
Non current liabilities   
Contingent consideration  (169) −
Provision for liabilities 10 (2,189) (1,969)
  (2,358) (1,969)
Net assets  54,466 52,211
Capital and reserves   
Called up share capital 12 199 195
Share premium 12 31,014 30,961
Merger reserve 11 9,239 9,239
Profit and loss account 11 14,014 11,816
Total Shareholders’ funds 11 54,466 52,211
The accounting policies and notes on pages 81 to 88 form an integral part of these financial statements. 
The financial statements on pages 80 to 88 were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 October 2014, and signed on its behalf by:  
 
 
 
 
 
Alan Newman 
Chief Financial Officer 
13 October 2014 
 
80
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Accounting Policies 
for the year ended 31 July 2014 
 
Basis of preparation 
The separate financial statements of the Company are drawn up in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable 
accounting standards drawn from UK generally accepted accounting principles (UK GAAP). The financial statements are prepared 
under the historical cost convention modified for fair values and on the going concern basis. 
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS1 “Cash Flow 
Statement (revised 1996)”. The cash flows of the Company are disclosed as part of the consolidated cash flow statement within the 
consolidated financial statements. 
The particular accounting policies adopted are detailed below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the current year 
and the prior year. 
Related parties 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS8 “Related party disclosures” and has not reported transactions 
with fellow Group undertakings. Further details are included in Note 26 of the consolidated financial statements. 
Panel incentive costs 
The Company invites consumer panel members to fill out surveys for a cash or points based incentive. Although these amounts are not 
paid until a pre-determined target value has accrued on a panellist’s account, an assessment of incentives likely to be paid is made 
and is recognised as a cost of sale in the period in which the service is provided. This assessment now takes into account the likely 
savings expected from the prize draw. 
Share-based payments 
All goods and services received in exchange for the grant of any share-based payment are measured at their fair values. Where 
employees are rewarded using share-based payments, the fair values of employees’ services are determined indirectly by reference 
to the fair value of the instrument granted to the employee. This fair value is appraised at the grant date and excludes the impact of  
non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets). 
Where equity-settled share-based payments relate to employees of the Company these are ultimately recognised as an expense in the 
profit and loss account with a corresponding credit to the profit and loss reserve. Where equity-settled share-based payments relate to 
employees of subsidiaries of the Company these are treated as a capital contribution, increasing the value of the investment in the 
subsidiary with a corresponding credit to the profit and loss reserve. 
If vesting periods or other non-market vesting conditions apply, the expense is allocated over the vesting period, based on the best 
available estimate of the number of share options expected to vest. Estimates are revised subsequently if there is any indication that 
the number of share options expected to vest differs from previous estimates. Any cumulative adjustment prior to vesting is recognised 
in the current period. No adjustment is made to any expense recognised in prior periods if share options that have vested are 
not exercised. 
Upon exercise of share options, the proceeds received net of attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital, and where 
appropriate share premium. 
Intangible fixed assets 
Panel acquisition costs reflect the direct, external cost of recruiting new panel members. A formula based on panel churn for the 
preceding 12 months determines the element which is enhancement and that which is maintenance. Only enhancement is capitalised 
as cost to the Company less accumulated amortisation. Amortisation is charged so as to write off the panel acquisition costs over three 
years, this being the Directors’ estimate of the average active life of a panel member. 
Trademark costs reflect the direct cost of trademarks acquired to protect the YouGov brand and its products. Amortisation is not 
charged as trademarks are infinite in their longevity. The Company conducts an annual impairment review to ensure all trademarks 
are carried at appropriate values. 
  
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
81
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Accounting Policies continued 
 
Tangible fixed assets 
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost of the original purchase or development, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision 
for impairment. 
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost less estimated residual value of all tangible fixed assets by annual instalments over 
their estimated useful economic lives. The rates generally applicable are: 
Leasehold property and improvements  Life of the lease
Fixtures and fittings on a reducing balance basis 25%
Computer software and hardware on a straight-line basis 33%
Software development costs on a straight-line basis 33%
Costs that are directly attributable to the development of new business application software and which are incurred during the period 
prior to the date the software is placed into operational use are capitalised as software development costs. External costs and internal 
costs are capitalised to the extent they generate future economic benefit for the business, whilst internal costs are only capitalised if 
they are incremental to the Group. Once the new business application software is operational it is depreciated at the rates set out in the 
above table. 
Research and development 
Research expenditure is charged to profits in the period in which it is incurred. Software development costs incurred on specific 
projects are recognised to the extent that they comply with the requirements of SSAP 13, i.e. when recoverability can be assessed with 
reasonable certainty and amortised in line with the expected sales arising from the projects. All other development costs are written off 
in the year of expenditure. 
Investments 
Investments are included at cost less provisions for impairment. At each balance sheet date, the Directors review the carrying values 
of its investments to determine whether there is any indication that the assets have suffered an impairment loss. Whenever there is an 
indication that the asset may be impaired an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account. 
Leased assets – operating leases 
Operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Deferred taxation 
Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the transactions or events that give the Company an obligation to pay more 
tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised 
only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits 
against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be 
deducted. Deferred tax is measured using rates of tax that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
The deferred tax provision is held at its current value and not discounted. 
Financial assets 
Financial assets are divided into the following categories: loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets. Financial assets 
are assigned to the different categories by management on initial recognition, depending on the purpose for which they were acquired.  
All financial assets are recognised when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.  
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence 
that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial 
difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in 
payments (more than 30 days overdue) are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is 
the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original 
effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss 
is recognised in the consolidated income statement within operating expenses. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off 
against the allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against 
operating expenses in the consolidated income statement. 
  
82
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
 
 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
Trade receivables and other financial assets are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are measured subsequent 
to initial recognition at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. Any change in their value 
through impairment or reversal of impairment is recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the 
other categories. 
Provision against trade receivables is made when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts 
due to it in accordance with the original terms of those receivables. The amount of the write-down is determined as the difference 
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.  
An assessment for impairment is undertaken at least at each reporting date. 
A financial asset is derecognised only where the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or the financial asset is 
transferred and that transfer qualifies for derecognition. A financial asset is transferred if the contractual rights to receive the cash flows 
of the asset have been transferred or the Company retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the asset but assumes a 
contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients. A financial asset that is transferred qualifies for derecognition if 
the Company transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset, or if the Company neither retains nor transfers 
substantially all the risks and rewards if ownership but does transfer control of that asset. 
Financial liabilities  
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Financial liabilities are assigned to the different 
categories by management on initial recognition, depending on the purpose for which they were acquired.  
Financial liabilities are obligations to pay cash or other financial assets and are recognised when the Company becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.  
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
They are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. 
Borrowings and lease liabilities are initially recorded at the fair value which is typically the proceeds received, net of any issue costs 
and subsequently carried at amortised cost. Finance charges are accounted for on an effective interest method and are added to the 
carrying value of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.  
A financial liability is derecognised only when the obligation is extinguished, that is, when the obligation is discharged or cancelled 
or expires.
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
83
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 July 2014 
 
1 Profit of parent company 
The parent company has taken advantage of Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not included its own profit and loss 
account in these financial statements. The parent company’s profit for the year was £1,537,000 (2013: £2,499,000). This includes audit 
fees for the Company of £23,000 (2013: £22,000). 
2 Staff numbers and costs  
Staff costs (including Directors) charged to administrative expenses during the year were as follows: 
 
2014 
£’000 
2013 Restated +
£’000
Wages and salaries 6,662 6,032
Social security costs 808 771
Share-based payments (Note 13) 248 364
Pension costs 88 55
Other benefits 1,186 859
 8,992 8,081
+ The prior year comparative has been restated to reclassify £815,000 of staff bonuses from wages and salaries to other benefits. 
The average monthly number of employees of the Company during the year was as follows: 
 
2014 
Number 
2013
Number
Key management personnel 10 10
Administration and operations 158 126
 168 136
Specific disclosures in relation to compensation for key management personnel (defined as Board and Divisional, Product and 
Function Heads) who held office during the year was as follows: 
 
2014  
£’000 
2013
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 1,480 1,240
Share-based payments 211 312
 1,691 1,552
Disclosure of Directors’ remuneration including share options are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 36. 
3 Dividend  
On 16 December 2013, a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2013 of £586,000 (0.6p per share) (2012: £479,000 (0.5p 
per share)) was paid to shareholders. A dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2014 of 0.8p per share, amounting to a total 
dividend of £794,000 is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 10 December 2014. These financial statements do not 
reflect this proposed dividend payable. 
4 Intangible assets 
Panel  
acquisition  
costs 
£’000 
Trademarks 
£’000 
Total
£’000
Cost   
At 1 August 2013 525 127 652
Additions 658 2 660
At 31 July 2014 1,183 129 1,312
Accumulated amortisation   
At 1 August 2013 356 − 356
Provided in the year 179 − 179
At 31 July 2014 535 − 535
Net book amount at 31 July 2014 648 129 777
Net book amount at 31 July 2013 169 127 296
84
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
 
5 Tangible assets 
 
Fixtures 
and 
fittings
£’000
Computer  
software  
and hardware 
£’000 
Leasehold 
property and 
improvements
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost  
At 1 August 2013 337 827 176 1,340
Additions 65 159 404 628
Disposals − (225) − (225)
At 31 July 2014 402 761 580 1,743
Accumulated depreciation  
At 1 August 2013 273 715 176 1,164
Provided in the year 19 85 17 121
Disposals − (225) − (225)
At 31 July 2014 292 575 193 1,060
Net book amount at 31 July 2014 110 186 387 683
Net book amount at 31 July 2013 64 112 − 176
6 Fixed asset investments 
Total fixed asset investments comprise: 
 
Interest in 
subsidiaries
£’000
Interest in joint 
ventures and 
associates 
£’000 
Capital contributions 
arising from share-
based payments
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 August 2013 35,030 600 1,121 36,751
Share-based payments charge − − 999 999
Additions in respect of existing subsidiaries 2,459 − − 2,459
Additions in respect of existing associates − 28 − 28
Purchase of subsidiary 974 − − 974
Loss on re-measurement of associates on acquiring control − (82) − (82)
Purchase of associate 610 (546) − 64
Dividend received (108) − − (108)
At 31 July 2014 38,965 − 2,120 41,085
The value of investments is determined on the basis of the cost to the Company. The Directors believe that the carrying value of the 
investments is supported by their underlying net assets. 
The Company’s principal trading subsidiaries and joint ventures are listed in Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements. 
7 Debtors 
 
31 July 
2014
£’000
31 July 
2013
£’000
Trade debtors 4,465 4,420
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 19,529 18,711
Amounts owed by associates and investments 35 646
Other debtors 125 121
Prepayments and accrued income 2,342 2,537
Deferred taxation (Note 8) 1,237 1,206
 27,733 27,641
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed date of payment and are repayable on demand. 
  
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
85
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued 
8 Deferred taxation assets  
 
Property, 
plant and
 equipment
£’000
Tax 
losses 
£’000 
Other timing 
differences 
£’000 
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 August 2012 42 384 1,050 1,476
Recognised in the income statement 16 (171) (115) (270)
Balance at 31 July 2013 58 213 935 1,206
Recognised in the income statement 32 168 (169) 31
Balance at 31 July 2014 90 381 766 1,237
None of the above deferred tax assets are expected to be recovered within one year. 
9 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
 
31 July  
2014 
£’000 
31 July 
2013
£’000
Trade creditors  816 882
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 8,098 5,861
Amounts owed to Associates and Investments 46 −
Taxation and social security 1,058 1,030
Other creditors 127 134
Accruals and deferred income 4,710 4,263
 14,855 12,170
Some amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed date of payment and are repayable on demand. 
Included within other creditors are £28,000 (2013: £19,000) of contributions due in respect of a defined contribution pension scheme. 
10 Provisions for liabilities 
  
Panel
Incentives
£’000
Balance at 1 August 2013   1,969
Provided during the year  2,759
Utilised during the year  (2,539)
Balance at 31 July 2014  2,189
11 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds 
Called-up 
share capital 
£’000
Share 
premium 
£’000
Merger  
reserve 
£’000 
Profit and loss 
account
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 August 2012 195 30,947 9,239 9,016 49,397
Changes in equity for 2013  
Profit for the year − − − 2,020 2,020
Total recognised income for the year − − − 2,020 2,020
Share-based payments − − − 628 628
Balance at 31 July 2013 195 30,961 9,239 11,816 52,211
Changes in equity for 2014  
Profit for the year − − − 1,537 1,537
Total recognised income for the year − − − 1,537 1,537
Issue of shares 4 53 − − 57
Dividends paid − − − (586) (586)
Consideration for purchase of subsidiary − − − 700 700
Share-based payments − − − 547 547
Balance at 31 July 2014 199 31,014 9,239 14,014 54,466
  
86
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
 
12 Called up share capital 
The Company only has one class of share. Par value of each Ordinary Share is 0.2p. All issued shares are fully paid. 
Number of 
shares
Share  
capital 
£’000 
Share 
premium
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 August 2012 97,142,017 195 30,947 31,142
Issue of shares 61,195 − 14 14
At 31 July 2013 97,203,212 195 30,961 31,156
Issue of shares 2,105,742 4 53 57
At 31 July 2014 99,308,954 199 31,014 31,213
13 Share-based payments 
The charge included in the profit and loss account of the Company is £248,000 (2013: £364,000). The increase in investment in 
respect of subsidiaries is £298,000 (2013: £369,000). 
Details of the number of share options and the weighted average exercise price (WAEP) outstanding during the year are as follows: 
Approved share option scheme 
2014 WAEP 2013 WAEP 
Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 105,056 1.027 129,056 0.880
Granted during the year − − ––
Exercised during the year (44,335) 0.180 (24,000) 0.180
Lapsed during the year − − ––
Outstanding at the end of the year 60,721 1.645 105,056 1.027
Exercisable at the end of the year 60,721 1.645 108,056 1.027
 
Unapproved share option scheme 
2014 WAEP 2013 WAEP 
Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 21,346 1.645 21,346 1.645
Granted during the year – – ––
Exercised during the year – – ––
Lapsed during the year – – ––
Outstanding at the end of the year 21,346 1.645 21,346 1.645
Exercisable at the end of the year 21,346 1.645 21,346 1.645
The share price at the date of exercise of options was £0.831. The options outstanding under the approved and unapproved 
share option schemes as at 31 July 2014 and 31 July 2013, have the following average exercise prices and expire in the following 
financial years. 
Expiry 
Exercise  
price 
£ 
2014 
Number
2013
Number
31 July 2015 0.180 − 44,335
31 July 2017 1.645 82,067 82,067
Expiry dates as standard are seven years from the vesting date. Vesting criteria are time based and contingent on continued 
employment with YouGov rather than performance based. 
  
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
87
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued 
During the year ended 31 July 2014, the Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) for Executive Directors, Senior Executives and senior 
managers continued to operate. Details of the number of share options and the weighted average exercise price (WAEP) outstanding 
during the year are as follows: 
2014 WAEP 2013 WAEP 
Long term incentive plan (LTIP) Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 2,674,544 0.000 3,122,569 0.000
Granted during the year 674,882 0.000 – –
Exercised during the year (597,295) 0.000 (393,431) 0.000
Lapsed during the year (1,729) 0.000 (54,594) 0.000
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,750,402 0.000 2,674,544 0.000
Exercisable at the end of the year 1,117,312 0.000 562,170 0.000
The weighted average share price at the dates options were exercised was £0.844. 
During the year ended 31 July 2011, a Deferred Stock Scheme was introduced for Executive Directors and senior managers. 
Details of the number of share options and the weighted average exercise price (WAEP) outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2014 WAEP 2013 WAEP 
Deferred Stock Scheme Number £ Number £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 637,500 0.000 712,500 0.000
Granted during the year − − – –
Vested during the year (475,000) 0.000 – –
Lapsed during the year − − (75,000) 0.000
Outstanding at the end of the year 162,500 0.000 637,500 0.000
Exercisable at the end of the year − − – –
The weighted average share price at the date Deferred Stock Scheme Shares vested was £0.905. 
14 Leasing commitments 
The Company at 31 July 2014 had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring as follows:  
2014 2013 
 
Land and 
buildings
£’000
Other 
£’000 
Land and  
buildings 
£’000 
Other
£’000
Within one year − 4 − −
Within two to five years − 3 303 30
After five years 497 − – –
 497 7 303 30
 
88
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Additional information
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Y ouGov PL C will be held at 50 Featherstone Street, London EC1Y 8RT 
on Wednesday 10 December 2014 at 08.30am to consider and, if thought fit, pass the resolutions below . 
Resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution. All other resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions. 
Ordinary Resolutions
1.  T o receive the Company’s annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 July 2014, together with the Directors’ Report and the 
auditors’ report on those accounts. 
2.  T o approve the Directors’ remuneration report set out in the annual report and accounts for the financial year ended 31 July 2014. 
3.  T o reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of 
the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid. 
4.  T o authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the auditors. 
5.  T o reappoint Alan Newman as a Director retiring by rotation in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. 
6.  T o reappoint Doug Rivers as a Director retiring by rotation in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. 
7.  T o reappoint Sir Peter Bazalgette as a Director retiring by rotation in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. 
8.  T o declare a final dividend of 0.8p per ordinary share to be paid on Monday 15 December 2014 to those shareholders on the register 
of members as at Friday 5 December 2014. 
9.  T o generally and unconditionally authorise the Directors (in substitution for all subsisting authorities to the extent unused, other than 
in respect of any allotments made pursuant to offers or agreements made prior to the passing of this resolution) for the purposes of 
section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company (“Shares”) and 
grant rights to subscribe for , or to convert any security into, Shares (“Subscription or Conversion Rights”) up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £9,931 provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company 
after the passing of this resolution or on 31 December 2015, whichever is the earlier , save that the Company may , before such expiry , 
make an offer or agreement which would or might require Shares to be allotted or Subscription or Conversion Rights to be granted 
after such expiry and the Directors may allot Shares and grant Subscription or Conversion Rights in pursuance of any such offer or 
agreement as if this authority had not so expired.
T o consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will be proposed as a Special Resolution. 
Special Resolution
10.  That conditional on the passing of Resolution 9 above, that the Directors be and are hereby empowered in accordance with section 
570 and section 573 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities (within the meaning of section 560 of that Act) for cash, 
either pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 8 or by way of a sale of treasury shares, as if section 561(1) of that Act did 
not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: 
       (a) the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of such securities: 
 (i)  to holders of ordinary shares in proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to their respective holdings of such shares; 
and 
 (ii)  to holders of other securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Directors otherwise consider necessary , 
but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to 
treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in or under the laws of any 
territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange; and 
      (b)  the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to paragraph (a) above) of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount 
of £9,931, and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this 
resolution or on 31 December 2015, whichever is the earlier , save that the Company may before such expiry make offers or 
agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity 
securities in pursuance of any such offers or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired. 
On behalf of the Board
Alan Newman 
Company Secretary
13 October 2014
Registered Office: 
50 Featherstone Street, London EC1Y 8RT 
Registered in England and Wales No. 3607311
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
89
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes:
1.   Shareholders are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting. A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy 
in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder . A proxy need not be a 
shareholder of the Company . A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice. If you do not have a proxy form and believe that 
you should have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact Neville Registrars, at Neville House, 18 Laurel Lane, Halesowen, West Midlands B63 3DA. 
2.   T o be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by post or (during normal business hours only) by hand at Neville Registrars, Neville House, 18 Laurel Lane, 
Halesowen, West Midlands B63 3DA no later than 12.30pm on Monday 8 December 2014. 
3.   The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction (as described in paragraph 6 below) will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General 
Meeting and voting in person if he/she wishes to do so. 
4.   In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, to be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting (and for the purpose of the determination 
by the Company of the votes they may cast), shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6.00pm on Monday 8 December 2014 (or , in the event of any 
adjournment, 6.00pm on the date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting). Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in 
determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting. 
5.   CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual. 
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service 
provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf. 
6.   In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a “CREST Proxy Instruction”) must be properly authenticated 
in accordance with the specifications of Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited (the operator of the CREST system), and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in 
the CREST Manual. The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order 
to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s agent (ID 7RA11) by 12.30pm on Monday 8 December 2014. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time 
(as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host) from which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner 
prescribed by CREST . After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means. 
7.   CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in 
CREST for any particular message. Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member 
concerned to take (or , if the CREST member is a CREST personal member , or sponsored member , or has appointed a voting service provider , to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service 
provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this connection, CREST members and, 
where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system service providers are referred, in particular , to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST 
system and timings. 
8.   The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. 
9.   In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that: (i) if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the 
meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on 
a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote (or withhold a vote) as corporate representative in accordance with those directions; 
and (ii) if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting 
as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate 
representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative. Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and 
Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives (www.icsa.org.uk) for further details of this procedure. The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is 
being appointed as described in (i) above. 
Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting
Resolution 10 (Statutory pre-emption rights) 
Under section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, when new shares are allotted, they must first be offered to existing shareholders pro rata to their holdings. This special resolution renews the 
authorities previously granted to the Directors to: (a) allot shares of the Company in connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer; and (b) otherwise allot shares of the Company , or 
sell treasury shares for cash, up to an aggregate nominal value of £9,931 (representing in accordance with institutional investor guidelines, approximately 5% of the share capital in issue as at 
31 October 2014 (being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this notice)) as if the pre-emption rights of Section 561 did not apply . The authority granted by this resolution shall expire 
at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on 31 December 2015, whichever is the earlier . 
The notes above give an explanation of the proposed resolutions. Resolutions 1 to 9 are proposed as ordinary resolutions. This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more than 
half of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution. Resolution 10 is proposed as a special resolution. This means that for each resolution to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast 
must be in favour of the resolution. 
Notes
90
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Additional information
Retained advisors
The Company’s retained advisors are:
Nominated Advisor and Broker 
Numis Securities 
The London Stock Exchange Building 
10 Paternoster Square 
London 
EC4M 7LT
Registrar 
Neville Registrars 
Neville House 
18 Laurel Lane 
Halesowen 
West Midlands 
BD63 3DA
Banker 
National Westminster Bank plc 
130 Commercial Road 
Portsmouth 
Hampshire 
PO1 1ES
Auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
1 Embankment Place 
London 
WC2N 6RH
Financial Public Relations 
FTI 
200 Aldersgate 
Aldersgate Street 
London  
EC1A 4HD
Solicitors 
Olswang 
90 High Holborn 
London 
WC1V 6XX
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
91
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 92
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.ry.com using the paperless proofing system Wizardry. 
This material used in the publication of this document is carbon balanced.
Printed on FSC certified paper.
This document is printed on material manufactured at a mill which is ISO14001 accredited. YouGov plc 
50 Featherstone Street 
London EC1Y 8RT
T: +44 (0)20 7012 6000 
F: +44 (0)20 7012 6001
yougov.com
YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2014
