 Delivering real advantage
Annual Report 2005 BAE SYSTEMS plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
T elephone +44 (0)1252 373232
Registered in England and Wales No. 1470151
Website details
www.baesystems.com
Bradley A3
In 2005 BAE Systems acquired 
United Defense, who have produced 
the Bradley Combat System for over 20
years. The Bradley family of vehicles is
a key vehicle system for the US Army
supporting a variety of missions.
BAE SYSTEMS plc Annual Report 2005 Delivering real advantage
Annual Report 2005 BAE SYSTEMS plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
T elephone +44 (0)1252 373232
Registered in England and Wales No. 1470151
Website details
www.baesystems.com
Bradley A3
In 2005 BAE Systems acquired 
United Defense, who have produced 
the Bradley Combat System for over 20
years. The Bradley family of vehicles is
a key vehicle system for the US Army
supporting a variety of missions.
BAE SYSTEMS plc Annual Report 2005 Operating and financial review
BAE Systems at a glance
BAE Systems is the premier transatlantic defence and aerospace company
delivering a full range of products and services for air , land and naval forces 
as well as advanced electronics, information technology solutions and
customer support services.
Electronics,
Intelligence & Support
Land & Armaments Programmes
Principal operations An industry leader in a variety of
military communications, electronic
identification, navigation and guidance
systems, and a provider of network
centric warfare solutions and a broad
range of support solutions, including
major ship repair activities for the 
US Navy.
A global leader in the design,
development, production and through-
life service support of armoured 
combat vehicles, major and minor
calibre naval guns, missile launchers,
canisters, artillery systems and
intelligent munitions.
Comprises the Company’ s air 
systems, naval ships and submarines
activities together with the Company’ s
participation in the UK’ s Future 
Carrier programme.
Main operating regions US, UK/Europe US, UK, Sweden, South Africa UK
Major markets US, Global US, UK/Europe UK 
Contribution 
to 2005 Group sales
Key points 
from 2005
• Sustained leadership positions 
in electronic warfare and military
communications – secured US Air
Force mission planning contract
• Acquisition of largest US non-
nuclear ship repair business
• Successful integration of 2004
acquisitions
• Successful flight test of infrared
missile countermeasures system 
for commercial airliners
• T ransatlantic growth 
with acquisition of 
United Defense Industries 
• Global land systems 
business established 
• Key contracts secured
– Bradley reset and upgrade
– Danish CV90, US RG-31, M777
• UK Future Rapid Effect System
(FRES) demonstrator award
• UK cost base being addressed
• 37 T yphoon aircraft delivered 
in the year (12 to UK RAF) 
• First flight of UK Hawk Advanced 
Jet T rainer aircraft achieved early 
• Successful delivery of F-35 JSF 
airframe assemblies
• T ype 45 first of class launched 
in February 2006
• Landing Ship Dock (Auxiliary) 
first ship delivered
23% 8% 18%
Customer Solutions 
& Support
Integrated Systems 
& Partnerships
Commercial
Aerospace
Location in this report page 24-25 page 26-27 page 28-29
includes six months of United Defense
Provides support solutions for current
and future customer requirements,
addressing the trend within armed
forces to work more closely with
industry to optimise their military
capability in the most effective manner .
Key capabilities include the integration
and delivery of effective supply chain
and logistics management. CS&S 
is the prime contractor on the
Al Yamamah programme.
Comprises a portfolio of high-
technology defence systems
businesses: Integrated System
T echnologies; Underwater Systems;
37.5% interest in MBDA; 20.5%
interest in Saab; and 50% interest 
in Gripen International.
Comprises the Company’ s 20%
interest in Airbus together with the
Aerostructures business and the
regional aircraft asset management
and support activities.
Principal operations
UK, Saudi Arabia, Australia UK, Sweden, France, Germany, Italy UK, France, Germany, Spain, US Main operating regions
UK/Europe, Middle East, Australia UK/Europe Global Major markets
Contribution 
to 2005 Group sales
• Delivery of Saudi strategy on track
– Compound construction
– Saudi joint venture 
company formed
– Increasing employment 
of Saudi nationals 
• Government to government 
Understanding Document signed on
Saudi armed forces modernisation
• Delivery of UK partnered 
support growth strategy
• Improved performance 
from Australian business 
• Continued restructuring of
European business portfolio
– Eurosystems transaction
completed
– Integrated System 
T echnologies formed
– Saab stake reduced to 20.5%
– Atlas Elektronik sale agreed
• Revised Gripen International
marketing arrangements with Saab
• Strong Airbus order intake 
• First flight of A380 long-range airliner 
• Airbus cost reduction programme 
on track 
• Airbus new product development
programmes underway
• Ongoing losses in Regional Aircraft
• Aerostructures disposal announced
Key points 
from 2005
page 30-31 page 32-33 page 34-35 Location in this report
18% 12% 21% Operating and financial review
BAE Systems at a glance
BAE Systems is the premier transatlantic defence and aerospace company
delivering a full range of products and services for air , land and naval forces 
as well as advanced electronics, information technology solutions and
customer support services.
Electronics,
Intelligence & Support
Land & Armaments Programmes
Principal operations An industry leader in a variety of
military communications, electronic
identification, navigation and guidance
systems, and a provider of network
centric warfare solutions and a broad
range of support solutions, including
major ship repair activities for the 
US Navy.
A global leader in the design,
development, production and through-
life service support of armoured 
combat vehicles, major and minor
calibre naval guns, missile launchers,
canisters, artillery systems and
intelligent munitions.
Comprises the Company’ s air 
systems, naval ships and submarines
activities together with the Company’ s
participation in the UK’ s Future 
Carrier programme.
Main operating regions US, UK/Europe US, UK, Sweden, South Africa UK
Major markets US, Global US, UK/Europe UK 
Contribution 
to 2005 Group sales
Key points 
from 2005
• Sustained leadership positions 
in electronic warfare and military
communications – secured US Air
Force mission planning contract
• Acquisition of largest US non-
nuclear ship repair business
• Successful integration of 2004
acquisitions
• Successful flight test of infrared
missile countermeasures system 
for commercial airliners
• T ransatlantic growth 
with acquisition of 
United Defense Industries 
• Global land systems 
business established 
• Key contracts secured
– Bradley reset and upgrade
– Danish CV90, US RG-31, M777
• UK Future Rapid Effect System
(FRES) demonstrator award
• UK cost base being addressed
• 37 T yphoon aircraft delivered 
in the year (12 to UK RAF) 
• First flight of UK Hawk Advanced 
Jet T rainer aircraft achieved early 
• Successful delivery of F-35 JSF 
airframe assemblies
• T ype 45 first of class launched 
in February 2006
• Landing Ship Dock (Auxiliary) 
first ship delivered
23% 8% 18%
Customer Solutions 
& Support
Integrated Systems 
& Partnerships
Commercial
Aerospace
Location in this report page 24-25 page 26-27 page 28-29
includes six months of United Defense
Provides support solutions for current
and future customer requirements,
addressing the trend within armed
forces to work more closely with
industry to optimise their military
capability in the most effective manner .
Key capabilities include the integration
and delivery of effective supply chain
and logistics management. CS&S 
is the prime contractor on the
Al Yamamah programme.
Comprises a portfolio of high-
technology defence systems
businesses: Integrated System
T echnologies; Underwater Systems;
37.5% interest in MBDA; 20.5%
interest in Saab; and 50% interest 
in Gripen International.
Comprises the Company’ s 20%
interest in Airbus together with the
Aerostructures business and the
regional aircraft asset management
and support activities.
Principal operations
UK, Saudi Arabia, Australia UK, Sweden, France, Germany, Italy UK, France, Germany, Spain, US Main operating regions
UK/Europe, Middle East, Australia UK/Europe Global Major markets
Contribution 
to 2005 Group sales
• Delivery of Saudi strategy on track
– Compound construction
– Saudi joint venture 
company formed
– Increasing employment 
of Saudi nationals 
• Government to government 
Understanding Document signed on
Saudi armed forces modernisation
• Delivery of UK partnered 
support growth strategy
• Improved performance 
from Australian business 
• Continued restructuring of
European business portfolio
– Eurosystems transaction
completed
– Integrated System 
T echnologies formed
– Saab stake reduced to 20.5%
– Atlas Elektronik sale agreed
• Revised Gripen International
marketing arrangements with Saab
• Strong Airbus order intake 
• First flight of A380 long-range airliner 
• Airbus cost reduction programme 
on track 
• Airbus new product development
programmes underway
• Ongoing losses in Regional Aircraft
• Aerostructures disposal announced
Key points 
from 2005
page 30-31 page 32-33 page 34-35 Location in this report
18% 12% 21% BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 1
BAE Systems is an international company
engaged in the development, delivery and
support of advanced defence and aerospace
systems in the air , on land, at sea and in
space. The Company designs, manufactures
and supports military aircraft, surface ships,
submarines, combat vehicles, radar , avionics,
communications, electronics and guided
weapon systems. It is a pioneer in technology
with a heritage stretching back hundreds 
of years. It is at the forefront of innovation,
working to develop the next generation of
intelligent defence and security systems.
BAE Systems has major operations across
five continents and customers in some 
130 countries. The Company employs
approximately 100,000
1
people and 
generates annual sales in excess of 
£15 billion through its wholly-owned and
equity accounted investment operations.
1 
including share of employees of equity accounted investments
CONTENTS
About BAE Systems 1
Highlights and Outlook 2
Results in brief 3
Chairman’s letter 4
Chief Executive’s review 6
Market overview 8
Group strategy framework 10
Embed a high performance 
culture across the Company 12
Win profitable new business and 
optimise value from our order book 14
Grow our export business from a 
strong transatlantic business base 16
Increase UK/US industrial 
technology sharing 18
Optimise our business portfolio 20
Business portfolio actions 22
Electronics, Intelligence 
& Support 24
Land & Armaments 26
Programmes 28
Customer Solutions & Support 30
Integrated Systems 
& Partnerships 32
Commercial Aerospace 34
Financial review 36
Corporate responsibility 42
Board of directors 46
Corporate Governance 
including Statement 
of directors’ responsibilities 48
Remuneration report 57
Directors’ report 75
Index to the accounts 78
Independent auditors’ report 79
Consolidated income
statement 80
Consolidated balance sheet 81
Consolidated 
cash flow statement 82
Consolidated statement of 
recognised income and expense 83
Notes to the group accounts 84
Company balance sheet 146
Notes to the company accounts 147
Five year summary 158
Shareholder information 160
Glossary 162
Shareholder feedback 163 2 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Operating and financial review
Highlights, outlook and results in brief
Highlights
• Delivering US growth strategy
• Global land systems business established
• Programmes business profitability and risk profile improved
• Growth from UK MoD partnered support
• European business portfolio restructuring
• Strong Airbus order intake
• Strong operating cash flow
• Underlying earnings per share
4
up 29.3% at 22.5p
• Dividend increased 8.4% to 10.3p per share for the year
Outlook
Looking forward to 2006, we anticipate an improved performance from our
defence businesses with modest organic growth and a full year contribution
from the former United Defense activities. We also anticipate an increased
contribution from the commercial aerospace sector .
We expect to translate operating profit into operating cash flow, other than
some small utilisation of customer advances. We intend to make one-off 
cash contributions to the pension schemes in 2006. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 3
Results in brief
Results from continuing operations 2005 2004
1
Sales
2
£15,411m £13,222m
EBITA
3
£1,182m £1,016m
Operating profit £900m £774m
Underlying earnings per share
4
22.5p 17.4p
Basic earnings per share
5
18.3p 14.2p
Other results including discontinued operations
Dividend per share 10.3p 9.5p
Cash inflow from operating activities £2,099m £2,350m
Net debt as defined by the Group £1,277m £668m
Order book
6
£59.8bn £50.1bn
1
as restated under International Financial Reporting Standards
2
including share of equity accounted investments’ sales 
3
earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 
4
earnings per share excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and uplift on acquired
inventories (see note 10 to the Group accounts)
5
basic earnings per share in accordance with International Accounting Standard 33
6
including share of equity accounted investments’ order books and after the elimination of intra-group orders of £0.9bn (2004 £2.6bn)  4 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Operating and financial review
Chairman’s letter
“The executive team and all employees have
demonstrated their ability to deliver results 
and I applaud their hard work and dedication. ”
Dick Olver
Chairman BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 5
With a combination of effective
strategy, continued good programme
execution and achievement of key
business objectives, including a
focus on winning future business,
2005 was a successful year for
BAE Systems.
I believe that BAE Systems has evolved 
a comprehensive and robust process for
developing strategy, including appropriate
review and challenge by the Board. The
Company’ s strategy, described in detail later
in this report, reflects the accomplishment
of key objectives in 2005 and establishes
the framework for continued performance
improvement and growth in future.
There were several noteworthy
developments over the past twelve 
months: first, the acquisition of United
Defense in June was a step change in the
implementation of our US strategy and
establishes BAE Systems as the world’ s
second largest land systems company;
second, the Understanding Document
signed between the governments of 
the UK and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
establishes a framework for modernising
the Saudi armed forces, including the 
supply of T yphoon aircraft; and finally,
the publication in December of the UK
government’ s Defence Industrial Strategy
recognised the key position of the UK
defence industry in supporting the UK’ s
armed forces. These developments,
combined with good progress on resolving
pension funding issues and good project
execution combined to make 2005 a
landmark year for BAE Systems.
In addition to overseeing Company strategy,
the Board is responsible for monitoring 
the Company’ s performance, maintaining 
the governance framework, overseeing
succession planning for the Board and
senior executives, setting appropriate
standards of conduct and monitoring
compliance with those standards.
Part of my role as Chairman is to ensure the
Board has the required skills and experience
to carry out these responsibilities in a large
international business. With the increasing
importance of BAE Systems’ operations in
the United States, which now manage 35%
of sales, we have appointed three new non-
executive directors to the Board to provide
further US perspective and experience.
Peter Weinberg was a senior director of
Goldman Sachs Inc. and is a dual US/UK
citizen; Phil Carroll is the former chairman
and chief executive officer of Fluor
Corporation and is a US citizen; and Roberto
Quarta is the chairman of BBA Group plc, a
partner of the private equity firm Clayton,
Dubilier & Rice and a dual US/Italian citizen.
With the addition of these three new
directors, the Board is well equipped to
monitor performance and oversee the
Company’ s future strategic development.
Social, environmental and ethical aspects 
of a company’ s business operations 
are increasingly of interest to a broad
stakeholder community. In order to 
advance our leadership in this area, the
Board has established a new Corporate
Responsibility Committee chaired by Peter
Weinberg. A summary of the Company’ s
corporate responsibility performance is
included in this Report, supplemented 
by a detailed Corporate Responsibility
Report for 2005, published separately.
The Board is also responsible for setting
realistic, yet stretching, targets for
management with appropriate incentives 
for both baseline and stretch performance.
These targets include both financial and
non-financial objectives and further details
are included in the Remuneration Report.
We are fortunate to live in a time when
continued advances in healthcare enable 
us all to live longer . Unfortunately, because
of this increased longevity and reducing
discount rates in recent years the
Company’ s pension funds have faced
actuarial deficits, as have the funds of 
many other companies.
I am pleased to report that the Company 
has now made considerable progress in
resolving these pension funding issues.
As the UK’ s largest manufacturing 
employer it is particularly important 
to find the right balance of measures to
resolve the pension deficit. The executive
team, trustees, employees and trades
unions have approached this difficult issue
constructively through the course of the 
year with the aim of delivering an outcome
that is acceptable to employees, affordable
for the Company and delivers forward
visibility for shareholders.
With regard to the statutory reporting
requirements, the Operating and Financial
Review (OFR) has been prepared with 
regard to best practice as established 
by the Accounting Standards Board. 
Whilst there is continued public debate
about the future of the OFR, it is my 
belief that its fundamental elements 
are appreciated and valued by shareholders.
We shall continue to aspire to be in the
forefront of developments in this area.
The executive team and all employees 
have demonstrated their ability to deliver
results and I applaud their hard work 
and dedication. Looking forward, the
Company will be operating in a time of
challenging defence budgets and our 
top priority is to deliver continuing
performance improvement.
The Board is recommending an increased
final dividend of 6.3p per share, making 
a total of 10.3p for the year . At this level 
the annual dividend is covered 2.2 times 
by underlying earnings from continuing
operations (2004 1.8 times). Subject to
shareholder approval at the 2006 Annual
General Meeting, the dividend will be paid
on 1 June 2006 to holders of ordinary
shares registered on 21 April 2006.
Dick Olver
Chairman
22 February 2006 progress to make good contributions when
they transition from design to production.
Alongside the good operational execution
now being delivered we continue to strive to
further embed a high performance culture
across the Company. 
The formation of the Centre for Performance
Excellence will help ensure consistency of
performance measurement and provide
leadership and focus for the sharing of 
best practice across the Company.
In December , the Company welcomed the
publication by the UK government of the
Defence Industrial Strategy following
extensive consultation with industry. 
The strategy paper recognises the need 
for government and industry to work in
partnership to secure the best technologies
to meet the needs of the UK’ s armed forces.
The paper also identifies the skills and
capabilities required to equip and support
the UK armed forces whilst ensuring the UK
maintains a world class defence industry.
BAE Systems recognises that implementing
the Defence Industrial Strategy sets
challenges for both the MoD and industry.
Addressing pension deficits is a challenge.
Reduced discount rates used to value
scheme liabilities and the need to address
changes in assumptions for increased life-
expectancy combined to create a significant
deficit in the funding of the Company’ s
pension schemes.
The Company has recently finalised a 
plan for the largest of its funds, the Main
Scheme. The plan addresses the deficit
through increased contributions and benefit
concessions from employee scheme
members and contributions of cash and
property assets from the Company. These
actions enable the Company to maintain
this defined benefit pension scheme for
existing scheme members, at a cost
acceptable to the Company, eliminating the
substantial funding deficit and introducing
flexibility into the benefit structure to self-
fund any further increases in employee
longevity going forward.
A continuing success for the Company is 
the provision of defence support solutions.
The Company has a large and growing
business providing support for armed 
forces and government agencies. 
6 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Operating and financial review
Chief Executive’s review
Mike Turner
Chief Executive
BAE Systems has performed well
against its objectives in 2005.
Financial results have been 
delivered in line with our plan 
and further significant steps 
have been taken to implement 
the Company’s strategy. In
particular, the acquisition of 
United Defense builds on our 
strong defence technology 
business in the United States 
and complements our established
position as the largest defence
company in the UK and Europe.
The United Defense acquisition has
elevated BAE Systems to the second largest
supplier in the global land systems market.
The former United Defense activities have
been integrated with BAE Systems Land
Systems, which comprised the former
RO Defence and Alvis activities including
Hagglunds. Integration of these operations 
has resulted in a single US headquartered
global land systems business with
operations in the US, UK, Sweden and 
South Africa.
In 2005, the Company has continued 
to improve performance through a
combination of good project execution,
cost and productivity improvements within
the business operations together with the
benefit of actions over recent years to
eliminate inappropriate risk and improve
returns, especially in our UK Ministry of
Defence (MoD) Programmes business.
The outlook for our UK Programmes
business is now good. Following agreement
on the way forward for the T yphoon
programme, it is now making a significant
contribution to the Company’ s performance.
Other UK platform programmes, such as the
T ype 45 destroyer , Nimrod MRA4, Hawk and
Astute submarine, are also expected to BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 7
Through-life support and upgrades for 
in-service defence equipment is expected 
to become an increasingly important activity
for BAE Systems as air , naval and land
sector platforms are expected to remain 
in service for many decades and require
progressive upgrades in capability with
advances in technology.
In partnership with the MoD’ s Defence
Logistics Organisation (DLO) the Company
has continued to develop and grow its
support solutions activities for the UK’ s
armed forces. The successful delivery 
of cost savings, together with improved
equipment availability across a number 
of pilot air systems activities, has enabled
the Company to broaden the scope of its
DLO support activities to the UK land sector .
Further support opportunities have been
identified with the potential to deliver 
further cost savings and improved system
availability for our UK customer and to
deliver future profitable growth for the
benefit of shareholders.
BAE Systems continues to provide extensive
support in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,
principally to the Royal Saudi Air Force,
building on a relationship spanning several
decades. We employ some 4,600 people
within the Kingdom on wide-ranging
activities including flying training and
support for aircraft previously supplied. 
The Company has recently invested in
facilities to enhance in-Kingdom capability
for the maintenance and sustainment of
capability of in-service aircraft.
In December 2005, the governments of 
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the UK 
signed an Understanding Document,
intended to establish a greater partnership
in modernising the Saudi Arabian armed
forces and developing close service-to-
service contacts especially through joint
training and exercises. Under the terms 
of the Understanding, the two governments
recognise the requirement to provide
enhanced capabilities to existing military
assets and ensure that they can be
supported by local industry. It is also
intended that T yphoon aircraft will replace
T ornado Air Defence Variant aircraft and
other aircraft in service with the Royal Saudi
Air Force. The details of these arrangements
are confidential.
Support is also now a substantial
component of our business in the US.
Following the acquisition of United Defense,
its marine repair business has been added
to the Company’ s established US Navy and
federal systems support activities to form
an integrated support solutions business in
the US.
Drawing on the depth of experience now
residing on both sides of the Atlantic, a
cross-company support solutions council
has been formed to share best practice.
A number of actions have been taken to
rationalise the Company’ s portfolio of
activities in Europe and to manage non-
strategic businesses for optimum value. 
In March 2005, BAE Systems agreed a
reduced involvement in marketing the Gripen
combat aircraft and reduced its equity
interest in Saab AB from 34.2% to 20.5%.
The AMS joint venture was restructured 
with BAE Systems acquiring the UK based
operations of AMS and Finmeccanica
acquiring the Italian operations. In a related
transaction BAE Systems sold its UK based
sensor systems and electronic warfare
avionics activities to Finmeccanica. 
The agreement includes the deferred sale 
of a retained 25% interest in the resulting
enlarged avionics business, Selex. The
wholly owned UK activities of the former
AMS business have been combined with
BAE Systems’ other C4ISR activities to form
Integrated System T echnologies (Insyte). 
The integration of systems into digital
networks, or Network Enabled Capability
(NEC), is transforming defence capabilities.
Insyte is working in partnership with the UK
MoD, to deliver transformational capabilities
to the UK armed forces through the
application of emerging NEC technologies. 
The sale of Atlas Elektronik, the naval
systems business based in Germany,
jointly to ThyssenKrupp and EADS was
agreed in December 2005 and is expected
to complete in the first half of 2006,
subject to regulatory approval.
BAE Systems has valuable interests in 
the MBDA guided weapons joint venture 
and Airbus. 
MBDA continues to perform well with 
good order intake. A further step in the
consolidation of the European guided
weapons industry was achieved with the
agreement to integrate fully the German
missile business LFK into MBDA.
Airbus produced another strong financial
performance despite a continued high level
of investment in new product development.
Order intake was substantially ahead of
plan, benefiting from strength in a number 
of markets including China, India and the
Middle East. Aircraft demand has also 
been stimulated by the enhanced 
operating economics of new products 
such as the A380 and A350 airliners 
now under development.
In summary, we have had a good year ,
delivering a strong set of financial results
and meeting our overall objectives for 2005.
We are successfully executing our strategy.
We have further strengthened our position in
the United States, restructured our portfolio
of business interests in Europe and, through
a combination of factors, we now have a
much enhanced outlook for our business in
the UK. We are delivering shareholder value
by being the premier transatlantic defence
and aerospace company.
We are now a very well balanced Company,
not overly dependent on any one sector but
generating good returns for shareholders
from a broad base of operations in the
world’ s key defence and aerospace markets.
BAE Systems is set to deliver good growth
and we look forward with confidence to
building on our particularly strong
performance in 2005 with continued 
good progress through 2006.
Mike Turner
Chief Executive
22 February 2006
“Financial results have been delivered in line with 
our plan and further significant steps have been
taken to implement the Company’ s strategy. ” ●  Commercial 
 Aerospace 21%
●  Defence 79%
Defence
Global defence spending grew by eight
percent in 2004 among the fifteen largest
military nations. With major operations 
on five continents and defence customers 
in some 130 nations, BAE Systems is well
placed to use its strong UK and enhanced
US presence as a springboard for further
growth in both new and established 
defence markets.
BAE Systems is heavily reliant upon 
the levels of funding committed by the
domestic governments where the
Company’ s operations are based,
principally the US and UK. In addition,
export markets are defined and regulated 
by our domestic governments.
Although defence spending in some 
western European nations is static, the
region still offers significant opportunities
for BAE Systems. As has been the case 
for a number of years, central European
countries are investing in their armed 
forces as they move from Warsaw Pact 
to NATO standard equipment.
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is another 
major market with the Company serving 
as prime contractor for the UK government-
to-government agreement. BAE Systems
provides support to the Royal Saudi Air
Force, the Kingdom’ s ground defence
infrastructure and naval minehunters. 
Saudi Arabia maintains one of the largest
defence budgets in the world. In late
December 2005, the governments of 
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the 
UK signed an Understanding Document
intended to establish a greater partnership
in modernising the Saudi Arabian 
Armed Forces.
New threats and conflict arenas are placing
unprecedented demands on military forces and
presenting BAE Systems with new challenges 
and opportunities to assist those forces in 
meeting changing defence and security needs.
0
20
40
60
80
100
●
 Rest of world
● Europe  
● US
Source: BAE Systems internal analysis
8 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Operating and financial review
Market overview
2000
●
 Rest of world
● Europe  
● US
Source: BAE Systems internal analysis
0
1,200
900
600
300
10 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09
2006 forecast defence procurement
(US$ billions in constant 2006 prices)
Forecast defence budget by major region
(US$ billions in constant 2006 prices)
The US accounts for approximately 40% of
forecast total global procurement in 2006.
Group sales by market
The US represents over 45% of the total forecast
global defence spend (including equipment,
personnel and operating costs) to 2010. 
The above chart shows the percentage
contribution to 2005 Group sales from the
Defence and Commercial Aerospace markets. Asia represents a significant growth
opportunity for BAE Systems, with 
nations such as South Korea, Thailand 
and Malaysia all representing fast growing
and attractive markets where the Company
has a long history. Elsewhere in Asia,
BAE Systems has a growing relationship
with India, with significant progress being
made last year on the Hawk programme 
for the Indian Air Force.
BAE Systems’ Australian business has
continued to build on its position as the
Australian Defence Force capability partner
of choice in integrated military systems 
and support contracts.
South Africa is another market which
continues to offer opportunity to 
BAE Systems and where the Company 
has in-country capability with the OMC 
land systems business.
It is in the UK and US that BAE Systems 
has the strongest presence. The US
represents 45% of the world defence
market. It is, and will remain, one of
BAE Systems’ key markets, offering
programme scale and a high level of
investment in research and development.
Although growth in US defence spending 
is expected to slow, the Company is well
placed to support the US Department of
Defense’ s (DoD) likely emphasis on force
sustainment and affordable transformation.
With the acquisition of United Defense,
BAE Systems’ businesses managed from
the US will have an annualised turnover 
of some $11bn. BAE Systems is now a
major domestic prime player in the US
market in addition to being a major supplier
of sophisticated sub-systems to the DoD. 
The Company’ s enhanced position in the 
US in turn strengthens its capacity and
reach in many of the other major markets 
in the world.
In the UK, BAE Systems is seeing the 
benefit from its work over recent years to
eliminate inappropriate risk and improve
returns from its Programmes business with
the UK Ministry of Defence (MoD). Also in
the UK we have continued to deliver wide-
ranging support activities in partnership
with the MoD’ s Defence Logistics
Organisation and the armed forces.
Our UK customer is undergoing a
transformation, driven by the need for
greater agility, affordability and more
effective technology exploitation.
Fundamentally, this transformation 
is a shift towards integrated capability 
managed through-life to deliver the 
required military effect.
This evolution is expected to see the scope
of industry’ s role change as the MoD seeks
long-term partnering relationships to deliver
through-life capability management as
indicated in the recently published MoD
Defence Industrial Strategy.
Aerospace
The market for large commercial jets is
forecast to continue to grow on the back 
of rising passenger travel. Annual revenue
passenger kilometres (RPKs) are forecast to
grow by approximately 5%
1
through to 2023
creating an expected average demand of
some 830 aircraft deliveries a year . Key risks
to the forecast include the potential impact
of higher oil prices and slower than currently
expected future global economic growth.
The market in 2005 was particularly
buoyant. New large jet aircraft order 
intake was strong across the industry 
with the benefits of a recovering airline
economic cycle in some regions, rapid
growth in low-cost airline carriers and the
emergence of strong regional growth
markets such as China, India and the 
Middle East. In addition, high jet fuel 
prices have stimulated interest in new,
more fuel efficient, aircraft. 
Airbus, in which BAE Systems has a 20%
interest, delivered 378 aircraft representing
57% of large jet deliveries in 2005.
BAE Systems supports a number of 
regional aircraft supplied in prior years. 
The leasing market for these smaller 
aircraft remains difficult. 
1
Airbus forecast (December 2004)
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 9
2000
0
4,000
5,000
9/11 SARS/Iraq War
3,000
2,000
1,000
10 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09
Source: BAE Systems internal analysis
Passenger traffic forecast
(RPKs billion)
Global passenger traffic is forecast to increase 
by approximately 5% per year . Strong growth is
expected in Asia and the Middle East and lower
growth in the more mature North American and
European markets. 10 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Operating and financial review
Group strategy framework
BAE Systems’ strategy is to create sustainable shareholder value by being 
the premier transatlantic defence and aerospace company. This is delivered
through Group Strategic Objectives, Business Portfolio Actions and Integrated
Business Plans. The five Group Strategic Objectives are owned by the
Executive Committee and applied across the Group. The Business Portfolio
Actions are championed by relevant Executive Committee members and are
delivered either separately or jointly by the businesses. Many of our businesses
now support more than one portfolio action to encourage them to work
together across business boundaries.
Grow our business 
in the United States
Establish in the 
UK sustainably
profitable through-life
businesses in Air ,
Land and Sea
Grow our global land
systems business
Grow our global
support, solutions
and services
businesses
Grow and maximise
the value of Airbus
Manage non-strategic
businesses for 
optimal value
Business Portfolio Actions
Integrated Business Plans
Group Strategy
• Embed a high performance culture across the Company
• Win profitable new business and optimise value from our order book
• Grow our export business from a strong transatlantic business base
• Increase US/UK industrial technology sharing
• Optimise our business portfolio
Group Strategic Objectives
T o create sustainable shareholder value by being the 
premier transatlantic defence and aerospace company BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 11
What do we mean when we say
“sustainable shareholder value”?
“Shareholder value” means growth in our
share price and dividends. “Sustainable”
means continually reviewing the portfolio 
of businesses and building a consistent
track record of delivery to our shareholders.
It also means continually improving the
consistency and quality of application 
of our best practice processes and 
the skills of our people to enable us 
to deliver on our commitments to 
customers and shareholders.
Why “transatlantic”?
“T ransatlantic” relates to our most
important markets. It means having a
presence in both the UK/Europe and in 
the US. The US, by a very large margin,
is the world’ s largest defence and
aerospace market and the largest investor
in technology. This technology investment,
as well as the scale of the market, is key 
to our drive to grow in the US. Our other 
home markets, Sweden, Saudi Arabia,
South Africa and Australia, complement 
our strong transatlantic base.
Why “defence and aerospace”?
While defence remains our core market,
our historically strong presence in the
aerospace sector , through our holding in
Airbus, is a major contributor to the value 
of the Company.
Over half of the Company’ s total sales are
now from electronic systems, software and
services. Defence platform programmes
contribute roughly a quarter and the balance
comes from the commercial aerospace
market. On both sides of the Atlantic,
defence now increasingly includes
Homeland Security markets.
Eurofighter Typhoon
The following pages (12 to 23) describe how we are delivering the 
strategic objectives and actions that underpin the Group strategy. performance
Embed a high
culture across the Company
Operating and financial review
Group strategic objectives Developing employees
The ‘Developing Y ou’ programme is at the heart
of the continual training and skills development
that BAE Systems provides for employees. 
In 2005 over 1,350 engineers participated in
‘Engineering Developing Y ou’, a framework which
maps engineering capability to an individual’ s
career aspirations and BAE Systems business
needs. ‘Developing Y ou’ now spans most of the
business functions and comprises a bespoke 
range of training modules, many of which 
are accredited by leading universities and
professional bodies.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 13
A high performance culture within
BAE Systems will be achieved by
ensuring that:
• the Company operates with 
clear governance
• businesses and employees 
have clear objectives
• best practices are shared 
across the Company
• benchmark core processes 
are consistently applied
• appropriate values and 
standards are applied
BAE Systems is focused on embedding 
a high performance culture by consistent
application of its core assets of governance,
processes and values, and identifying and
sharing best practices across the Company.
T o help achieve this strategic objective, in
2005 the Company formed the Centre for
Performance Excellence (CfPE), which is 
now playing a key role in accelerating the
pace of change to achieve higher levels 
of performance.
The CfPE is introducing a set of Group-wide
measures, so that business data can be
monitored in a comparable and transparent
way, facilitating assessment of progress
towards achieving our Group strategy. 
In 2006, the CfPE will focus on identifying
and sharing best practices, in order to 
foster performance improvement across 
the Company.
A further aspect of the high performance
culture is driven through Performance
Centred Leadership (PCL). This is a
leadership and performance management
system, introduced in 2002, that
establishes a clear link between
performance and rewards. It establishes 
an underpinning competency and behaviour
set for business leaders, enabling all
leaders to understand what ‘high
performance’ means for them and their
teams. The system continues to be
extended to a wider set of managers to
ensure that the principles of PCL are
embedded further throughout the Company.
Consistently delivering good programme
execution is what drives customer
satisfaction, financial growth, and 
ultimately returns to shareholders. Operating and financial review
Group strategic objectives
Win profitable new business and
from our order book
optimise value Type 45
HMS Daring was launched on 1 February 2006.
It is the first of a planned class of up to eight
T ype 45 destroyers for the Royal Navy, and will 
be the UK’ s next generation anti-air warfare
destroyer . Daring has been assembled from
large pre-outfitted ‘megablock’ modules,
increasing build efficiency and driving down
construction man-hours. The division of 
work between shipyards across the UK,
at BAE Systems’ facilities at Scotstoun 
and Govan in Glasgow and VT Shipbuilding 
in Portsmouth, has pioneered a new way 
of building complex warships. 
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 15
BAE Systems has had considerable
recent success in establishing an
appropriate balance of risk and
reward in its order book, creating 
a sound foundation for growth and
enabling the Company to focus on
winning profitable new business.
BAE Systems is determined to build on its
strong market positions by continuing to win
business with an acceptable balance of risk
and return for shareholders. The progress
made in this regard, particularly with major
UK programmes, will be sustained for future
contracting arrangements, including the
anticipated production contracts for Nimrod
maritime patrol aircraft, Astute submarines
and additional T ype 45 destroyers.
A key objective is to deliver greater value 
to shareholders from our order book by
applying best practice, tools and processes
in a consistently efficient manner throughout
the Company.
The Company’ s programme execution 
is being achieved by the consistent
application of our Lifecycle Management
(LCM) process. LCM lies at the heart of 
the Company’ s project management. It
provides a powerful and flexible process 
and control environment within which 
to execute projects. The LCM process
considers the whole life of projects from
inception to delivery into service and
eventual disposal and provides the
framework for the application of best
practice programme management.
A key enabler to winning new business is
establishing a track record of delivering
projects on time, to specification and cost.  Operating and financial review
Group strategic objectives
Grow
our export business from a strong 
transatlantic business base M777
The M777 is the world’ s first 155mm howitzer
weighing under 10,000lbs and meets
requirements for rapid deployment and accurate
artillery fire support. It has been designed and
developed in both the US and the UK and has
been selected by the US Marine Corps and US
Army as their next generation medium force
weapon. M777 is now in full rate production 
and units have already been delivered to the 
US Marine Corps, US Army and Canadian 
Armed Forces. 
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 17
Transatlantic markets remain at 
the core of our strategy given our
leading position in the UK/Europe
and strong and growing presence in
the US. These markets will continue 
to shape our capabilities and our
product and services portfolio and
form the basis from which export
opportunities can be addressed.
From a strong transatlantic base we shall
continue to export to, and work in, markets
around the world where we can deliver good
shareholder returns. We prioritise key export
markets and identify potential products and
services which will be better suited to those
markets. In addition, the expansion of
existing home markets, where our business
operations are located, and identification of
new ones is a strategic objective for 2006.
The acquisition of United Defense was a key
step in our strategy to build BAE Systems’
position as the premier transatlantic
defence and aerospace company. The
Company is now well placed to support 
the US Military’ s growing emphasis on
interoperability, affordable transformation
and force sustainment. In particular , the
acquisition enables us to address the
increasing emphasis on land systems in
emerging customer requirements, including
the refurbishment, upgrade and long-term
support of existing vehicles and equipment.
Following the acquisition of United Defense,
we combined our existing land systems
activities in the UK, Sweden and South
Africa with United Defense to form the 
Land & Armaments business group. 
This created one of the world’ s leading
design, manufacture and support providers
of land and armament systems. Less than
two years ago, the Company had a small
foothold in this sector . BAE Systems is the
world’ s second largest global land systems
business, with an annualised turnover in
excess of £2bn.
Both organic growth and growth through
acquisitions will continue to be pursued 
in the US.
With its transatlantic foundation 
BAE Systems is well positioned to grow at
the very highest level of technology and
capability in the US whilst also delivering
value from its strong technology base,
capabilities and market position in the UK
and its other home markets of Sweden,
Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Australia. Operating and financial review
Group strategic objectives
Increase
UK/US industrial technology sharing F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (JSF)
BAE Systems’ JSF involvement includes
delivering the System Development and
Demonstration (SDD) phase of the programme
involving airframe assemblies and mission
systems. The aft fuselage and empennage for
each aircraft are being designed, engineered
and built at the BAE Systems Samlesbury site 
in the UK. The JSF will set new standards 
for assembly precision and pace. Innovative
precision machining techniques help ensure
that the JSF meets its stealth requirement.
Accuracy is achieved through digital design 
and manufacturing controls pioneered by
BAE Systems. 
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 19
The US and the UK have a long
history of defence industrial
cooperation that has provided
significant benefits to both
countries. BAE Systems has itself
played an important role in that
transatlantic cooperation and
continues to do so, most notably in
the M777 howitzer and F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter programmes.
The UK government’ s Defence Industrial
Strategy, published on 15 December 2005,
made clear “the importance of transatlantic
defence industrial cooperation in enabling
both UK and US Armed Forces to acquire
more effective military capabilities, at better
value for money, than would otherwise be
the case, and to cooperate together in
pursuit of common security objectives”. 
It went on to say “It is in the interest of 
both governments and of both industries 
to improve the current situation”.
Notwithstanding the strong tradition of
cooperation, the constraints imposed by 
the current US export control regulations
(the International T raffic in Arms Regulations) 
act as a disincentive to maximising the
benefits from such cooperation. While it is
self-evident that the movement of sensitive
information and technology has generally 
to be controlled, in today’ s environment 
of coalition operations it would be to the
advantage of both governments and
defence industries to allow and, indeed,
to encourage freer technology sharing
between the UK and the US.
BAE Systems therefore fully supports the 
UK government’ s efforts to establish a
technology sharing agreement with the 
US government that will enable government 
and industry on both sides of the Atlantic 
to work more effectively together both to
enhance interoperability and to facilitate 
the delivery of systems that our respective
armed forces need. 
For BAE Systems an improved technology
sharing environment would enable our
engineers and scientists in the US and the
UK to collaborate more effectively, and bring
together their collective skills and expertise
to the benefit of our two major customers,
the UK and US governments, as well as to
our shareholders. Operating and financial review
Group strategic objectives
Optimise
our business portfolio Eurosystems
The Eurosystems transaction, completed 
in April 2005, achieved BAE Systems’ and
Finmeccanica’ s mutual goals of securing 
control and clear management responsibility for
their European defence electronics businesses.
Following the transaction, BAE Systems 
formed Integrated System T echnologies 
by combining the capabilities of the former
AMS’ s UK operations and BAE Systems’ C4ISR
Networked Systems and Solutions business.
This business is working in partnership with 
the UK MoD to identify opportunities to
participate in the transformation of the
capabilities of the UK armed forces through 
the application of emerging network enabled
capability technologies.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 21
To ensure delivery of value to
shareholders the Company is
focused on determining where
appropriate returns can be achieved. 
T o maximise returns the Company will
continue to focus on markets with attractive
terms of trade as well as addressing costs,
productivity and business performance. 
T o achieve this, businesses operating in
markets not considered central to the
Company’ s strategy are managed to
maximise their contribution to the Group.
Actions to optimise our business portfolio 
in 2005 included further restructuring of 
the Company’ s activities in Europe and 
the acquisition of United Defense in the 
United States.
In Europe, the Eurosystems transaction was
completed. This comprised the sale of the
UK-based sensor systems and electronic
warfare activities of the former Avionics
business group and the restructuring of the
former AMS joint venture business to exit
businesses in Italy and consolidate its UK
network enabled capability activities in 
a wholly-owned UK-based business,
Integrated System T echnologies. 
In March 2005, BAE Systems reduced its
interest in Saab AB from 34.2% to 20.5%.
In August 2005, BAE Systems sold 
Precision Aerostructures, the US based 
aircraft component machining and
fabrication facility.
In December 2005, an agreement for the 
sale of the Atlas Elektronik business to
ThyssenKrupp and EADS was announced.
In January 2006, an agreement for the sale 
of the UK based Aerostructures business to 
Spirit AeroSystems Inc. was announced.
The acquisition of United Defense was a key
step in our strategy to build BAE Systems’
position as the premier transatlantic
defence and aerospace company. The
Company is now well placed to support the
US military’ s growing emphasis on inter-
operability, affordable transformation and
force sustainment.  22 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Operating and financial review
Business portfolio actions
Grow our business in the
United States
In the summer of 2005, BAE Systems
completed the acquisition of United
Defense, growing the US business base 
by $2.6bn in annual sales and 8,000
additional employees. This acquisition
established BAE Systems as a major land
systems prime contractor with a strong
position in support of the US Department 
of Defense’ s requirements for force
sustainment and affordable transformation.
The acquisition provides new opportunities
in land vehicle and naval gun programmes.
It also broadens our access to platforms,
supporting our customers with enhanced
solutions including new target acquisition,
communications and networked awareness
systems, and diversifies our business base
with the US Army.
In addition, the existing US business 
is achieving organic growth across 
its established businesses with key
successes in electronic warfare,
tactical communications, intelligence
systems, information technology,
and customer support.
Establish in the UK sustainably
profitable through-life businesses 
in air, land and sea
Good progress continues to be made 
across all major platform programmes. 
In 2005, the financial performance of 
the Programmes business group 
benefited both from improved project
execution and agreement on the way 
forward on the T yphoon programme 
made in December 2004.
In December 2005, the UK MoD published 
its Defence Industrial Strategy (DIS). This
strategy will shape the future of the UK
defence industrial base and recognises 
the need to sustain in the UK the highest
system integration skills and capabilities
across air , land and sea domains. The 
DIS also emphasises the importance 
of a through-life capability approach and
envisages long-term partnering agreements
within each of the key sectors of air , land
and sea. Successful implementation of this
strategy will create a positive investment
environment. The Company will work 
closely with the MoD to help them realise
the DIS intent.
The enduring requirement for retaining 
an on-shore, through-life, prime systems
integration capability across air , land 
and sea presents BAE Systems with 
opportunities to sustain its UK 
business base.
Grow our global land systems
business
Following the successful completion 
of the acquisition of Alvis in 2004 and 
United Defense in 2005, BAE Systems 
has established a major land systems
position, with home markets in the US,
Sweden, South Africa and the UK. The
formation of the Land & Armaments
business group in June 2005 brought 
BAE Systems’ existing land systems
activities together with those of United
Defense, to create a global leader in
armoured combat vehicles and armaments.
These integrated capabilities, our position
on future programmes and our extensive
installed base of legacy systems provides
BAE Systems with a platform from which 
it can develop its global land systems
business. We shall capitalise on the reset 
and modularity priorities of the US Army 
to restore battle-worn equipment and 
to convert active and reserve units to
standardised expeditionary organisations.
The next generation of combat systems 
will be rapidly deployable, lethal, survivable
and networked. We have an integral role 
in the UK’ s Future Rapid Effect System
programme, the US Army’ s Future Combat
Systems programme and the Swedish SEP
future ground systems programmes.
In the UK land support arena the award of
the AS90 equipment support contract was 
an excellent first step as we enter a long-
term partnering arrangement with the 
MoD to support the UK armoured fighting
vehicle fleet.
The business portfolio actions are championed by relevant 
Executive Committee members and are delivered either 
separately or jointly by the business groups. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 23
Grow our global support, solutions 
and services business
In the UK, Customer Solutions & Support
(CS&S) has continued the evolution of its
successful partnering relationship with the
UK Defence Logistics Organisation. This
relationship is underpinned by a partnering
arrangement which is being refreshed to
reflect the drive for through-life capability
management as emphasised in the DIS. 
The CS&S International and Australian
businesses continue to implement their
growth strategies. 
Good progress has been made with 
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, where the
Company employs some 4,600 people,
in particular with the signing of the
government to government Understanding
Document in December 2005.
Restructuring in the US led to the creation 
of the US Customer Solutions organisation,
strengthening our position to address
emerging support opportunities. The US
business is focused primarily in the areas 
of technology solutions and services,
Information T echnology (IT), and ship repair .
While the US services market is large, it is
generally flat, resulting in a very competitive
environment. Future growth plans remain
centred in the high growth IT market.
BAE Systems is in an excellent position 
to grow business by assisting customers
with defence logistics transformation 
to increase operational effectiveness.
Grow and maximise the 
value of Airbus
In addition to its 20% equity interest in
Airbus, BAE Systems continues to exercise
important management influence on the
business. Airbus achieved good growth in
2005. It secured net new orders for 1,055
aircraft in 2005, including firm orders
received from China, Kingfisher Airlines,
UPS and Virgin Atlantic.
In 2005, Airbus delivered 378 aircraft
compared to 320 in 2004. The 2005 total
comprised 289 single-aisle A320 family
aircraft and 89 wide-body and long-range
airliners (essentially A330s and A340s).
In April 2005, the first A380 successfully
undertook its maiden flight. The entry into
service for the A380 is now expected in 
late 2006.
Development of the A400M military
transport aircraft continues, with the first
export order for the aircraft achieved 
during 2005.
Following approval from its shareholders,
EADS and BAE Systems, Airbus formally
launched the new long-range A350 airliner in
October 2005. Airbus has already received
172 firm orders and commitments.
Manage non-strategic businesses 
for optimal value
Where a business is operating in a market
that is not contributing to achieving our
desired long-term strategic positioning it 
will be managed to optimise value. This
could mean focusing on managing for 
cash or divesting the business. Whatever
the chosen action, such businesses will 
be managed to maximise their contribution
to the overall Group performance.
A number of disposal transactions were
agreed during 2005. 24 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Operating and financial review
Electronics, Intelligence & Support
Electronics, Intelligence & Support
(EI&S) is headquartered in the US,
and is responsible for the former
businesses of BAE Systems North
America, the Group’s UK-based
displays and inertial systems
activities and US marine repair
activities. EI&S comprises two
businesses, Electronics & Integrated
Solutions and Customer Solutions.
During 2005, Electronics, Intelligence 
& Support achieved EBITA
2
of £324m 
(2004 £256m) on sales
1
of £3,697m 
(2004 £3,063m). The business group
generated operating cash inflow
3
of 
£323m (2004 £190m).
Electronics & Integrated Solutions
The Electronics & Integrated Solutions
(E&IS) business is a major defence and
aerospace electronics business with
products and services encompassing: 
• Communications, including 
tactical networking
• Electronic warfare, including electronic
protection and information warfare
• Avionics and controls
• Sensors
• Integrated systems
E&IS is an industry leader in a variety of
military communications, electronic
identification, navigation and guidance
systems. The Company has wide technical
expertise in C4ISR
6
and C3I
7
systems and is 
a provider of network centric warfare
solutions to command centres, platforms
and individual soldiers in the battle space. 
It has a prominent position integrating
communications on the US Army’ s Future
Combat Systems, including provision of an
Integrated Global Positioning and Inertial
Navigation System for the programme. 
In 2005 the Company was also selected 
to provide the new mobile military
communications system for the Slovak
armed forces.
The Company is a major supplier of
integrated avionics systems for military
aircraft. Such systems include the 
electronic countermeasures for the US 
Air Force’ s F-22 Raptor and development 
of the electronic warfare suite for the F-35
Joint Strike Fighter . In 2005 the Company
was selected by the US Navy to develop 
the T actical Aircraft Directable Infrared
Countermeasures system and has been
successfully flight testing a related infrared
missile countermeasures system for
commercial aircraft.
E&IS provides signals and information
management solutions for defence and
government agencies. Its Diamond 
Software product family architecture
underpins the latest generation of 
electronic support measures for the UK
Shaman communications programme. 
The Company’ s radiation hardened
computers have guided spacecraft on
missions to Mars and to intercept a comet. 
As a market leader in advanced information
technology, geospatial exploitation software
and data production, integration of
knowledge-based systems and avionics test
equipment, the Company was selected as
one of the prime contractors for the US Air
Force mission planning consolidation in
2005. Another programme, Gridlock, gives
the war fighter distinctive advantages with
its ‘smart imaging’ targeting that rapidly
generates accurate target coordinates using
still or motion imagery from tactical manned
and unmanned platforms.
Capabilities in vehicle management, human-
machine interface, precision guidance and
power systems provide improved operational
safety and enhanced mission effectiveness.
Contract awards in 2005 included the digital
electronic engine controls for the GE T700
engine that will make BAE Systems the leader
in the army helicopter segment.
BAE Systems also provides the HybriDrive
propulsion system, used on commercial
buses, which improves fuel economy by 
35% and dramatically reduces emissions.
Five hundred systems for operation in 
New Y ork City were ordered in 2005. 
In a related technology, the US Office of
Naval Research selected BAE Systems to
develop an on-board power system for the
Marine Corps’ High-Mobility Multipurpose
Wheeled Vehicle (the Humvee).
Electronics, Intelligence & Support – Summary
2005 2004
5
Sales
1
£3,697m £3,063m
EBITA
2
£324m £256m
Cash inflow
3
£323m £190m
Number of employees
1
32,900 30,000
Order book
1
£3.5bn £3.1bn
Share of Group sales
4
Share of Group EBITA
2
Key points
• Sustained leadership positions
in electronic warfare and 
military communications –
secured US Air Force mission
planning contract
• Acquisition of largest US 
non-nuclear ship repair business
• Successful integration of 
2004 acquisitions
• Successful flight test of infrared
missile countermeasures
system for commercial airliners
Financial highlights
• Organic sales growth of 6% 
over 2004
• Return on sales improved to 8.8%
• Good conversion of EBITA
2
to operating cash flow
• Order book growth
23% 27% Advanced Airborne Systems
BAE Systems designs, develops and
manufactures a wide range of electronic 
systems and subsystems for both military 
and commercial applications. The Electronics 
& Integrated Solutions business develops
advanced airborne systems, including the
electronic warfare suites for the F-35 Joint 
Strike Fighter (JSF), F-22 Raptor and other 
air platforms. In July 2005, BAE Systems 
successfully completed the first flight test 
of its F-35 electronic warfare (EW) suite. 
The tests were funded internally and outside 
of the JSF programme flight test schedule in
order to evaluate potential cost savings and
performance improvement options. T o date,
the EW system continues to exceed all contract
performance metrics within the System Design
and Development phase.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 25
The Company is a supplier of state-of-the-art
infrared, millimetre-wave, and laser
technologies for missile seekers, guided
munitions, and target designators. It is
upgrading the technology for the Theater
High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) seeker
for Lockheed Martin. In an important entry
point to the $1bn military thermal imaging
market, the Company is producing the 
new thermal weapons sights to equip 
the US Army and Marine Corps, and is 
to manufacture the TIM1500 thermal
imaging module for the US Army’ s Stryker
armoured vehicle. 
In 2005, BAE Systems won the US Air
Force’ s key Design and Engineering 
Support Program II, leveraging expertise 
in aircraft modifications and operations.
The business operates two technology
organisations focused on enhancing 
its technology base, Advanced Systems 
and T echnology and the Center for
Transformation.
Advanced Systems and T echnology identifies
strategic technology needs and delivers 
that technology in four major domains:
Sensors and Signal Processing; Radio
Frequency; Electro-Optical and Infrared; 
and Networking and Information Processing.
Major customers include the US Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency and
other government laboratories, with
research and development programmes
ranging from multi-functional low-observable
antenna systems to high performance
scalable signal processing technologies,
mixed-signal (digital, RF and optical)
devices, and advanced sensors. 
The Center for T ransformation focuses on
development of advanced programmes and
concepts in the C4ISR
6
domain and deploys
leading-edge technology solutions to solve
time-critical problems. 
Customer Solutions
Customer Solutions comprises three
business units:
• BAE Systems Information T echnology (IT)
• T echnology Solutions and Services (TSS)
• BAE Systems Ship Repair
IT capabilities include enterprise-wide
managed IT operations, mission-critical
performance and information analysis 
and assured delivery. TSS provides 
services including system engineering 
and technical assistance, system and 
sub-system integration and operations 
and maintenance. Ship Repair provides 
non-nuclear ship repair , conversion and
modernisation, principally in the home 
ports of the US Navy.
The business provides a broad range 
of services in the areas of systems
integration, systems engineering and
technical assistance, operations and
maintenance and logistics. It also develops
communications systems and precision
tracking radars, is one of the largest
Defence spending in the US continues to be robust for the near term,
however fiscal pressures may make the budget environment more
challenging in subsequent years. Customers will need to balance priorities 
to equip effectively the current fighting force, whilst developing capabilities 
to transform the future force.
EI&S was reorganised in 2005 to enable it to compete more effectively. The
business group can now leverage a breadth of capability in critical domains,
whilst rapidly aligning technologies and resources to those sub-segments 
of the market which are likely to see higher than market growth.
Looking forward
1
including share of equity accounted investments
2
earnings before amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense
3
net cash inflow from operating activities 
after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment,
and dividends from equity accounted investments
4
before elimination of intra-group sales
5
as restated under International Financial 
Reporting Standards
6
Command, Control, Communications and Computing,
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
7
Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence
suppliers to the US Navy, is a leader in air
and missile defence systems and is one 
of the world’ s largest manufacturers of
explosives. It also includes the US’ s leading
non-nuclear ship repair company.
During 2005, the major projects for the US
government included a blanket purchase
agreement for the supply of information
technology support and services, a cost-
plus award fee/level of effort contract for
operations, and maintenance support 
for IT systems. Combined annual sales 
for these are estimated at $94m.
TSS provides professional engineering
services to the NAVSEA DDG51 Shipbuilding
Program Office under a $863m contract
which will run until 2015. It also handles 
the SETAC contract, for which the primary
customer is the Army Space and Missile
Defense Command. The full year sales for
SETAC are $90m.
Ship Repair has continued to support 
the US Navy repairs, alterations and
continuous repair work on Landing Platform
Dock/Landing Ship Dock (LPD/LSD) class
vessels in San Diego, as well as similar LSD
Multi-Ship Multi-Option in Norfolk, Virginia.  26 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Operating and financial review
Land & Armaments
the UK and the Swedish Modular Armoured
T actical System. 
Land & Armaments continues to make
substantial progress on the development
and maturation of the Non-Line-of-Sight-
Cannon (NLOS-C), the lead system of the 
US Army’ s FCS manned ground vehicles. 
In 2005, company engineers and the Army
completed functional and preliminary 
design reviews. The NLOS-C remains 
on track to deliver prototypes in 2008 
and achieve system fielding in 2010. 
Other contract wins and ongoing
development programmes related to
Manned Ground Vehicles for the US Army’ s
FCS include the Integrated Army Active
Protection System and the common 
T raction Drive Subsystem for all FCS
manned ground vehicles.
The group secured two key contracts in
robotic systems – the acceleration of the
FCS Armed Robotic Vehicle (ARV), together
with Carnegie Mellon University, and the 
US Marine Corps’ Gladiator T actical
Unmanned Ground Vehicle. It also showed
its own internally-developed Armed Robotic
Demonstrator at the annual meeting of 
the Association of the US Army.
In the UK, the award of the AS90 Equipment
Support Contract followed by the contract to
upgrade 500 of the British Army’ s FV430
tracked vehicles, are key enablers in
The Land & Armaments business
group, headquartered in the US,
is a global leader in the design,
development, production and 
service support of armoured 
combat vehicles, major and 
minor calibre naval guns, missile
launchers, canisters, artillery
systems and intelligent munitions.
During 2005, Land & Armaments achieved
EBITA
2
of £42m (2004 £(8)m) on sales
1
of £1,270m (2004 £482m), and generated
an operating cash inflow
3
of £168m 
(2004 £60m).
This group was established in June 2005
from the newly acquired United Defense 
and the existing Land Systems (formed by
the integration of RO Defence and Alvis in
2004). This global business has operations
in the US, UK, South Africa and Sweden, with
markets in more than two dozen countries.
The Land & Armaments business is shaped
by the contracts awarded for its products by
primarily the governments of the US, the UK
and Sweden. The success of the business
results from its history of securing key
government contracts and the ability to
satisfy customer needs in its various home
and export markets. In the US, the Army’ s
requirement to restore its current systems
to combat-ready condition following
extensive operational use and to upgrade
and remanufacture to the most advanced
configurations is the subject of one of 
the largest ongoing programmes being
undertaken by the group.
Land
Contract awards on current systems have
been exceptional. Most noteworthy were the
orders in 2005 worth some $1.5bn for the
refurbishment and upgrade of Bradley and
M113 fighting vehicles, demonstrating the
value and potential of the United Defense
acquisition. Other contracts on current
systems included the remanufacture and
upgrade of 59 M88A2 HERCULES Improved
Recovery Vehicles.
The M777 lightweight 155mm howitzer , 495
of which were ordered for the US Marines
and US Army in 2005, has now expanded its
market with the first delivery of guns to the
Canadian Department of National Defense.
In addition to mine protection, current
survivability programmes include an
armouring programme of M113 personnel
carriers in Iraq, the manufacture and
installation of T ransparent Armour Gun
Shield kits for Humvees, trucks, M2
Bradleys, M1 Abrams and add-on armour 
for the Stryker .
In the area of development, Land & Armaments
is well positioned for key future forces
programmes including the Future Combat
Systems (FCS) programme for the US Army,
Future Rapid Effect System programme for
Land & Armaments – Summary
8%
Key points
2005 2004
5
Sales
1
£1,270m £482m
EBITA
2
£42m £(8)m
Underlying EBITA
6
£86m £(2)m
Cash inflow
3
£168m £60m
Number of employees
1
10,600 4,800
Order book
1
£4.4bn £2.2bn
• T ransatlantic growth with
acquisition of United Defense
• Global land systems business
established
• Key contracts secured
– Bradley reset and upgrade
– Danish CV90, US RG-31, M777
• UK Future Rapid Effect System
(FRES) demonstrator award
• UK cost base being addressed
Share of Group sales
4
Share of Group EBITA
2
includes six months of United Defense
Financial highlights
• Sales of £625m from acquired
United Defense business
• EBITA
2
stated after UK
rationalisation charge of £24m
• Cash flow benefits from advance
payments secured
• Order book growth
3% BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 27
becoming the through-life support and
capability provider to the UK armed forces.
In the UK and export markets T rojan, an
obstacle-crossing vehicle and Titan, a tank
bridgelayer , are both based on Challenger 2.
Roll-out of the first production vehicles is
scheduled for the first quarter of 2006.
Over the past ten years, some £25m has been
invested in developing insensitive munitions
technology and in UK production facilities. 
The first contract was awarded in 2005 by
the UK MoD for the manufacture of 105mm
improved ammunition for the L18 Light Gun.
Subsequent awards have been contracts to
qualify 155mm ammunition for the L15 and
L21 and 4.5” improved ammunition.
The premium that militaries are placing on
accuracy and precision in both area and
point target fires has raised the importance
of intelligent munitions for artillery and mortar
systems. Land & Armaments has a leading
role in the accelerated fielding of Excalibur
to US and Canadian forces in Iraq and
Afghanistan. BONUS, a sensor fused
155mm munition fielded in Sweden and
France, is being evaluated by the US and UK.
BAE Systems’ operations in Sweden
continue their strong presence in the
northern European armoured fighting
vehicles market with further orders for the 
CV90. The newest customer , Denmark,
brings to six the number of European
countries fielding this highly successful
infantry fighting vehicle.
The growing international need for mine-
protected vehicles has generated orders for
the four-wheeled RG-31 from South Africa
including the sale of 148 vehicles to the US
with further exports to Canada and the
United Arab Emirates under contract.
Naval
One immediate benefit of the United Defense
acquisition for BAE Systems was the
opportunity to meet the US Navy’ s urgent
need for a superior medium-calibre gun and
ammunition for the DD(X) next-generation
destroyer and the Coast Guard’ s Deepwater
modernisation programme. Both have
selected the Land & Armaments’ 57mm 
Mk 110 as a close-in gun system for the
DD(X) and as the main battery for the
Maritime Security Cutter Large. Partnering
with Northrop Grumman Ship Systems, the
first Mk 110 will be delivered in December
2006. The weapon system is also baselined
on both the General Dynamics and
Lockheed Martin designs for the Littoral
Combat Ship for the US Navy. 
Development of the 155mm Advanced Gun
System (AGS) and the Long Range Land
Attack Projectile (LRLAP) for the US Navy
continues to support Navy and Marine Corps
expeditionary and joint operations forces
engaged near the coastline and deep inland.
The AGS will be capable of a maximum
sustained firing rate of 10 rounds per minute
at ranges of up to 60 nautical miles with an
objective of being able to reach targets
beyond 80 nautical miles. In 2005, the
engineering development models
successfully demonstrated the key
requirements to support the DD(X) ship
design. T ests have already established the
propulsion approach for the LRLAP needed
to meet the challenging range targets.
In addition to key new gun systems,
BAE Systems is designing and testing 
a new Vertical Launching System (VLS),
Mk 57. This next generation VLS will 
provide capabilities for the DD(X) ship to
launch a wide range of missile designs.
Land & Armaments is expected to contribute growth in 2006 driven largely 
by the ongoing requirements in the US to both reset and upgrade the Bradley
family of vehicles. Reset is the need to repair vehicles to return them to a 
fully operational condition as a result of wear incurred by sustained military
operations. Upgrade activity is enhancing the vehicles’ mobility, lethality 
and survivability to support effectively the US Army as it drives to deploy 
a modular force.
In the UK, there will be continued emphasis on improving profitability 
and establishing a role on the Future Rapid Effect System programme.
The businesses in both Sweden and South Africa continue to perform 
well in both home markets and in securing export opportunities.
In the longer term, progress on the US Army’ s Future Combat Systems
programme, where BAE Systems has a major role for both manned and
unmanned vehicles, will be a major sensitivity for the business.
Looking forward
Non-Line-of-Sight-Cannon (NLOS-C)
The fully automated NLOS-C will deliver more
firepower with greater effects faster and more
accurately than ever before. BAE Systems is
proving new capabilities on the fully automated,
38 calibre NLOS-C Concept T echnology
Demonstrator , which has fired more than
1,900 rounds at Yuma Proving Ground,
Arizona. The first NLOS-C Increment 0
prototypes are scheduled for delivery in 2008.
(Artist’ s impression)
1
including share of equity accounted investments
2
earnings before amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 
3
net cash inflow from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment, and
dividends from equity accounted investments
4
before elimination of intra-group sales
5
as restated under International Financial 
Reporting Standards
6
earnings before amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, uplift on acquired inventories,
finance costs and taxation expense 28 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Operating and financial review
Programmes
The Programmes business group 
is a major contributor to the 
defence of the UK, with the MoD 
its principal customer. The business
group comprises the Company’s air
systems, naval ships and submarines
activities together with the
Company’s participation in the UK’s
Future Carrier (CVF) programme.
During 2005, Programmes achieved EBITA
2
of £133m (2004 £10m) on sales
1
of
£2,819m (2004 £2,219m), and 
generated an operating cash inflow
3
of £285m (2004 £442m).
Air Systems
The principal Air Systems programmes are:
Typhoon
The introduction of the T yphoon to the 
Royal Air Force (RAF) was successfully
implemented under the Case White initial
support arrangement. The contracted flying
hours were completed ahead of schedule,
and the first two RAF squadrons have now
been deployed to their operational base 
at RAF Coningsby. A total of 74 aircraft 
have been accepted by the air forces of 
the four partner nations for deployment 
to operational and training squadrons
across Europe. Discussions are underway
regarding further development to enhance
the capability of the aircraft. In addition to
the sale of 18 aircraft to Austria, further
export possibilities are being pursued.
Hawk
The Hawk Advanced Jet T rainer (AJT)
development programme made good
progress during 2005, with a successful
maiden flight for the first RAF Mk 128 
in July, two months ahead of schedule. 
A production order is expected in 2006.
Export contracts for Bahrain, South Africa
and India were progressed during the year .
Programmes – Summary
18%
Key points
2005 2004
5
Sales
1
£2,819m £2,219m
EBITA
2
£133m £10m
Cash inflow
3
£285m £442m
Number of employees
1
16,200 15,700
Order book
1
£12.3bn £13.0bn
• 37 T yphoon aircraft delivered 
in the year (12 to UK RAF) 
• First flight of UK Hawk Advanced
Jet T rainer aircraft achieved early 
• Successful delivery of F-35 JSF
airframe assemblies
• T ype 45 first of class launched 
in February 2006
• Landing Ship Dock (Auxiliary)
first ship delivered
The Astute class submarine. 
(Artist’ s impression)
Share of Group sales
4
Share of Group EBITA
2
Financial highlights
• Sales growth of 27% over 2004
• Margin recovery to 4.7%
including £30m benefit from risk
retirement on T yphoon
• Margin constrained
– No contribution from Astute
and Nimrod sales
– No margin traded on T ype 45
with programme at an early
stage
• Good cash performance
11% BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 29
Naval Ships and Submarines
The principal Naval Ships and Submarine
programmes are:
Type 45
The Company is the prime contractor and
design authority for the T ype 45 destroyer ,
which will be the largest and most powerful
anti-air warfare destroyer ever deployed by 
the Royal Navy. Of a projected eight ships,
six are under contract of which the first,
HMS Daring, was launched in February
2006. Build on ships 2 and 3 is progressing
well, with anticipated build efficiencies
already being achieved between first and
second of class. 
LSD(A)
T wo Landing Ship Dock (Auxiliaries) for 
the Royal Fleet Auxiliary (RFA) are under
contract. The first, RFA Mounts Bay, was
handed over in December 2005; and RFA
Cardigan Bay will be delivered in mid-2006.
OPV
The customer’ s refusal to accept the three
Brunei Offshore Patrol Vessels is now
subject to arbitration.
Astute
The Astute programme has achieved
milestones on or ahead of schedule
throughout the year with closure of the
pressure hull now complete. In 2005, every
module was shipped ahead of schedule with
the main propulsion package shipped 
40 days early in June, the command deck
module 5 weeks early in November , while
shop floor led innovation enabled the bridge
fin and casings to be completed 22 weeks
early in October 2005. An innovative all-
employee bonus scheme has strongly
contributed to this performance.
CVF
The CVF project will be executed within 
an Alliance structure comprising the MoD,
BAE Systems, VT Group, Babcock, Thales
and KBR. Within the Alliance framework,
BAE Systems continues to play a significant
role in the leadership and execution of the
CVF project. The Roles and Responsibilities
agreement signed in December 2005
formally appointed BAE Systems to lead 
the overarching design and integration 
of the two ships, as well as continuing to
lead the mission systems elements of the
project. From a shipbuilding perspective,
BAE Systems will design and build two of 
the four major blocks at both its facilities 
in Glasgow and in Barrow.
The MoD has approved a further £300m 
for the next phase (Demonstration 
Phase Contract) which will fund the 
Alliance for a further 18 months for
continued design evolution and
procurement of long-lead materials.
Nimrod MRA4
Nimrod passed a number of key
milestones in 2005, and the development
fleet of three aircraft continues its
extensive flight testing programme. Design
and development continues to meet the
targets to support the production bid, which
was submitted in July, and to serve as the
technical baseline for future work. 
F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (JSF)
Air Systems is partnered with Lockheed
Martin and Northrop Grumman on the JSF
programme, with responsibility for the design
and manufacture of the rear fuselage and
empennage. Work progressed on the
system development and demonstration
contract, with the successful delivery of the
first rear fuselage and empennage to
Lockheed Martin. The first conventional
takeoff and landing flight is planned for 2006.
Activity has also continued in preparation for
the bid for the first JSF production contract,
with the contract award expected in 2007.
Unmanned Air Vehicles (UAVs)
In July 2005, the MoD formed the Strategic
UAVs (Experiment) integrated project team.
This will assemble evidence to allow the 
UK to make informed decisions about the
potential role of UAVs in future force mixes.
BAE Systems has been selected as prime
contractor , and has received a series of
contracts for de-risking work.
The future of Programmes is closely linked to the future requirements of the
UK’ s armed forces as well as its ability to generate profitable export business.
For Air Systems the outlook is for reduced sizes of aircraft fleets, leading 
to increasing levels of weapons system upgrades, as customers seek to
incorporate technological improvements into existing platforms. There is
continued demand for training aircraft offering improved cost effectiveness
and the ability to train operators for the latest combat aircraft. In the UK this
need is being addressed by the advanced mission training capabilities of the
Hawk Mk128. There is increased interest in the potential of UAVs.
In the naval domain, the CVF programme and the longer term Military Afloat
Reach and Sustainability (MARS) programme to replace the RFA fleet with
new ships by 2020 offer encouraging growth prospects. BAE Systems is a
key participant in the UK government’ s Maritime Industrial Strategy review.
In the medium to longer term, growth prospects are dependent on anticipated
higher activity, as UK development programmes move to production, and the
potential for Hawk, T yphoon and naval ships exports.
Looking forward
Astute
Demanding targets and a modular build
strategy have combined during 2005 to
achieve the accelerating production schedule
for the Astute submarine project. Recognition of
the challenges of commissioning a first-of-class
submarine has driven high achievement in the
build and integration stages to derisk the
programmed delivery date of August 2008. 
1
including share of equity accounted investments
2
earnings before amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 
3
net cash inflow from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment,
and dividends from equity accounted investments
4
before elimination of intra-group sales
5
as restated under International Financial
Reporting Standards 30 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Operating and financial review
Customer Solutions & Support
As previously indicated, margins have been
reduced within the Al Yamamah support
operations as the programme embraces
greater indigenous Saudi content in repair
and overhaul work.
BAE Systems has a major presence in 
Saudi Arabia, as prime contractor for 
the UK’ s largest export contract. The
contract includes the provision of aircraft
and associated hardware, radar and
communications support, manpower
training and infrastructure for the Royal
Saudi Air Force. The business group
employs some 4,600 people in the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, of whom 
more than half are Saudi nationals.
Performance on the programme in Saudi
Arabia remains on plan. The Company
continues to develop a greater indigenous
presence in Saudi Arabia and has made a
number of investments in offset companies.
The security of our employees is the highest 
of our priorities and a significant investment
is being made in new residential facilities
and increased security measures.
The Customer Solutions & Support
(CS&S) business group provides
support solutions for current and
future requirements. It addresses
the trend within armed forces to
work more closely with industry 
to optimise their military capability 
in the most effective manner. Key
capabilities include the integration
and delivery of effective supply 
chain and logistics management,
spares, maintenance, repair and
overhaul, capability upgrade,
technical information services,
facilities management and
manpower services. CS&S is 
the prime contractor on the 
Al Yamamah programme.
During 2005, CS&S achieved EBITA
2
of £419m (2004 £497m) on sales
1
of £2,923m (2004 £2,856m), and
generated an operating cash inflow
3
of £850m (2004 £1,102m). 
Customer Solutions & Support – Summary
18%
Key points
2005 2004
5
Sales
1
£2,923m £2,856m
EBITA
2
£419m £497m
Cash inflow
3
£850m £1,102m
Number of employees
1
14,300 13,800
Order book
1
£5.0bn £4.6bn
• Delivery of Saudi strategy 
on track
– Compound construction
– Saudi joint venture company
formed
– Increasing employment of
Saudi nationals
• Government to government
Understanding Document signed
on Saudi armed forces
modernisation
• Delivery of UK partnered support
growth strategy
• Improved performance from
Australian business 
Delivering upgraded ex-Royal Navy Type 22
frigates for Romania.
Share of Group sales
4
Share of Group EBITA
2
Financial highlights
• Sales growth of 2% over 
2004 (18% from non-Al 
Yamamah activity)
• EBITA
2
lower on reduced
contribution from Al Yamamah
support programme
• Cash flow benefits from
programme debt reduction
• Order book growth
35% BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 31
In the UK, CS&S has continued the
evolution of its successful partnering
relationship with the UK Defence Logistics
Organisation (DLO) during 2005. This
relationship is underpinned by a partnering
arrangement which is being refreshed to
reflect the drive for through-life capability
management as emphasised in the UK’ s
Defence Industrial Strategy.
Key highlights in the air domain include
securing major orders on VC10, Harrier ,
a major third-party support contract on 
E3D Sentry and T ornado. 
A joint DLO/BAE Systems team gained 
MoD approval in November for the next
phase of T ornado support to deliver
increased availability and operational
flexibility at much reduced cost. This ATTAC
programme (Availability T ransformation:
T ornado Aircraft Contract) will integrate all
non-engine T ornado support and upgrade
activity into one incentivised arrangement.
In the Naval domain, BAE Systems secured
the sale of three ex-Royal Navy frigates 
to Chile. This follows the successful
reactivation and upgrade of the two 
T ype 22 frigates for Romania completed 
on schedule in April 2005.
In addition, the naval joint ventures
continue to perform strongly. BAE Systems
has 50% interests in Fleet Support Limited
and Flagship Training Limited. These
support and services joint ventures 
form an integral part of the CS&S strategy.
Flagship Training Limited, which manages
the Royal Navy training establishments 
and markets their courses to overseas
customers, has had another strong year.
Fleet Support Limited also continued 
to perform well underpinned by the 
partnering agreement at the UK’ s
Portsmouth naval base.
CS&S continues to develop a coherent
information and logistics infrastructure in
support of both new and in-service systems.
T rilogi, a web-based documentation system
jointly developed by BAE Systems and the
DLO, has now been selected for more than
20 UK MoD programmes and the F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter (JSF).
In July 2005, the MoD announced that
Defence Logistic Solutions (DLS), in 
which BAE Systems was a partner ,
was unsuccessful in the bid for the 
Future Defence Supply Chain initiative.
BAE Systems’ Australian business has
made considerable progress in realising 
its strategy of becoming the Australian
Defence Force’ s capability partner of
choice in integrated military systems 
and support solutions. An important
milestone is agreeing the wider industrial
participation with Boeing on the Wedgetail
programme and with Lockheed Martin 
on JSF .
CS&S will continue to work closely with the UK Defence Logistics
Organisation to provide smarter , more integrated, support solutions on
customer bases. Good progress is being made on the future support model
for the UK T ornado aircraft. Opportunities for similar support arrangements
exist on other UK platforms.
Looking forward, CS&S will continue to work to sustain a long-term presence in
Saudi Arabia, delivering on our commitments on current support contracts and
developing new business following the signing of the Understanding Document
in December 2005, between the governments of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
and the UK. 
Looking forward
Saudi Arabia
BAE Systems is providing a comprehensive
defence package to Saudi Arabia under the
long-running Al Yamamah contract and CS&S
has played a key role in providing training 
for local people. The proportion of Saudi 
nationals now working on the contract has
exceeded 50% – an important objective for the
Saudi government.
1
including share of equity accounted investments
2
earnings before amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 
3
net cash inflow from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment, and
dividends from equity accounted investments
4
before elimination of intra-group sales
5
as restated under International Financial 
Reporting Standards 32 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Operating and financial review
Integrated Systems & Partnerships
exercisable by BAE Systems in the three
month period from the beginning of June
2007 and a call option by Finmeccanica 
at any time to August 2007.
The Group also reduced its equity interest 
in Saab from 34.2% to 20.5% generating
cash of £125m. In a revision to the earlier
joint marketing arrangements for the 
Gripen combat aircraft, Saab has now
assumed responsibility for winning new
export business.
Integrated System Technologies
The Integrated System T echnologies (Insyte)
business was formed in May 2005 from the
UK based defence system’ s activities of the
AMS joint venture and existing BAE Systems
UK based C4ISR
6
activities.
Insyte projects include the full-scale
engineering development of the Sampson
multi-function radar . A revised timetable 
has been agreed to address maturity in the
systems software, currently impacting the
Principal Anti-Air Missile System for the
T ype 45 destroyer programme.
Insyte has been selected for two key 
UK transformational technology network
enabled capability systems, the Falcon
communications infrastructure programme
and the Shaman communications 
electronic support measures system 
for the Royal Navy.
Insyte also secured the order for the
Maritime Composite T raining System (MCTS)
working as the lead in the SEABRIDGE team,
with partners Aerosystems International,
EDS, Flagship T raining, MDA and Serco.
MCTS will provide the Royal Navy with a 
new shore-based warfare operator training
capability that will meet the training needs
of the T ype 45 destroyer in 2007, and
current in-service ships.
The creation of the Insyte business gives 
BAE Systems a new strength in the
integration of high technology systems.
MBDA (37.5%)
2005 saw MBDA’ s sales increase by 6% 
to €3.2bn and EBITA
2
grow by 19%. This
performance was driven by significant
deliveries of the Storm Shadow and Scalp
EG precision strike cruise missile to the
French and UK customers in addition to 
first deliveries to the Italian air force.
Significant deliveries of the Mica air-to-air
missile to both the French air force and
export customers also underpinned the
sales performance together with the entry
into service of the advanced air-launched
anti-armour weapon system, Brimstone,
to the Royal Air Force.
MBDA’ s order book of €12.6bn at
31 December 2005 benefited from the
award of the design and development 
phase of the new Medium Extended range
Air Defence System (MEADS), which is a
mobile ground-to-air missile defence system
to provide protection from future air and
missile defence threats. MBDA’ s share of
the MEADS order was €512m. Other orders
Integrated Systems & Partnerships – Summary
Key points
2005 2004
5
Sales
1
£1,834m £2,022m
EBITA
2
£109m £95m
Cash inflow
3
£17m £59m
Number of employees
1
12,000 13,900
Order book
1
£5.9bn £7.0bn
• Continued restructuring of
European business portfolio
– Eurosystems transaction
completed
– Integrated System
T echnologies formed
– Saab stake reduced to 20.5%
– Atlas Elektronik sale agreed
• Revised Gripen International
marketing arrangements 
with Saab
Integrated Systems & Partnerships
is a portfolio of high-technology
defence systems businesses
comprising the wholly-owned
Integrated System Technologies,
Underwater Systems, and Atlas
Elektronik, together with a 37.5%
interest in the pan-European MBDA
joint venture, a 20.5% interest in Saab
of Sweden and a 50% interest in the
Gripen International joint venture.
The Integrated Systems & Partnerships
business group generated EBITA
2
of £109m
(2004 £95m) on sales
1
of £1,834m (2004
£2,022m). There was an operating cash
inflow
3
of £17m (2004 £59m). 
A significant restructuring of the Company’ s
portfolio of European defence systems
business interests was accomplished 
in 2005.
The Eurosystems transaction, which was
completed in April 2005, restructured the
AMS joint venture with the UK based
defence systems activities being retained 
by BAE Systems and with Finmeccanica
retaining the Italian based activities.
As part of this transaction the electronic
warfare systems and sensor systems
activities of the former UK based avionics
business group were sold to Finmeccanica.
The Eurosystems transaction realised a net
cash inflow of £402m in 2005 with a further
£268m receivable subject to a put option
Share of Group sales
4
Share of Group EBITA
2
Financial highlights
• Financial results reflect portfolio
restructuring in the year
• EBITA
2
improved by 15% 
over 2004
• Continued good cash flow
12% 9% BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 33
mine countermeasures system for the
Dutch and Belgian navies. Export orders 
for DM2A4 contributed to good order 
intake in the year .
On 30 December , an agreement was
entered into for the disposal of Atlas
Elektronik jointly to ThyssenKrupp and EADS
for a cash consideration of approximately
€145m. In addition, pension and related
liabilities valued at 31 December 2005 of
€96m will remain with Atlas following the
sale. In 2005, Atlas Elektronik contributed
sales of £216m and EBITA
2
of £10m.
Completion of the sale, which is conditional
upon regulatory clearances, is expected 
to take place in the first half of 2006.
Underwater Systems
The main production order for Sting Ray
Mod1, an autonomous electrically-propelled
lightweight torpedo, is well underway. 
The first torpedoes will enter service in
2006. In April 2005, the Company secured
an extension to the existing support
arrangements for the Spearfish torpedo 
in a contract worth £58m over three years.
Securing a UK MoD agreement for the
upgrade of the Spearfish heavyweight
torpedo will be an important feature in
determining the future shape of the business.
Saab (20.5%)
2005 has seen a number of important
developments in the Saab business. 
In October , the company’ s participation 
in Neuron, a European Unmanned Combat
Air Vehicle demonstrator project was
effectively confirmed with the Swedish
government announcement of its
involvement in the programme.
In the same month, Saab signed a
provisional contract to supply airborne
surveillance systems to Pakistan, with a
value of approximately SEK5.5bn (£400m).
Important conditions do remain to be met
before the contract becomes effective and
order intake should be recognised in 2006.
Saab’ s financial performance for 2005 
was affected by difficulties on a contract 
for the supply of tactical mission systems
for 18 Swedish helicopters.
Gripen International (50%)
Gripen International has been responsible
for the design and sale of the export variant
of the Gripen new generation, multi-role
combat aircraft. The aircraft has been
ordered by South African, Hungarian and
Czech Republic air forces. The first of the
aircraft for South Africa flew in November ,
ahead of schedule. Deliveries of Gripen
combat aircraft to the Czech Republic
continued as part of a leasing arrangement,
with final aircraft deliveries completed in
August 2005. Hungary has also ordered 14
Gripen with deliveries commencing in 2006.
Both these countries will be the first Gripen
operators within NATO. The UK Empire T est
Pilots’ School is also operating Gripen as 
an advanced fast jet training platform for
test pilots worldwide.
in the year included the French contract 
for the development and production of 
over 2,000 of the new Mistral RMV air
defence missiles for the new FREMM 
multi-mission frigate programme for 
which MBDA is the primary combat 
system partner . T wo important export
orders, including from India, for the Exocet
anti-ship weapon, were also achieved.
MBDA has made good progress on the
multi-national Meteor and Aster-PAAMS
programmes. Meteor met its key
development milestones in the year
culminating in flight trials of the missile 
on the Gripen and Rafale aircraft by the 
end of December . Key firings were also
successfully completed of the Aster 30
missile, an integral part of the PAAMS 
air defence system for the Royal Navy’ s 
new T ype 45 destroyers, while the new
180km-range Exocet Block 3 anti-ship
weapon commenced qualification.
The acquisition of the German missile
company, LFK, was agreed at the end of
2005 and the process to obtain regulatory
approval is currently in progress.
Atlas Elektronik
Atlas Elektronik, the Bremen-based naval
systems business, had a year of good
progress with the completion of trials for 
the COSYS Malaysia system. Important
progress has also been made towards
completing the development of the DM2A4
heavyweight torpedo and in successfully
concluding the NATO trials for the IMCMS
The Integrated Systems & Partnerships businesses are expected to face
continued budget pressures in their principal domestic and export markets.
The substantial order books and strong positions of the businesses in their
respective market sectors are expected to sustain activity over the near term.
With a number of development programmes maturing, the MBDA business is
expected to progress to a higher proportion of production activity going forward.
Realignment of the business portfolio continues with the completion of the
sale of Atlas Elektronik anticipated in the first half of 2006.
Looking forward
Maritime Composite Training System (MCTS)
BAE Systems has been awarded a contract to
supply the Royal Navy with a new shore-based
Warfare Operator T raining capability to meet 
the needs of current in-service surface
platforms and the T ype 45 Ready for T raining
later this decade.
1
including share of equity accounted investments 
2
earnings before amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 
3
net cash inflow from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment,
and dividends from equity accounted investments
4
before elimination of intra-group sales
5
as restated under International Financial 
Reporting Standards
6
Command, Control, Communications and Computing,
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance 34 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Operating and financial review
Commercial Aerospace
The Commercial Aerospace sector
comprises the Company’s 20%
interest in Airbus together with the
Aerostructures business and the
regional aircraft asset management
and support activities.
In 2005, Commercial Aerospace generated
EBITA
2
of £179m (2004 £201m) on sales
1
of £3,232m (2004 £2,924m). Airbus
contributed EBITA
2
of £273m (2004
£196m) on sales
1
of £3,002m (2004
£2,666m) after charging £227m of
development costs (2004 £235m).
The Company’ s Regional Aircraft business
has been impacted by poor lease rates 
in a weak regional aircraft market and by
adjustments to residual value assumptions
resulting from airlines operating in the US
under Chapter 11 protection. Of the loss 
for the Regional Aircraft business of £95m
in 2005, approximately half arose from
airlines moving into Chapter 11.
Airbus generated a strong operating cash
inflow
3
of £403m. Cash outflow
3
at Regional
Aircraft was £73m.
Airbus
Airbus is the leading supplier of large
commercial jets with 378 aircraft delivered 
in 2005. Airbus offers a comprehensive
range of passenger aircraft from 100 seats
to over 555 seats in the new A380 long-
range airliner .
In addition to commercial jet airliners Airbus
produces freighter aircraft and is developing
the A400M military transport aircraft.
Good growth in the global market for large
commercial jets above 100 seats has
continued through 2005. Orders for more
than 2,000 aircraft were placed during the
year of which Airbus secured a net 1,055
representing 51% of the market. Growth 
was driven by a combination of factors.
Passenger traffic has continued to recover
as confidence returned following the
terrorist activity in 2001. The market has
also benefited from the rise in low-cost
carriers, making air travel affordable and
accessible to a wider population. Similarly
strong growth is underway and expected to
continue in certain regional markets, notably
China, India and in the Middle East.
In a drive to maximise value from its large
order book Airbus continues to reduce
costs. A programme, targeting cost
reductions across the Airbus business of
approximately £1bn between 2003 and the
end of 2006, is on track. Manufacturing and
supply agreements are being implemented
in growth markets, including China, to
support growth and further reduce costs.
Commercial Aerospace – Summary
Key points
2005 2004
5
Sales
1
£3,232m £2,924m
EBITA
2
£179m £201m
Cash inflow
3
£327m £226m
Number of employees
1
12,500 12,600
Order book
1
£29.5bn £20.9bn
• Strong Airbus order intake 
• First flight of A380 long-range
airliner 
• Airbus cost reduction
programme on track 
• Airbus new product development
programmes underway
• Ongoing losses in Regional
Aircraft
• Aerostructures disposal
announced
A380 – the world’s largest passenger airliner.
Share of Group sales
4
Share of Group EBITA
2
Financial highlights
• Sales growth of 11% over 
2004 on 378 aircraft deliveries
by Airbus
• EBITA
2
stated after loss of £95m
from Regional Aircraft business
• EBITA
2
contribution from Airbus 
of £273m
• Cash outflow
3
from Regional
Aircraft of £73m
• Airbus order book for 
2,365 aircraft
21% 15% BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 35
Aerostructures
Aerostructures is a supply chain
management and assembly business. 
It has customer relationships with the 
major aircraft manufacturers providing
airframe components and assemblies 
for commercial aircraft and business jets.
Contracts include assemblies for Airbus
commercial aircraft. The Aerostructures
business produces the leading and trailing
edges for the A380 wing as well as wing
structures for the Boeing B777 and B767
and major structures for Raytheon’ s Hawker
800XP business jet. All product lines met
customer requirements in 2005.
In August 2005, BAE Systems sold
Precision Aerostructures, its US based
aircraft component machining and
fabrication facility. 
In January 2006, the sale of the UK
Aerostuctures business to Spirit
AeroSystems Inc. was announced,
for a cash consideration of £80m.
Completion is expected to take place 
in the first half of 2006.
In 2005, Aerostructures contributed 
sales of £223m and EBITA
2
of £8m.
Regional Aircraft
In 2005, Asset Management, BAE Systems’
commercial aircraft leasing team,
successfully reached agreements securing
over US$240m of income on over 100
aircraft from its Jet/T urboprop portfolio.
These included lease deals with SN
Brussels for 23 Regional Jets and
Eurowings/Air Dolomiti for 11 BAe 146
aircraft. Additionally, the team successfully
facilitated a number of airline credit
restructurings, securing ongoing income 
on portfolio aircraft.
Regional Aircraft derives 80% of its support
business from spares and logistics sales.
An increasing proportion of this activity is
provided under power by the hour contracts
that now cover over 50% of the regional 
jet fleet.
A number of major new product development
programmes are presently underway at Airbus.
A380 
When it enters service towards the end 
of 2006 the A380 will be the world’ s 
largest passenger airliner . T ypically it 
will be configured with 555 seats on two 
full-length passenger decks. The first 
flight of the A380 took place in April 2005
with two further aircraft joining the flight
development programme during the year . 
A350
The A350 is the latest addition to the Airbus
product range. This 250 seat all-new airliner
programme was launched in October 2005
and the aircraft is expected to enter service
in 2010. The A350 will make use of a
number of technical innovations applied to
the A380, such as new materials, to deliver
significant enhancements to range and fuel
consumption over comparable earlier
generation aircraft.
A400M
The A400M is an advanced military
transport designed with a load capacity 
of 37 tons and up to 120 personnel. 
180 aircraft are being produced for 
seven participating nations. The first 
export contract was secured in 2005 
with an order for eight aircraft from South
Africa. The first flight of the A400M is
planned for the end of 2007, with entry 
into service scheduled for 2009.
The commercial aviation market continues to grow despite the financial
fragility of many airlines, exacerbated by high oil prices.
Near-term prospects for Airbus remain good, with a strong order book. 
Airbus aircraft deliveries are expected to continue to increase, with growth
from low cost carriers in the single-aisle market and as airline customers 
in Asia and the Far East equip with longer-range aircraft. 
The regional aircraft market remains difficult and underlying losses in the
support business will continue.
Looking forward
Airbus
2005 was a record year for Airbus across 
the board surpassing previous numbers 
on deliveries, order intake and profitability. 
In terms of orders Airbus continued to outsell
its competitors for the fifth consecutive year ,
whilst continuing to lead in terms of deliveries
for the third year in a row.
1
including share of equity accounted investments 
2
earnings before amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 
3
net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after
capital expenditure (net) and financial investment, and
dividends from equity accounted investments
4
before elimination of intra-group sales
5
as restated under International Financial 
Reporting Standards 36 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Operating and financial review
Financial review
Summary income statement – continuing operations
Year to 31 December 2005 Y ear to 31 December 2004
6
£m £m
Sales
1
15,411 13,222
EBITA
2
– wholly owned 809 668
EBITA
2
– equity accounted investments 373 348
EBITA
2
1,182 1,016
Amortisation (77) (13)
Impairment (45) (97)
Net finance costs
1
(215) (176)
T axation expense
1
(262) (273)
Profit for the year 583 457
Basic earnings per share
3
18.3p 14.2p
Underlying earnings
4
per share 22.5p 17.4p
Dividend per share 10.3p 9.5p
Business group summary
2005 2004
Cash Cash
inflow/ Number of Order inflow/ Number of Order
Sales
1
EBITA
2
(outflow)
5
employees
1
book
1
Sales
1
EBITA
2
(outflow)
5
employees
1
book
1
£m £m £m £bn £m £m £m £bn
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 3,697 324 323 32,900 3.5 3,063 256 190 30,000 3.1
Land & Armaments 1,270 42 168 10,600 4.4 482 (8) 60 4,800 2.2
Programmes 2,819 133 285 16,200 12.3 2,219 10 442 15,700 13.0
Customer Solutions & Support 2,923 419 850 14,300 5.0 2,856 497 1,102 13,800 4.6
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 1,834 109 17 12,000 5.9 2,022 95 59 13,900 7.0
Commercial Aerospace 3,232 179 327 12,500 29.5 2,924 201 226 12,600 20.9
HQ and other businesses 69 (24) (3) 1,600 0.1 73 (35) 82 1,600 0.1
Less intra-group (433) (0.9) (417) (2.6)
15,411 1,182 1,967 100,100 59.8 13,222 1,016 2,161 92,400 48.3
Discontinued businesses (30) (27) 5,100 1.8
15,411 1,182 1,937 100,100 59.8 13,222 1,016 2,134 97,500 50.1
1
including share of equity accounted investments
2
earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense
3
basic earnings per share in accordance with International Accounting Standard 33
4
earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and uplift in acquired inventories
5
net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment, and dividends from equity accounted investments
6
as restated under International Financial Reporting Standards BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 37
Results for the year – 
continuing operations
Sales
1
increased 17% from £13,222m to
£15,411m. The growth reflects sales of
£789m from the acquired United Defense
business together with the benefit of 2004
acquisitions and increased deliveries
across the majority of the Group. This 
was partially offset by the impact of the
reduced Saab shareholding.
Return on sales for the Group was
maintained at 7.7% (2004 7.7%).
EBITA
2
increased 16% from £1,016m
to £1,182m.
EBITA
2
has been reduced by rationalisation
provisions of £89m and is stated after
United Defense acquisition accounting
adjustments of £44m. Losses at Regional
Aircraft amounted to £95m.
Underlying earnings
4
per share from
continuing operations for 2005 increased 
by 29.3% to 22.5p compared with 2004.
Basic earnings per share in accordance with
IAS 33 Earnings per Share, from continuing
operations, increased by 28.9% to 18.3p
(2004 14.2p).
The Group manages the performance 
of its businesses primarily on measures of
operating cash flow and underlying earnings
4
.
Operating business cash flow
2005 2004
£m £m
Cash flow from operating activities 2,099 2,350
Capital expenditure (net) and financial investment (250) (285)
Dividends received from equity accounted investments 88 69
Operating business cash flow 1,937 2,134
Cash inflow from operating activities was
£2,099m (2004 £2,350m). A reconciliation
of cash flow from operating activities 
to operating business cash flow is 
shown above.
Operating business cash flow was £1,937m
(2004 £2,134m). Good conversion of EBITA
2
to operating cash flow was delivered across
much of the Group together with the cash
benefits of advance payments at Land &
Armaments and programme debt reduction
at Customer Solutions & Support.
Free cash flow, after interest, preference
dividends and taxation, was £1,758m
(2004 £1,924m).
The net cash outflow on acquisitions and
disposals was £1,548m. In addition, net
debt acquired on acquisition of subsidiary
undertakings was £288m. During the year
the Group completed the acquisition of
100% of the issued share capital of United
Defense Industries, Inc. in the US, for a total
consideration of £2,205m. In addition, the
Group completed the Eurosystems disposal
transaction resulting in a net cash inflow 
of £402m. The Eurosystems transaction
comprised the sale of a majority holding 
in BAE Systems Avionics Limited and the
whole of the UK communications business,
and the dissolution of AMS, the 50/50 joint
venture of BAE Systems and Finmeccanica.
Finance costs
Finance costs, including the Group’ s share
of the finance costs of equity accounted
investments, were £215m (2004 £176m).
The underlying interest charge of £210m
(2004 £200m) was increased by a net
charge of £5m (2004 net gain £24m)
arising from pension accounting, marked-to-
market revaluations of financial instruments
and foreign currency movements.
The net debt of the Group at 31 December
2005 was £1,277m, an increase of £326m
from £951m at the start of the year , after
adjusting for IAS 32 and IAS 39. Interest
cover based on EBITA
2
decreased from 5.8
times to 5.5 times.
Taxation
The Group’ s effective tax rate for the year
was 29% (2004 32%).
The tax rate in the 2006 financial year is
expected to be in line with 2005.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend
of 6.3p per share (2004 5.8p), bringing 
the total dividend for the year to 10.3p 
per share (2004 9.5p) an increase of 8.4%. 
The proposed dividend is covered 2.2 times
by earnings
4
from continuing operations
(2004 1.8 times). Critical Accounting Policies
The Group’ s significant accounting policies
are outlined in note 1 to the Group accounts
(page 84). Not all of these significant
accounting policies require management 
to make difficult, subjective or complex
judgements or estimates. The following is
intended to provide an understanding of
those policies that management considers
critical because of the level of complexity,
judgement or estimation involved in 
their application and their impact on 
the consolidated financial statements.
These judgements involve assumptions 
or estimates in respect of future events,
which can vary from what is anticipated.
However , the directors believe that the
consolidated financial statements reflect
appropriate judgements and estimations 
and provide a true and fair view of our
financial performance and position over 
the relevant period.
Retirement benefit plans
The Group accounts for post-retirement
pension and healthcare plans in accordance
with International Accounting Standard 19
Employee Benefits (IAS 19).
For defined benefit retirement plans, the
cost of providing benefits is determined
periodically by independent actuaries and
charged to the income statement in the
period in which those benefits are earned 
by the employees. Actuarial gains and
losses are recognised in full in the period 
in which they occur and are recognised in
the statement of recognised income and
expense. Past service cost is recognised
immediately to the extent the benefits are
already vested, or otherwise is amortised 
on a straight-line basis over the average
period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised
in the balance sheet represents the present
value of the defined benefit obligation as
adjusted for unrecognised past service 
cost and as reduced by the fair value of 
plan assets.
The main assumptions made in accounting
for the Group’ s post-retirement plans relate
to the expected return on investments within
the Group’ s plans, the rate of increase in
pensionable salaries, the rate of increase 
in the retail price index, the mortality rate 
of plan members and the discount rate
applied in discounting liabilities. For each 
of these assumptions there is a range of
possible values and, in consultation with our
actuaries, management decides the point
within that range that most appropriately
reflects the Group’ s circumstances. Small
changes in these assumptions can have a
significant impact on the size of the deficit
calculated under IAS 19.
The reported IAS 19 pension deficit,
including healthcare plans, at 31 December
2005 is £4.1bn (2004 £3.2bn). Liabilities
increased owing to reductions in the real
discount rates from 5.3% to 4.8% in the 
UK and 5.9% to 5.8% in the US together 
with the impact of improved mortality 
rate assumptions. This increase was
partially mitigated by better than expected
returns on assets.
The Group has allocated an appropriate
share of the IAS 19 pension deficit to the
equity accounted investments using a
consistent and reasonable method of
allocation which represents, based on
current circumstances, the directors’ best
estimate of the proportion of the deficit
anticipated to be funded by these entities.
The Group’ s share of the IAS 19 pension
deficit is now included on the balance sheet,
whilst the Group’ s share of the IAS 19
pension deficit allocated to the equity
accounted investments is included in 
equity accounted investments.
As explained in previous reports, the 
valuing of assets and liabilities at a point 
in time rather than matching expectations 
of assets and liabilities over time has no
impact on short-term cash contributions 
to the pension plans. These funding
requirements are derived from separate
independent actuarial valuations. The 
Group is in consultation with the T rustees
and employees as to ways of addressing 
the deficit, which will require additional 
cash contributions.
38 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Operating and financial review
Financial review continued
Summary
2005 2004
5
Sales
1
£15,411m £13,222m
EBITA
2
£1,182m £1,016m
Cash inflow
3
£1,937m £2,134m
Number of employees
1
100,100 97,500
Order book
1
£59.8bn £50.1bn
Group operational highlights
• Delivering US growth strategy
• Global land systems
business established
• Programmes business
profitability and risk profile
improved
• Growth from UK MoD 
partnered support
• European business 
portfolio restructuring
• Strong Airbus order intake
Group financial highlights
• Sales
1
growth 17%
• EBITA
2
growth 16%
• Good operating cash flow
• Underlying earnings
4
per share 
up 29.3% at 22.5p
• Dividend increased 8.4% to
10.3p per share for the year
1
including share of equity accounted investments
2
earnings before amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 
3
net cash inflow from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment, and
dividends from equity accounted investments
4
earnings excluding amortisation and impairment 
of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements 
on pensions and financial derivatives, and uplift 
in acquired inventories
5
as restated under International Financial 
Reporting Standards BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 39
Additional details concerning the Group’ s
retirement benefit plans are given in 
note 1 and note 22 of the notes to 
the Group accounts.
Contract revenue and profit recognition
The majority of the Group’ s defence
activities are conducted under long-
term contract arrangements and are
accounted for in accordance with IAS 11
Construction Contracts.
Revenue is recognised on such contracts
based on the achievement of performance
milestones. No profit is recognised on
contracts until the outcome of the 
contract can be reliably estimated. 
Profit is calculated by reference to reliable
estimates of contract revenue and forecast
costs after making suitable allowance 
for technical and other risks related to
performance milestones yet to be achieved.
Owing to the complexity of many of the
contracts undertaken by the Group the 
cost estimation process requires significant
judgement and is based upon the knowledge
and experience of the Group’ s engineers,
project managers, finance and commercial
professionals and using the Group’ s
contract management processes. Factors
that are considered in estimating the cost 
of work to be completed and ultimate
profitability of the contract include the
availability and productivity of labour , the
nature and complexity of the work to be
performed, the effect of change orders,
the availability of materials, performance 
of subcontractors and availability and
access to government furnished equipment.
Cost and revenue estimates and
judgements are reviewed and updated 
at least quarterly and more frequently as
determined by events or circumstances.
When it is probable that total contract 
costs will exceed total contract revenue,
the expected loss is recognised immediately
as an expense. Contract costs comprise
directly attributable costs including an
allocation of direct overheads. Indirect
overheads are only regarded as contract
costs when their recovery is explicitly
allowed for under the terms of the contract.
Indirect costs are otherwise treated as a
period cost and are expensed as incurred.
Material changes in one or more of these
estimates, whilst not anticipated, would
affect the profitability of individual contracts.
Where goods are supplied under
arrangements not considered to represent
construction contracts, sales are
recognised when the significant risks 
and rewards of ownership have been
transferred and the related revenue and
costs can be measured reliably.
Where services are rendered, sales are
recognised when the stage of completion 
of the services and the related revenue and
costs can be measured reliably.
Additional details concerning the Group’ s
revenue recognition policy are in note 1 
of the notes to the Group accounts.
Regional aircraft valuations
The Group holds a number of regional
aircraft on its balance sheet. These aircraft
are leased to airline operators. In addition,
the Group has provided residual value
guarantees (RVGs) in respect of certain
regional aircraft sold.
Values of regional aircraft are impacted 
by a wide range of factors including the
financial strength of regional aircraft
operators, market demands for regional
aircraft and the impact of economic factors
on aircraft operating costs.
The aircraft held on balance sheet are
subject to regular impairment testing
comparing their carrying value with
estimates of the future net rental inflows. 
T o the extent that rental income is not
contracted, estimates of future income
levels are made.
Provisions related to the RVGs are
measured as the difference between
amounts payable to customers and the
estimated fair value of the aircraft. The fair
value of these aircraft is determined through
independent appraisal valuations using
specific data such as aircraft model, age
and condition, and the market conditions for
specific aircraft and similar models. These
valuations inherently require a number of
judgements and assumptions to be made.
Reductions in the valuations of these
aircraft could result in impairment 
charges against the on-balance sheet
aircraft or additional provisions against 
the guarantees given.
The Group holds insurance cover through
the Financial Risk Insurance Programme
(FRIP) contracted for in 1998 that makes
good shortfalls in actual income against
estimated future income used for the
valuation of the majority of the on-balance
sheet aircraft and a significant number of
the aircraft where residual value guarantees
have been granted. The value of this cover 
to the Group takes account of the actual net
income generated by these aircraft, over a
significant period of time. Accordingly, the
Group is required to make estimates of the
future net income for these aircraft to
assess the value of this cover .
At the end of 2005 the anticipated income
from the FRIP was £309m on a net present
value basis. This may increase further if
outstanding residual value guarantees are
exercised by the airlines and if there are
further reductions in market lease rates.
The assumptions and judgements used 
to determine the values of these aircraft 
and any related impairment charges,
adjustments to provision levels and the
assessed value of the FRIP cover reflect the
best estimate of the current circumstances.
The Group has granted residual value
guarantees in respect of aircraft sold of
which £460m remains outstanding. After
taking account of the FRIP and independent
appraisal valuations it is considered that 
the Group’ s net exposure to these
guarantees is covered by the provisions
held, on a net present value basis, and 
the residual values of the related aircraft.
Additional details concerning the Group’ s
aircraft financing contingent liabilities 
are given in note 24 of the notes to the
Group accounts. 40 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Operating and financial review
Financial review continued
Intangible assets
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business
Combinations (IFRS 3) goodwill arising on
acquisition of subsidiaries is capitalised and
included in intangible assets. Goodwill on
acquisitions of joint ventures and
associates is included in equity accounted
investments. IFRS 3 also requires the
identification of other acquired intangible
assets. The techniques used to value 
these intangible assets are in line with
internationally used models but do require
the use of estimates which may differ 
from actual outcomes. Future results 
are impacted by the amortisation period
adopted for these items and, potentially,
any differences between estimated and
actual circumstances related to individual
intangible assets.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested
annually for impairment and carried at 
cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The impairment review calculations require
the use of estimates related to the future
profitability and cash generating ability of
the acquired business.
Additional details concerning the Group’ s
treatment of intangible assets and
impairment reviews are given in note 1 
of the notes to the Group accounts.
Capital structure
The Group funds its operations through a
mixture of shareholders’ funds and
borrowing facilities, including bank and
capital market borrowings. All the Group’ s
material borrowings are arranged by the
central treasury function and funds raised
are lent onward to operating subsidiaries as
required. The Group’ s objective is to ensure
the continuity of competitively priced funding
through borrowing from a range of markets
and at varied maturities.
Details of the Group’ s debt are included in
note 20 to the Group accounts. During 2005,
£114m of long-term debt was repaid relating
to the European Investment Bank loan, GKN
loan and the Class B & G certificates. Apart
from the bonds issued to finance the United
Defense acquisition, which are detailed
below, and a small aircraft financing of $63m
no new long or medium-term debt was
raised. It remains the Group’ s intention to
ensure the business is funded conservatively
and to be proactive in accessing the bank
and capital markets in achieving this aim.
United Defense funding
The Group funded the acquisition of United
Defense by utilising existing cash
resources, raising a net £354m via a
placement of equity and by additional
borrowings. In July 2005 the Group raised
$1.75bn by issuing $500m of floating rate
notes due 2008, $500m 4.75% notes due
2010 and $750m 5.2% notes due 2015.
The proceeds were used to repay drawings
on the $3bn acquisition facility dated
11 April 2005 which were used to finance
the United Defense acquisition. The Group
subsequently swapped the coupons due on
the $500m notes due 2010 into a floating
interest cost linked to US LIBOR.
Interest rates
The objective of interest rate risk
management is to reduce the exposure to
interest rate fluctuations on borrowings and
deposits. This is achieved through varying
the proportion of fixed rate debt relative to
floating rate debt over the forward time
horizon by utilising derivative instruments,
mainly interest rate swaps. The Group’ s
current interest rate management policy is
that a minimum of 25% and a maximum of
75% of debt is maintained at fixed interest
rates. At 31 December 2005, the Group had
70% of fixed rate debt and 30% of floating
rate debt based on a gross debt of £4.4bn
which now includes the additional debt
brought on balance sheet as a result of the
introduction of IFRS. The Group’ s gross
debt, after the impact of foreign currency
swaps, was 58% denominated in sterling
and 42% denominated in US dollars.
The floating rate debt has been
predominantly achieved by entering into
interest rate swaps which swap the fixed
rate US dollar interest payable on debt into
either floating rate sterling or US dollars. At
the end of 2005, the Group had a total of
$1.7bn of this type of swap outstanding with
an average duration of 4.5 years. In respect
of the fixed rate debt the weighted average
period in respect of which interest is fixed
was 6 years.
Given the level of short-term interest rates
during the year , the average cost of the
floating rate debt was 5.3% (5% on US
dollars and 6.1% on sterling); the cost 
of the fixed rate debt was 6.8%. A 1%
change in short-term rates applied to the
year end fixed/floating mix and level of
borrowings, would vary the interest cost 
to the Group by £13m.
In respect of cash deposits, given the
fluctuation in the Group’ s working capital
requirements, cash is generally invested
for short-term periods based at floating
interest rates. 
Foreign exchange risk
The global nature of the Group’ s business
means it is exposed to volatility in currency
exchange rates in respect of foreign
currency denominated transactions, the
translation of net assets and the translation
of income statements of foreign
subsidiaries and equity accounted
investments. The Group is exposed to a
number of foreign currencies, the most
significant being the US dollar .
In order to protect itself against currency
fluctuations, the Group’ s policy is to hedge
all material firm transactional exposures as
well as to manage anticipated economic
cash flow exposures over the medium term.
The Group aims to apply hedge accounting
treatment for all derivatives that hedge
material foreign currency exposures.
The Group does not hedge the translation
effect of exchange rate movements on the
income statement or balance sheet of
overseas subsidiaries and equity
accounted investments it regards as long-
term investments. Hedges are, however ,
undertaken in respect of investments that
are not considered long-term or core to
the Group. 
Exchange rates 
The principal exchange rates impacting the
Group are as follows:
2005 2004
£/€ – average 1.462 1.474
£/$ – average 1.819 1.832
£/€ – year end 1.455 1.417
£/$ – year end 1.718 1.932
Liquidity
At 31 December 2005 the Group had gross
borrowings of £4.4bn (2004 £3.1bn).
The increase in level of gross borrowings in
the year was predominantly as a result of
the $1.75bn of external funding required
partially to finance the United Defense
acquisition and the inclusion of the
preference share debt component of
£240m within borrowings in accordance
with IAS 32 Financial Instruments:
Disclosure and Presentation. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 41
In addition to its gross borrowings the Group
has a committed revolving credit facility
(RCF) of £1.5bn, which is syndicated
amongst the Group’ s core relationship
banks, that is available to meet any general
corporate funding requirement and support
the commercial paper programme. The RCF
was renewed during the year for five years
with the ability for the Group to request two
additional one year extensions prior to the
first and second anniversaries of the facility.
In January 2006, the banks in the facility
agreed to the first one year extension and
as a result the facility will now expire in
2011. The RCF remained undrawn
throughout the year .
The Group had cash and current asset
investments of £3,215m (2004 £2,414m)
and cash on customers’ account of £53m
(2004 £18m) giving net debt of £1,277m
(2004 net debt of £668m). Generally,
excluding the impact of acquisition
financing, the net debt of the Group is 
driven by operational performance, the 
level of receipts on the major contracts 
and the performance of the equity
accounted investments. Historically,
the net debt of the Group is usually at its
lowest position at the half and full year .
Credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit risk on its
cash and cash equivalents to the extent of
non-performance by its counterparties in
respect of financial instruments. However ,
the Group has policies in place to ensure
credit risk is limited by placing concentration
limits. BAE Systems has a credit limit
system to manage actively its exposure 
to treasury counterparties. The system
assigns a maximum exposure based on 
the counterparty’ s FT composite rating; the
limits are regularly monitored and updated.
Price risk 
The cash and cash equivalents of the Group
are invested in non-speculative financial
instruments which are usually highly liquid
such as overnight deposits and money
market funds. The Group therefore believes
it has negligible exposure towards price risk.
Insurance
The Group operates a policy of partial self-
insurance, with a majority of cover placed in
the external market. The Group continues 
to monitor its insurance arrangements to
ensure the quality and adequacy of cover .
Movement in net debt
2005 2004
£m £m
Opening net debt (668) (1,806)
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 (283) –
(951) (1,806)
Operating business 
cash flow 1,937 2,134
Interest and
preference dividends (152) (179)
Taxation (27) (31)
Free cash flow 1,758 1,924
Equity dividends paid (315) (281)
Acquisitions and disposals (1,836) (630)
Other non-cash movements (52) 9
Proceeds from equity 
share issues 373 –
Foreign exchange (219) 129
Movement in cash on 
customers’ account* (35) (13)
Closing net debt as defined 
by the Group (1,277) (668)
Analysed as:
Other investments – current 634 763
Cash and cash equivalents 2,581 1,651
Loans – non-current (3,534) (2,113)
Loans – current (815) (950)
Overdrafts – current (90) (1)
Loans and overdrafts – current (905) (951)
Cash on customers’ account* 
(included within payables) (53) (18)
Closing net debt as defined 
by the Group (1,277) (668)
*cash on customers’ account is the unexpended cash
received from customers in advance of delivery which is
subject to advance payment guarantees unrelated to
company performance
0
24
18
12
6
2002
1
2003
1
2004
2
2005
2
Underlying earnings per share from
continuing operations
(pence per share)
0
12
3
6
9
2002 2003 2004 2005
Dividend per share
(pence per share)
1
under UK GAAP basic earnings per share excluding
goodwill amortisation and impairment and 
exceptional items
2
under IFRS basic earnings per share excluding
amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,
non-cash finance movements on pensions and 
financial derivatives, and uplift in acquired inventories BAE Systems recognises its responsibilities to the
people it employs, its customers and suppliers,
its shareholders, the wider community and to 
the environment.
Highlights of our progress and performance across
all areas of our social, ethical and environmental
responsibilities during 2005 are detailed below.
Further information and supporting data can be
found in our Corporate Responsibility Report 
or on our website, www.baesystems.com.
Management of corporate responsibility
Strategy and review Delivery &
performance
Assurance
Corporate Responsibility team
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Group 
Legal 
Director
Group 
HR Director
Business 
Unit/Sector
Group 
Audit Review
Board 
Internal 
Audit
Corporate
Responsibility
Committee
Chief 
Executive
Board
External 
Audit
42 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Corporate responsibility (CR) in
BAE Systems is about good business
practice and continual improvement.
We recognise our wide-ranging
responsibilities and our CR framework
has been developed around key
stakeholder interest and feedback,
potential risk to our business and the
extension, review and improvement
of existing practices.
Governance of CR
The board of directors has overall
responsibility for governance of CR matters
within the Company. Specific responsibility
has been assigned to the recently formed
Corporate Responsibility Committee. 
All members of this committee are non-
executive directors and comprise Peter
Weinberg, Professor Sue Birley, Phil Carroll
and Michael Portillo. The committee is
responsible for reviewing and monitoring 
the processes the Company uses to
manage social, environmental and 
ethical risk, as well as assisting the 
Board in the development of strategy 
and policy in this area.
The committee is supported by the 
Group Legal Director , Audit Director ,
Group HR Director and Director of 
Corporate Responsibility.
The committee met for the first time in 2005
and has agreed several long-term strategic
objectives to ensure CR contributes to the
sustainability of the Company’ s performance
through ensuring continual improvement of
application, communication and evolution of
non-financial processes. Further information
on these objectives can be found in our full
Corporate Responsibility Report.
Performance
In 2005 BAE Systems maintained its
leading position in both the Dow Jones
Sustainability World Index and the pan
European Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability
Index. Our total score increased from 68%
to 81%, a clear indication of our improved
performance in the area of corporate
responsibility and sustainability. 
Operating and financial review
Corporate responsibility BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 43
The score reflects improvements across the
three areas of social, economic and
environment but the results also highlighted
a need to continue to increase transparency
on how we manage certain business issues.
We are committed to addressing this.
Key issues for our business
It is important that our CR reporting
addresses issues that are material to 
our business and reflect stakeholder
concerns. In 2005 we commissioned
PricewaterhouseCoopers to provide an
independent view of the issues relevant 
to our CR reporting and an understanding 
of our CR stakeholders and their key
concerns. We will use the findings from 
this work to focus our CR reporting and 
drive stakeholder engagement during 2006.
The key areas our stakeholders consider
material to our business are anti-bribery 
and corruption practices, health and safety,
government relations and political influence
and product responsibility. Additional
information on these and other key 
issues is available in our full Corporate
Responsibility Report available online:
www.baesystems.com.
Licence to operate/Export control 
BAE Systems operates within a tightly
regulated environment and is subject to
legislation governing defence exports. In the
UK we are subject to the UK Export Control
Act. This gives the UK government powers
over tangible and intangible (e.g. electronic
or digital) transfers of military and other
sensitive technology, and over defence 
trade between third parties. It also provides
for transparency and accountability. In the
US we are subject to regulatory controls
which include the Arms Export Control Act,
the Export Administration Act, T reasury
embargoes and US Customs’ regulations. 
We have our own internal controls to ensure
that we comply with these regulations.
Michael Lester , our Group Legal Director , is
the board member responsible for ensuring
our compliance with export controls and 
the UK government’ s Code of Practice.
Ethics
BAE Systems is committed to meeting the
highest ethical standards in our dealings
with others. The nature of our business
means it is particularly important that we
have strong values and an awareness of
public concerns. We are confident that 
we meet the highest ethical standards 
in our dealings with others and have the
processes in place to ensure our employees
comply with the law in all the countries
where we operate. We also recognise the
importance of demonstrating this to our
stakeholders. This year we have published
an external statement on our ethical
business principles and practices. A copy 
of the statement can be found in our full
Corporate Responsibility Report.
We do not tolerate unethical or illegal
conduct. The consequences of such
conduct may be far reaching and severe not
only for the Company and its employees, but
also for other stakeholders. For example,
we, and our employees, may be subject 
to criminal sanction, our reputation may 
be tarnished and we may suffer a loss of
business. Such conduct is also morally wrong.
The intent of our policies is to establish
compliance with the law in the countries
where we operate as a minimum and to 
aim for higher standards where possible.
In 2005, BAE Systems in the US
participated in the Ethics Environment
Survey run by the US Defense Industry
Initiative on Ethics and Business Conduct
(DII) with other major US defence companies
to assess the effectiveness of our collective
ethics programmes. The survey was carried
out by the Ethics Resource Centre (ERC), an
independent non-profit organisation. Over
25,000 employees from 14 companies
(including 1,820 from BAE Systems) took
part. BAE Systems scored among the top
three companies in all seven categories
addressing the effectiveness of ethics
programmes. Our scores for individual
questions all exceeded the average score
for DII companies.
A survey of our UK employees carried out 
in May 2005 indicated that whilst more 
than 96% of our employees confirmed they
would take action in the event of suspecting
unethical conduct or practice, less than 30%
were familiar with the specific requirements
of our ethics policies. This was considered
to be an unacceptable result and the
employees’ guides to ethical conduct have
been re-launched.
The re-launch was supported by a
promotional campaign to help highlight the
confidential and independent ethics helpline
and in the US the 2005 ethics video
(“ethical leadership: let’ s talk”) featured our
senior leadership discussing the personal
significance of our ethics principles. 
Additionally, we will develop, pilot and roll out
on-line ethics training, which is already
mandatory in our US business, to all UK
employees during 2006.
Health and safety
The health and safety of our employees and
the communities around our facilities is very
important. During 2005, a tragic incident 
at our Chorley site in the UK resulted in the
death of one of our employees. No fatality 
or serious injury is acceptable to us and 
we continue to work with the authorities 
to understand and address the causes of
the incident at Chorley. 
Throughout 2005, our Chief Executive, Mike
T urner , and his management team have
repeatedly emphasised the importance of 
a safe work place for all who work on our
sites. In April 2005, Mike T urner met with
the Director General of the UK Health &
Safety Executive, Timothy Walker , to 
reaffirm the mutual commitment of both
organisations to working in partnership to
improve standards of safety performance.
Accountability
We are personally answerable for our
conduct and actions
Honesty
There is no substitute for the truth
Integrity
We say what we will do; we do what we say
Openness
When questions are asked, we will be frank
and straightforward in our answers
Respect
We value and treat each individual with
dignity and thoughtfulness
Our ethical principles are: 44 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Operating and financial review
Corporate responsibility continued
In December 2004, the Executive
Committee signed off the safety, health 
and environment (SHE) policy statement
and the framework for its deployment.
Senior executives across our Company 
were then made responsible for ensuring 
its implementation and deployment.
T o ensure the policy and the framework 
were implemented, Internal Audit carried 
out a series of audits to ensure that the
principles of the framework were fully
implemented across our businesses. 
This year senior executives of each of 
our business groups have agreed to a
consistent approach to reporting and 
setting of health and safety targets. 
This does not mean the same targets
across the business; targets will be set
according to business risk. Health and 
safety performance improvement targets
were also included in the personal
objectives of our Chief Executive in 2005.
This not only demonstrates the commitment
at the top of the Company but also down to
each business to deliver this improvement. 
2005 saw the Environment, Safety & 
Health Council for our US operations 
raised in status to provide the visibility 
and priority for environmental, safety and
health issues. In the UK, the T rade Union
Communication and Information Forum 
was established to maximise the benefit 
of the positive relationship with the health
and safety representatives in driving 
health and safety performance. 
SHE performance is now regularly reviewed 
at all levels of the business including 
the Executive Committee and the Board. 
Total injuries to all employees
(including contractors)
Overall, our performance in 2005 shows that 
we have reduced the number of people being
injured or exposed to environmental risk or
occupational hazards.
Joint statement from UK Health & Safety Executive (HSE) and BAE Systems
BAE Systems and the HSE have now completed one year of a three-year partnership to
address specific safety issues in the manufacturing sector. The initiative was launched 
as part of the HSE’ s commitment to Revitalising Health & Safety and followed on from a
previous partnership between the two organisations. The Company and experts from the
HSE are working together to develop and deploy standards of best practice in five key
areas of safety risk (contractor management, hand-arm vibration syndrome, working at
heights, confined space working, and slips, trips and falls). Employee involvement is being
delivered in partnership with trade union safety representatives at BAE Systems’ UK sites.
Both organisations recognise the benefit the partnership is bringing in progressing safety
standards in Great Britain.
BAE Systems is committed to achieving
high performance standards for safety
throughout the organisation. We are
pleased to have this opportunity to work
with the Health & Safety Executive on
driving improvements in safety, not only 
in our own business but to establish
standards of good practice which can 
be used across other sectors. We believe
the partnership has many benefits both 
in access to expertise of the HSE and in
improvements we’ve made to our own
standards and processes. We look forward
to continuing a positive and productive
relationship over the next two years.
Mike Turner
Chief executive, BAE Systems
HSE welcomes the commitment of
BAE Systems to meeting the challenges 
of the Revitalising Health & Safety agenda.
HSE, through the joint initiative, is committed
to the development of an effective
professional relationship across the
manufacturing units. HSE is committed to
assisting BAE Systems meet the challenges
by establishing productive partnerships 
at all levels of the Company and sharing
expertise to reduce injuries and ill-health.
HSE recognises the positive approach 
and good offices of the Company, and the
significant progress with the initiative. We
want to build on this to realise our common
goal of a safe and healthy work place.
Timothy Walker
Director general, Health & Safety Executive
0
10,000
7,500
5,000
2,500
2002 2003 2004 2005
● Total injuries
● Injuries per 100,000 employees BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 45
Workplace
BAE Systems is committed to equality of
opportunity for all employees and creating 
a workplace where everyone is treated 
with respect. 
Diversity supports our objective to maintain
competitive advantage by attracting and
retaining a disproportionate share of the
world’ s most talented people. Our full
Corporate Responsibility Report sets out
the Group’ s objectives in this area and
provides updates on progress against them.
This year we have revised and rolled out 
our Respect at Work policy and guidance 
to all employees in our UK businesses. 
We have also become a member of Where
Women Want to Work, an online community
for working women, in order to help us
attract more women into our industry.
BAE Systems invests in the training and
development of its people from apprentice
school leavers through graduates to our
most experienced functional professionals
and managers. Employees worldwide have
access to over 350 online courses and all
our major sites feature Learning Resource
Centres for those without access to a
computer . In 2005 we continued to develop
effective leadership capability and embed 
a high performance culture through the
successful roll out of Performance Centred
Leadership (PCL) development system
across the wider leadership population
(approximately 5,200). 
In 2005 a key challenge for our US
operations was the successful integration 
of nearly 8,000 employees through the
acquisition of United Defense. This involves
progressive alignment of people policies,
employee communications and establishing
common practices.
Customer relations 
Maintaining good relationships with 
our customers is key to our business. 
It is important that we understand our
customers’ needs and give them the
opportunity to review our performance.
Customer Perception Survey (US market)
and Customer Voice (rest of the world) 
are the strategic dialogue and change
processes we have in place to ensure our
relationships with customers are strong,
helping to maintain a real competitive edge
and delivering tangible business benefits. 
The Company is commited to resolving
issues in order to focus on improving our
relationships with customers including the
UK MoD and US DoD. Concrete results 
have already been seen from these actions.
As an example, a previously low scoring
customer placed an order of £11m after 
a series of top level relationship building
meetings. Both processes continue 
to deliver enhanced relationships and
improved goodwill for BAE Systems.
Environment
We have a responsibility to manage our
impact on the environment, be it as a direct
result of our manufacturing operations,
waste from our offices or the products we
produce. All of our major manufacturing
sites have now achieved accreditation to the
international environmental management
standard ISO 14001 and we continue to
deliver improvements in relation to energy
use, waste and water consumption.
BAE Systems CO2 emissions 
(million tonnes)
Community 
BAE Systems takes an active role in
community and education activities,
supporting charities and working directly
with those communities close to our
facilities worldwide. In 2005, our total
community investment was £10.5m. 
This figure includes cash and in-kind
donations to charity as well as our 
direct support for education. Charity
Challenge, our company-wide fundraising
and volunteering programme, raised 
£2.7m from employee fundraising 
and provided over 4,200 volunteer 
days for charities worldwide.
We are committed to the professional
measurement of our contributions and 
the impact they have. In 2005 we became 
a member of the London Benchmarking
Group (LBG), which comprises some 100
leading UK-based companies committed to
rigorous evaluation of community
programmes. We used the LBG’ s agreed
methodology to evaluate our annual
community contribution globally. 
Participation in LBG provides us with a
number of key indicators in relation to the
performance of our community investment
programme. A detailed breakdown of our
giving in line with the LBG indicators can be
found in our annual Corporate Responsibility
Report or on our website.
2006 CR objectives
We regularly review and update our CR
programmes to ensure we make progress.
We set yearly objectives, details of which
can be found in our full Corporate
Responsibility Report, at both a strategic
and operational level. The specific CR
objectives agreed for our Chief Executive
and his leadership team in 2006 are to:
• resolve 75% of employee grievances 
in the UK at local level;
• reflect gender diversity on leading
university courses in choice of 
graduate trainees through a 
focused recruitment plan;
• exceed safety performance 
commitments made to the 
UK Health and Safety Executive;
• meet SHE targets;
• meet standards defined through 
our internal assurance process; and
• develop, pilot and roll out online 
ethics training to all employees 
in the UK and Australia.
Education
The BAE Systems education programme in the
UK encourages 10 to 13 year olds to consider 
a career in engineering. Over 17,000 students
were reached in 2005, when BAE Systems
launched a new Schools Roadshow. The
Roadshow features a play about developing and
building a vehicle which can fly, float and work 
on land. Post show evaluation demonstrated
that the programme had a big impact, with over
70% of boys and 40% of girls saying they would
now consider a career in engineering. 
BAE Systems has supported a similar
programme in the US for the last 13 years. 
For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and
T echnology (FIRST) aspires to transform culture,
making science, maths, engineering and
technology appeal to children.
0.00
0.60
0.45
0.30
0.15
2002 2003 2004 2005
● Tonnes
● Million tonnes/£1bn turnover 12 3 4 5 6 7
46 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Board of directors
6. Mark Ronald CBE
4
,
Chief Operating Officer
Appointed to the Board in 2002 
as a Chief Operating Officer .
Formerly head of GEC’ s North
American defence business, in
1999 he was appointed President
and CEO of BAE Systems North
America (now BAE Systems, Inc.).
He is a member of the board of
governors of the Electronic
Industries Association and the board
and executive committee of the
Aerospace Industries Association.
Appointed: 2002 Age: 64
7. George Rose,
Group Finance Director
Appointed Group Finance Director 
in 1998, he is a member of the
shareholder committee of Airbus
SAS. Prior to joining the Company 
in 1992, he held senior positions in
the Rover Group and Leyland DAF . 
He is a non-executive director of
Saab AB and National Grid T ransco
plc, and a member of the Financial
Reporting Review Panel.
Appointed: 1998 Age: 53
1. Dick Olver
3, 4
Appointed Chairman on 1 July 2004.
A civil engineer , Dick Olver joined 
BP in 1973 where he held a variety
of senior positions culminating 
in his appointment to the board 
of BP p.l.c. as CEO of Exploration
and Production in 1998. He was
subsequently appointed deputy
group chief executive of BP in 
2003, stepping down from that
position when he assumed the
chairmanship of BAE Systems. 
Dick Olver chairs the Board’ s
Nominations Committee and the
Non-Executive Directors’ Fees
Committee. He is a non-executive
director of Reuters Group plc 
and deputy chairman of TNK-BP 
and a Fellow of the Royal Academy 
of Engineering.
Appointed: 2004 Age: 59
Chairman Executive directors
2. Mike Turner CBE
4
,
Chief Executive
Appointed Chief Executive in 2002,
having been a Chief Operating
Officer since 1999. He is a member
of the shareholder committee of
Airbus SAS having formerly been 
a member of the Airbus Industrie 
GIE Supervisory Board. He is a 
non-executive director of The
Peninsular and Oriental Steam
Navigation Company (P&O) and a
former non-executive director of
Babcock International Group Plc.
Appointed: 1994 Age: 57
3. Chris Geoghegan,
Chief Operating Officer
Appointed to the Board in 2002 as 
a Chief Operating Officer . He was
formerly responsible for the Group’ s
Airbus operations and, in 2000, was
appointed Group Managing Director
of the Avionics business. He is
President of the Society of British
Aerospace Companies.
Appointed: 2002 Age: 51
4. Michael Lester
4
,
Group Legal Director
Appointed a member of the Board
following the BAe/MES merger . 
Prior to the merger he was a director
and vice chairman of The General
Electric Company, p.l.c. (GEC). 
He is a non-executive director 
of Premier Farnell plc.
Appointed: 1999 Age: 65
5. Steve Mogford,
Chief Operating Officer
Appointed to the Board in 2000 as a
Chief Operating Officer , he has held
a number of senior positions within
the Group including responsibility 
for the Group’ s military aircraft
operations. He is chairman of the
Eurofighter Supervisory Board.
Appointed: 2000 Age: 49 8 9 10 11 13 14 15 12
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 47
13. Rt Hon Michael Portillo
1, 2
A cabinet minister in the 1990s,
Michael Portillo was successively
Chief Secretary to the T reasury,
Secretary of State for Employment,
and Secretary of State for Defence.
He entered Parliament in 1984 
and was admitted to the Privy
Council in 1992, stepping down 
as a Member of Parliament in 2005
to pursue a career in broadcasting
and the media.
Appointed: 2002 Age: 52
14. Roberto Quarta
1,5
Appointed to the Board in 2005,
Roberto Quarta is chairman (and
was formerly chief executive) of BBA
Group plc and, as a partner of the
private equity firm Clayton, Dubilier 
& Rice, also serves as chairman 
of Rexel SA and Italtel. He was
previously an executive director of
BTR plc and a non-executive director
of PowerGen plc and Equant NV .
Appointed: 2005 Age: 56
15. Peter Weinberg
2, 5
Appointed to the Board in 2005,
Peter Weinberg was previously chief
executive officer of Goldman Sachs
International and co-head of the
Partnership Committee, and prior 
to that was co-head of the Global
Investment Banking Division. He
joined Goldman Sachs in 1988 
and became a partner in 1992.
Peter Weinberg chairs the Board’ s
Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Appointed: 2005 Age: 48
Each of the eight non-executive
directors listed above is considered
to be independent for the purposes
of the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance.
Company Secretary
David Parkes
8. Professor Sue Birley
2, 5
Formerly Professor of
Entrepreneurship at Imperial College,
University of London, and has held 
a number of academic posts at
INSEAD, London Business School
and Cranfield Institute of T echnology.
She was formerly a non-executive
director of National Westminster
Bank plc. Professor Birley chairs the
Board’ s Remuneration Committee.
Appointed: 2000 Age: 62
9. Phil Carroll
2, 3
Appointed to the Board in 2005,
Phil Carroll is a former chairman and
chief executive of Fluor Corporation
and a former president and chief
executive of Shell Oil Company Inc.
He was appointed by the US
Department of Defense in 2003 
to serve as the first Senior Adviser
to the Iraqi Ministry of Oil. He is a
former non-executive director of
Scottish Power plc.
Appointed: 2005 Age: 68
10. Dr Ulrich Cartellieri
1
Ulrich Cartellieri served as a member
of the Managing and subsequently
the Supervisory Board of Deutsche
Bank AG for over 20 years until 2004.
Until recently he was also a member 
of the International Advisory
Committee of the Federal Reserve
Bank of New Y ork and is currently a
director of Robert Bosch GmbH. He
is a former chairman of Karstadt AG
and a former deputy chairman of
Siemens AG.
Appointed: 1999 Age: 68
11. Michael Hartnall
1
Formerly finance director of Rexam plc,
prior to which he held senior positions
with a number of manufacturing
companies. He is also a non-executive
director of Lonmin plc and a former
non-executive director of Elementis
plc. Michael Hartnall chairs the
Board’ s Audit Committee. He is a
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England and Wales.
Appointed: 2003 Age: 63
12. Sir Peter Mason KBE
1, 3
Chief Executive of AMEC plc. Prior 
to joining AMEC plc in 1996, he
served as an executive director 
of BICC plc, chairman and chief
executive of Balfour Beatty Limited
and chief executive of Norwest 
Holst Group PLC. Sir Peter Mason
has been nominated the Board’ s
Senior Independent Director .
Appointed: 2003 Age: 59
Non-executive directors
1
member of the Audit Committee
2
member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee
3
member of the Nominations Committee
4
member of the Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee
5
member of the Remuneration Committee 48 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Corporate governance
Corporate governance
The following sections of this report deal with these 
corporate governance requirements:
• Applying the Principles in the Combined Code 
• Compliance with the Provisions in the Combined Code 
• Audit Committee report 
• Nominations Committee report 
• Corporate Responsibility Committee report 
• Remuneration Committee report 
• Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee report 
• Directors’ remuneration report 
As required by the UK’ s Combined 
Code on Corporate Governance 
(the ‘Combined Code’) all companies
that have a stock market listing in the 
UK are required to make disclosures 
in relation to the Combined Code. 
In addition, companies are required 
to report on the remuneration of their
directors in accordance with both the
provisions of the Combined Code and
UK company law. 
Dick Olver
Chairman BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 49
Applying the principles in the Combined
Code – a discussion with the Chairman
Q The first principle in the Combined Code
concerns the need for an effective board.
How does the BAE Systems board apply
this principle?
A The Board is ultimately responsible for the
good management of the Company and
the directors accept that we are collectively
responsible for its success. However ,
BAE Systems is a large and complex
company and we need to have a clear view
as to how we can effectively discharge our
duties as a Board. This largely comes
down to how we set the framework for the
running of the Company and how we look
to exercise control despite the inevitable
need to delegate decision making. It is a
difficult balance, and there will always be
a tension between the need for robust
centralised controls and desire to have a
fleet footed entrepreneurial business. I
believe that focusing on what really matters
and understanding the distinct roles of
the Board and the executive management
team is the key to a Board’ s effectiveness.
T o assist us in the job we do, the Board
has recently agreed a Board Charter
detailing a number of governance
principles. These cover strategy,
standards and values, oversight and
controls, performance and people. 
Within the Charter there is also a clear
statement of my principal duties as
Chairman, those of the Chief Executive
and the Senior Independent Director . 
It also includes a comprehensive
schedule of what the Board has agreed
are the matters reserved for its decision
and therefore are not to be delegated 
to management. A copy of the Board
Charter can be found on the Company’ s
website at www.baesystems.com or can
be obtained from the Company Secretary.
The Board Charter and our more detailed
Board Procedures Manual are focused 
on the operations of the Board. Matters
concerning the wider management of the
Company – our values, our expectations 
in terms of employee behaviour and key
internal control processes – can be found
in the Operational Framework. This
document has been developed over a
number of years and is reviewed by the
Board on an annual basis.
Q The Combined Code principles also deal
with the role of the board chairman. 
Can you explain how you see your role?
A My job is to lead the Board and make 
sure that it is doing its job effectively. 
An important part of this is setting the
agenda for each meeting, facilitating
discussion on matters and, where
necessary, helping to reach agreement 
on particular issues. In common with
nearly all UK companies we operate a
unitary board. That is one board that
brings together the executive directors,
individuals that have executive
management responsibilities, and 
the non-executive directors, who do 
not have executive responsibilities 
but who bring independent judgement 
to the Board’ s discussions. It is my
responsibility to ensure that this team
works constructively so that it can take
decisions objectively in the best interest
of the Company.
Non-executive directors bring a wealth 
of experience and knowledge to Board
meetings; however , they can only
contribute effectively if they have a 
good understanding of the Company 
and the markets it operates in. When 
non-executive directors join the Board,
we provide them with an induction
programme covering strategy, investor
relations, core business processes 
and controls, corporate responsibility
(including health and safety) and internal
audit. They are also offered a private
meeting with KPMG, our Auditors. 
We arrange for them to visit our principal
operations in the UK and the US, where
they not only learn about programmes 
and products but also meet local
management and develop an
understanding of our corporate culture
and values. After this introductory
programme all directors are provided 
with the opportunity to visit any of our
operations and I and the Company
Secretary take responsibility for ensuring
that the Board is kept abreast of matters
affecting the Company and its directors.
Also, all directors receive a comprehensive
report each month from the Chief
Executive covering operational matters.
I should also mention the role I play 
in shareholder communications. The
Company has a comprehensive investor
relations programme and this is the
responsibility of the Chief Executive 
and Finance Director . However , as
Chairman I need to maintain contact 
with the Company’ s major shareholders 
to ensure that they are happy with the
Company’ s performance and to be in 
a position to keep the Board and its
committees appraised of shareholders’
views. In 2005 I had seven individual
meetings with major shareholders and
also ensured that a survey was
undertaken of investors’ opinions and the
results presented to the Board. This was
done by the Company’ s investor relations
consultants and covered investors who
together own over 25% of the Company. 
If there are any concerns about my own
performance, shareholders can speak 
to our Senior Independent Director ,
Sir Peter Mason.
All shareholders have the opportunity 
to attend our Annual General Meeting 
to find out more about the Company and
ask questions about this report and
accounts and any of the other matters 
put before the meeting.
Q There have been a number of changes to
the membership of the Board this year.
Can you tell me what your processes are
for Board succession planning and the
recruitment of new Board members?
A One of my most important responsibilities
as Chairman is to work with the other
members of the Nominations Committee
to make sure that we have robust
succession plans for the Board.
As detailed in my letter to shareholders at
the beginning of this report, a number of
new non-executive directors have joined
the Board during the year . The search for
these individuals was managed by the
Nominations Committee, chaired by me,
with the Board appointing the individuals
after they had been formally nominated
for its approval.
I think it is important that I ensure 
that non-executive directors have the
opportunity to meet with managers 
below the level of the Board and I 
believe we now employ effective 
means of achieving this. Not only 
does this increase their understanding 
of the business but it also enables
directors to meet people who one day  50 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Corporate governance
Corporate governance continued
will be candidates for positions at the
highest levels in the Company. The Board 
must have confidence that we have 
a rich resource of future leaders and 
that their careers are being effectively
managed. The Nominations Committee
has been particularly active in this area
during the year .
The Company has a common
performance management, development
and succession planning process that
covers over 5,000 senior managers.
Succession plans identify potential
succession candidates and development
objectives for managers. Last year we
strengthened our executive succession
planning process for individuals who are
potential succession candidates for
Board and Executive Committee positions.
Externally facilitated, this new process is
based on assessing individuals against 
a number of ‘critical competencies’ 
that have been derived from both an
understanding of the strategic and 
unique challenges facing the Company
and external benchmarking information
provided by the facilitator . We believe 
that this is a world-class process and 
one that will be of significant help to the
Nominations Committee and Board.
Every year , the Board as a whole receives
a presentation on succession plans 
for all Executive Director and Executive
Committee positions except that of 
Chief Executive – this being undertaken 
by the Nominations Committee (see
separate report).
Q What do these changes mean to the
effectiveness of the Board?
A There are two important things to think
about here; first, evolving the composition
of the Board to ensure that the skills 
and experience of directors reflect the
needs of the business, and secondly,
the balance between independent 
non-executive directors and executive
directors. As we reported last year , the
Company is growing its business in the 
US and we need the membership of 
the Board to reflect this development. 
We also stated that it was our intention 
to comply with the Combined Code
requirement that at least half of the 
Board should comprise independent 
non-executive directors. I am pleased 
that we now have four US citizens on the
Board and that all eight of the non-
executive directors (excluding myself)
have been deemed to be independent 
for the purposes of the Combined Code. 
This represents a success against the
objectives set last year .
The importance of the work that the
Board’ s committees undertake should 
not be underestimated. Much of their
work is undertaken in areas where 
being independent and not having
conflicts of interest is essential, e.g. 
audit and executive remuneration. 
The appointment of additional non-
executive directors has given us the 
ability to refresh the membership of 
all the Board’ s committees during the 
year and in doing this we have sought to
match the knowledge and experience 
of directors with the requirements of the
committees. Also, when reviewing the
membership of committees we tried to
ensure that membership responsibilities
were spread fairly across those directors
eligible for such appointments.
Q Can you say more about how the Board
sets the Company’s strategic aims and
how you set goals and objectives for
management?
A Ultimately, the Board agrees the strategy
for the Company. However , what is 
also important is that the Board has
involvement in the process by which 
that strategy was set – it’ s very important
to be confident that what has been 
agreed is well-founded and deliverable. 
I believe that BAE Systems has evolved 
a comprehensive and robust process 
for developing strategy; centred on 
the Integrated Business Planning (IBP)
process. On an annual basis this seeks 
to align the development and realisation
of strategic objectives within detailed
business plans, thereby helping to 
ensure that strategy is not just a grand
plan but something that can be delivered.
The Board’ s role is to probe and challenge
strategy development, utilising the
experience and knowledge that different
directors bring to the Board. 
It is important that all members of 
the Board are able to participate in
discussions on strategy. T o achieve 
this I need to ensure that the Board is
well-briefed on the latest developments 
and trends in defence and aerospace
markets, and through the executive 
team a good deal of work is undertaken
each year to not only analyse our
business and its markets but also to
communicate this to the Board. For me
the final element of the process is using
our annual board performance evaluation
to provide feedback on whether we got 
the Board’ s participation in the strategy
sessions right or not.
On pages 10 to 23 of this report you 
will find details of the strategy agreed 
last November following a series of
strategy discussions at our regular 
Board meetings and a one day Strategy
Workshop. The changes between the
strategy detailed here and what you 
saw in last year’ s report are subtle,
but reflect the evolution of our strategy 
in response to success against the 
strategic objectives and the new
challenges and opportunities that 
have arisen in the marketplace.
Q How does the Board satisfy itself that
the Company is performing in line with
the goals set by the Board?
A The Board is answerable to the
shareholders for the performance of the
Company. T o help discharge this duty the
Board agrees a number of performance
goals that are contained in the business
plans and the strategy that we agree each
year . During the year we monitor progress
against the strategic objectives and
portfolio actions. We also monitor
financial performance on a monthly basis
relative to the Financial Plan and the cost
and schedule performance of individual
major contracts relative to the contracted
price and contract milestones. 
The Board is pleased that the Chief
Executive has placed the need to embed 
a high performance culture across the
Company at the top of his list of
objectives. In support of this the Centre
for Performance Excellence (CfPE) was
established during the year . This is a
small strategic team reporting to the 
Chief Executive and working with 
the Executive Committee to drive
performance improvement. Some 
good work has already been done by 
the CfPE and it has reported to the 
Board on metrics and key performance
indicators, including contract schedule
adherence, that will be used by BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 51
management and the Board when
monitoring the Company’ s performance. 
Another important issue for the Board,
particularly those non-executive directors
on the Remuneration Committee, is
linking performance with reward. Setting
goals for non-financial performance 
is important and more information on 
this can be found in the separate
Remuneration Report starting on page 57.
Q A key part of corporate governance
concerns the means by which a board
satisfies itself that a company’s financial
controls and systems of risk
management are robust and defensible
and that financial information is
accurate and can be relied on. How does
the Board apply this Code principle?
A The Board has overall responsibility 
for the system of internal controls
maintained by the Company and for
reviewing their effectiveness. The Audit
Committee, acting on behalf of the Board,
is responsible for much of the detail
associated with this. However , the
Chairman of the Audit Committee reports
regularly to the Board on its activities 
and the whole Board receives reports
produced by the Auditors who attend 
Audit Committee meetings and can be
questioned on their reviews and audits.
Also, each year the Board has a separate
session reviewing key risks and the
actions being taken to mitigate and
manage them.
The Board has conducted a review of 
the effectiveness of internal controls
during the year . More information on 
the Company’ s systems of internal
controls is detailed below and in the 
Audit Committee report on page 54.
Q The Combined Code requires that boards
undertake a formal and rigorous annual
evaluation of their own performance and
that of their committees and individual
directors. How do you go about this?
A For the first time last year the Board
undertook a formal evaluation process
using an external facilitator . We believed
that this was an effective process and 
this year we have completed a similar
process again using an independent HR
consultant as a facilitator .
Last year’ s evaluation identified the
following key actions, which I am pleased
to report have all been completed:
• there was scope to increase the
number of non-executive directors 
of the Board;
• the number of scheduled Board
meetings should be increased;
• the Board’ s committees were well
chaired but would benefit from the
appointment of additional members;
and
• corporate responsibility could be given
a higher priority on the Board’ s agenda.
This year’ s Board performance evaluation
took the form of the facilitator interviewing
separately each of the directors and the
Company Secretary. She then reported to
me and the Senior Independent Director
on the key issues arising from this prior 
to reporting to the Board.
Feedback from this year’ s review 
included strong sentiments that the 
Board had made great strides in its
composition, committee structure 
and overall performance during 2005. 
Of course, I’m delighted that the
enhanced Board performance coincided
with a very strong overall Company
performance. That said, there were a 
few key actions resulting from the review
that the Board has agreed to address
during the upcoming year . These include:
• to conduct in-depth succession
planning as well as developing bench
strength among senior leadership. 
This will also include long-term
succession planning for non-executive
directors. This work will be led by 
the Nominations Committee;
• to broaden the scope of director
development to include, amongst other
things, training in ethics and accounting
in a long-term contracting environment;
and
• to continue Board involvement in
strategy development and increase
focus on longer-term strategic
challenges and opportunities.
The evaluation process is also used to
evaluate the performance of individual
directors. Feedback from this exercise
has been used during one-on-one
conversations between the Chairman 
and all directors, discussing strengths
and weaknesses and focusing on 
one or two things that could improve
individual performance.
In the evaluation process all directors are
asked for their views on my performance
as Chairman. Similar to feedback for
other directors, feedback was provided 
to me by the the Senior Independent
Director and we focused on ways that 
I could enhance my own performance 
as Chairman. The Board is normally scheduled to meet
seven times during a year . In 2005, the
Board met 11 times and in addition one 
day was spent reviewing strategy. In 2004
the Board had six scheduled meetings and
had considered increasing this to eight.
However , the Board believes that scheduling
seven meetings in 2005 worked well and
will do the same in 2006. The attendance 
by individual directors at meetings of the
Board and its committees is detailed in the
table on page 53.
The Board has appointed Sir Peter Mason
as the Senior Independent Director .
The Company Secretary, through the
Chairman, is responsible for advising the
Board on governance matters. The Company
Secretary is appointed by, and can only be
removed by, the Board.
The Company’ s Articles of Association
require that all new directors seek re-
election to the Board at the following Annual
General Meeting (AGM). In addition, all
directors are required to stand down and
seek re-election to the Board at least once
every three years.
Internal control
The Board has conducted a review of the
effectiveness of the Group’ s system of
internal controls.
BAE Systems has developed a system 
of internal control that encompasses,
amongst other things, the policies,
processes, tasks and behaviours,
that taken together , seek to:
• facilitate the effective and efficient
operation of the Company by enabling 
it to respond appropriately to significant
operational, financial, compliance and
other risks that it faces in carrying out 
its business;
• assist in ensuring that internal and
external reporting is accurate and timely
and based on the maintenance of proper
records supported by robust information
gathering processes; and 
• assist in ensuring that the Company
complies with applicable laws and
regulations at all times and also internal
policies in respect of the standards 
of behaviour and conduct mandated 
by the Board.
52 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Corporate governance
Corporate governance continued
Compliance with the Provisions 
in the Combined Code
Directors
In the period from the beginning of the year
to 16 June 2005 the Company was not
compliant with provision A.3.2 of the
Combined Code that requires that at least
half the board, excluding the chairman,
should comprise independent non-executive
directors. From that date onwards the Board
has been compliant with this provision.
The Board comprises presently a non-
executive chairman, eight non-executive
directors and six executive directors.
The Board considers all of the current 
non-executive directors with the exception 
of the Chairman to be independent for the
purposes of Combined Code. Each of these
directors have been identified on pages 
46 and 47 of this report.
Peter Weinberg was appointed to the Board
on 16 June 2005. At that time he was a
senior director of Goldman Sachs Inc (an
investment bank that provides services 
to BAE Systems). Whilst Mr Weinberg has
since left Goldman Sachs the Board has
addressed the issue of his independence 
in light of provision A.3.1 of the Combined
Code concerning the possible existence
within the last three years of a ‘material
business relationship’ between the director
and the Company or between the Company
and a party with which the director is a 
major shareholder , senior employee,
partner or director .
The Board considered the issue of
Mr Weinberg’ s independence when making
his appointment and determined that he
was independent for the purposes of the
Combined Code, notwithstanding the
relationship with Goldman Sachs. The
reasons for reaching this conclusion were:
• Goldman Sachs is a large organisation
with many clients. BAE Systems is
therefore one of many clients it has
worldwide and the fees earned from its
relationship with the Company represents
a small part of its total revenues. As a
consequence, the Board believes that 
the relationship between the Company
and Goldman Sachs does not represent
‘a material business relationship’; and
• prior to his appointment to the Board
Mr Weinberg had no involvement with
BAE Systems and none of the executive
directors or the Chairman had had any
business dealings with him. Mr Weinberg
has recently left Goldman Sachs and has
no involvement, directly or indirectly, in
their relationship with the Company.
At the end of November 2005 Dr Ulrich
Cartellieri completed his second term of
three years as a non-executive director of
the Company. In line with the requirements
of the Combined Code the Nominations
Committee undertook a rigorous review 
and also considered the need to maintain
an appropriate balance of skills and
experience amongst Board members.
Feedback from the Board’ s annual
performance evaluation was the principal
element of the review process and, as
agreed by the Board, the external 
facilitator provided the Chairman with
detailed feedback on the performance 
of all Directors including Dr Cartellieri.
Following this the Chairman reported to the
Nominations Committee that Dr Cartellieri
remained an effective member of the Board.
After due consideration, the Nominations
Committee recommended to the Board 
that Dr Cartellieri’ s term of appointment 
be extended until a date in the second half
of 2007 to be agreed with Dr Cartellieri. 
This recommendation was made for the
following reasons:
• the annual evaluation process had
confirmed that he remained an effective
member of the Board and added an
important wider European perspective;
and
• during 2005 three new non-executive
directors had been appointed to the
Board, following which the average length
of service for non-executive directors
(excluding the Chairman) had reduced 
to two and a half years. Retaining Dr
Cartellieri’ s services provided the Board
with continuity amongst a relatively 
new group of non-executive directors 
who would value his experience and
knowledge of the Company gained over
the previous six years. This was seen as
being particularly important given the 
long-term nature of the business and 
its complex contracting arrangements. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 53
Reporting within the Company is structured
so that key issues are escalated through the
management team ultimately to the Board,
if appropriate. The Operational Framework
provides a common framework across 
the Company for operational and financial
controls. The business processes detailed
within the Operational Framework draw on
global best practice and their application 
is mandated across the organisation.
Lifecycle Management (LCM) is such a
process. Properly applied, this process 
is key to helping deliver effective project
management from inception (including the
bid process) through to product delivery 
and ultimately customer support.
Further key processes are Integrated
Business Planning (IBP), Quarterly Business
Reviews (QBR) and Monthly Finance
Reviews. The IBP approved annually by 
the Board, results in an agreed long-term
strategy for each business group, together
with detailed near-term budgets. The QBRs
evaluate progress against the IBP and are
chaired by the Chief Operating Officers.
Whilst the quality of the control processes 
is fundamental to the overall control
environment, the consistent application of
these processes is equally important. In the
last few years a great deal of management
time has been devoted to achieving the
robust application of core control processes
and good progress has been made. The
consistent application of world-class control
processes will remain one of management’ s
prime objectives and likewise the monitoring
of performance in this area will continue to
be a key responsibility for the Audit
Committee and the Board. 
The Company is committed to the protection
of its assets, which include human, property
and financial resources, through an effective
risk management process, underpinned
where appropriate by insurance. 
The Internal Audit team independently
reviews the risk identification procedures
and control processes implemented by
management. It provides objective
assurance as to the operation and validity 
of the systems of internal control through 
a programme of cyclical reviews making
recommendations for business and 
control improvements. 
The Board has delegated to the Audit
Committee responsibility for reviewing in
detail the effectiveness of the Company’ s
system of internal controls. Having
undertaken such reviews, the Committee
reports to the Board on its findings so that
the Board as a whole can take a view on 
this matter . In order to assist the Audit
Committee and the Board in this review, the
Company has developed the Operational
Assurance Statement (OAS) process. This
has been subject to regular review over a
number of years, which has resulted in
several refinements being made.
The OAS requires that each part of the
business completes a formal review of 
its compliance against the Operational
Framework, including operational and
financial controls and risk management
processes. It is signed-off by the managing
director of every business unit, Head Office
heads of functions and the executive
directors. The OAS is completed every half
year and includes a formal assessment of
business risk.
The overall responsibility for the system of
internal control within BAE Systems rests with
the directors of the Company. Responsibility
for establishing and operating detailed
control procedures lies with the managing
director of each operating business. 
In line with any system of internal control,
the policies and procedures that are
mandated in the Operational Framework are
designed to manage rather than eliminate
the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives, and can only provide reasonable
and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
The responsibility for internal control
procedures with equity accounted
investments and other collaborations rests,
on the whole, with the senior management 
of those operations. The Company monitors
its investments and exerts influence through
board representation.
Going concern
After making due enquiries, the directors
have a reasonable expectation that the
Group has adequate resources to continue
in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason they continue to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the accounts.
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings:
Corporate
Director Board AuditResponsibilityRemunerationNominations NED Fees
Prof S Birley 9 (11) 5 (5) 1 (1) 6 (6) 6 (6) –
Mr P Carroll
1
2 (2) – 1 (1) – 0 (1) –
Dr U Cartellieri 7 (11) 2 (2) – 4 (4) 5 (6) –
Mr M J Hartnall 10 (11) 7 (7) ––––
Lord Hesketh
2
3 (4) – – – 0 (1) –
Mr C V Geoghegan 10 (11) –––––
Mr M Lester 11 (11) –––– 1 (1)
Sir Peter Mason 8 (11) 4 (6) – 4 (4) 7 (7) –
Mr S L Mogford 11 (11) –––––
Mr R L Olver 11 (11) – – – 7 (7) 1 (1)
Rt Hon M Portillo 11 (11) 7 (7) 1 (1) – 6 (6) –
Mr R Quarta
1
2 (2) 2 (2) – 2 (2) – –
Mr M H Ronald 9 (11) –––– 1 (1)
Mr G W Rose 10 (11) –––––
Mr M J T urner 11 (11) –––– 1 (1)
Mr P A Weinberg
3
4 (4) – 1 (1) 2 (2) – –
Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended
1
appointed to the Board on 7 September 2005
2
retired from the Board on 4 May 2005
3
appointed to the Board on 16 June 2005 Responsibilities
• Reviewing the effectiveness of the
Company’ s financial reporting, internal
control policies and procedures for the
identification, assessment and reporting
of risk.
• Monitoring the role and effectiveness 
of the Internal Audit function including
approving the appointment or removal 
of the Audit Director .
• Considering and making
recommendations to the Board 
on the appointment of the Auditors.
• Keeping the relationship with the 
Auditors under review, including the 
terms of their engagement and fees,
their independence and their expertise,
resources and qualifications.
• Monitoring the integrity of the Company’ s
financial statements.
• Reviewing significant financial reporting
issues and judgements.
The full terms of reference of the Audit
Committee can be found on the Company’ s
website or can be obtained from the
Company Secretary.
Governance
The Board has established an Audit
Committee the terms of reference of 
which comply with the requirements of 
the Combined Code. The Committee is
chaired by Michael Hartnall who is a
chartered accountant and has recent
experience of serving as a finance director 
of a major UK listed company. In addition 
to Mr Hartnall, there are a further four
members of the Audit Committee all of whom
are independent non-executive directors. 
The Committee normally asks the Company’ s
Chief Executive, Finance Director and Audit
Director to attend its meetings together with
the Auditors. However , during the year the
Committee did meet with no executive
directors present and has also met with 
just the Audit Director present and just 
the Auditors present.
The Committee has agreed an annual
programme of matters to be covered by 
the Committee and at least one of these
scheduled meetings will be hosted by one 
of the Company’ s business units to allow
the Committee to meet local management
and discuss audit and control processes.
The Committee met seven times in 2005,
with two meetings hosted by business units. 
54 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Corporate governance
Corporate governance continued
Relations with shareholders
The Company maintains a comprehensive
Investor Relations website that provides,
amongst other things, information on
investing in BAE Systems and copies of 
the presentation materials used for key
shareholder presentations. This can be
accessed via www.baesystems.com.
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) provides
all shareholders with the opportunity to
develop their understanding of the Company
and ask questions on the matters put to the
meeting including this report and accounts.
All shareholders are entitled to vote on the
resolutions put to the AGM and, to ensure
that all votes are counted, the Company’ s
Articles of Association requires that a poll is
taken on all the resolutions in the Notice of
Meeting. The results of the votes on the
resolutions will be published on the
Company’ s website.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
in respect of the annual report and 
the financial statements 
The directors are responsible for preparing
the Annual Report and the group and parent
company financial statements, in accordance
with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to
prepare group and parent company 
financial statements for each financial year .
Under that law the directors are required to
prepare the group financial statements 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 
the EU and have elected to prepare the
parent company financial statements in
accordance with UK Accounting Standards. 
The group financial statements are required
by law and IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, to
present fairly the financial position and
performance of the group; the Companies Act
1985 provides in relation to such financial
statements that references in the relevant
part of that Act to financial statements giving
a true and fair view are references to their
achieving a fair presentation. 
The parent company financial statements
are required by law to give a true and fair view
of the state of affairs of the parent company. 
In preparing each of the group and parent
company financial statements, the directors
are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies 
and then apply them consistently; 
• make judgements and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent; 
• for the group financial statements,
state whether they have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU; 
• for the parent company financial
statements, state whether applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been
followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained 
in the parent company financial
statements; and 
• prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the group
and the parent company will continue 
in business. 
The directors are responsible for keeping
proper accounting records that disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the parent company 
and enable them to ensure that its financial
statements comply with the Companies Act
1985. They have general responsibility for
taking such steps as are reasonably open 
to them to safeguard the assets of the
group and to prevent and detect fraud 
and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations,
the directors are also responsible for
preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’
Remuneration Report and Corporate
Governance Statement that comply 
with that law and those regulations.
Compliance statement
The Board has considered the Company’ s
compliance with the provisions of the
Combined Code and confirms that in 
the period since 16 June 2005 to the 
date of this report it was compliant with 
all such provisions. Prior to this date it
believes that it was compliant with all
provisions with the exception of provision
A.3.2. This provision requires that at least
half of the Board, excluding the Chairman,
should comprise non-executive directors
determined by the Board to be independent.
Audit Committee report
Members:
Michael Hartnall (Chairman)
Dr Ulrich Cartellieri
Sir Peter Mason
Rt Hon Michael Portillo
Roberto Quarta BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 55
The Chairman of the Committee reports 
to the Board on the proceedings of all
Committee meetings and the minutes 
of all meetings are made available to 
Board members.
Activities 
Since the beginning of 2005 the Audit
Committee has undertaken the following 
in order to discharge its responsibilities:
• reviewed the financial statements in the
2004 and 2005 report and accounts and
the interim report issued in September
2005. As part of this review the
Committee received a report from the
Auditors on their audit of the annual
report and accounts and review of the
interim report;
• reviewed the output from the group-wide
process used to identify, evaluate 
and mitigate risks;
• reviewed the effectiveness of the
Company’ s internal controls and
disclosures made in the annual 
report and accounts on this matter;
• reviewed and agreed the scope of 
the audit work to be undertaken 
by the Auditors; 
• monitored the work being undertaken 
by the Company in preparation for the
introduction of International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and reviewed
the statement issued by the Company 
on the restatement of financial
statements in accordance with IFRS;
• reviewed the draft circular sent to
shareholders concerning the proposed
acquisition of United Defense Industries;
• considered a report from the Auditors 
on their review of controls across the
Company and received a report on
management action taken in response to
work undertaken by the Auditors in 2005;
• agreed the fees to be paid to the Auditors
for their audit of the 2005 accounts;
• reviewed its own effectiveness;
• undertook an evaluation of the
performance of the internal audit function;
• undertook an evaluation of the
performance of the Auditors;
• agreed a programme of work for the
Company’ s internal audit function;
• received a report from the Audit Director
on the work undertaken by internal 
audit and management responses to
issues raised; and
• received presentations on the 
Company’ s tax affairs, anti-bribery
compliance processes and pension 
funds investment arrangements.
The Committee recognises that one 
of its key responsibilities is reviewing 
the risks to the Company’ s performance 
and the security of its assets. T wice a year
the Committee reviews the output from the
Group process that is used to identify and
evaluate risk. This process also reports on
the elimination or mitigation of risk and the
relative level of risk within the Group. This
information is verified by the internal audit
function and made available to the Auditors. 
The Company has established an employee
helpline, the BAE Systems Ethics Helpline,
to provide a means by which employees 
can raise concerns they may have about 
any action that they believe may be unlawful,
dishonest, harmful to others, against
company policy, improper business 
conduct or is simply unacceptable
behaviour . During the year the Audit
Committee reviewed the effectiveness of
the helpline. 
The Committee has formally reviewed
whether there are any factors that may
prejudice the independence of the Auditors.
Part of this review involved the receipt of a
letter from KPMG Audit Plc confirming that
they believed they remained independent
within the meaning of the regulations on this
matter and their professional standards.
The Committee recognises that in addition
to the statutory audit work undertaken by
the Company’ s Auditors there will be certain
work of a non-audit nature that is best
undertaken by the Auditors. It believes 
that, provided suitable controls are in place,
doing this work does not compromise the
independence of the Auditors. The
Committee has agreed the following rules to
control the nature and quantity of non-audit
work undertaken by the Auditors: 
• any non-audit work to be undertaken 
by the Auditors for fees in excess of
£250,000 requires the authority of 
both the Group Finance Director and 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee;
• no partner/director of the Auditor’ s 
worldwide audit team is to be employed 
by the Company within two years of the
conclusion of a relevant audit;
• no qualified member of the worldwide
audit team at manager level or below is to
be employed by the Company without the
approval of the Group Finance Director;
and
• no partner/director of the Auditors not
associated with the audit is to be
employed by the Company without the
approval of the Group Finance Director
and the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
The Committee believes that it is not
appropriate to manage the level of non-audit
fees by reference to a specific ratio of audit
to non-audit fees but rather it looks to
ensure that any non-audit work is subject to
robust procurement processes and awarded
subject to the guidelines detailed above.
The Committee has adopted a programme
of undertaking a major review of the
Company’ s Auditors every three years 
and in the years in between undertaking 
a review to monitor their performance. 
A major review has recently been completed.
On the basis of this review the Committee
recommended to the Board that they
support the re-appointment of KPMG Audit
Plc as the Company’ s Auditors. The Board
has agreed with this recommendation 
and consequently a resolution to this 
effect will be put to shareholders at the
Company’ s AGM.
On behalf of the Audit Committee
Michael Hartnall 
Audit Committee Chairman
22 February 2006
Nominations Committee report
Members:
Dick Olver (Chairman)
Phil Carroll
Sir Peter Mason
Responsibilities
• Reviewing regularly the structure, size 
and composition of the Board and making
recommendations to the Board on any
changes desirable.
• Identifying and nominating for the Board’ s
approval suitable candidates to fill
vacancies for non-executive and, with 
the assistance of the Chief Executive,
executive directors. 56 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Corporate governance
Corporate governance continued
• Plan for the orderly succession of new
directors to the Board.
• Recommending to the Board the
membership and chairmanship of the
Audit and Remuneration committees.
The full terms of reference of the
Nominations Committee can be found on
the Company’ s website or can be obtained
from the Company Secretary.
Governance
The Board has established a Nominations
Committee that is chaired by the Chairman
of the Company, Dick Olver . Whilst he is 
not deemed to be independent, the other
two members of the Committee are
independent non-executive directors. 
During the year Sue Birley, Ulrich Cartellieri,
Lord Hesketh and Michael Portillo also
served on the Committee. The Committee
met seven times in 2005.
Throughout 2005 a majority of its 
members have been independent 
non-executive directors.
Activities
The Committee’ s key objectives are 
to ensure that the Board comprises
individuals with the requisite skills,
knowledge and experience to ensure 
that it is effective in managing a complex
international defence and aerospace
company. T o meet this objective the
Committee has agreed that each year 
it will meet to review the succession plans
for existing members of the Board and
consider whether or not it wishes to make
recommendations to the Board regarding
the composition of the Board. Further
details of the succession planning activities
managed by the Committee can be found on
pages 49 and 50 of this report.
As previously reported, the Committee
identified a need to increase the number 
of non-executive directors on the Board. 
This included the appointment of 
individuals with US experience who can 
help the Company with its transatlantic
strategy. External search consultants 
were appointed by the Committee to assist
in the recruitment process. As a result of
this, three non-executive directors were
appointed during the year – all of whom 
are US citizens. There are now eight
independent non-executive directors 
on the Board and six executive directors. 
The Committee agreed the process for
reviewing the continued appointment of
certain non-executive directors, including
Dr Cartellieri whose term of appointment will
exceed six years.
On behalf of the Nominations Committee
Dick Olver
Nominations Committee Chairman
22 February 2006
Corporate Responsibility Committee report
Members: 
Peter Weinberg (Chairman)
Professor Sue Birley
Phil Carroll
The Rt Hon Michael Portillo
Responsibilities
The following T erms of Reference for 
the Corporate Responsibility (CR)
Committee were approved by the 
Board in September 2005:
• assist the Board in overseeing the
development of strategy and policy on
social, environmental and ethical issues;
• monitor and review the Company’ s
performance in managing social,
environmental, ethical and reputational
risks. Specifically, the Committee shall be
satisfied that appropriate policies,
systems and metrics are in place relating
to workplace, community, environment
and marketplace issues. These shall
include, but shall not necessarily be
restricted to, health and safety, workplace
policies, responsible supply chain
management, environmental impact,
business ethics and compliance with 
anti-corruption laws and regulation;
• review the annual Corporate
Responsibility Report, prior to approval 
of the report by the Board;
• oversee and support key stakeholder
engagement on social, environmental 
and ethical issues; and
• the Committee Chairman is required to
report to the Board on the proceedings 
of the Committee on a regular basis.
The full terms of reference of the Corporate
Responsibility Committee can be found on
the Company’ s website or can be obtained
from the Company Secretary.
Governance
In 2005 the Board established the CR
Committee. The Committee is chaired 
by Peter Weinberg an independent non-
executive director . There are a further 
three members of the CR Committee 
all of whom are also independent non-
executive directors. The Committee held 
its first meeting in November last year . 
The Company’ s Group Legal Director ,
Group HR Director , Director of Corporate
Responsibility and Audit Director will attend
meetings at the request of the Committee.
Activities
The Committee has undertaken the following:
• received a briefing on the evolution 
and development of the Company’ s 
CR agenda. This included the results 
of a report on the perceptions and views
of key CR stakeholders commissioned
from PricewaterhouseCoopers;
• reviewed the significant CR risks to the
Company, the process used to identify
such risks and how they are managed; and
• reviewed and approved the 2005
Corporate Responsibility Report.
The Committee also agreed the priority of
issues for detailed review in 2006. These
include, but are not restricted to, ethical
policies and practices and health and safety
performance. Additionally, the following
specific activities are to be undertaken by
the Committee on an annual basis:
• a review of the effectiveness and 
matters reported through the 
Company’ s Ethics Helpline; and
• a review of the Company’ s safety and
environmental performance in addition 
to receiving detailed reports on safety 
and environment.
On behalf of the Corporate Responsibility
Committee
Peter Weinberg
Corporate Responsibility Committee
Chairman
22 February 2006 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 57
Corporate governance
Remuneration report
The Board has delegated authority 
to the Remuneration Committee for
remuneration policy and determining
the specific packages for the Chairman
and executive directors, and has
delegated authority to agree fees
payable to the non-executive directors
to the Non-Executive Directors’ Fees
Committee. The reports from both
these Committees are incorporated
into this Remuneration report, together
with a report on the remuneration or
fees paid to directors and the policy
underpinning this.
The Remuneration report is structured as follows:
• Remuneration Committee report
• Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee report
• Remuneration reporting
– Executive remuneration review
– Remuneration policy and service contracts for executive directors
– Chairman’s appointment, term and fees
– Non-executive directors’ appointment, term and fees
– Tabular information on directors’ shareholdings, emoluments,
pensions and share-based incentives 58 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Remuneration Committee report
Members:
Professor Sue Birley (Chairman)
Roberto Quarta
Peter Weinberg
Responsibilities
• Agreeing a policy for the remuneration of
the Chairman and executive directors.
• Within the agreed policy, determining
individual remuneration packages for 
the Chairman and executive directors.
• Agreeing the terms and conditions to 
be included in service agreements 
for executive directors.
• Approving any employee share-based
incentive schemes and any performance
conditions to be used for such schemes.
• Determining any share scheme
performance targets.
The full terms of reference of the
Remuneration Committee can be found 
on the Company’ s website or can be
obtained from the Company Secretary.
Governance
The Board has delegated to the
Remuneration Committee responsibility for
remuneration policy and determining the
specific packages for the Chairman and the
executive directors; the Committee also
agrees the framework for the remuneration
of certain other members of the executive
management team. The Committee’ s terms
of reference conform with the requirements
of the Combined Code.
The Committee is chaired by Professor 
Sue Birley and all of its members are
independent non-executive directors. 
During the year Dr Ulrich Cartellieri and 
Sir Peter Mason also served as members 
of the Remuneration Committee; they, too,
were independent non-executive directors.
The committee composition changed during
the year as part of the ongoing programme
to refresh the Board and its committees.
The Company’ s Chairman and Chief
Executive attend committee meetings by
invitation only. They do not attend where
their individual remuneration is discussed
and no director is involved in deciding his
own remuneration.
In 2005 the Committee met six times and
details of attendance at these meetings are
provided in the Corporate Governance
Report on page 53.
During the year Dick Olver and Mike T urner ,
in their respective capacities as Chairman
and Chief Executive, provided advice that
was of material assistance to the
Committee. The Committee also received
material assistance and advice on
remuneration policy from the Company’ s
Group Human Resources Director , Alastair
Imrie, and from the Human Resources
Director , Remuneration and Benefits,
Graham Middleton. In addition, the
Committee received advice and services
from PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) in
respect of the provision and interpretation 
of comparative senior management
remuneration data and senior executives’
pension arrangements, from New Bridge
Street Consultants (NBSC) in respect of 
the review and operation of share plans,
and from Linklaters in respect of legal
advice. NBSC was appointed by the
Committee, whilst PwC and Linklaters were
appointed by the Company, and, during the
year , provided consulting services (PwC) and 
legal advice (Linklaters) to the Company. 
The Committee is satisfied that the services
provided to it by PwC and Linklaters were of
a technical nature and did not create any
conflict of interest. If a conflict of interest
were to arise in the future, the Committee
would appoint separate consultants or legal
advisers from those used by the Company.
Activities
During the year the Committee has
discharged its responsibilities by 
reviewing and agreeing:
• performance targets for the year and
progress against those targets;
• policy for executive share scheme grants
including the level of individual grants 
and performance conditions;
• policy for the operation of the all-employee
share schemes;
• the award of bonuses based on the prior
year’ s performance;
• the basis for the annual review of
executive directors’ remuneration,
including the composition of the
comparator groups;
• the levels and structure of remuneration
payable to senior executives;
• the discretionary elements 
of the executive share plans; and
• pension arrangements for senior
executives in the light of forthcoming 
tax changes.
In addition, the Committee has:
• reviewed the remuneration report; and
• consulted with major shareholders 
over changes to remuneration policy.
The Committee’ s remuneration strategy 
is to provide a remuneration package that:
• helps attract, retain and motivate the
highest calibre executives;
• is aligned to shareholders’ interests 
to create sustainable long-term
shareholder value;
• is competitive against the appropriate
market, providing median reward for
median performance and upper quartile
reward for upper quartile performance;
• encourages and supports a high
performance culture whilst providing 
a balance between fixed and 
variable reward; and
• is fair and transparent and can be applied
consistently throughout the Group.
Details of executive remuneration are set
out on pages 59 to 74 of this Remuneration
report and include on pages 59 and 60
the outcome of consultations with major
shareholders in respect of changes 
to executive remuneration policy for 2006
and beyond.
Professor Sue Birley
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
22 February 2006
Corporate governance
Remuneration report continued BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 59
Non-Executive Directors’ Fees
Committee report
Members:
Dick Olver (Chairman)
Michael Lester
Mark Ronald
Mike T urner
Responsibilities
• Reviewing the fees payable to non-
executive directors (excluding the
Chairman) and making changes to 
such fees as deemed appropriate.
Governance
The Non-Executive Directors’ Fees
Committee was formed by the Board in
January 2005 with authority on its behalf 
to agree fees payable to non-executive
directors. This role was undertaken
previously by the Board as a whole. The 
full terms of reference of the Non-Executive
Directors’ Fees Committee can be found on
the Company’ s website or can be obtained
from the Company Secretary.
Activities
The Board has approved the following
guidelines to be used by the Committee
when discharging its responsibilities:
• fees shall be sufficient to attract and
retain individuals with the necessary
skills, experience and knowledge 
required to ensure that the Board is 
able to discharge its duties effectively;
• in setting fees the Committee shall have
regard to the amount of time individual
non-executive directors are required to
devote to their duties and also the scale,
complexity and international nature of the
business and the responsibility involved;
• fees payable to non-executive directors
shall be paid in cash and shall not be
performance related; and
• non-executive directors shall not
participate in the Company’ s share-based
incentive schemes or pension scheme.
In 2005 the Committee held one meeting,
attended by all members, at which it agreed
the structure of non-executive directors’
fees detailed on page 73 of this report.
Dick Olver
Chairman of the Non-Executive Directors’
Fees Committee
22 February 2006
Remuneration reporting
Executive remuneration review
This section of the report explains the
outcome of the formal remuneration review
undertaken in 2005 and the subsequent
consultation with major shareholders, and
the changes to future remuneration policy
resulting from this process.
As reported in last year’ s Remuneration
Report, the Remuneration Committee (the
Committee) undertook a formal review of
executive remuneration policy in the second
half of 2005 and, having formulated its
proposals, subsequently undertook a
consultation with major shareholders 
at the beginning of 2006 in respect of:
• an enhancement to the Chief Executive’ s
package reflecting his performance whilst
maintaining a median benchmark position;
• the settling of share-based awards for
senior US executives in shares rather
than cash, and introduction of a new cash-
based long-term incentive plan for less
senior executives globally to replace
share options and performance shares
(and their cash equivalents in the US);
• the replacement of the Restricted Share
Plan with a new Share Matching Plan
(subject to formal shareholder approval 
in May 2006), including the introduction 
of a performance condition on 
matching shares;
• the replacement of the Performance
Share Plan (subject to formal shareholder
approval in May 2006) with a similar plan
which incorporates changes in relation to
the calculation of the maximum award,
flexibility to use new issue shares and,
for executives below Board level, the
flexibility to base part of the award on
internal measures rather than on T otal
Shareholder Return; and
• arrangements to provide senior executives
with choices to deal with the new tax rules
on pensions being introduced in April
2006, without increasing the Company’ s
costs and without compensating senior
executives for any additional tax they may
have to pay.
As a result of this process, a number of
changes have been made to remuneration
policy which are detailed below:
(i) Chief Executive’s remuneration
The Committee concluded from the
remuneration review that the remuneration
structure for the executive directors
remained appropriate and generally in line
with the market, provided a good mix of
short and long-term incentives, cash and
share-based rewards, and aligned the
interests of the executive directors with
those of shareholders.
The exception was the remuneration of the
Chief Executive, whose salary was shown 
to be below market and for whom the bonus
potential and long-term incentives were
significantly below market. Given the 
Chief Executive’ s time in the role, his
performance and the performance of the
Group, the Committee agreed the following
improvements to the Chief Executive’ s
package for 2006:
• Base salary: increased to £870,000 
with effect from 1 January 2006;
• Bonus potential: increased to 150% 
of base salary but with one-third of his
bonus to be compulsorily deferred into 
the new Share Matching Plan; and
• Long-term incentives: a 50% increase 
in the annual awards of share options 
and performance shares to 225% of 
base salary in share options and 150% 
of base salary in performance shares.
These increases in annual awards will 
give a total combined expected value 
of long-term incentives (including the 
new Share Matching Plan) of around
150% of base salary.
These enhancements will position the 
Chief Executive’ s overall reward package 
in line with the market median. (ii) Share Matching Plan (SMP)
The current Restricted Share Plan 
(a description of which appears on page 
63 of this report) will be replaced by a 
new Share Matching Plan, subject to
shareholder approval at the 2006 AGM,
and will incorporate the following changes:
• the SMP will be structured as a stand-alone
share investment plan with the maximum
investment linked to the amount of annual
bonus awarded;
• the Matching Shares will be subject to 
a performance condition which will be
aligned with the performance condition 
for share options which is based on the
real growth in earnings per share (the
performance condition for share options
is described in more detail on pages 
62 and 63);
• the maximum matching ratio of Matching
Shares to Bonus Shares (i.e. shares
purchased by the individual participant)
will be retained at 1:1 but will be linked 
to the gross amount invested;
• the Matching Shares will attract dividends
during the three year deferral period which
will be released at the same time as the
Matching Shares;
• for executives who leave on grounds 
of retirement, redundancy or ill-health,
or where the Company is subject to a
change of control, the Matching Shares
will be pro-rated for the length of time 
the individual has been employed during
the performance period and will remain
subject to the performance condition
unless the Committee decide that that
would be inappropriate; and
• the Committee will have the flexibility 
to use new issue shares within the
existing dilution limits as well as 
market purchase shares to satisfy 
the award of Matching Shares.
(iii) Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The Performance Share Plan (a description
of which appears on page 63 of this report)
was originally approved by shareholders 
in 1996. A similar plan will be put to the
shareholders for approval at the AGM in
2006 to replace the current plan. The new
plan will retain a vesting level at 25% of the
initial award for median performance but 
will incorporate the following changes:
• the maximum award level is to be
changed from 100% of total remuneration
(i.e. salary, bonus and other cash
allowances) to 200% of base salary. 
This will allow the Committee to make 
the anticipated awards for the Chief
Executive (as set out on page 59) without
having to take account of bonuses and 
will also give the Committee flexibility to
make – in exceptional circumstances –
higher awards to other executives who
currently receive awards of up to 100% 
of base salary. The Committee does not
intend to change its grant policy at the
current time, other than for the Chief
Executive, and would consult with
principal shareholders in the usual way 
if it considered this to be necessary;
• the PSP performance measure is to
continue to be based on T otal Shareholder
Return for executive directors. For other
executives, the Committee wishes to have
the flexibility to agree that up to half of any
award could be based on appropriately
stretching internal measures (with the rest
based on T otal Shareholder Return as at
present) to create improved incentive and
alignment with the individual’ s own
business performance; and
• the flexibility to use new issue shares
within existing dilution limits is to be
introduced, in addition to using shares
purchased in the market.
(iv) Share-based reward for senior 
US executives
US executives participate in the same 
plans as the non-US executives but, with 
the exception of Mark Ronald, the US 
based Chief Operating Officer , the awards
are currently settled in cash rather than 
shares due to US listing restrictions. 
The Committee has now been advised 
that it can settle awards in shares for those
US senior executives who qualify as
‘Accredited Investors’ which will enhance
the alignment with shareholders’ interests.
T o operate within existing dilution limits,
the remuneration strategy for senior
managers globally below the senior
executive population has been reviewed 
with share-based rewards being replaced 
by a cash-based long-term incentive plan
linked to earnings performance. The
Committee believes that this will promote a
consistent global approach and will derive
enhanced value for money from the
executive reward programmes.
(v) UK Executive pension arrangements
In a separate exercise from the
Remuneration Review, the Committee 
has concluded its review of UK executive
pension arrangements in view of the new 
tax rules which come into effect from April
2006. The new tax rules introduce the
concept of a ‘Lifetime Allowance’, i.e. the
maximum amount of pension savings that
can benefit from tax relief. The Lifetime
Allowance threshold has initially been set 
at £1.5m for 2006. As the Committee’ s
approach is not to compensate executives
for changes in taxation, the Committee
believes that it is appropriate to offer
executives choices which are broadly 
cost neutral to the Company but which 
may better suit the needs of executives. 
As such, when an executive’ s benefits reach
the new Lifetime Allowance, it has decided
to offer executives the following choices:
• remain in the pension scheme and pay
the additional tax charge; or
• opt out of the pension scheme (and 
so earn no further pension benefits in
respect of future service) and instead
receive a taxable salary supplement. 
This supplement will be 30% of base
salary and 20% of base salary for those
senior executives with a two-thirds salary
target after at least 20 and 30 years’
service respectively; or
• restrict pension scheme benefits to 
the value of the new Lifetime Allowance
with the remainder being provided 
directly by the Company as an unfunded
‘promise’. At retirement, the unfunded
company pension can either be taken 
as pension or can be commuted in full 
for a taxable lump sum. The commutation
rates have been calculated to be cost
neutral to the Company.
These arrangements, which the Committee
believes are consistent with current pension
philosophy and in line with market practice,
will apply to all UK executives who reach the
Lifetime Allowance, including the UK
executive directors.
With effect from 6 April 2006, the Company
will accrue at each accounting period for the
amount of unfunded ‘promise’ earned in
that accounting period. The cumulative
unfunded balance will be recorded as 
a liability at the balance sheet date.
60 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Corporate governance
Remuneration report continued BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 61
have been £15bn. The Committee also
reviewed remuneration data for aerospace
and defence companies within the FTSE 100.
For the US Chief Operating Officer ,
regression analysis was used on US
aerospace, defence and general industry
sector data to produce appropriate 
market figures consistent with the size 
and scale of the US business, adjusting
where necessary to reflect the extra
responsibility for the Board role.
There was no readily available market 
data for the Group Legal Director so the
Committee used the data for the other
executive director roles as a guide to
position his package.
As a result of this review, the Committee
decided to increase the base salary of 
the executive directors with effect from
1 January 2006 to the following:
Mike Turner
Chief Executive £870,000
George Rose
Group Finance Director £530,000
Chris Geoghegan
UK Chief Operating Officer £467,500
Steve Mogford
UK Chief Operating Officer £467,500
Mark Ronald
1
US Chief Operating Officer $1,000,000
Michael Lester
Group Legal Director £567,500
1
Mark Ronald’ s base salary was increased from
$850,000 to $950,000 with effect from 1 July 2005
following the acquisition of United Defense and its
subsequent integration into the Land & Armaments
business group
Annual Bonus Plan
The executive directors and other senior
executives participate in a cash bonus 
plan that rewards those individuals if
predetermined targets are met. The targets 
are derived from the Integrated Business
Plan (IBP), which is agreed by the Board 
and which implements corporate strategy 
on a groupwide basis by ensuring that
business plans which support the strategy
are integrated across all businesses. 
The IBP is used to set the objectives for
senior management including the base and
stretch targets for the financial measures
used for the executive directors in the
Annual Bonus Plan.
At upper quartile performance variable
remuneration represents significantly 
more than 50% of the total package.
The principles of the remuneration 
strategy are applied consistently across 
the Group taking account of seniority 
and local market practice.
Base salary
Executive directors’ base salaries are
reviewed each year by the Committee 
and adjusted to reflect performance 
and the competitiveness of salaries 
relative to the market. Information on 
the market for comparable management
positions is obtained from independent
sources and is provided to the Committee
so that it can form a view as to where to
position basic salaries and benefits relative
to comparable companies.
The methodology used is to construct
appropriate comparator groups for the
individual positions taking account of
company size, scale of operations and
breadth of role. The median and upper
quartile positions are then analysed for
base salary, total cash reward (base 
salary plus annual bonus), total direct
reward (total cash reward plus long-term
incentives) and total reward including
pension. This gives the Committee a view 
on the competitiveness of the individual
elements of the package as well as the
package as a whole. The Committee also
reviews the trends in the elements of
remuneration to ensure that the structure 
of the package stays in line with market
practice, and also takes account of the
performance of the individual, the Company
as a whole and the pay and conditions of
Group employees.
For the Chief Executive, Group Finance
Director , and the UK Chief Operating
Officers, a comparator group was
constructed consisting of the 19 FTSE 100
companies (excluding financial institutions)
with turnover closest to BAE Systems (nine
larger and ten smaller). The BAE Systems
turnover figure chosen was £12bn,
representing the full year turnover of the
Group’ s wholly owned businesses had
United Defense and Insyte been wholly
owned throughout 2005. If the Committee
had chosen to include the contribution to
turnover from the Group’ s equity accounted
investments, the comparative figure would 
Remuneration policy and service contracts
for executive directors 
This section of the report explains the
ongoing remuneration policy for executive
directors, the individual components of their
remuneration and details of their service
contracts, as required by legislation.
The Remuneration Committee’ s (the
Committee) executive remuneration policy
continues to be to set base salaries at
median competitive levels whilst seeking 
to reward upper quartile performance with
potential upper quartile remuneration
through the use of bonus schemes and
share-based incentives. The Committee
intends to continue with the executive
remuneration policy as detailed in this
report in 2006 and subsequent years,
and will continue to consult on material
changes with principal shareholders.
Remuneration of executive directors
consists typically of basic salary, a bonus
based on annual performance, participation
in employee share schemes and retirement
benefits. The Committee reviews the split
between basic salary and the performance
related elements of remuneration each year
in order to incentivise properly executive
directors, and believes that a significant
proportion of remuneration should be 
based on schemes that encourage them 
to perform at the highest level. Through 
this arrangement, it is possible for those
individuals who contribute to sustained high
levels of company performance to receive at
least a similar level of reward from variable
compensation to that received from fixed
compensation. At median performance,
variable remuneration represents
approximately 50% of the remuneration
package as shown in the chart below:
Target performance (median)
●  Salary 32%
●  Pension 20%
● Bonus  16%
●  Long-term 
 incentive rewards 32%
The package of the Chief Executive is more 
highly geared with almost 60% of the
remuneration being performance related. Non-financial targets comprise key objectives
relevant to the individual and/or business
and also take account of behavioural
performance. The Executive Committee
(which comprises the executive directors
and certain other senior executives),
takes collective responsibility for the key
non-financial objectives for the group as a
whole, which support the delivery of the IBP
and these are agreed by the Remuneration
Committee. These are then used to set 
the individual targets for the Executive
Committee members and are then
cascaded to the individual business units
enabling detailed targets and milestones 
to be set.
2005 was another very successful year ,
building on the excellent performance in
2004. All the major business groups
achieved their stretch targets on profit 
and cash and, as a result, all the financial
targets within the 2005 Annual Bonus 
Plan for executive directors were met at 
the stretch level. In addition, excellent
progress was made against all the key 
non-financial objectives although more 
work still needs to be done on securing
technology transfer from the US to the UK.
Accordingly, bonus payments for 2005 which
are set out in T able E on page 73 range 
from 95% to 99% of the maximum bonus.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed
and agreed bonus targets for 2006 for the
executive directors and believes that both 
the financial and non-financial targets are
stretching but achievable and are aligned 
to the Group’ s overall objectives.
As a result of its annual review of the
performance related part of the
remuneration package, the Committee 
has determined that the maximum bonus
potential for 2006 will remain unchanged
from 2005 at 100% of base salary (150%
for the US-based executive director , Mark
Ronald), with the exception of the maximum
bonus potential for the Chief Executive
which has increased to 150% of base 
salary with at least one-third of the Chief
Executive’ s bonus being compulsorily
deferred into the new Share Matching Plan.
In determining the performance measures
for the Annual Bonus Plan, the Committee
took the view that the Company’ s major
investors believed earnings per share (EPS)
and cash targets (and, where appropriate,
EBITA), to be key indicators of long-term
financial performance and value creation.
These, coupled with the non-financial
measures, align the executive directors’
objectives with corporate strategy and
targeted business performance.
The EPS figure used for the bonus plan (and
the Executive Share Option Plan) is based
on underlying EPS and may be adjusted if
necessary to ensure that the figures for
individual years are broadly comparable.
Share option schemes and long-term
incentive schemes
The Committee seeks to align the interests
of executive directors with those of other
shareholders through the use of share-
based incentive schemes. The Company
operates a combination of option and 
share-based awards for executive directors
within the framework detailed below. This 
is broadly in line with similar plans operated
by other FTSE 100 companies.
Performance conditions for grants of 
options or awards to be made under the
Executive Share Option Plan and the
Performance Share Plan in 2006 are set 
out below. Performance conditions for
earlier grants under the Executive Share
Option Plan are shown as notes to T able C
on page 69. Performance conditions for
grants of awards under the Performance
Share Plan made between 2003 and 2005
are the same as for awards to be made in
2006 as detailed overleaf.
Executive Share Option Plan
Options granted under the Executive Share
Option Plan are normally exercisable
between the third and tenth anniversary of
their grant. Options may only be exercised
during this period as follows:
• 33.33% of each option grant is
exercisable if the Company achieves 
on average real EPS growth per annum 
of 3% but less than 4% over the three 
year performance period;
• 66.67% of each option grant is
exercisable if the Company achieves 
on average real EPS growth per annum 
of 4% but less than 5% over the three 
year performance period; and
• 100% of each option grant is exercisable
if the Company achieves on average real
EPS growth per annum of 5% or more 
over the three year performance period.
The structure of the Annual Bonus Plan for executive directors in 2006 (expressed as
percentages of base salary) is as follows:
Corporate roles
Group Finance Director 
Chief Executive Group Legal Director
Base Stretch Base Stretch 
Bonus element target target target target
EPS targets 28.125% 56.25% 18.75% 37.5%
Group cash targets 28.125% 56.25% 18.75% 37.5%
Non-financial objectives up to 37.5% up to 25%
Chief Operating Officers
UK US
Base Stretch Base Stretch 
Bonus element target target target target
EPS targets 9.375% 18.75% 14.0625% 28.125%
Group cash targets 9.375% 18.75% 14.0625% 28.125%
Business group EBITA* target 9.375% 18.75% 14.0625% 28.125%
Business group cash target 9.375% 18.75% 14.0625% 28.125%
Non-financial objectives up to 25% up to 37.5%
*EBITA = Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense
Intermediate payments are payable for performance against these targets.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not participate in the Annual Bonus Plan.
62 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Corporate governance
Remuneration report continued BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 63
A sectoral peer group will continue to be
used in 2006 as the principal performance
measure due to its importance to the
Company’ s shareholders as an indication 
of both earnings and capital growth 
relative to major global defence and
aerospace companies. A relative measure 
is considered important as it rewards
management if they outperform against
major companies in the sector rather 
than success possibly being determined
solely by growth in stock markets. The
second measure was included to ensure
that awards will only vest if there has been 
a clear improvement in the Company’ s
underlying performance over the 
relevant period.
The composition of the TSR sectoral peer
group will not change for awards to be made
in 2006. It comprises:
Boeing Cobham
Dassault Aviation EADS
Embraer PN Finmeccanica
General Dynamics GKN
Goodrich Honeywell International
Lockheed Martin Northrop Grumman
Raytheon Rockwell Collins
Rolls-Royce Smiths Group
Thales United T echnologies
Restricted Share Plan
The Restricted Share Plan (RSP) has
historically acted as a share based
extension of the Annual Bonus Plan in that
executive directors who participate in the
annual bonus scheme may be given the
option of taking any net cash bonus paid
partly or wholly in shares through the RSP . 
If an election is made to take shares through 
the RSP , they are held in trust for a period 
of three years after which the Company
awards the individual an equal number of
shares (the ‘Matching Shares’) provided 
the individual normally remains in the
Company’ s employment at the vesting date.
Where executive directors have elected to
use such bonuses through the RSP , details
of the shares held are set out in T able B on
page 69.
The matching award of shares has not in 
the past been subject to any performance
criteria as the RSP was designed to retain
key staff and to encourage executives to 
re-invest in company shares the cash
bonuses that they had earned under the
bonus plan, which was itself based on
performance criteria.
The RSP will operate in the way set out
above in 2006 in respect of 2005 bonuses
but, subject to shareholder approval at the
2006 AGM, will be replaced by a new Share
Matching Plan which will operate from 2007
as a stand-alone investment plan with
performance conditions attached to the
Matching Shares. Further information on
these changes are set out on page 60 of
this report.
Share Incentive Plan
During 2005 the UK executive directors
were eligible to participate in the all-
employee free shares element of the 
Share Incentive Plan. As a result of the
Company’ s performance in 2005, all 
eligible employees (including the UK
executive directors) will be entitled to
receive shares worth £418. A similar
arrangement operates for eligible non-UK
employees on a cash or shares basis
depending on local tax and security laws. 
In 2005 the Company introduced a 
share purchase arrangement (Partnership
Shares) under the Share Incentive Plan
which replaced the SAYE Share Option
Scheme. Under this arrangement, UK 
based employees (including executive
directors) may purchase ordinary shares 
in BAE Systems by either monthly
investments of between £10 and £125 
a month, or lump sum investments of
between £10 and £1,500 in a tax year ,
both limited to 10% of salary if less.
Dividends paid in respect of the shares 
in the Share Incentive Plan for UK 
based employees are reinvested as
Dividend Shares.
In determining the performance measure 
for the Executive Share Option Plan, the
Committee took the view that the
Company’ s major investors believed EPS 
to be a key indicator of long-term financial
performance and value creation.
Option grants under the Executive Share
Option Plan in 2006 will be set at a maximum
of 1.5 x base salary (2.25 x base salary 
for the Chief Executive). There will be no
retesting after the three year performance
period for options to be granted in 2006.
Performance Share Plan
Conditional awards of shares are made
under the Performance Share Plan which 
are contingent on meeting predetermined
performance criteria. Awards in 2006 to
executive directors will be granted at a value
equal to 1 x base salary (1.5 x base salary
for the Chief Executive). The proportion 
of the award which is capable of exercise 
is determined by the Company’ s T otal
Shareholder Return (share price growth plus
dividends) ranking relative to a comparator
group of 18 other defence and aerospace
companies operating internationally, and 
by a secondary financial measure.
Performance for the 2006 award will be
measured as follows:
(i) Total shareholder return (TSR)
100% of the conditional shares are awarded
to directors if the Company’ s TSR over a
three year period is in the top 20% of TSRs
achieved by the sectoral comparator group,
with 25% vesting if the TSR is in the top
50%. Intermediate positions will be
calculated on a straight-line pro-rata basis.
No awards will be made if the Company’ s
performance is outside the top 50%. Awards
will be made in three equal instalments at
the end of years three, four and five.
(ii) Underlying financial performance
As a secondary measure the Committee 
will consider whether there has been a
sustained improvement in the Company’ s
underlying financial performance and
whether it is appropriate to release some 
or all of the awards. In taking a view of a
sustained improvement in underlying
financial performance, the Committee 
may consider (but not exclusively) the
following financial metrics: net debt/cash;
EBITA; order book; turnover; risk and
underlying project performance. Impact of International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS)
The Committee has reviewed the impact of
the changes in the accounting standard
from UK GAAP to IFRS on the performance
targets and all bonus targets for 2005 were
restated onto an IFRS basis.
The Committee has also reviewed the
impact on EPS figures used for setting 
the performance condition for the share
option plans to ensure that the EPS figures
for comparative years are measured on 
a consistent basis. The Committee has
agreed to adjust the EPS figures for 2003
and before by increasing them by 2.3%,
this being the impact of moving from UK
GAAP to IFRS on the 2004 EPS. As a 
result of this change, it is anticipated 
that it will be no less difficult to achieve 
any of the performance conditions relating
to outstanding options still subject to
performance conditions.
Dilution of share capital
The Committee has agreed that, in 
respect of new issue or treasury shares,
shares representing no more than 1% of 
the Company’ s issued share capital will 
be used in any one financial year for the
grant of options under all employee share
schemes. The table below sets out the
available dilution capacity for the Company’ s
employee share schemes based on the
limits set out in the rules of those schemes.
Dilution capacity
2005
T otal issued share capital 
as at 31 December 2005 3,218.7m
All schemes:
10% in any consecutive 10 years 321.8m
Remaining headroom 163.3m
Executive schemes:
5% in any consecutive 10 years 160.9m
Remaining headroom 86.7m
The number of ordinary shares in issue at
31 December 2005 was 3,218,734,116 
and the number of shares granted under 
option during 2005 totalled 10,569,483 
(0.33% of the total shares in issue).
64 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Corporate governance
Remuneration report continued
V alue at 31 December 2005 of £100 investment at 31 December 2000
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2005, of £100 invested in
BAE Systems on 31 December 2000 compared with the value of £100
invested in the FTSE 100 Index. The other points plotted are the values at
intervening financial year ends.
The graph, which has been produced in accordance with the requirements of
Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985, shows the total shareholder return
for a holding in the Company’ s ordinary shares for the period 2000-2005
relative to a holding of shares representing the FTSE 100. The FTSE 100 is
considered to be an appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is a broad
equity market index. As BAE Systems is a constituent member of the FTSE
100, it was deemed to be the most appropriate general UK equity index.
Value at 31 December 2005 of £100 investment
The graph above shows the value shareholders have achieved by their
investment in BAE Systems over recent years as compared to (i) the
FTSE 100 Index, (ii) the companies forming the sectoral peer group for the
BAE Systems Performance Share Plan, and (iii) the companies forming the
comparator group for the 2005 executive pay review. The graph depicts the
value for BAE Systems and the comparators at the end of 2005 of a single
£100 investment made at the beginning of each of the last five years.
£125
£100
£75
£50
£25
0
31 Dec 00 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05
● BAE Systems plc
● FTSE 100 Index
2001
Investment made 1 January
2002 2003 2004 2005
£200
£400
£300
£100
£0 £0
●
 BAE Systems plc
● FTSE 100 Index
●
 Aerospace and Defence Comparator Group
● Executive Pay Review Comparator Group
Personal shareholding policy
The Committee has agreed a policy 
whereby all executive directors are required
to establish and maintain a minimum 
personal shareholding equal to 200% 
of base salary. As a minimum a holding
equal to 100% of base salary must be
achieved as quickly as possible using
shares vesting or options exercised 
through the executive share option 
schemes or long-term incentive schemes,
by using 50% of the shares that vest or 50%
of the options which are exercised on each
occasion. Thereafter executive directors 
are required to increase their personal
shareholding gradually, on each occasion
using 25% of the shares that vest or 25% 
of the options exercised each year , until a
personal shareholding equal to 200% of
annual salary is achieved and maintained. 
These limits are reviewed periodically.
Details of the directors’ personal
shareholdings are shown in T able A 
on page 68. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 65
Under the rules of the relevant scheme,
Michael Lester commenced his pension in
2002 having reached normal retirement
age. He has not accrued further benefits
since retiring other than pension increases
awarded to all pensioner members of his
pension scheme.
UK pension benefits – arrangements
coming into force from 6 April 2006:
The Company has been in consultation 
with UK employee representatives and
National T rade Union Officials to address its
UK pension scheme deficits and proposals
are being put to the trustees of the Main 
Pension Scheme following the support
shown by a recent T rade Union Consultative
ballot and a survey carried out by the
Company on measures to be taken in
respect of the Main Pension Scheme. 
These measures include changes to
benefits in respect of future service 
accrual. All changes, which at the date of
this report remain subject to approval by 
the trustees of the Main Pension Scheme,
will apply to the pension arrangements 
of the executive directors who are active
members of that scheme (i.e. each of the 
UK based executive directors except
Michael Lester). Consultations with
employee representatives and National
T rade Union Officials are continuing in
respect of the resolution of deficit issues 
in relation to the other UK pension schemes
(including that of which Michael Lester is a
pensioner member).
As set out on page 60, the Committee 
has agreed its approach to UK executive
pension arrangements in the light of 
the new tax rules which come into effect
from April 2006. These arrangements 
will apply to all UK executives who reach 
the Lifetime Allowance, including the 
UK executive directors.
As explained above and in the notes to 
T able F on page 74, George Rose’ s
unapproved pension arrangement is partly
funded and partly unfunded. As a result of
the tax changes coming into force on 6 April
2006, all benefits in respect of service after
April 2006 can be paid from the approved
schemes without reference to an earnings
cap. The Company’ s treatment of individuals
in this position (including George Rose) will
be to make a one-off contribution (where
necessary) to the unapproved arrangement
to fund it fully to a target level for service up
to April 2006. By agreement with the
Post-retirement benefits
The executive directors of the Company are
members of Group pension schemes and
have a normal retirement age of 60, except
Michael Lester and Mark Ronald who had
normal retirement ages of 62 and are
already in receipt of their pensions.
UK pension benefits –
current arrangements
The pension schemes for the UK based
directors are designed to produce a target
pension of two-thirds of final pensionable
earnings if potential service is 20 or more
years. Final pensionable earnings is basic
salary averaged over the last 12 months
prior to leaving service. Pensions can be
paid before normal retirement age, subject
to the consent of the Company and the
pension scheme trustees. These schemes
also provide a lump sum death benefit equal
to four times basic salary at date of death,
and a spouse’ s pension equal to two-thirds
of the prospective pension at normal
retirement age or , once retired, of the actual
pension in payment (before any lump sum
commutation). Children’ s allowances are
also payable, usually up to the age of 18,
upon death in service or death in retirement.
If directors leave the Company’ s
employment with a deferred pension and die
after age 50 but before the pension has
commenced, a lump sum benefit is paid
equal to five times the annual rate of
pension that would have been paid had the
deferred pension commenced immediately
before date of death. If a director dies with a
deferred pension before age 50, a refund of
his contributions will be paid and a pension
will be paid to his legal spouse in line with
the rules of the scheme for all employees.
Pensions are increased annually by the 
rise in the Retail Prices Index subject to a
maximum increase of 5% per year . Directors
pay contributions at the same rate as all
other employees participating in schemes.
Of the executive directors, George Rose is
affected by the HM Revenue and Customs
(HMRC) earnings cap on approved pensions
and has an unapproved (i.e. non-tax qualified)
pension arrangement to top up his benefits
from the approved scheme. This is designed
so that the total pension from all sources
will be broadly in line with the pension he
would have received from the Group pension
schemes had he not been subject to the
earnings cap. Further information paid by the
Company in respect of these arrangements
is included in the notes to T able F on page 74.
affected individuals, the Company will then
cease to make any further contributions to
the unapproved arrangement. The
individuals affected will be given the option,
if they so wish, to transfer their unapproved
arrangement into the approved schemes
after April 2006 so that the approved
schemes provide the benefits in respect of all
their service based on uncapped earnings.
US pension benefits
Mark Ronald is covered by the Company’ s
US pension arrangements and the non-
qualified supplemental arrangements in
place under his contract. He commenced
his non-qualified pension in 2004 having
reached his normal retirement age. 
This forms the majority of his entitlement.
His remaining entitlement from the 
qualified plan will commence when he
leaves service. In line with the rules of the
US arrangements, it is not envisaged that
the pensions will be increased once in
payment. Death benefits under the plans
are provided by a pension continuation to
his spouse or dependants in accordance
with specific payments from each scheme.
Details of post-retirement benefits for each
of the executive directors are shown in
T able F on page 74 and are calculated 
in accordance with the requirements of
Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
Other benefits
Other benefits provided to the executive
directors include a car allowance, cash
allowance for medical examination and,
where appropriate, second residence
support allowance. As previously reported,
having recognised the need for the Chief
Executive to spend a substantial amount 
of time in central London on Company
business, the Committee agreed to make 
a second residence support allowance 
to Mike T urner in line with group policy 
and the final payment of £25,000 of 
this allowance was made in 2005 
(2004 £25,000). Executive directors’ service contracts
It is the Committee’ s policy that executive directors should normally have service contracts
that provide for the Company to give the individual 12 months’ notice of termination. This
policy has been chosen because it provides a reasonable balance between the need to
retain the services of key individuals and the need to limit the liabilities of the Company in
the event of the termination of a contract. The executive directors have service contracts
with group companies; details of these contracts are as follows:
Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period
Chris Geoghegan 10 July 2002 12 months 12 months either party
(amended 15 January 2004
and 13 October 2005)
Michael Lester 26 November 1999 312 days* 12 months either party
(amended 28 March 2002,
8 January 2003, 8 December 2003,
15 January 2004, 9 August 2004,
14 October 2005 and 5 December 2005)
Steve Mogford 6 April 2000 12 months 12 months either party
(amended 15 January 2004
and 28 October 2005)
Mark Ronald 17 April 2002 312 days* 12 months either party
(amended 17 September 2003,
27 January 2004, 1 August 2004,
5 September 2005 and 16 February 2006)
George Rose 16 November 1998 12 months 12 months from the 
(amended 3 December 1999, Company, 6 months 
15 January 2004 and 17 October 2005) from the individual
Mike T urner 22 February 1994 12 months 12 months from the 
(amended 30 May 1995, Company, 6 months 
3 December 1999, 8 May 2002, from the individual
15 January 2004 and 14 October 2005)
*as at 22 February 2006
In the event of the termination of an
executive director’ s contract it is the
Committee’ s policy to seek to limit any
payment made in lieu of notice to a 
payment equal to the amount of one year’ s
basic salary. The service contracts for all 
of the executive directors contain specific
provisions to the effect that the Company
has the right to pay a sum equivalent to 
12 months’ salary in the event of the
Company terminating their contracts for
reasons other than gross misconduct. 
No executive director has provisions 
in his service contract that relate to 
a change of control of the Company (and
neither does the Chairman nor the non-
executive directors in their respective 
letters of appointment). Under the terms 
of his contract Mark Ronald is entitled 
to compensation of a lump sum equal to
12 months’ salary, and the continuance 
of medical benefits for 18 months, if his
contract is terminated by BAE Systems, Inc.,
his directorship of the parent company
ceases, or his contract is not renewed 
at the end of its rolling one-year term.
Policy on external board appointments
The long-standing policy of allowing
executive directors to hold external 
non-BAE Systems related non-executive
directorships with the prior approval of the
Committee will continue. The Committee
considers that external directorships
provide the Company’ s senior executives
with valuable experience that is of benefit 
to BAE Systems. It is also considered
appropriate for BAE Systems, as a FTSE 100
company, to contribute to the pool of non-
executive expertise available for the benefit
of the wider business community, thereby
reciprocating the benefit which it in turn 
has received from other organisations 
which have permitted members of their
senior management teams to serve in a
non-executive capacity on the BAE Systems
Board. The Committee believes that it is
reasonable for the individual executive
director to retain any fees received from
such non-executive appointments given the
additional personal responsibility that this
entails. Such fees retained by the executive
directors in 2005 were as follows:
Michael Lester: £33,000; George Rose:
£63,125; and Mike T urner: £30,250.
66 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Corporate governance
Remuneration report continued BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 67
Non-executive directors’ appointment, terms and fees
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but do have letters of appointment
detailing the basis of their appointment. The dates of their original appointment are shown in
the table below:
Non-executive director Date of appointment Expiry of current term*
Sue Birley 22.11.2000 21.11.2006
Ulrich Cartellieri 01.12.1999 31.12.2007
Phil Carroll 07.09.2005 06.09.2008
Michael Hartnall 10.06.2003 09.06.2006
Sir Peter Mason 22.01.2003 21.01.2009
Michael Portillo 11.09.2002 10.09.2008
Roberto Quarta 07.09.2005 06.09.2008
Peter Weinberg 16.06.2005 15.06.2008
*subject to re-election at the AGM following their appointment and subsequently at intervals of no more than three
years in accordance with the Company’ s Articles of Association
Chairman’s appointment, term and fees
Dick Olver was appointed Chairman on
1 July 2004. His appointment is for an 
initial fixed three year term with effect 
from 17 May 2004 (the date that he was
appointed to the Board as a non-executive
director) and is documented in a letter of
appointment which is not a contract of
employment. He is required to devote no
fewer than two days a week to his duties 
as Chairman, unless terminated earlier 
in accordance with the Company’ s Articles 
of Association, or by either party giving the
other not less than six months’ prior written
notice. The Nominations Committee will
review his appointment prior to the end of
the three year term and will, if appropriate
(and subject to the agreement of Mr Olver),
recommend to the Board that he be invited
to serve for an additional period. His
appointment as Chairman will automatically
terminate if he ceases to be a director of the
Company. His fee, which has been set by the
Remuneration Committee at £500,000 per
annum, will not be subject to review during
the initial three year term.
Non-executive directors are normally
appointed for two consecutive three year
terms subject to review after the end of the
first three year period and with any third
term of three years being subject to rigorous
review and taking into account the need
progressively to refresh the Board. They do
not have periods of notice and the Company
has no obligation to pay compensation when
their appointment terminates. They are
subject to re-election at the AGM following
their appointment and subsequently at
intervals of no more than three years.
Lord Hesketh retired from the Board 
at the conclusion of the 2005 AGM 
on 4 May 2005, having originally been
appointed to the Board on 1 January 1994.
The letters of appointment for non-executive
directors detail the amount of time it is
anticipated that the individual will need 
to devote to his or her duties as a director . 
Non-executive directors are proposed by the
Nominations Committee and are appointed
by the Board on the basis of their experience
to provide independent judgement on issues
of strategy, performance, resources and
standards of conduct. The level of their fees
is set after reviewing practice in other
comparable companies.
Fees payable to non-executive directors are
agreed by the Non-Executive Directors' Fees
Committee. Non-executive directors are
paid a fee reflecting the time commitment
required of the director . The fee level for 
the chairmen of the Audit, Corporate
Responsibility and Remuneration
Committees, and for the Senior 
Independent Director , reflects their
additional responsibilities and workload.
Details of the non-executive directors’ fees
in 2005 are shown in T able E on page 73.
The fees payable to the non-executive
directors were reviewed in January 2006 and
the following fee structure was agreed for
2006 to reflect the various responsibilities
of the individual directors: a fee of £70,000
for the chairman of the Audit Committee; a
fee of £65,000 for each of the chairman of
the Remuneration Committee, the chairman
of the Corporate Responsibility Committee,
and the Senior Independent Director; and 
a fee of £50,000 for each of the other 
non-executive directors. In addition, a
transatlantic meeting allowance of £4,000
will continue to be payable to non-executive
directors: this takes into account the
additional time commitment required by 
the European based non-executive directors
to attend board meetings in the US and
similarly the commitment of US based 
non-executive directors to attend board
meetings in Europe.
By order of the Board
Dick Olver
Chairman
22 February 2006 Table A
As at 31 December 2005, the directors of the Company and their families had the following beneficial and non-beneficial interests in the
Company’ s securities. There have been no changes in the interests of the directors between 31 December 2005 and 22 February 2006
with the exception of the interests of Steve Mogford who has acquired an additional 58 ordinary shares since 31 December 2005 under
the partnership shares element of the Share Incentive Plan. At the date of approval of this report, his total beneficial shareholding stood at
127,927 ordinary shares.
Directors’ interests
As at 1 January 2005* As at 31 December 2005**
Ordinary Restricted Performance Ordinary Restricted Performance 
shares Options Share Plan Share Plan shares Options Share Plan Share Plan
Prof S Birley 2,925––– 2,925–––
P J Carroll
1
––––––––
Dr U Cartellieri ––––––––
C V Geoghegan 109,434 1,111,206 33,232 444,443 141,016 1,363,186 42,764 613,003
M J Hartnall 20,000––– 20,000–––
Lord Hesketh
2
6,000––– 6,000–––
M Lester 559,784 1,626,193 67,031 549,146 616,553 1,931,908 87,937 753,691
Sir Peter Mason 25,000––– 25,000–––
S L Mogford 113,962 1,322,206 12,669 444,443 127,869 1,572,757 – 613,003
R L Olver 40,000––– 40,000–––
Rt Hon M Portillo ––––––––
R Quarta
1
––––––––
M H Ronald 215,081 1,339,179 41,422 473,476 255,587 1,618,677 81,928 659,808
G W Rose 277,872 1,502,082 14,996 490,593 354,831 1,728,860 33,971 679,986
M J T urner 378,027 1,808,787 116,213 755,626 419,646 2,262,728 137,924 1,058,656
P A Weinberg
3
––––––––
* or upon appointment
** or upon ceasing to be a director of the Company
1
appointed on 7 September 2005
2
retired as a director on 4 May 2005
3
appointed on 16 June 2005
Michael Lester holds a non-beneficial interest in 200,000 (2004 200,000) ordinary shares.
The executive directors, in common with all employees of the Company, have an interest in the unallocated shares held in employee share ownership trusts. As at 31 December
2005, 702,481 (2004 1,768,589) such shares were held in the ESOP trust, 80,111 (2004 345,565) (82,035 as at the date of this report) shares in the Profit Sharing Scheme
trust, and 103,158 (2004 nil) (109,274 as at the date of this report) shares in the Share Incentive Plan trust.
It is the Company’ s policy not to seek to exercise voting rights on shares held in the employee trusts other than on the direction of the underlying beneficiaries.
68 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Corporate governance
Remuneration report continued BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 69
Information subject to audit
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in T ables B, C, D, E and F on pages 69 to 74.
The Company’ s register of directors’ interests (which is open to inspection) contains full details of directors’ share interests. Details 
of directors’ interests in the share option schemes and long-term incentive plans are shown in T ables B, C and D. The figures in the tables
that form part of this report have been calculated by reference to a mid-market price for the Company’ s ordinary shares at 31 December
2005 of 381.75p (2004 230.5p). The range during 2005 was 224.5p to 388p.
Table B
Long-term incentive plans
Restricted Share Plan – Awards granted and vested in 2005
In respect of shares vested during the year
Market price
Awarded Vested at date of Market price
1 January during during 31 December Date award Date of on vesting 
2005 the year the year 2005 of award £ vesting £
C V Geoghegan 33,232 22,770 13,238 42,764 28.03.02 3.28 28.03.05 2.62
M Lester 67,031 37,950 17,044 87,937 28.03.02 3.28 28.03.05 2.62
S L Mogford 12,669 – 12,669 – 28.03.02 3.28 28.03.05 2.62
M H Ronald 41,422 40,506 – 81,928––––
G W Rose 14,996 18,975 – 33,971––––
M J T urner 116,213 37,950 16,239 137,924 28.03.02 3.28 28.03.05 2.62
The market price for awards made in 2005 was £2.63. The 2005 awards were granted on 24 March 2005 and vest on 24 March 2008. Awards made under the rules of the
Restricted Share Plan are not subject to performance conditions.
The aggregate net value of assets received by directors in 2005 from long-term incentive plans, as calculated at the date of vesting, was £155,078 (2004 £210,296 as calculated
at the date of vesting).
Table C
Directors’ Share Options
Executive Share Option Plan
1 January Granted during Exercised during 31 December
2005 the year the year 2005
C V Geoghegan 1,107,881 252,840 – 1,360,721
M Lester 1,623,060 306,818 – 1,929,878
S L Mogford 1,318,705 252,840 – 1,571,545
M H Ronald 1,339,179 279,498 – 1,618,677
G W Rose 1,500,787 284,090 56,452 1,728,425
M J T urner 1,804,654 454,545 – 2,259,199
The BAE Systems Executive Share Option Plan has been used to grant options to the executive directors since 2001. The performance conditions applying to the grants of options
made in 2001-2004 are the same as for grants to be made in 2006, as set out on page 62 of this report, with the exception of the re-testing provision: for grants made between 
2001-2003, where the original three year performance is not met, performance is re-tested at the end of years four and five against the full period from grant; for grants made in
2004, where the original performance target is not met, performance is re-tested at the end of year five against the full period from grant. In all these cases the option will lapse 
in year five if the targets have not been achieved. The performance conditions applying to the grants of options made in 2005 are the same as for grants to be made in 2006,
as set out on page 62 of this report; there is no re-testing of performance for grants made in 2005 and beyond.
On completion of the BAE/MES merger in 1999, options were granted to executive directors under the predecessor Executive Share Option Scheme. Options granted to Michael
Lester and Mark Ronald in 1999 can only be exercised if the pre-exceptional EPS for any three-year period exceeded the sum of inflation for that period and a real growth requirement
of 9% is achieved. Options granted to the other executive directors in 1999 (which partially vested in 2004 as reported last year) were conditional on the satisfaction of a special
performance condition based on the achievement of cost savings of the merger integration process over the three-year performance period commencing on 1 January 2000.
A breakdown of options held by executive directors under the Executive Share Option Plan is given overleaf. The breakdown of the options held by executive directors under the Executive Share Option Plan is as follows:
Granted Exercised Lapsed Exercise Date 
1 January during the during the during the 31 December price Date of Date of from which Expiry
2005 year year year 2005 £ grant exercise exercisable
+
date
C V Geoghegan 118,090––– 118,090 3.98 03.05.00 – 03.05.03 03.05.10
113,636––– 113,636 3.30 23.05.01 – 23.05.04 23.05.11
89,552––– 89,552 3.35 03.04.02 – 03.04.05 03.04.12
119,938––– 119,938 3.26 22.10.02 – 22.10.05 22.10.12
351,218––– 351,218 1.72 30.09.03 – 30.09.06 30.09.13
315,447––– 315,447 2.01 30.03.04 – 30.03.07 30.03.14
– 252,840 – – 252,840 2.64 24.03.05 – 24.03.08 24.03.15
Total 1,107,881 252,840 – – 1,360,721
M Lester 223,800––– 223,800 4.21 20.12.99 – 20.12.02 20.12.09
284,795––– 284,795 3.42 04.05.01 – 04.05.04 04.05.11
290,746––– 290,746 3.35 03.04.02 – 03.04.05 03.04.12
437,451––– 437,451 1.72 30.09.03 – 30.09.06 30.09.13
386,268––– 386,268 2.01 30.03.04 – 30.03.07 30.03.14
– 306,818 – – 306,818 2.64 24.03.05 – 24.03.08 24.03.15
Total 1,623,060 306,818 – – 1,929,878
S L Mogford 54,556––– 54,556 2.75 02.10.96 – 02.10.99 02.10.06
64,415––– 64,415 4.21 20.12.99 – 20.12.02 20.12.09
87,940––– 87,940 3.98 03.05.00 – 03.05.03 03.05.10
211,696––– 211,696 3.42 04.05.01 – 04.05.04 04.05.11
233,433––– 233,433 3.35 03.04.02 – 03.04.05 03.04.12
351,218––– 351,218 1.72 30.09.03 – 30.09.06 30.09.13
315,447––– 315,447 2.01 30.03.04 – 30.03.07 30.03.14
– 252,840 – – 252,840 2.64 24.03.05 – 24.03.08 24.03.15
Total 1,318,705 252,840 – – 1,571,545
M H Ronald 159,952––– 159,952 4.21 20.12.99 – 20.12.02 20.12.09
172,577––– 172,577 3.30 23.05.01 – 23.05.04 23.05.11
296,435––– 296,435 3.35 03.04.02 – 03.04.05 03.04.12
384,583––– 384,583 1.72 30.09.03 – 30.09.06 30.09.13
325,632––– 325,632 2.01 30.03.04 – 30.03.07 30.03.14
– 255,531 – – 255,531 2.64 24.03.05 – 24.03.08 24.03.15
– 23,967 – – 23,967 3.56 22.12.05 – 22.12.08 22.12.15
Total 1,339,179 279,498 – – 1,618,677
G W Rose 56,452 – 56,452 – – 1.86 05.10.95 05.10.05 05.10.98 05.10.05
79,233––– 79,233 3.29 06.10.98 – 06.10.01 06.10.08
115,125––– 115,125 4.21 20.12.99 – 20.12.02 20.12.09
254,386––– 254,386 3.42 04.05.01 – 04.05.04 04.05.11
259,701––– 259,701 3.35 03.04.02 – 03.04.05 03.04.12
390,741––– 390,741 1.72 30.09.03 – 30.09.06 30.09.13
345,149––– 345,149 2.01 30.03.04 – 30.03.07 30.03.14
– 284,090 – – 284,090 2.64 24.03.05 – 24.03.08 24.03.15
Total 1,500,787 284,090 56,452 – 1,728,425
M J T urner 122,855––– 122,855 4.21 20.12.99 – 20.12.02 20.12.09
271,345––– 271,345 3.42 04.05.01 – 04.05.04 04.05.11
277,015––– 277,015 3.35 03.04.02 – 03.04.05 03.04.12
588,663––– 588,663 1.72 30.09.03 – 30.09.06 30.09.13
544,776––– 544,776 2.01 30.03.04 – 30.03.07 30.03.14
– 454,545 – – 454,545 2.64 24.03.05 – 24.03.08 24.03.15
Total 1,804,654 454,545 – – 2,259,199
+
subject to performance condition
The maximum duration for the grant of an option under the Executive Share Option Plan is ten years.
70 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Corporate governance
Remuneration report continued BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 71
SAYE Share Option Scheme
1 January Granted during Exercised during Lapsed during 31 December
2005 the year the year the year 2005
C V Geoghegan 3,325 – 860 – 2,465
M Lester 3,133 – 1,103 – 2,030
S L Mogford 3,501 – 860 1,429 1,212
G W Rose 1,295 – 860 – 435
M J T urner 4,133 – 604 – 3,529
The exercise of options under the SAYE Share Option Scheme is not subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
The breakdown of the options held by executive directors under the SAYE Share Option Scheme is as follows:
Granted Exercised Lapsed Exercise Date of Date 
1 January during the during the during the 31 December price Date of exercise from which Expiry
2005 year year year 2005 £ grant or lapse exercisable date
C V Geoghegan 2,030––– 2,030 2.56 18.04.01 – 01.06.06 01.12.06
860 – 860 – – 2.56 09.04.02 01.06.05 01.06.05 01.12.05
435––– 435 1.56 20.04.04 – 01.06.07 01.12.07
Total 3,325 – 860 – 2,465
M Lester 1,103 – 1,103 – – 2.57 11.04.00 15.06.05 01.06.05 01.12.05
2,030––– 2,030 2.56 18.04.01 – 01.06.06 01.12.06
Total 3,133 – 1,103 – 2,030
S L Mogford 1,429 – – 1,429 – 3.21 28.10.99 01.06.05 01.12.04 01.06.05
1,212––– 1,212 2.56 18.04.01 – 01.06.06 01.12.06
860 – 860 – – 2.56 09.04.02 01.06.05 01.06.05 01.12.05
Total 3,501 – 860 1,429 1,212
G W Rose 860 – 860 – – 2.56 09.04.02 08.06.05 01.06.05 01.12.05
435––– 435 1.56 20.04.04 – 01.06.07 01.12.07
Total 1,295 – 860 – 435
M J T urner 604 – 604 – – 2.57 11.04.00 22.06.05 01.06.05 01.12.05
2,030––– 2,030 2.56 18.04.01 – 01.06.06 01.12.06
1,499––– 1,499 2.56 09.04.02 – 01.06.07 01.12.07
Total 4,133 – 604 – 3,529
Performance Share Plan
1 January Granted during Exercised during 31 December
2005 the year the year 2005
C V Geoghegan 444,443 168,560 – 613,003
M Lester 549,146 204,545 – 753,691
S L Mogford 444,443 168,560 – 613,003
M H Ronald 473,476 186,332 – 659,808
G W Rose 490,593 189,393 – 679,986
M J T urner 755,626 303,030 – 1,058,656
Performance conditions for the awards made in 2003-2005 are the same as for awards to be made in 2006 as set out on page 63 of this report.
A breakdown of options held by executive directors under the Performance Share Plan is given overleaf. The breakdown of the options held by executive directors under the Performance Share Plan is as follows:
1 January Granted during Exercised during Lapsed during 31 December Date of Date of exercise Date from which Expiry
2005 the year the year the year 2005 grant or lapse exercisable
+
date
C V Geoghegan 234,145––– 234,145 30.09.03 – 30.09.06 30.09.10
210,298––– 210,298 30.03.04 – 30.03.07 30.03.11
– 168,560 – – 168,560 24.03.05 – 24.03.08 24.03.12
Total 444,443 168,560 – – 613,003
M Lester 291,634––– 291,634 30.09.03 – 30.09.06 30.09.10
257,512––– 257,512 30.03.04 – 30.03.07 30.03.11
– 204,545 – – 204,545 24.03.05 – 24.03.08 24.03.12
Total 549,146 204,545 – – 753,691
S L Mogford 234,145––– 234,145 30.09.03 – 30.09.06 30.09.10
210,298––– 210,298 30.03.04 – 30.03.07 30.03.11
– 168,560 – – 168,560 24.03.05 – 24.03.08 24.03.12
Total 444,443 168,560 – – 613,003
M H Ronald 256,388––– 256,388 30.09.03 – 30.09.06 30.09.10
217,088––– 217,088 30.03.04 – 30.03.07 30.03.11
– 170,354 – – 170,354 24.03.05 – 24.03.08 24.03.12
– 15,978 – – 15,978 22.12.05 – 22.12.08 22.12.12
Total 473,476 186,332 – – 659,808
G W Rose 260,494––– 260,494 30.09.03 – 30.09.06 30.09.10
230,099––– 230,099 30.03.04 – 30.03.07 30.03.11
– 189,393 – – 189,393 24.03.05 – 24.03.08 24.03.12
Total 490,593 189,393 – – 679,986
M J T urner 392,442––– 392,442 30.09.03 – 30.09.06 30.09.10
363,184––– 363,184 30.03.04 – 30.03.07 30.03.11
– 303,030 – – 303,030 24.03.05 – 24.03.08 24.03.12
Total 755,626 303,030 – – 1,058,656
+
subject to performance conditions
The terms and conditions of the options detailed on pages 69 to 72 were not varied during the period 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2005.
The mid-market price for the Company’ s ordinary shares at 31 December 2005 was 381.75p (2004 230.5p). The range during the year was 224.5p to 388p.
Table D
Options exercised during 2005
Number of Number of Realised gain Unrealised gain Price of Market price Market price Date option Date option 
Date of options shares sold on sold shares on retained shares option on exercise at year end first would have 
exercise exercised on exercise £££££ exercisable lapsed
C V Geoghegan 01.06.05 860 – – 148 2.56 2.7325 3.8175 01.06.05 01.12.05
M Lester 15.06.05 1,103 – – 237 2.57 2.785 3.8175 01.06.05 01.12.05
S L Mogford 01.06.05 860 – – 148 2.56 2.7325 3.8175 01.06.05 01.12.05
G W Rose 08.06.05 860 – – 168 2.56 2.755 3.8175 01.06.05 01.12.05
05.10.05 56,452 – – 84,255 1.86 3.3525 3.8175 05.10.98 05.10.05
M J T urner 22.06.05 604 – – 154 2.57 2.825 3.8175 01.06.05 01.12.05
The aggregate amount of gains made by directors from the exercise of share options in 2005, as calculated at the date of exercise, was £85,110 (2004 £81,272 as calculated at the
date of exercise).
72 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Corporate governance
Remuneration report continued BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 73
Table E
Directors’ remuneration
2005 2004
Basic Basic
salary Fees Bonus Benefits Total salary Fees Bonus Benefits Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Chairman
R L Olver – 500 – 5 505 – 256 – 1 257
Executive directors
C V Geoghegan 445 – 423 25 893 423 – 399 20 842
M Lester 540 – 529 31 1,100 518 – 489 23 1,030
S L Mogford 445 – 441 24 910 423 – 414 13 850
M H Ronald 495 – 744 32 1,271 433 – 637 26 1,096
G W Rose 500 – 495 27 1,022 463 – 446 19 928
M J T urner 800 – 792 46 1,638 730 – 712 44 1,486
Non-executive directors
Prof S Birley – 63–– 63 – 55–– 55
P J Carroll* – 18–– 18 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Dr U Cartellieri – 53–– 53 – 45–– 45
M J Hartnall – 73–– 73 – 65–– 65
Sir Peter Mason – 63–– 63 – 55–– 55
Rt Hon M Portillo – 53–– 53 – 45–– 45
R Quarta
1
– 18–– 18 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
P A Weinberg
1
– 34–– 34 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Past directors
Sir Richard Evans
2
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 200 – – 8 208
Lord Hesketh
3
– 16–– 16 – 45–– 45
P Scaroni
2
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a –7 – – 7
3,225 891 3,424 190 7,730 3,190 573 3,097 154 7,014
1
appointed during the year
2
retired in 2004 
3
retired during the year
All emoluments and compensation paid to the directors during the year are shown above. Where the individual was appointed during the year the amount shown is for the period
from appointment.
The benefits received by the UK based executive directors were cash allowances for a medical and the provision of a car , the taxable benefit of any private use of a chauffeur ,
and support in relation to second residence where applicable. The benefits received by Mark Ronald, the US based executive director , were a cash allowance for a car ,
medical examination and dental benefits, and insured life and disability benefits. The benefit received by the Chairman, Dick Olver , was the taxable benefit relating to 
private use of a chauffeur .
The fees payable to the non-executive directors during 2005 comprised a fee of £65,000 for the chairman of the Audit Committee; a fee of £55,000 for the chairman of the
Remuneration Committee, the chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, and the Senior Independent Director; and a fee of £45,000 for each of the other non-executive
directors. In addition, a transatlantic meeting allowance of £4,000 per meeting was paid to European based non-executive directors attending board meetings in the US and to US
based non-executive directors attending board meetings in Europe.
Sir Charles Masefield retired as a director on 28 February 2003 and remains employed by the Company on a part-time basis in an overseas representational role. In 2005 
his remuneration was £302,500 (2004 £290,500) and comprised salary and a cash allowance for a car . Sir Richard Evans retired as director and chairman on 30 June 2004 
and remains employed by the Company in a part-time customer relationship role. In 2005 his remuneration was £303,000 (2004 £156,167 for the period 1 July 2004 to 
31 December 2004) and comprised salary and a cash allowance for a car .
There were no other payments to former directors during the year other than the payment to Richard Lapthorne referred to in the notes to T able F on page 74. Table F
Post-retirement benefits
Change in 
Accrued accrued Transfer Transfer Increase in 
pension at Increase pension value at value at transfer value 
31 December in accrued after allowing 1 January 31 December Director’ s less director’ s 
2005 benefits for inflation 2005
1
2005 contributions contributions
Age NRA* £ per annum £ per annum £ per annum £ £ £ £
C V Geoghegan 51 60 241,043 19,124 12,311 2,720,566 2,947,733 39,750 187,417
S L Mogford 49 60 216,281 18,111 12,027 2,233,452 2,374,257 39,750 101,055
G W Rose
2
53 60 233,335 32,301 26,129 2,735,402 3,243,501 14,308 493,791
M J T urner 57 60 523,336 57,959 43,672 7,216,640 8,723,438 71,460 1,435,338
*Normal Retirement Age
1
T ransfer values have been calculated in accordance with GN11 issued by the actuarial profession. For UK-based directors the assumptions are the same as those used in the
calculation of cash equivalents from the Group’ s UK pension schemes. With effective from 2005, the actuary has changed the assumptions used to calculate cash equivalents
from the UK pension schemes and they are no longer subject to a minimum of the statutory Minimum Funding Requirement basis. This change is in accordance with the latest
GN11. The amount of the increase in transfer value arising from the change in assumptions is: Chris Geoghegan £109,264; Steve Mogford £80,193; George Rose £132,674;
Mike T urner £420,990. 
2
George Rose’ s unapproved retirement arrangement is partly funded and partly unfunded. The Company’ s pension contribution to the funded unapproved retirement arrangement
for George Rose in 2005 was £569,378 (2004 £515,089). Of this amount, approximately £377,328 (2004 £339,000) relates to the cost of benefits accruing during the year
and approximately £192,000 (2004 £176,000) relates to dealing with investment under-performance prior to 2003. In 2003, the Company decided to deal with the under-
performance of the underlying investments over a three-year period, 2003-2005; the third of these payments was made during 2005. This treatment reflects company policy for
employees with unapproved arrangements in the same position.
Actual pension 
in payment at 
31 December T ransfer T ransfer Change in 
2005 Increase in value at value at Change in transfer value 
(excluding pension in 1 January 31 December transfer value less director’ s 
AVC pension) payment 2005 2005 over the year contributions
Age £ per annum £ per annum £ £ £ £
M Lester
3
65 247,012 7,659 4,542,629 5,016,071 473,442 473,442 
M H Ronald
4
64 410,013 46,756 3,287,430 3,623,981 336,551 336,551 
3
Under the rules of the UK schemes, Michael Lester commenced his pension in 2002 having reached normal retirement age. There has been no further benefit accrual since
retiring other than pension increases awarded to all pensioner members of the relevant pension schemes.
4
Under the rules of his pension arrangements, the majority of Mark Ronald’ s pension commenced in January 2004 when he reached normal retirement age. The pension in
payment includes an accrued pension of $44,839 ($42,104 at 31 December 2004) from the BAE Systems North America Qualified Plan that will commence when he leaves
company service. The Qualified Plan is a contributory arrangement. Of the pension in payment, $406,322 is payable up to when he reaches age 72 and $253,242 has a
contingent 50% spouse’ s pension. Mark Ronald continues to participate in a Section 401(k) defined contribution arrangement set up for US employees in which the Company 
will match employee contributions up to a limit. In 2005 the Company paid contributions of $5,465 (2004 $5,036) into Mark Ronald’ s 401(k) arrangement.
5
Mark Ronald’ s pension is paid in US dollars. Of the change in pension £45,340 is due to currency movements, and £1,416 is due to increases in his accrued pension.
Richard Lapthorne, a former director , has an unfunded pension arrangement. In 2005 the Company paid Richard Lapthorne £87,605 (2004 £84,969) in respect of this arrangement.
74 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Remuneration report continued BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 75
The directors of BAE Systems plc present
their report, together with the accounts,
for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Principal activities
BAE Systems is a group engaged, through
its wholly owned subsidiaries and equity
accounted investments, in the development,
delivery and support of advanced defence
and aerospace systems in the air , on land,
at sea and in space. The Company designs,
manufactures and supports military aircraft,
surface ships, submarines, combat
vehicles, radar, avionics, communications,
electronics and guided weapon systems.
Further details of the principal activities of
the Company and likely future developments
in the business are set out in the operating
and financial review on pages 2 to 41.
Research and development
The Company is engaged in a significant
programme of research and development 
in support of the platforms, systems and
services that it provides to its customers.
The programme covers a wide range of work
and includes performance innovations,
improvements to manufacturing techniques,
and technology to improve the through-life
support of products. A particular priority is
research and development into systems
integrating both platforms and other
systems and also the horizontal integration
of systems. The development and
demonstration of capabilities in networked
systems, and enabling interoperability, is 
an important area of focus in both the UK
and US. Long-term research is undertaken
through partnerships with the academic
sector and in the Company’ s Advanced
T echnology Centre and Systems Engineering
Innovation Centre. Application of this
research is managed by the Company’ s
business units through business focused
research and development programmes.
Customers fund directly much of the near
term product development work undertaken
by the Company. Note 4 to the Group
accounts details the amounts spent on
research and development in 2005.
Office of Fair Trading undertakings
As a consequence of the merger between
British Aerospace and the former GEC-
Marconi Electronics Systems businesses 
in 1999, the Company is required to comply
with undertakings given to the Secretary 
of State for T rade and Industry. Compliance
with the undertakings is monitored by an
independent compliance officer . Further
information regarding the undertakings and
the contact details of the compliance officer
may be obtained through the Company
Secretary at the Company’ s registered office.
Corporate governance
Disclosures on the application of the
principles and compliance with the
provisions of the UK’ s Combined Code 
can be found on pages 48 to 56.
Treasury policy
The Group’ s treasury activities are overseen
by the T reasury Review Management
Committee (TRMC). Three executive
directors are members of the TRMC,
including the Group Finance Director 
who chairs the committee. The TRMC 
also has representatives with legal and
taxation expertise.
The Group operates a centralised treasury
department that is accountable to the 
TRMC for managing treasury activities 
in accordance with the framework of
treasury policies and guidelines approved 
by the Board. An overriding policy is that
trading in financial instruments for the
purpose of profit generation is prohibited,
with all financial instruments being used
solely for risk management purposes. 
Other key policies are:
• to maintain a balance between continuity
of funding and flexibility through the use 
of borrowings with a range of maturities,
currencies and fixed/floating rates of
interest reflecting the Group risk profile;
• to maintain adequate undrawn committed
borrowing facilities;
• to mitigate the exposure to interest rate
fluctuations on borrowings and deposits
by utilising interest rate swaps, interest
rate options and forward rate agreements;
and
• to hedge all material firm transactional
exposures as well as to manage
anticipated economic cash flows over 
the medium term.
Within this policy framework the treasury
department’ s principal responsibilities are:
• to manage the Group’ s core funding 
and liquidity;
• to manage exposure to interest 
rate movements;
• to manage exposure to foreign 
currency movements;
• to control and monitor bank credit risk 
and credit capacity utilisation; and
• to manage the Group’ s relationship 
with debt capital market investors,
banks and rating agencies.
The treasury department transacts with 
an extensive range of counterparty 
banks and financial institutions, and 
adopts a systematic approach to the 
control and monitoring of counterparty 
credit risk. A credit limit is allocated to 
each counterparty with reference to its 
relevant credit rating. For internal credit 
risk purposes, all transactions are marked-
to-market and the resultant exposure is
allocated against the credit limit.
The Company, through its internal audit
department, monitors compliance against
the principal policies and guidelines
(including the utilisation of credit) and 
any exceptions found are reported to the
TRMC. Further disclosure on financial
instruments is set out on in note 32 to 
the Group accounts.
Supplier payment policy
It is Group policy that each business unit 
is in compliance with local best practice 
in the country of operation in respect of
supplier payment policies. Agreed payment
schedules are maintained provided that 
the supplier complies with all relevant 
terms and conditions. It is Group policy 
that changes to the agreed payment
schedule are only made with the prior
agreement of the supplier .
The average number of days credit 
provided in 2005 by suppliers was 38 days
(2004 39 days).
Directors’ report 76 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Directors’ report continued
Employment
The Group has a programme in place to
assist employees to achieve their full
potential and to develop the skills necessary
to meet the current and future expectations
of our customers. The programme focuses
on both personal and technological
development. All employment policies
include a commitment to equal opportunities
regardless of sex, race, colour , nationality,
ethnic origin, religion, age or disability,
subject only to considerations of national
security. The Company’ s policy is to 
provide, wherever possible, employment
opportunities for disabled people and to
ensure that disabled people joining the
Company and employees who become
disabled whilst in our employment benefit
from training and career development
opportunities. The Company has put 
into place a number of ways of consulting
with employees and providing them 
with information on the performance 
of the Company and other matters that
affect them. The effectiveness of the
communication process is assessed
regularly with the aim of ensuring continual
improvement so as to provide employees
with the information they want by the most
effective means.
Employees are actively encouraged to
become shareholders in the Company 
by way of employee share schemes.
Honours
In the UK, the following individuals were
honoured in Her Majesty the Queen’ s 2005
Birthday Honours and 2006 New Y ear
Honours lists:
OBE: Alison Wood
Dick Wise
Alastair McInnes
MBE: Dr David Ashcroft
Paul Burns
Steven John McNair
Share capital
As at 22 February 2006, the Company 
had been advised of the following 
significant interests in the issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company:
FMR Corp and 
Fidelity International Limited: 7.1%
Franklin Resources, Inc 
and its affiliates: 5.9921%
Legal and General 
Investment Management Limited: 3.7%
The Company’ s Articles of Association
contain provisions to the effect that no
foreign person, or foreign persons acting 
in concert, can have an interest in more 
than 15% of the Company’ s issued ordinary
share capital.
At the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held
on 4 May 2005 the Company was given
authority to purchase up to 321,041,924 
of its ordinary shares. The authority will
expire at the AGM held in 2006. Although 
no ordinary shares have been purchased 
by the Company during the period from 
4 May 2005 to the date of this report,
a special resolution will be put to
shareholders at this year’ s AGM to renew
the authority to make market purchases 
of the Company’ s shares up to a maximum 
of 10% of the share capital of the Company.
Results and dividends
Profit for the year was £555m (2004 £3m).
The directors propose a final dividend of
6.3p per ordinary share, amounting to
£203m (2004 £178m), which together 
with the interim dividend, amounts to a 
total annual dividend of 10.3p per 
ordinary share (2004 9.5p). 
Charitable donations
During 2005, the amount donated for
charitable purposes in the UK was £1.2m
(2004 £1.1m). Further details of the
Company’ s charitable activities are 
set out on page 45.
Political donations
No political donations were made in 2005.
Directors
The names of the current directors are listed
on pages 46 to 47. The remuneration report
is set out on pages 57 to 74.
Lord Hesketh retired as a director at the
conclusion of the AGM held on 4 May 2005.
Peter Weinberg was appointed as a 
director of the Company on 16 June 2005.
Phil Carroll and Roberto Quarta were
appointed as directors of the Company 
on 7 September 2005.
Beneficial and non-beneficial interests,
including family interests, in the share
capital of the Company for those persons
who were directors at the end of the
financial year are detailed on page 68. There
have been no changes in such interests in
the period from the year end to 22 February
2006 except as declared on page 68.
The Board is not aware of any contract of
significance (other than service contracts or
as disclosed in the remuneration report) 
in relation to the Company or its
subsidiaries in which any director has,
or has had, any material interest.
Directors indemnities
The Company has entered into deeds of
indemnity with all its current directors, which
are qualifying third party indemnity provisions
for the purpose of the Companies Act 1985.
A similar indemnity has been provided to 
Sir Richard Evans, a former director who
retired from the Board on 30 June 2004 
but remains an employee of the Company 
in a part-time customer relationship role.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’ s Annual General Meeting 
will be held on 4 May 2006. The Notice 
of Annual General Meeting is enclosed 
with this annual report and details the
resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
These include a special resolution for the
disapplication of pre-emption rights
pursuant to section 89 of the Companies
Act 1985.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc, the auditors for the
Company, have indicated their willingness to
continue in office and a resolution proposing
their re-appointment will be put to the
Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
David Parkes
Company Secretary
22 February 2006 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 77
CONTENTS
Index to the accounts 78
Independent auditors’ report 79
Consolidated income
statement 80
Consolidated balance sheet 81
Consolidated 
cash flow statement 82
Consolidated statement of 
recognised income and expense 83
Notes to the group accounts 84
Company balance sheet 146
Notes to the company accounts 147
Five year summary 158
Shareholder information 160
Glossary 162
Shareholder feedback 163 78 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Index to the accounts
Index to the Group accounts Note Page
Accounting policies 1 84
Acquisition of subsidiaries 31 128
Consolidated balance sheet 81
Consolidated cash flow statement 82
Consolidated income statement 80
Consolidated statement of recognised
income and expense 83
Contingent liabilities and commitments 24 120
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 2 93
Debt 29 127
Discontinued operations 9 101
Disposal groups 19 111
Dividends 30 128
Earnings per share 10 103
Employees and directors 7 98
Equity accounted investments 14 107
Events after the balance sheet date 35 136
Explanation of transition to IFRS 36 137
Finance costs 6 97
Financial risk management 32 131
Five year summary 158
Group entities 34 136
Intangible assets 11 104
Inventories 18 111
Investment property 13 106
Loans and overdrafts 20 112
Operating costs 4 96
Other financial assets and liabilities 17 110
Other income 5 97
Other investments 15 109
Property, plant and equipment 12 105
Provisions 23 119
Reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves 27 125
Reconciliation of operating business cash flow 28 126
Related party transactions 33 135
Retirement benefit obligations 22 114
Segmental analysis 3 94
Share-based payments 26 122
Share capital 25 121
Tax 8 99
T rade and other payables 21 114
T rade and other receivables 16 110
Index to the Company accounts Note Page
Accounting policies 1 147
Company balance sheet 146
Contingent liabilities and commitments 12 154
Creditors 10 154
Current asset investments 6 152
Debtors 5 152
Exchangeable Bonds 9 154
Fixed asset investments 3 152
Loans and overdrafts 8 153
Other financial assets and liabilities 7 153
Other information 16 157
Provisions for liabilities and charges 11 154
Reserves 14 156
Share capital 13 155
Statutory reserve 15 157
Stocks 4 152
T angible fixed assets 2 151 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 79
Independent auditors’ report to 
the members of BAE Systems plc
We have audited the group and parent
company financial statements (the
‘ ‘financial statements’ ’) of BAE Systems plc
for the year ended 31 December 2005
which comprise the Consolidated Income
Statement, the Consolidated and Parent
Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated
Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated
Statement of Recognised Income and
Expense and the related notes. These
financial statements have been prepared
under the accounting policies set out
therein. We have also audited the information
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that
is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company’ s
members, as a body, in accordance with
section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that
we might state to the company’ s members
those matters we are required to state to
them in an auditor’ s report and for no other
purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted 
by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the
company and the company’ s members as 
a body, for our audit work, for this report,
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors
and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing
the Annual Report and the group financial
statements in accordance with applicable
law and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU,
and for preparing the parent company
financial statements and the Directors’
Remuneration Report in accordance with
applicable law and UK Accounting Standards
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice)
are set out in the Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities on page 54. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial
statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited in
accordance with relevant legal and
regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
We report to you our opinion as to whether
the financial statements give a true and fair
view and whether the financial statements
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 1985 and whether , in addition, the group
financial statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation. We also report to you if, in
our opinion, the Directors’ Report is not
consistent with the financial statements, if
the company has not kept proper accounting
records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for
our audit, or if information specified by law
regarding directors’ remuneration and other
transactions is not disclosed. 
We review whether the Corporate Governance
Statement reflects the company’ s
compliance with the nine provisions of the
2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our
review by the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority, and we report if it does
not. We are not required to consider whether
the board’ s statements on internal control
cover all risks and controls, or form an
opinion on the effectiveness of the group’ s
corporate governance procedures or its risk
and control procedures. 
We read other information contained in 
the Annual Report and consider whether 
it is consistent with the audited financial
statements. We consider the implications
for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the financial
statements. Our responsibilities do 
not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices
Board. An audit includes examination, on 
a test basis, of evidence relevant to the
amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited. It also
includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgements made by the
directors in the preparation of the financial
statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the group’ s and
company’ s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed. 
We planned and performed our audit 
so as to obtain all the information and
explanations which we considered
necessary in order to provide us with
sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements 
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud 
or other irregularity or error . In forming 
our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information
in the financial statements and the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the group financial statements give a 
true and fair view, in accordance with
IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state
of the group’ s affairs as at 31 December
2005 and of its profit for the year 
then ended; 
• the group financial statements have been
properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation; 
• the parent company financial statements
give a true and fair view, in accordance
with UK Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice, of the state of the parent
company’ s affairs as at 31 December
2005; and 
• the parent company financial statements
and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited have
been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985. 
KPMG Audit Plc 
Chartered Accountants 
Registered Auditor 
London
22 February 2006 80 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December
Total Total
2005 2005 2004 2004
Notes £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Combined sales of Group and equity accounted investments 3 15,411 13,222
Less: share of equity accounted investments 3 (4,392) (4,405)
Revenue 3 11,019 8,817
Operating costs 4 (10,579) (8,369)
Other income 5 247 110
Group operating profit excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 809 668
Amortisation 11 (77) (13)
Impairment 11 (45) (97)
Group operating profit 687 558
Share of results of equity accounted investments excluding finance costs 
and taxation expense 373 348
Finance costs (11) (27)
T axation expense (149) (105)
Share of results of equity accounted investments 14 213 216
Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,
finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) 1,182 1,016
Amortisation (77) (13)
Impairment (45) (97)
Finance costs of equity accounted investments (11) (27)
T axation expense of equity accounted investments (149) (105)
Operating profit 3 900 774
Finance costs 6
Financial income 1,224 609
Financial expense (1,428) (758)
(204) (149)
Profit before taxation 696 625
Taxation expense 8
UK taxation (37) (58)
Overseas taxation (76) (110)
(113) (168)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 583 457
Loss for the year from discontinued operations 9 (28) (454)
Profit for the year 555 3
Attributable to:
BAE Systems shareholders 553 2
Minority interests 2 1
555 3
Earnings per share 10
Continuing operations:
Basic earnings per share 18.3p 14.2p
Diluted earnings per share 18.2p 14.2p
Discontinued operations:
Basic loss per share (0.9)p (14.8)p
Diluted loss per share (0.8)p (14.8)p
Total:
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 17.4p (0.6)p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share 17.4p (0.6)p BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 81
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 11 8,217 6,115
Property, plant and equipment 12 1,704 1,746
Investment property 13 218 155
Equity accounted investments 14 1,721 1,469
Other investments 15 9 66
Other receivables 16 912 511
Other financial assets 17 65 –
Deferred tax assets 8 1,331 1,090
14,177 11,152
Current assets
Inventories 18 485 498
T rade and other receivables including amounts due from customers for contract work 16 1,877 2,198
Current tax 20 –
Other investments 15 634 763
Other financial assets 17 54 –
Cash and cash equivalents 2,581 1,651
5,651 5,110
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 19 407 –
6,058 5,110
Total assets 3 20,235 16,262
Non-current liabilities
Loans 20 (3,534) (2,113)
T rade and other payables 21 (432) (464)
Retirement benefit obligations 22 (4,101) (3,210)
Other financial liabilities 17 (45) –
Deferred tax liabilities 8 (23) (14)
Provisions 23 (375) (241)
(8,510) (6,042)
Current liabilities
Loans and overdrafts 20 (905) (951)
T rade and other payables 21 (7,006) (6,154)
Other financial liabilities 17 (81) –
Current tax (316) (200)
Provisions 23 (343) (250)
(8,651) (7,555)
Liabilities directly associated with non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 19 (270) –
(8,921) (7,555)
Total liabilities 3 (17,431) (13,597)
Net assets 2,804 2,665
Capital and reserves
Issued share capital 25, 27 80 143
Share premium 27 782 412
Equity option of convertible preference shares 27 78 –
Other reserves 27 4,720 5,323
Retained earnings 27 (2,872) (3,223)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
1
2,788 2,655
Minority interests 27 16 10
Total equity
1
2,804 2,665
1
2004 includes £266m non-equity shareholders’ funds
Approved by the Board on 22 February 2006 and signed on its behalf by:
M J T urner G W Rose
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December 82 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
Profit/(loss) for the year
Continuing operations 583 457
Discontinued operations (28) (454)
555 3
T axation expense (includes £1m (2004 £7m) from discontinued operations) 114 175
Share of results of equity accounted investments (213) (216)
Net finance costs (includes £3m (2004 £nil) from discontinued operations) 207 149
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 524 861
(Gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4 2 12
(Gain)/loss on disposal of investment property 5 (43) (40)
(Gain)/loss on disposal of business – continuing operations 4 12 –
(Gain)/loss on disposal of business – discontinued operations 9 8 –
Impairment of other investments 2 5
Cost of equity-settled employee share schemes 16 8
Movements in provisions 99 46
Increase in liabilities for retirement benefit obligations (98) (7)
(Increase)/decrease in working capital:
Inventories 54 (58)
T rade and other receivables (4) 703
T rade and other payables 864 709
Cash inflow from operating activities 2,099 2,350
Interest paid (213) (197)
Interest element of finance lease rental payments (17) (27)
T axation paid (27) (31)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,842 2,095
Dividends received from equity accounted investments 88 69
Interest received 99 66
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (318) (343)
Capital expenditure on investment property (12) –
Purchases of intangible assets (17) (23)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 30 81
Proceeds from sale of investment property 54 50
Proceeds from sale of non-current investments 30 –
Purchase of non-current other investments (17) (50)
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings 29 (2,262) (663)
Net cash acquired with subsidiary undertakings 29 128 113
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary undertakings 460 –
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of with subsidiary undertakings 1 –
Proceeds from sale of equity accounted investments 125 –
Net proceeds from sale/(purchase) of other deposits/securities 45 (51)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (1,566) (751)
Capital element of finance lease rental payments (89) (141)
Proceeds from issue of share capital 27 373 –
Equity dividends paid 30 (315) (281)
Dividends paid on preference shares (21) (21)
Cash inflow from loans 1,005 –
Cash outflow from repayment of loans (357) (219)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities 596 (662)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 872 682
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1,650 970
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (31) (2)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2,491 1,650
Cash and cash equivalents 2,581 1,651
Overdrafts (90) (1)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2,491 1,650 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 83
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
Currency translation on foreign currency net investments:
Subsidiaries 53 (56)
Equity accounted investments 14 (23) (59)
Change in fair value of Exchange Property 15 – 13
Adjustment to interest in net assets of Saab AB 14 – 2
Amounts charged to hedging reserve (688) –
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes:
Subsidiaries (652) (803)
Equity accounted investments (72) (146)
Current tax on items taken directly to equity 8 (3) –
Deferred tax on items taken directly to equity:
Subsidiaries 8 193 281
Equity accounted investments 276 35
Net income recognised directly in equity (916) (733)
Profit for the year 555 3
Total recognised income and expense (361) (730)
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 36 422 –
61 (730)
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders (363) (730)
Minority interest 2 –
(361) (730)
Consolidated statement of recognised income 
and expense
for the year ended 31 December 84 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts
1 Accounting policies
Statement of compliance
The Group has adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted for use in the EU in its consolidated accounts 
for accounting periods from 1 January 2005. The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 have been prepared in
accordance with all IFRSs, including Standing Interpretations Committee and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee
interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
In preparing this financial information, the Group has decided to adopt early the amendment issued in December 2004 to IAS 19 Employee
Benefits – Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures.
With effect from 1 January 2005 the Group has adopted IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (IAS 39). The effect
of adopting IAS 39 at 1 January 2005 is presented as a movement in the Group’ s consolidated statement of recognised income and
expense for 2005.
The financial information for the year to 31 December 2004 has been prepared on the same basis with the exception of IAS 32 Financial
Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation (IAS 32) and IAS 39 that have been applied from 1 January 2005. The comparative financial
information for financial assets and financial liabilities is accounted for on the basis of UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices
(UK GAAP).
In general, for the first-time adoption of IFRS, the standards are applied retrospectively. However , there are a number of exceptions available
under IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS 1) and details of the exceptions that the Group has
applied are shown in note 36.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and, unless stated otherwise, rounded to the nearest million. 
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets and
financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through profit or loss.
Basis of consolidation
The financial statements of the Group consolidate the results of the Company and its subsidiary entities, and include its share of its joint
ventures’ and associates’ results accounted for under the equity method, all of which are prepared to 31 December .
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group. Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to
obtain benefits from its activities. Subsidiaries include the special purpose entities that the Group transacted through for the provision 
of guarantees in respect of residual values and head lease and finance payments on certain regional aircraft sold.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of the acquisition is
measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange,
plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a
business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the 
fair value of the Group’ s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. The results of such subsidiaries are 
included in the consolidated income statement from the date of acquisition, up to the date of disposal or closure.
Where the Group contributes a business, or other non-monetary assets for an interest in a subsidiary, joint venture or associate,such
transactions are recorded so that the reduction in ownership of the business being contributed is accounted for as a disposal while the
increased interest in the enlarged Group or new interest in the business contributed by other parties to the transaction are accounted for 
as an acquisition. Fair values are applied to those operations which are subject to the exchange and which have not previously been held
within the Group. Any loss or realised gain resulting from the transaction is recorded in the income statement while any unrealised gain is
eliminated against the investment.
Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates 
is included in the carrying value of equity accounted investments. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less
accumulated impairment losses. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to 
the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 85
1 Accounting policies continued
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS (1 January 2004) has been retained at the previous UK GAAP
amounts, as any amounts related to intangible assets that would have been recorded in the acquired entity if it had applied IAS 38
Intangible Assets at the date it was acquired by BAE Systems were considered immaterial, after being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent
profit or loss on disposal.
Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’ s assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of
impairment as required by IAS 36 Impairment of Assets (IAS 36). If any such indication exists, the asset’ s recoverable amount is estimated.
For intangible assets that are not yet available for use, and goodwill, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
The recoverable amount of assets carried at amortised cost is calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted
at original effective interest rates. Receivables with a short-term duration are not discounted.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value less cost to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use,
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate.
These calculations use cash flow projections based on the Group’ s Integrated Business Plan and include a terminal value based on the
projections for the final year of that plan. This is considered appropriate due to the long-term nature of the defence industry. A pre-tax
discount rate of 10.46% has been used in discounting the projected cash flows.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit 
to which the asset belongs.
An impairment loss in respect of assets, other than goodwill, carried at amortised cost is reversed if the subsequent increase in
recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. An impairment loss in
respect of an equity investment classified as available for sale is not reversed through profit or loss. An impairment loss in respect of
goodwill is not reversed. An impairment loss in respect of other assets is reversed if there has been a change in the estimate used to
determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’ s carrying amount does not exceed 
the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Revenue and profit recognition
Sales include the Group’ s net share of sales of joint ventures and associates. Revenue represents sales made by the Company and 
its subsidiary undertakings, excluding the Group’ s share of sales of joint ventures and associates.
Long-term contracts
Sales are recognised as soon as the Group can reliably estimate the outcome of a long-term contract and has obtained the right 
to consideration in exchange for its performance. This is usually when title passes or a separately identifiable phase (milestone) 
of a contract or development has been completed and accepted by the customer .
No profit is recognised on contracts until the outcome of the contract can be reliably estimated. Profit is calculated by reference to reliable
estimates of contract revenue and forecast costs after making suitable allowances for technical and other risks related to performance
milestones yet to be achieved. When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is
recognised immediately as an expense.
Goods sold and services rendered
Sales of goods and the provision of services not under a long-term contract are recognised in the income statement when the significant
risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer and revenue and costs can be reliably measured.
Profit is recognised at the time of sale. Sales and profits on intercompany trading is generally determined on an arm’ s length basis.
Lease income
Rental income from aircraft operating leases is recognised in revenue on a straight line basis. 86 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
1 Accounting policies continued
Foreign currencies
T ransactions in overseas currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. These exchange
differences are recognised in the consolidated income statement unless they qualify for hedge accounting treatment, in which case the
effective portion is recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
For consolidation purposes the assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary entities, joint ventures and associates are translated 
at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. Income statements of such entities are translated at average rates of exchange
during the year . All resulting exchange differences including exchange differences arising from the translation of borrowings and other
financial instruments designated as hedges of such investments are recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
T ranslation differences that arose before the transition date to IFRS are presented in equity but not as a separate component. When a
foreign operation is sold, the cumulative exchange differences recognised since the adoption of IFRS are recognised in the income
statement as part of the profit or loss on sale.
Research and development
The Group undertakes research and development activities either on its own behalf or on behalf of customers.
Group funded expenditure on research activities is written off as incurred and charged to the income statement.
Group funded expenditure on development activities applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved
products and processes, is capitalised as an internally generated intangible asset if certain conditions are met. The expenditure
capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and related overheads. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less
accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Capitalised development expenditure is amortised over the expected life of the product. 
Where the research and development activity is performed for customers, the revenue arising is recognised in accordance with the Group’ s
revenue recognition policy above.
Other intangible assets
Acquired computer software licences for use within the Group are capitalised as an intangible asset on the basis of the costs incurred to
acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Group funded expenditure associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes for sale are recognised as an
expense as incurred. Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the
Group, and that will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year , are recognised as intangible assets.
Capitalised software development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
T rademarks and licences are stated at historical cost. T rademarks and licences have definite useful lives and are carried at cost less
accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets arising from a business combination are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Acquired computer software licences 2 to 5 years
Capitalised software development 2 to 5 years
T rademarks and licences up to 20 years
Other intangibles 5 to 10 years BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 87
1 Accounting policies continued
Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of
self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
Depreciation is provided, normally on a straight line basis, to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment over their estimated 
useful lives to any estimated residual value, using the following rates:
Buildings up to 50 years, or the lease term if shorter
Research equipment 8 years
Computing equipment, motor vehicles 
and short life works equipment 3 to 5 years
Aircraft up to 15 years, or the lease term if shorter
Other equipment 10 to 15 years, or the project life if shorter
In the Group’ s North American businesses, depreciation is normally provided on a basis consistent with cost reimbursement profiles 
under US government contracts. T ypically this provides for a faster rate of depreciation than would otherwise arise on a straight line basis.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land and assets in the course of construction.
The assets’ residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Where applicable, useful lives reflect the component accounting principle.
Assets obtained under finance leases are included in property, plant and equipment and stated at an amount equal to the lower 
of the fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses.
Investment property
Land and buildings that are leased to non-group entities (predominantly to joint ventures and associates) are classified as investment
property. The Group applies the cost model to measure investment property at its cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated
impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided, normally on a straight line basis, to write off the cost of investment property over its estimated useful life 
of up to 50 years.
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Other investments
The Group determines the classification of its other investments at initial recognition depending on the purpose for which the investments
were acquired. The Group classifies its other investments as follows:
(a) loans and receivables: term deposits, principally comprising funds held with banks and other financial institutions are carried at
amortised cost using the effective interest method;
(b) at fair value through profit or loss: financial instruments held for trading or designated by management on initial recognition. They are
held at fair value and included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the
balance sheet date;
(c) held to maturity: non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Group’ s management
has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. During the year , the Group did not hold any investments in this category;
(d) available for sale: investments other than interests in joint ventures and associates and term deposits. They are held at fair value and
included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date – the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss. 88 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
1 Accounting policies continued
Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the
Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the investments classified as at fair value through profit
or loss are included in finance costs in the income statement in the period in which they arise. Unrealised gains or losses arising from
changes in the fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are recognised in equity. When investments classified as available-
for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains and losses from
investment securities within finance costs.
The fair values of quoted investments are based on bid prices at the balance sheet date.
Trade and other receivables
T rade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost less impairment losses.
Amounts due from customers for contract work include long-term contract balances less attributable progress payments.
Long-term contract balances are stated at cost less provision for any anticipated losses. Appropriate provisions for any losses are made 
in the year in which they are first foreseen. The amount of profit attributable to the stage of completion of a long-term contract is arrived 
at by reference to the estimated overall profitability of the contract.
Progress payments are amounts received from customers in accordance with the terms of contracts which specify payments in advance 
of delivery and are credited, as progress payments, against any expenditure incurred for the particular contract. Any unexpended balance 
in respect of progress payments is held in trade and other payables as customer stage payments or , if the amounts are subject to advance
payment guarantees unrelated to company performance, as cash received on customers’ account.
Cash received on customers’ account is excluded from net debt as defined by the Group.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, including all relevant overhead expenditure, and net realisable value. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, call deposits and other short-term liquid investments with original maturities of three
months or less and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value. For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and 
cash equivalents also includes bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value 
less costs to sell if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within a year from the classification.
In addition, the asset (or disposal group) is to be available for immediate sale in its present condition and is actively being marketed at a
price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value.
Loans and overdrafts
Loans and overdrafts are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and
overdrafts are stated at amortised costs, or fair value where hedge accounting has been adopted, with any difference between cost and
redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs in connection with the acquisition or construction of items of property, plant and equipment, investment property and
inventories are not capitalised.
Trade and other payables
T rade and other payables are stated at their cost. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 89
1 Accounting policies continued
Leases
Assets obtained under finance leases are included in property, plant and equipment at cost and are depreciated over their useful lives,
or the lease term, whichever is the shorter . Future instalments under such leases, net of financing costs, are included within loans. 
Rental payments are apportioned between the finance element, which is included in finance costs, and the capital element, which reduces
the outstanding obligation for future instalments, so as to give a constant charge on the outstanding obligation.
Payments, including any incentives, made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term.
Assets held for leasing out under operating leases are included in property, plant and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation and
accumulated impairment losses. Rental income is recognised in revenue on a straight-line basis.
Assets leased out under finance leases cease to be recognised in the balance sheet after the inception of the lease. Instead, a finance
lease receivable, representing the discounted future lease payments to be received from the lessee plus any discounted unguaranteed
residual value, is recorded as long-term financial assets. Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, taking into
account the effective yield on the asset.
Financial instruments
The global nature of the Group’ s business means it is exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates. In order to protect itself against
currency fluctuations, the Group’ s policy is to hedge all material firm transactional exposures as well as to manage anticipated economic
cash flow exposures over the medium term. The Group also uses interest rate derivative instruments to manage the Group’ s exposure to 
interest rate fluctuations on its borrowings and deposits by varying the proportion of fixed rate debt relative to floating rate debt over 
the forward time horizon. The Group aims to achieve hedge accounting treatment for all derivatives that hedge material foreign currency
exposures and those interest rate exposures where hedge accounting can be achieved.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold derivative financial instruments for trading puposes. However , derivatives
that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
From 1 January 2005 the Group has adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39. In accordance with IFRS 1, the Group is not required to restate
comparative information but is required to present the comparative information according to previous local GAAP requirements.
Accordingly, the Group has presented its 2004 comparative information for financial instruments in accordance with FRS 13 Derivatives
and Other Financial Instruments: Disclosures (FRS 13) and FRS 4 Capital Instruments (FRS 4). The policies for the year ended
31 December 2005 and 31 December 2004 are discussed below. Further information on the impact of the change in accounting 
policy is given in the Changes in Accounting Policies note below.
Periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at cost. Subsequent to initial recognition, such instruments are stated at fair value
at the balance sheet date. Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows associated with
a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction (income or expense), the effective portion of any change in the fair
value of the instrument is recognised directly in reserves. Amounts recognised in reserves are recycled from reserves and recognised in
the income statement when the underlying transaction affects profit or loss. The ineffective portion of any change in the fair value of the
instrument is recognised in the income statement immediately. Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a fair value hedge,
changes in the fair value of the underlying asset or liability are recognised in the income statement for the period. Gains and losses on
derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement for the period. 
Period to 31 December 2004
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposures to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates. Instruments
accounted for as hedges were designated as a hedge at the inception of contracts. Receipts and payments on interest rate instruments 
were recognised on an accruals basis, over the life of the instrument. Gains and losses on foreign currency hedges were recognised on 
maturity of the underlying transactions, other than translational hedges of foreign currency investments, net of related borrowings,which 
were taken to reserves. Gains and loses arising from re-timing of foreign exchange transactional cover were deferred to match the maturity 
of the underlying exposure. Gains or losses arising on hedging instruments which were cancelled due to termination of underlying 
exposure were taken to the income statement immediately. Finance costs associated with debt issuance were charged to the income
statement over the life of the instruments.
Short-term receivables and payables that meet the definition of a financial asset or liability respectively had been excluded from the FRS 13
disclosures where permitted by that standard. 90 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
1 Accounting policies continued
Tax
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except
to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year , using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance
sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences 
are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting 
nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable
future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets
and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset
can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and where it
is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined 
by discounting the expected future cash flows at an appropriate pre-tax discount rate.
A provision for warranties is recognised when the underlying products and services are sold. The provision is based on historical warranty
data and a weighting of all possible outcomes against their associated probabilities.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has
either commenced or has been publicly announced. Future operating costs are not provided for .
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the
unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
Provisions for losses on contracts are recorded when it becomes probable that total estimated contract costs will exceed total contract
revenues. Such provisions are recorded as write downs of work in progress for that portion of the work which has already been completed,
and as liability provisions for the remainder . Losses are determined on the basis of estimated results on completion of contracts and are
updated regularly.
Employee benefits:
Retirement benefit plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined periodically by independent actuaries and charged 
to the income statement in the period in which those benefits are earned by the employees. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised 
in full in the period in which they occur , and are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense. Past service cost is
recognised immediately to the extent the benefits are already vested, or otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average
period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligations as
adjusted for unrecognised past service cost and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 91
1 Accounting policies continued
Long-term service benefits:
Equity and equity-related compensation benefits
The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share options to employees. In accordance with the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based
Payments (IFRS 2), the Group has applied IFRS 2 to all equity-settled share options granted after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as
of 1 January 2005 and all cash-settled options outstanding at the balance sheet date.
As explained in note 26, equity-settled share options are measured at fair value at the date of grant using an option pricing model. 
The fair value is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’ s estimate of the number of shares 
that will actually vest.
Cash-settled share options are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date using an option pricing model. The Group recognises 
a liability at the balance sheet date based on these fair values, and taking into account the estimated number of the options that will
actually vest and the relative completion of the vesting period. Changes in the value of this liability are recognised in the income 
statement for the year .
Preference share capital
The Group has in issue 7.75p (net) cumulative preference shares of 25p each that are convertible into the Group’ s ordinary shares 
of 2.5p each at the option of the holder on 31 May in any of the years up to 2007, on the basis of 0.47904 ordinary shares for every
preference share. From 1 July 2007 to 1 January 2010, the Group may redeem any outstanding shares at 100p per share, together 
with any arrears and accruals of dividends.
The Group has adopted IAS 32 with effect from 1 January 2005. In accordance with IFRS 1, the Group is not required to restate
comparative information but is required to present the comparative information according to previous local GAAP requirements.
Accordingly, the Group has presented its 2004 comparative information for preference share capital in accordance with FRS 4. 
The policies for the year ended 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2004 are discussed below. Further information 
on the impact of the change in accounting policy is given below.
Periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
In accordance with IAS 32 the preference shares are considered a compound financial instrument and accordingly, have been split into 
an underlying debt instrument, classified within loans and overdrafts, and an equity conversion option, classified within equity.
The underlying debt instrument is presented on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the preference shares.
The equity conversion option is presented at its historic fair value, based on the date of original issue of the preference shares. On
conversion of a preference share into ordinary shares, the attributable amount of the equity component is reclassified to share capital 
and share premium. From 1 July 2007, the option to convert into ordinary shares is extinguished, and accordingly the remaining balance 
on the equity conversion option will be transferred to the retained earnings reserve.
Dividends thereon are recognised in the income statement as finance costs.
Period to 31 December 2004
The preference shares are presented as a component of equity. Dividends thereon are recognised as a deduction from reserves.
Dividends
Equity dividends on ordinary share capital are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared.
Changes in accounting policies
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39
For accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005 the Group is required to measure and disclose amounts defined as financial
instruments in accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39. In accordance with IFRS 1, the Group is not required to restate comparative information
but is required to present the comparative information according to previous local GAAP requirements. For periods ending 31 December
2004, the relevant UK GAAP standard and policy has been disclosed above. 92 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
1 Accounting policies continued
The impact of adopting IAS 32 and IAS 39 on the Group’ s financial position is shown in note 36. The impact of each of the adjustments is
discussed below:
Derivative financial instruments
Under UK GAAP the fair value of financial instruments designated as hedging instruments were not separately recognised on the balance
sheet as either a financial asset or financial liability. The underlying assets and liabilities against which the hedging instruments had been
designated were recorded at the appropriate hedge rate.
With the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 1 January 2005, the Group was required to restate its underlying hedged assets and liabilities
at the prevailing balance sheet rate, and separately account for the fair value of the hedging instruments as either financial assets or
financial liabilities. All such instruments were measured at fair value as at the balance sheet date. The impact of this change was an
increase in the Group’ s net assets of £691m, represented by:
£m
Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities in the Group’ s equity accounted investments 770
Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities in the Group’ s wholly-owned businesses (net) 14
Restate assets and liabilities previously stated at hedge rate to the balance sheet rate (net) (107)
Recognise related deferred tax impacts 14
691
Exchangeable Bonds
Under UK GAAP the Exchangeable Bonds (note 20) were recorded at issue price less unamortised issue costs.
Following adoption of IAS 39, the Group determined that the option holders’ right to request to exchange their Bonds for the Exchange
Property, represented by the Group’ s shareholding in Vodafone Group Plc (note 15), was an embedded derivative. Accordingly, this
embedded derivative had to be separated from the underlying debt instrument, measured at fair value and accounted for separately 
within the balance sheet.
The fair values of the underlying debt instrument and the embedded derivative are determined as follows:
Underlying debt instrument
On adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39, the underlying debt instrument is presented on a net present value basis within loans and overdrafts
(note 20).
At subsequent period ends, the value of the debt instrument continues to be presented on a net present value basis, with the amortisation
charge being recognised in finance costs in the income statement, until the instrument is extinguished on conversion to the Exchange
Property or maturity.
The impact of this change was a £24m reduction in the recorded value of the Exchangeable Bonds as at 1 January 2005.
Embedded derivative
On adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39, the value of the embedded derivative was calculated by reference to the market value of the Bonds 
at 1 January 2005, less the carrying value of the underlying debt instrument recognised at that date. Subsequent movements in the 
fair value of the embedded derivative are recognised in finance costs in the income statement.
The impact of this change was the recognition of a £62m embedded derivative liability within other financial liabilities as at
1 January 2005. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 93
1 Accounting policies continued
Exchange Property
Under UK GAAP , the value of the Exchange Property, representing the Group’ s shareholding in Vodafone Group Plc, was initially based 
on the issue price of the Exchangeable Bonds, which represented the realisable value to the Group. The historical cost of the Exchange
Property to the Group is negligible, creating an unrealised gain in equity. Subsequent values were based on the market price of the
Vodafone Group Plc shares. Movements in the fair value of the Exchange Property were offset against the original unrealised gain within
equity. Cumulatively to 31 December 2004 the Group had recognised an unrealised gain of £636m directly in equity.
Following adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39, the Group has designated the Exchange Property as at fair value through profit or loss.
Prospectively from 1 January 2005, movements in the fair value of the Exchange Property will be recognised in finance costs in the
income statement.
There was no impact on the recognised value of the Exchange Property on adoption of IAS 39 at 1 January 2005, however the unrealised
gain previously recognised within other reserves has been reclassified into the retained earnings reserve within equity.
Preference shares
Under UK GAAP , the preference shares were treated as a component of equity, and the redemption value of £266m was recorded as the
total of non-equity shareholders funds. The preference shares allow the preference shareholders to convert their holding into ordinary
shares of the Group on the basis of 0.47904 ordinary shares for every preference share on 31 May each year to 2007. From 1 July 2007 to
1 January 2010, the Group may redeem all of the remaining preference shares at any time at 100p per share, together with any arrears and
accruals of dividends.
Following adoption of IAS 32, the Group determined that the existence of the conversion option over the Group’ s ordinary shares meant 
the preference shares met the definition of a compound financial instrument, consisting of an underlying debt component and an equity
conversion option. Accordingly the equity conversion option had to be separated from the underlying debt instrument, measured at fair
value at the date of issue of the preference shares and accounted for separately.
The fair values of the underlying debt instrument and equity conversion option were determined as follows:
Underlying debt instrument
The fair value of the liability component was calculated by discounting the value of the expected future cash flows under the terms 
of the instrument using a market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond.
The impact of this change was the recognition of a £223m loan within non-current liabilities as at 1 January 2005.
Equity option of convertible preference shares
The equity option over the Group’ s ordinary shares was calculated as at the date of issue of the preference shares as the difference
between the discounted value of the underlying debt instrument as at issue date and the net proceeds received on issue of the 
preference shares. The value of the equity conversion option does not change other than where options have been extinguished.
The impact of this change was a net £12m increase in the total equity of the Group:
£m
De-recognition of amounts previously recorded within issued share capital (66)
Recognition of fair value of equity conversion option 78
12
2 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
An analysis and explanation of the accounting estimates and judgements used in producing this set of financial statements is made in the
Operating and Financial Review on pages 38 to 40.
Since the interim report for the six months ended 30 June 2005, the Group has updated the mortality rates used in determining the
obligations in relation to the US pension scheme. The impact of the change to mortality rates is explained in note 22. 94 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
3 Segmental analysis
Analysis by business group
Combined sales of Less: Add: 
Group and equity sales by equity sales to equity 
accounted investments accounted investments accounted investments Revenue
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 3,697 3,063 (16) – – – 3,681 3,063
Land & Armaments 1,270 482 (5) – 1 – 1,266 482
Programmes 2,819 2,219 (1,241) (884) 1,242 744 2,820 2,079
Customer Solutions & Support 2,923 2,856 (420) (187) 18 55 2,521 2,724
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 1,834 2,022 (1,271) (1,695) 71 – 634 327
Commercial Aerospace 3,232 2,924 (3,001) (2,666) 171 133 402 391
HQ and other businesses 69 73 (7) (8) – – 62 65
15,844 13,639 (5,961) (5,440) 1,503 932 11,386 9,131
Intra-business group sales/revenue (433) (417) – – – – (433) (417)
Sales/revenue of equity accounted investments between business groups – – – – 66 103 66 103
15,411 13,222 (5,961) (5,440) 1,569 1,035 11,019 8,817
Intra-business Revenue from 
group revenue external customers
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 122 141 3,559 2,922
Land & Armaments 42 53 1,224 429
Programmes 86 54 2,734 2,080
Customer Solutions & Support 113 106 2,408 2,563
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 40 11 594 316
Commercial Aerospace 16 21 386 370
HQ and other businesses 14 31 48 34
433 417 10,953 8,714
Revenue of equity accounted investments between business groups – – 66 103
433 417 11,019 8,817
Amortisation of Goodwill Business group
EBITA
1
intangible assets impairment result
2
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 324 256 (10) (4) (12) (17) 302 235
Land & Armaments 42 (8) (43) (7) – – (1) (15)
Programmes 133 10 (5) – – (50) 128 (40)
Customer Solutions & Support 419 497 (9) (2) (7) – 403 495
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 109 95 (9) – – – 100 95
Commercial Aerospace 179 201 (1) – – – 178 201
HQ and other businesses (24) (35) – – (26) (30) (50) (65)
1,182 1,016 (77) (13) (45) (97) 1,060 906
Less:
Financial expense of equity accounted investments (11) (27)
T axation expense of equity accounted investments (149) (105)
Operating profit 900 774
Finance costs (204) (149)
Profit before taxation 696 625
T axation expense (113) (168)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 583 457
1 
earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense
2
the analysis by business segment of the share of results of equity accounted investments is provided in note 14 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 95
3 Segmental analysis continued
Assets excluding intangible 
assets and equity Equity
accounted investments Intangible assets accounted investments T otal assets T otal liabilities
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 1,449 1,096 4,797 4,422 14 10 6,260 5,528 (1,141) (872)
Land & Armaments 611 315 2,543 354 (3) (2) 3,151 667 (733) (419)
Programmes 684 736 138 148 3 1 825 885 (2,274) (2,017)
Customer Solutions & Support 661 873 177 136 53 22 891 1,031 (1,694) (1,399)
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 151 255 497 224 481 606 1,129 1,085 (308) (201)
Commercial Aerospace 716 721 – 6 1,173 839 1,889 1,566 (234) (197)
HQ and other businesses 1,032 883 65 94 – (7) 1,097 970 (1,845) (1,576)
Discontinued operations
1
– 295 – 731 – – – 1,026 – (410)
5,304 5,174 8,217 6,115 1,721 1,469 15,242 12,758 (8,229) (7,091)
Disposal groups held for sale 407 – (270) –
T ax receivable/(payable) 1,351 1,090 (339) (214)
Retirement benefit obligations 20 – (4,101) (3,210)
Debt as defined by the Group (note 29) 3,215 2,414 (4,492) (3,082)
Consolidated total assets/(liabilities) 20,235 16,262 (17,431) (13,597)
Depreciation
Capital expenditure
2
and amortisation
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 88 93 80 59
Land & Armaments 33 15 64 19
Programmes 42 30 69 53
Customer Solutions & Support 36 149 24 14
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 15 9 26 8
Commercial Aerospace 109 25 52 52
HQ and other businesses 19 5 12 13
Discontinued operations
1
5 33 6 19
347 359 333 237
Analysis by geographical location
Customer location Asset location
Carrying value 
Sales
3
Revenue of segment assets Capital expenditure
2
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom 2,885 2,870 2,545 2,267 4,022 4,480 190 270
Rest of Europe 3,313 2,765 1,973 1,263 2,725 3,170 32 6
Middle East 1,844 2,077 1,526 1,702 145 – 15 –
United States and Canada 5,433 4,123 4,301 3,050 8,238 5,023 102 79
Asia and Pacific 1,530 1,122 481 421 68 85 7 4
Africa, Central and South America 406 265 193 114 44 – 1 –
15,411 13,222 11,019 8,817 15,242 12,758 347 359
1
discontinued operations represents the previously reported Avionics business group, sold as part of the Eurosystems transaction during the year (note 9)
2
capital expenditure on intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and investment property
3
combined sales of Group and equity accounted investments 96 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
3 Segmental analysis continued
Analysis of revenue by category
2005 2004
£m £m
Sale of goods 3,466 2,409
Construction contracts 6,173 5,153
Services 1,288 1,168
Lease income 75 82
Royalty income 17 5
11,019 8,817
4 Operating costs
2005 2004
£m £m
Raw materials and other bought in items 3,894 2,571
Change in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress 264 222
Cost of inventories expensed 4,158 2,793
Staff costs (note 7) 3,554 2,935
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 518 358
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 12
Loss on disposal of businesses 12 –
Other operating charges 2,335 2,271
10,579 8,369
Included within the analysis of operating costs are the following expenses:
Lease and sublease payments:
Minimum lease payments 82 69
Contingent rents 1 –
83 69
Research and development expense including amounts funded under contract 1,449 1,110
Impairment losses recognised in the period on receivables 19 9
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Remuneration of the Group’ s principal auditors for statutory audit work 5,449 4,281
Analysis of non-audit fees
2005 2004
UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Audit services
Statutory audit related 355 – 355 305 – 305
Audit related regulatory reporting 53 2 55 43 4 47
Further assurance services
Advice on accounting matters 813 58 871 720 64 784
Internal controls 81 – 81 –––
Due diligence 2,195 168 2,363 984 197 1,181
Tax services
Compliance 66 855 921 149 1,518 1,667
Advisory 758 595 1,353 742 511 1,253
Other services –7070 15 43 58
4,321 1,748 6,069 2,958 2,337 5,295
Audit services includes the review of the Interim Report of the Group. T ax services includes tax compliance support and services in relation
to the Group’ s expatriate employees based around the world. The majority of services provided outside the UK were provided in the US. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 97
4 Operating costs continued
Significant one-off costs included in operating costs
2005 2004
£m £m
Rationalisation programmes 89 36
2005 2004
£m £m
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 27 6
Land & Armaments 24 5
Programmes – 3
Customer Solutions & Support 21 11
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 14 9
Commercial Aerospace – –
HQ and other businesses 3 2
89 36
5 Other income
2005 2004
£m £m
Rental income from operating leases 43 33 
Profit on disposal of investment property 43 40
Management recharges to equity accounted investments 22 22 
Amounts recoverable from third parties for items of property, plant and equipment that were impaired 99 15
Other 40 – 
247 110 
6 Finance costs
2005 2004
£m £m
Interest income 123 57 
Net present value adjustments 23 10 
Expected return on pension scheme assets 632 542 
Net gain on remeasurement of financial instruments 159 – 
Net gain on remeasurement of embedded derivative 59 – 
Foreign exchange gains 228 – 
Financial income 1,224 609 
Interest expense:
On bank loans and overdrafts (13) (11)
On finance leases (17) (25)
On bonds and other financial instruments (253) (190)
On preference debt (27) – 
(310) (226)
Facility fees (10) –
Net present value adjustments (25) (11)
Interest charge on pension scheme liabilities (633) (521)
Net loss on remeasurement of investments at fair value through profit or loss (75) – 
Net loss on remeasurement of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (217) –
Foreign exchange losses (158) – 
Financial expense (1,428) (758)
Net finance costs (204) (149) 98 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
6 Finance costs continued
Additional analysis of finance costs
2005 2004
£m £m
Finance costs – Group (204) (149)
Finance costs – share of equity accounted investments (11) (27)
(215) (176)
Analysed as:
Net interest:
Interest income 123 57 
Interest expense (310) (226)
Facility fees (10) –
Net present value adjustments (2) (1)
Share of equity accounted investments (11) (30)
(210) (200)
Other finance costs – Group (5) 21
Other finance costs – share of equity accounted investments – 3
(215) (176)
7 Employees and directors
The weekly average and year end numbers of employees, excluding those in equity accounted investments, were as follows:
Weekly average At year end
2005 2004 2005 2004
Number Number Number Number
‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 30 27 33 30
Land & Armaments 8 3 11 5
Programmes 16 16 16 16
Customer Solutions & Support 12 12 12 12
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 4 3 6 2
Commercial Aerospace 2 2 1 2
HQ and other businesses 1 1 1 1
Discontinued operations 1 5 – 5
74 69 80 73
The aggregate staff costs of Group employees excluding employees of equity accounted investments were:
2005 2004
£m £m
Wages and salaries 2,989 2,469
Social security costs 253 214
Share options granted to directors and employees 77 24
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 41 40
Pension costs – defined benefit plans 192 186
US healthcare plans 2 2
3,554 2,935
The Group considers key management personnel as defined under IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to be the members of the Group’ s
Executive Committee and the Group’ s non-executive directors. Fuller disclosures on directors’ remuneration are set out in the
Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 74. T otal emoluments for directors and other key management personnel are £16,354,000
(2004 £12,185,000).  BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 99
8 Tax
Taxation expense
2005 2004
£m £m
Current taxation expense
UK corporation tax
Current tax (105) (1)
Double tax relief 14 –
Adjustment in respect of prior years 33 19
(58) 18
Overseas tax charges
Current year (91) (41)
Adjustment in respect of prior years 18 (12)
(73) (53)
(131) (35)
Deferred taxation expense
UK
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (22) (73)
Adjustment in respect of prior years 43 (3)
Overseas
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 4 (57)
Adjustment in respect of prior years (28) –
Attributable to recoverable deferred tax assets
1
21 –
18 (133)
Taxation expense (113) (168)
1
the recoverable deferred tax asset of £21m arises in Australia primarily in respect of tax losses previously unrecognised, but which have now been recognised to the extent it is
probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered
The following table shows a reconciliation from the theoretical income tax expense, using the UK corporation tax rate, to the reported tax
expense. The reconciling items represent, besides the impact of tax rate differentials and changes, non-taxable benefits or non-deductible
expenses arising from differences between the local tax base and the reported financial statements.
2005 2004
£m £m
Profit before tax 696 625
UK corporation tax rate 30.0% 30.0%
Expected income tax expense (209) (187)
Expenses not tax effected (73) (41)
Income not subject to tax 49 –
Research and development tax credits 39 34
Goodwill (15) (32)
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions (7) (12)
Chargeable gains (96) (9)
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 101 5
Recoverable deferred tax asset previously unrecognised 21 –
Current year losses not tax effected (13) –
Adjustments in respect of prior years 66 (3)
Adjustments in respect of equity accounted investments 64 67
Other (40) 10
Taxation expense (113) (168) 100 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
8 Tax continued
Current tax taken in equity
2005 2004
£m £m
Relating to financial instruments (3) –
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Net balance 
Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 8 8 (74) (57) (66) (49)
Intangible assets – – (180) (44) (180) (44) 
Provisions 239 172 – – 239 172
Goodwill 11 16 – – 11 16 
Pension/retirement plans 1,313 1,010 – – 1,313 1,010 
Share-based payments 59 6 – – 59 6
Other items 7 29 (64) (64) (57) (35)
Rolled over capital gains – – (24) (29) (24) (29)
Capital losses carried forward 24 29 – – 24 29
Unremitted overseas earnings – – (27) – (27) –
T rading losses carried forward 16 – – – 16 – 
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 1,677 1,270 (369) (194) 1,308 1,076 
Set off of tax (346) (180) 346 180 – – 
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 1,331 1,090 (23) (14) 1,308 1,076 
Movement in temporary differences during the year
At At 31
1 January Exchange Other Recognised Recognised December
2005 movements movements in income in equity 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment (49) (1) (28) 12 – (66)
Intangible assets (44) (8) (146) 18 – (180)
Provisions 172 18 16 33 – 239
Goodwill 16 2 28 (35) – 11
Pension/retirement plans 1,010 27 118 (24) 182 1,313
Share-based payments 6–– 30 23 59
Other items (35) 2 (17) 5 (12) (57)
Rolled over capital gains (29) – (1) 6 – (24)
Capital losses carried forward 29 – 1 (6) – 24
Unremitted overseas dividends – – – (27) – (27)
T rading losses carried forward – – 10 6 – 16
1,076 40 (19) 18 193 1,308 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 101
8 Tax continued
At At 31 
1 January Exchange Other Recognised Recognised December
2004 movements movements in income
1
in equity 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment (23) (1) – (25) – (49)
Intangible assets (1) – (47) 4 – (44)
Provisions 227 (11) 11 (55) – 172
Goodwill – (1) 39 (22) – 16
Pension/retirement plans 781 (15) (3) (28) 275 1,010
Share-based payments 1 – (6) 926
Other items 20 (2) (34) (23) 4 (35)
Rolled over capital gains (26) – – (3) – (29)
Capital losses carried forward 26 – – 3 – 29
1,005 (30) (40) (140) 281 1,076
1
includes £7m relating to discontinued operations
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
2005 2004
£m £m
Deductible temporary differences 13 7
Capital losses carried forward 29 161
T rading and other losses carried forward 148 170
190 338
These assets have not been recognised as the precise incidence of future profits in the relevant countries and legal entities cannot be
sufficiently accurately predicted at this time.
The aggregate temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and joint ventures for which
deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is £414m (2004 £203m).
9 Discontinued operations
Eurosystems
On 29 April 2005, the Group announced the completion of the Eurosystems transaction with Finmeccanica SpA.
The Eurosystems transaction comprised the sale of BAE Systems Avionics Limited and the UK communications business, and the
dissolution of AMS, the 50/50 joint venture of BAE Systems and Finmeccanica. BAE Systems Avionics Limited represented substantially
all of the previously reported Avionics business group.
BAE Systems Avionics Limited and Galileo Avionica SpA merged to form a new Avionics business owned 75% by Finmeccanica and 25% 
by BAE Systems. The Group’ s 25% interest in the newly merged business is subject to a put option exercisable by BAE Systems in the three
month period from the beginning of June 2007 and a call option by Finmeccanica at any time to August 2007. At completion, BAE Systems
received net consideration of £374m, plus an £89m working capital adjustment. BAE Systems will receive a further amount of £268m
upon the exercise of either the put or call option over the remaining 25% stake. Accordingly, the Group is treating the remaining amount of
£233m, after discounting to the balance sheet date, as deferred consideration as it does not exercise any control or significant influence
over the new Avionics business.
BAE Systems sold its UK communications business to Selenia Communications Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Finmeccanica,
for £25m in cash. 102 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
9 Discontinued operations continued
The results from the discontinued operations, which have been included in the consolidated income statement, are derived as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Revenue 111 365 
Expenses (127) (328)
EBITA
1
(16) 37 
Goodwill impairment – (484)
Finance costs, net (3) – 
Loss before taxation (19) (447)
Taxation (1) (7)
Loss for the year (20) (454)
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (8) – 
Loss for the year from discontinued operations (28) (454)
The assets and liabilities of the discontinued operations at the date of disposal were as follows:
2005
£m
Intangible assets 731
Property, plant and equipment 87
Inventories 104
T rade and other receivables 172
Deferred tax assets 4
Cash and cash equivalents, net of overdrafts (1)
T rade and other payables (354)
Provisions (32)
Net assets 711
Consideration:
BAE Systems Avionics Limited (including working capital adjustment) 731 
UK communications business 25
756
Less:
Deferred consideration (268)
T otal consideration received, in cash 488
T ransaction costs paid (37)
Net cash inflow from sale of subsidiary entities 451
Net cash inflow from sale of subsidiary entities 451
Overdrafts disposed of with subsidiary entities 1
452
The cash flows relating to the discontinued operations to the date of disposal were as follows:
Operating cash flows (30)
Investing cash flows –
Financing cash flows –
1
earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 103
10 Earnings per share
2005 2004
Basic
Basic Diluted and diluted
pence pence pence 
£m per share £m per share £m per share
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 553 553 2
Preference dividends –27 (21)
Profit/(loss) for the year after adjusting for preference dividends 553 17.4 580 17.4 (19) (0.6)
Represented by:
Continuing operations 581 18.3 608 18.2 435 14.2
Discontinued operations (28) (0.9) (28) (0.8) (454) (14.8)
Add back/(deduct):
Net financing charge/(credit) on pensions, post tax 11 (15)
Uplift on acquired inventories, post tax 31 31 4
Market value movements on derivatives, post tax 33 –
Amortisation of intangible assets, post tax 54 54 13
Impairment of goodwill 45 45 581
Underlying earnings 687 21.6 714 21.4 564 18.4
Represented by:
Continuing operations 715 22.5 742 22.2 534 17.4
Discontinued operations (28) (0.9) (28) (0.8) 30 1.0
687 21.6 714 21.4 564 18.4
Millions Millions Millions
Weighted average number of shares used in calculating basic earnings per share 3,183 3,183 3,058
Add:
Incremental shares in respect of employee share schemes 21 –
Incremental shares in respect of convertible preference shares 128 –
Weighted average number of shares used in calculating diluted earnings per share 3,332 3,058
Underlying earnings per share is presented in addition to that required by IAS 33 Earnings per share (IAS 33) as the directors consider that
this gives a more appropriate indication of underlying performance.
In accordance with IAS 33, the 2004 diluted earnings per share calculations are without reference to adjustments in respect of outstanding
share options (note 26) and convertible preference shares, as assumed conversion would be anti-dilutive. 104 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
11 Intangible assets
Goodwill Other
1
Total
£m £m £m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2004 7,547 29 7,576
Additions:
Acquired separately –2323
Acquisition of subsidiaries 610 158 768
Adjustments to provisional fair values (3) – (3)
Exchange adjustments (95) (4) (99)
At 31 December 2004 8,059 206 8,265
Additions:
Acquired separately –1010
Internally generated –77
Acquisition of subsidiaries 2,263 443 2,706
Adjustments to provisional fair values (5) – (5)
Disposals (810) – (810)
Reclassified as non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale (52) (14) (66)
Exchange adjustments 267 26 293
At 31 December 2005 9,722 678 10,400
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2004 1,551 5 1,556
Amortisation charge
2
–1313
Impairment charge:
Continuing operations 97 – 97
Discontinued operations 484 – 484
At 31 December 2004 2,132 18 2,150
Disposals (79) – (79)
Amortisation charge
2
–7777
Impairment charge 45 – 45
Reclassified as non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale (8) (2) (10)
At 31 December 2005 2,090 93 2,183
Net book value
At 31 December 2005 7,632 585 8,217
At 31 December 2004 5,927 188 6,115
At 1 January 2004 5,996 24 6,020
1
other intangibles includes internally funded development costs and intangible assets recognised on acquisition of subsidiary companies, of which the most significant are in 
respect of the acquired order book and of on-going programme relationships
2
amortisation is included in operating costs in the income statement
The impairment charges arose as a result of a review of the carrying value of goodwill across the Group. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 105
12 Property, plant and equipment
Land and Plant and
buildings machinery Aircraft Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2004 1,114 2,349 430 3,893
Additions 190 126 20 336
Acquisition of subsidiaries 39 18 – 57
T ransfers from inventories –3 –3
T ransfers to inventories (2) (9) – (11)
T ransfers to investment property (2) – – (2)
Disposals (101) (189) (2) (292)
Exchange adjustments (22) (45) (30) (97)
At 31 December 2004 1,216 2,253 418 3,887
Additions 50 168 100 318
Acquisition of subsidiaries 63 138 – 201
T ransfers from inventories –6 –6
T ransfers from investment property 32–– 32
T ransfers to investment property (89) – – (89)
Reclassified as non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale (55) (32) – (87)
Reclassification between categories 12 (12) – –
Disposals (33) (181) (4) (218)
Disposals as a result of disposal of businesses (10) (251) – (261)
Exchange adjustments 47 31 34 112
At 31 December 2005 1,233 2,120 548 3,901
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2004 358 1,743 22 2,123
Depreciation charge for the year (includes £19m related to discontinued operations) 34 147 39 220
Impairment loss for the year – – 43 43
T ransfers to inventories (2) – – (2)
Disposals (20) (180) – (200)
Exchange adjustments (10) (28) (5) (43)
At 31 December 2004 360 1,682 99 2,141
Depreciation charge for the year (includes £6m related to discontinued operations) 54 158 39 251
Impairment loss for the year – 5 141 146
T ransfers from investment property 20–– 20
T ransfers to investment property (9) – – (9)
Reclassified as non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale (13) (17) – (30)
Reclassification between categories 5(5) – –
Disposals (17) (167) (2) (186)
Disposals as a result of disposal of businesses (6) (159) – (165)
Exchange adjustments 14 10 5 29
At 31 December 2005 408 1,507 282 2,197
Net book value
At 31 December 2005 825 613 266 1,704
At 31 December 2004 856 571 319 1,746
At 1 January 2004 756 606 408 1,770
The amounts above include:
The net book value of assets held as capitalised finance leases
At 31 December 2005 –382159
At 31 December 2004 2315689
Assets in the course of construction
At 31 December 2005 148 50 – 198
At 31 December 2004 145 55 – 200 106 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
12 Property, plant and equipment continued
Net book value of:
Land and Plant and
buildings machinery Aircraft Total
£m £m £m £m
Freehold property 753 – – 753
Long leasehold property 25 – – 25
Short leasehold property 47 – – 47
Plant and machinery – 517 – 517
Fixtures, fittings and equipment –96 – 96
Aircraft – – 266 266
825 613 266 1,704
The aircraft fleet that is held under capitalised finance lease arrangements is leased to airline companies under operating leases. The
leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The future aggregate minimum lease income from the non-cancellable elements of operating leases for assets capitalised (including
investment property (note 13)) are as follows:
2005 2004
Receipts due: £m £m
Not later than one year 81 82
Later than one year and not later than five years 204 162
Later than five years 161 101
446 345
Under the terms of the lease agreements, no contingent rents are payable. Within the above is £13m (2004 £35m) where the Group is also
the lessee of the asset.
13 Investment property
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2004 226
T ransfers from property, plant and equipment 2
Disposals (12)
At 31 December 2004 216
Capitalised subsequent expenditure 12
T ransfers from property, plant and equipment 89
T ransfers to property, plant and equipment (32)
T ransfers from inventories 2
Disposals (15)
At 31 December 2005 272
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2004 59
Depreciation charge for the year 4
Disposals (2)
At 31 December 2004 61
T ransfers from property, plant and equipment 9
T ransfers to property, plant and equipment (20)
Depreciation charge for the year 5
Disposals (1)
At 31 December 2005 54
Net book value of investment property
At 31 December 2005 218
At 31 December 2004 155
At 1 January 2004 167 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 107
13 Investment property continued
£m
Fair value of investment property
At 31 December 2005 378
At 31 December 2004 288
The fair values above, which are based on market values, were prepared predominantly by the external independent valuers of Attis Real
Weatherall and CB Richard Ellis. Other valuations were prepared by in-house professionals. All valuations were prepared by those having an
appropriate professional qualification with recent experience in the relevant location of the property being valued.
2005 2004
£m £m
Rental income from investment property 32 21
Direct operating expenses for investment property that generated rental income – 1
14 Equity accounted investments
The following represent the Group’ s share of the assets, liabilities and results of equity accounted investments:
2005 2004
£m £m
Assets:
Non-current assets 3,453 3,725
Current assets 5,764 4,256
9,217 7,981
Liabilities:
Non-current liabilities (3,550) (2,989)
Current liabilities (3,946) (3,523)
(7,496) (6,512)
Carrying value 1,721 1,469
Share of results of equity accounted investments by business group
2005 2004
£m £m
Share of results excluding finance costs and taxation expense:
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 5 (1)
Land & Armaments (1) (2)
Programmes 1 –
Customer Solutions & Support 18 16
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 68 115
Commercial Aerospace 274 216
HQ and other businesses 8 4
373 348
Finance costs (11) (27)
T axation expense (149) (105)
213 216 108 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
14 Equity accounted investments continued
Principal equity accounted investments
Principally Country of
Principal activities operates in incorporation
Associates
Airbus SAS (20%) Commercial aerospace activities Europe France
(Held via BAE Systems (Operations) Limited)
Joint ventures
Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH (33%) Management and control of Eurofighter T yphoon programme Germany Germany
(Held by BAE Systems plc)
Flagship T raining Limited (50%) Supply of naval training and support services UK England
(Held via BAE Systems Electronics Limited) and Wales
Fleet Support Limited (50%) Engineering and facilities management support to the Royal Navy UK England
(Held via BAE Systems Marine (Holdings) Limited) and Wales
Gripen International KB (50%) Marketing and selling of Gripen fighter aircraft Sweden Sweden
(Held via BAE Systems (Operations) Limited)
MBDA SAS (37.5%) Development and manufacture of guided weapons Europe France
(Held via BAE Systems Electronics Limited)
Panavia Aircraft GmbH (42.5%) Management and control of T ornado programme Germany Germany
(Held via BAE Systems plc)
Saab AB (20.5%) Defence and commercial aerospace activities Sweden Sweden
(Held via BAE Systems (Sweden) AB)
Carrying value of equity accounted investments
Share of Purchased Carrying
net assets goodwill value
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 (169) 1,626 1,457
Share of results after tax 216 – 216
Reclassification 35 – 35
T ransfer to subsidiary company (5) – (5)
Reduction in shareholding 2– 2
Dividends receivable (66) – (66)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes, net of tax (111) – (111)
Foreign exchange adjustment (56) (3) (59)
At 31 December 2004 (154) 1,623 1,469
Adoption of IAS 39 770 – 770
At 1 January 2005 616 1,623 2,239
Share of results after tax 213 – 213
Acquired through acquisition 23 – 23
Disposal 140 (136) 4
Reduction in shareholding (62) (68) (130)
Dividends receivable (88) – (88)
Market value adjustments in respect of derivative financial instruments, net of tax (470) – (470)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes, net of tax (47) – (47)
Foreign exchange adjustment (8) (15) (23)
At 31 December 2005 317 1,404 1,721
As stated in note 1, the Group has adopted IAS 39 from 1 January 2005. As a result, the Group is required to recognise its share of the
market value of the equity accounted investments’ derivative contracts as at 1 January 2005.
On 25 February 2005, the Group announced the sale of 13.2 million B series shares in the capital of Saab AB for a net consideration of
£125m. Following the sale and subsequent conversion of 1.2 million A series shares to B series shares and the exercise of the over
allotment option of a further 1.8 million B series shares, BAE Systems owns 20.5% of Saab AB.
The market value of the Group’ s shareholding in Saab AB at 31 December 2005 was £278m (2004 £336m). BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 109
14 Equity accounted investments continued
Additional disclosures in respect of the Group’s share of Airbus SAS
2005 2004
£m £m
Sales 3,002 2,666
Profit before taxation 254 235
Taxation (115) (54)
Profit after taxation 139 181
Assets (excluding goodwill)
Non-current assets (including aircraft let under operating leases) 1,701 1,685
Current assets 3,083 974
4,784 2,659
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities (2,951) (2,028)
Current liabilities (1,723) (855)
(4,674) (2,883)
Share of net assets/(liabilities) 110 (224)
Goodwill at 31 December 1,063 1,063
Carrying value 1,173 839
15 Other investments 
2005 2004
£m £m
Non-current
Available for sale financial assets
Equity securities 9 66
9 66
Current
Loans and receivables
T erm deposits 35 80
Exchange Property – 674
Equity securities – other – 9
Assets at fair value through profit or loss
Designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition
Exchange Property 599 –
634 763
Reconciliation of movements
2005 2004
£m £m
Non-current
At 1 January 66 95
Additions 17 50
Acquisitions of subsidiaries 2 –
Disposals (30) –
T ransfer to subsidiary undertakings (48) (74)
Creation of impairment provision (2) (5)
Fair value movements 4 –
At 31 December 9 66
Current
At 1 January 763 699
Additions 31 51
Disposals (85) –
Fair value movements recognised in finance costs (75) –
Fair value movements recognised directly in equity – 13
At 31 December 634 763 110 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
15 Other investments continued
Exchange Property
The Exchange Property represents the Group’ s shareholding in Vodafone Group Plc.
The value of the Exchange Property was initially based on the issue price of the Exchangeable Bond (note 20), which represented the
realisable value to the Group. The historical cost of the Exchange Property to the Group is negligible, creating an unrealised gain within
equity under the previously applied UK GAAP . Subsequent balance sheet values were based on the market price of the Vodafone Group Plc
shares. Movements in the fair value of the Exchange Property were set against the original unrealised gain within equity. Cumulatively to
31 December 2004 the Group had recognised an unrealised gain of £636m directly in equity.
Following adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 1 January 2005, the Group has designated the Exchange Property as at fair value through
profit or loss. Prospectively from 1 January 2005, movements in the fair value of the Exchange Property are recognised in finance costs in
the income statement.
Also, as a result of the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39, the unrealised gain previously recognised within other reserves has been reclassified
into retained earnings in equity (note 27).
16 Trade and other receivables
2005 2004
£m £m
Non-current
Amounts owed by equity accounted investments 10 9
Other receivables 869 479
Prepayments and accrued income 33 23
912 511
Current
Long-term contract balances 4,315 4,039
Less: attributable progress payments (3,914) (3,621)
Amounts due from contract customers 440 881
Amounts due from customers for contract work 841 1,299
T rade receivables 608 357
Amounts owed by equity accounted investments 52 178
Other receivables 242 222
Prepayments and accrued income 134 142
1,877 2,198
2005 2004
Included within amounts due from customers for contract work: £m £m
Retentions outstanding against long-term contracts 10 28
17 Other financial assets and liabilities
2005 2005
Assets Liabilities
£m £m
Non-current
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts 31 (41)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts 34 (4)
65 (45)
Current
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts 39 (72)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts 15 (6)
Embedded derivatives – (3)
54 (81)
Debt-related financial instruments
Other foreign exchange/interest rates derivatives 12 (147)
The debt-related financial instruments are presented as a component of loans and overdrafts (note 20). BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 111
18 Inventories
2005 2004
£m £m
Short-term work-in-progress 222 265 
Raw materials and consumables 146 120 
Finished goods and goods for resale 117 113 
485 498 
The Group recognised £26m (2004 £39m) as a write down of inventories to their net realisable value in 2005.
19 Disposal groups 
The assets and liabilities related to the Atlas Elektronik GmbH and UK Aerostructures businesses have been presented as held for sale
following their agreed disposal in December 2005 and January 2006 respectively. Completion of the transactions is expected to take place
in the first half of 2006.
2005
£m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 56
Property, plant and equipment 57
Other receivables 5
118
Current assets
Inventories 78
T rade and other receivables 211
289
Assets of disposal groups 407
Non-current liabilities
T rade and other payables (2)
Retirement benefit obligations (67)
Deferred tax liabilities (5)
Provisions (1)
(75)
Current liabilities
T rade and other payables (177)
Provisions (18)
(195)
Liabilities of disposal groups (270) 112 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
20 Loans and overdrafts
2005 2004
£m £m
Non-current
US$200m 7% bond, repayable 2007 116 120
US$500m floating rate note, repayable 2008 290 –
Euro-Sterling £150m 11
7
/ 8% bond, repayable 2008 150 150
European Investment Bank loan, final instalment 2009 18 44
Alvis loan notes, redeemable 2009 2 2
Debt instrument of the convertible preference shares, redeemable 2009 240 –
US$500m 4.75% bond, repayable 2010 284 –
US$1bn 6.4% bond, repayable 2011 590 518
Class B and Class G certificates, final instalments 2011/2013 784 816
Euro-Sterling £100m 10
3
/ 4% bond, repayable 2014 99 100
US$750m 5.2% bond, repayable 2015 434 –
US$500m 7.5% bond, repayable 2027 288 300
Bank loans 34 3
Obligations under finance leases 70 60
Debt-related financial instruments 135 –
3,534 2,113
Current
Bank loans and overdrafts 92 2
Exchangeable £676m 3.75% Bond 667 674
European Investment Bank loans, final instalment 2009 26 24
Class B and Class G certificates, final instalment 2011/2013 82 124
Obligations under finance leases 38 112
GKN plc loan note – 15
905 951
The maturity of the Group’ s borrowings is as follows:
Less than Between 1 More than 
1 year and 5 years 5 years Total
£m £m £m £m
At 31 December 2005 905 1,610 1,924 4,439
At 31 December 2004 951 467 1,646 3,064
The US$200m 7% bond, repayable 2007 was converted at issue to a sterling fixed rate bond by utilising a cross-currency swap and has an
effective interest rate of 7.62%.
The Group has the option to redeem the US$500m floating rate note from August 2006.
The European Investment Bank borrowing consists of three sterling denominated loans, two of which mature in 2006 and the third during
2009. The coupon rate on each loan is fixed with the weighted average interest rate on these loans being 6.86%.
The Alvis loan notes were issued to certain shareholders of Alvis plc as part of the consideration paid by the Group on acquisition of that
company in 2004. The notes pay a floating sterling rate of interest on the principal amount outstanding and are redeemable at par at the
option of the holder on 31 December in any of the years up to 2009, at which time any outstanding balance will be redeemed by the Group. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 113
20 Loans and overdrafts continued
For more information on the debt instrument of the convertible preference shares refer to note 1. 
The US$500m 4.75% bond, repayable 2010 was converted on issue to a floating rate bond by utilising an interest rate swap giving an
effective rate during 2005 of 4.26%.
The US$1bn 6.4% bond, repayable 2011 was converted to a fully floating rate bond by utilising a series of interest rate swaps with different
tenors; US$500m has been swapped until maturity of the bond in 2011, US$250m has been swapped until December 2007 and
US$250m had been swapped until December 2005. The effective interest rate during 2005 was 5.17%. In December 2005 US$300m of
floating to fixed interest rate swaps came into effect, which fixed the interest payment on this notional amount at a lower rate than the
original coupon. This resulted in the interest rate split on this bond at 31 December 2005 being US$550m fixed and US$450m floating.
The Class B and Class G certificates are repayable in 2011 and 2013 respectively with fixed US$ coupon rates of 7.156% and 6.664%,
giving a weighted average interest rate of 6.879%. At 31 December 2005, the gross outstanding principal due is $1,454m. Of this balance
$529m has been converted to a sterling floating rate bond by utilising a cross-currency swap which resulted in an effective interest rate
during 2005 of 5.74% on this element.
The US$500m 7.5% bond, repayable 2027 was converted at issue to a sterling fixed rate bond by utilising a cross-currency swap and has
an effective interest rate of 7.73%.
The debt related financial instruments represent the market value of certain interest rate and cross-currency derivatives which are
specifically hedging loans disclosed within the above note. These derivatives have been entered into specifically to manage the Group’ s
exposure to foreign exchange or interest rate risk. 
Exchangeable Bonds
At any time prior to the expiry date the bondholders have the right to request to exchange their bonds for the Exchange Property, which is
represented by the Group’ s holding in the ordinary share capital of Vodafone Group Plc. This option within the Bond is classified as an
embedded derivative under IAS 39. Further information on the Exchange Property is given in note 1. Following the adoption of IAS 39, the
Bonds are now presented on a net present value basis instead of amortised cost.
Finance lease obligations
The Group has a number of non-cancellable finance lease arrangements predominantly in respect of aircraft as part of the Commercial
Aerospace business. The maturity of these lease liabilities from the balance sheet date is shown below.
2005 2004
£m £m
Finance lease liabilities – minimum lease payments due:
Not later than one year 46 112
Later than one year and not later than five years 77 78
Later than five years 1 7
124 197
Future finance charges on finance leases (16) (25)
Present value of finance lease liabilities 108 172
Present value of finance lease liabilities – payments due:
Not later than one year 38 112
Later than one year and not later than five years 69 53
Later than five years 1 7
108 172
Under the terms of the lease agreements, no contingent rents are payable.
The interest rate inherent in these finance leases is fixed at the contract date for all of the lease term. The average interest rate on finance
lease payables at 31 December 2005 was 7% (2004 7%). 114 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
21 Trade and other payables
2005 2004
£m £m
Non-current
Amounts due to long-term contract customers 120 188
Cash received on customers’ account for long-term contracts 46 5
Amounts owed to equity accounted investments 10 10
Other payables 241 237
Accruals and deferred income 15 24
432 464
Current
Amounts due to long-term contract customers 3,452 2,968
Amounts due to other customers 155 121
Cash received on customers’ account:
Long-term contracts 2 11
Others 5 2
T rade payables 606 507
Amounts owed to equity accounted investments 1,256 1,070
Other taxes and social security costs 26 23
Dividends – 11
Other payables 357 510
Accruals and deferred income 1,147 931
7,006 6,154
2005 2004
Included above: £m £m
Amounts due to long-term contract customers 3,620 3,172
22 Retirement benefit obligations
Pension plans
BAE Systems plc operates pension plans for the Group’ s qualifying employees in the UK, US and other countries. The principal plans in the
UK and US are funded defined benefit plans and the assets are held in separate trustee administered funds. The plans in other countries
are unfunded. Pension plan valuations are regularly carried out by independent actuaries to determine pension costs for pension funding
and to calculate the IAS 19 deficit.
The disclosures below relate to post-retirement benefit plans in the UK, US and other countries which are accounted for as defined 
benefit plans in accordance with IAS 19. The valuations used for the IAS 19 disclosures are based on the most recent actuarial valuation
undertaken by independent qualified actuaries and updated to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 in order to assess the deficit 
of the plans at 31 December each year . Plan assets are shown at the bid value at 31 December each year .
The plan in Germany relates to the arrangements for Atlas Elektronik GmbH. The obligations for these arrangements have been presented
as liabilities directly associated with non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale following the classification of Atlas Elektronik 
as a disposal group (note 19).
Post-retirement benefits other than pensions
The Group also operates a number of non-pension post-retirement benefit plans, under which certain employees are eligible to receive
benefits after retirement, the majority of which relate to the provision of medical benefits to retired employees of the Group’ s subsidiaries 
in the US. These plans are generally unfunded. The latest valuations of the principal plans, covering retiree medical and life insurance 
plans in certain US subsidiaries, were performed by independent actuaries as at 1 January 2005. The method of accounting for these 
is similar to that used for defined benefit pension plans. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 115
22 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The financial assumptions used to calculate liabilities for the principal plans were:
UK US
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
% %% % %%
Inflation rate 2.8 2.7 2.6 3.0 3.0 3.0
Rate of increase in salaries 3.8 3.7 3.6 5.8 5.8 5.4
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2.6-2.8 2.5-3.0 2.6-3.0 – ––
Rate of increase for deferred pensions 2.8 2.7 2.6 n/a n/a n/a
Discount rate 4.8 5.3 5.5 5.8 5.9 6.3
Long-term healthcare cost increases n/a n/a n/a 5.7 5.7 5.8
The assumptions used are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale covered, may not
necessarily occur in practice. The bid value of plan assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short term and may be subject to
significant change before they are realised, and the present value of plan liabilities, which are derived from cash flow projections over long
periods and thus inherently uncertain, as at 31 December are shown in the tables below.
For its UK pension arrangements the Group has, for the purpose of calculating its liabilities as at 31 December 2005 used PA 92 medium
cohort tables based on year of birth (as published by the Institute of Actuaries) for both pensioner and non-pensioner members in
conjunction with the results of an investigation into the actual mortality experience of plan members (2004 PA92 medium cohort tables
based on year of birth for non-pensioners and PA92 calendar year for pensioners). For its US pension arrangements the mortality tables
used for pensioners and non-pensioners are RP 2000 projected to 2006 (2004 1983 GAM). Both UK and US mortality tables are based on
the latest mortality investigations and reflect an industry-wide recognition that life expectancies have improved.
The Group has a number of healthcare arrangements in the US. The long-term healthcare cost increases shown in the table above are
based on the assumptions that the increases are 10% in 2005 reducing to 5% by 2015 for pre-retirement and 11% in 2005 reducing to 5%
for post-retirements.
A summary of the movements in the retirement benefit obligations is shown below. The full disclosures, as required by IAS 19, are provided
in the subsequent information.
Additional disclosure – summary of movements of the retirement benefit obligations
US and 2005
UK other Total
£m £m £m
Deficit in defined benefit pension plans at 1 January (3,875) (464) (4,339)
T ransfers arising on acquisitions – (89) (89)
Actual return on assets above expected return 1,151 (13) 1,138
Increase in liabilities due to changes in assumptions (2,054) (46) (2,100)
Other movements 119 (35) 84
Deficit in defined benefit pension plans at 31 December (4,659) (647) (5,306)
US Healthcare plans – (52) (52)
Total IAS 19 deficit (4,659) (699) (5,358)
Allocated to equity accounted investments 1,210 – 1,210
Group’s share of IAS 19 deficit excluding Group’s share of amounts allocated to equity accounted investments (3,449) (699) (4,148) 116 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
22 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Amounts recognised in the balance sheet
2005 2004
UK defined US and UK defined US and
benefit other US benefit other US
pension pension healthcare pension pension healthcare
plans plans plans Total plans plans plans Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of unfunded obligations – (145) – (145) – (73) – (73)
Present value of funded obligations (15,492) (2,130) (144) (17,766) (13,074) (1,335) (108) (14,517)
Fair value of scheme assets 10,833 1,628 92 12,553 9,199 944 39 10,182
T otal IAS 19 deficit, net (4,659) (647) (52) (5,358) (3,875) (464) (69) (4,408)
Allocated to equity accounted investments
1
1,210 – – 1,210 1,198 – – 1,198
Group’ s share of IAS 19 deficit, net (3,449) (647) (52) (4,148) (2,677) (464) (69) (3,210)
Group’ s share of IAS 19 deficit of equity accounted investments (303) – – (303) (370) – – (370)
Represented by:
Pension receivables (within non-current receivables) –20 – 20 ––––
Retirement benefit obligations (3,449) (600) (52) (4,101) (2,677) (464) (69) (3,210)
Liabilities directly associated with non-current assets and disposal
groups held for sale – (67) – (67) ––––
(3,449) (667) (52) (4,168) (2,677) (464) (69) (3,210)
Group’ s share of IAS 19 deficit, net (3,449) (647) (52) (4,148) (2,677) (464) (69) (3,210)
1
Certain of the Group’ s equity accounted investments participate in the Group’ s defined benefit plans. As these plans are multi-employer plans the Group has allocated an
appropriate share of the IAS 19 pension deficit to the equity accounted investments based upon a reasonable and consistent allocation method intended to reflect a reasonable
approximation of the equity accounted investments’ share of the deficit. The Group’ s share of the IAS 19 pension deficit allocated to the equity accounted investments is
included in the balance sheet within equity accounted investments.
Amounts for the current and previous four years are as follows:
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m £m
Defined benefit pension plans
Defined benefit obligations (17,767) (14,482) (12,386) (11,252) (10,349)
Plan assets 12,461 10,143 9,305 8,127 9,645
T otal deficit before tax and allocation to equity accounted investments (5,306) (4,339) (3,081) (3,125) (704)
Actuarial loss on plan liabilities (2,100) (1,621) (788) (408) *
Actuarial gain/(loss) on plan assets
1
1,138 265 827 (2,048) *
1
at bid value for 2005 and 2004, and at mid-value for prior years
*not available
Assets of defined benefit pension plans
2005
UK US Total
Expected Expected
£m % return % £m % return % £m %
Equities 7,489 69 8.0 1,270 78 8.75 8,759 70
Bonds 2,276 21 4.3 231 14 5.5 2,507 20
Other (mainly property) 1,068 10 6.0 127 8 7.0 1,195 10
Total 10,833 100 7.0 1,628 100 8.5 12,461 100
2004
UK US Total
Expected Expected
£m % return % £m % return % £m %
Equities 6,215 68 8.3 623 66 9.0 6,838 68
Bonds 1,883 20 5.0 189 20 5.6 2,072 20
Other (mainly property) 1,101 12 6.3 132 14 6.6 1,233 12
Total 9,199 100 7.3 944 100 8.75 10,143 100 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 117
22 Retirement benefit obligations continued
When setting the overall expected rate of return on plan assets, historical markets are studied and long-term historical relationships
between equities and bonds are preserved. This is consistent with the widely accepted capital market principle that assets with higher
volatility generate a greater return over time. Current market factors such as inflation and interest rates are evaluated before expected
return assumptions are determined for each asset class. The overall expected return is established with proper consideration of
diversification and rebalancing. Peer data and historical returns are reviewed to check for reasonableness and appropriateness.
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
UK defined US and
benefit other US 
pension pension healthcare
plans plans plans Total
£m £m £m £m
Value of plan assets at 1 January 2004 8,404 896 34 9,334
Assets acquired on acquisitions 150 20 (1) 169
Expected return on assets 639 80 3 722
Actuarial gain 247 18 2 267
Actual return on assets 886 98 5 989
Contributions by employer 247 63 12 322
Members’ contributions (including DWP
1
rebates) 118 10 – 128
Currency loss – (77) (3) (80)
Benefits paid (606) (66) (8) (680)
Value of plan assets at 31 December 2004 9,199 944 39 10,182
Assets acquired on acquisitions – 433 43 476
Expected return on assets 667 104 5 776
Actuarial gain/(loss) 1,151 (13) (5) 1,133
Actual return on assets 1,818 91 – 1,909
Contributions by employer 252 71 10 333
Members’ contributions (including DWP
1
rebates) 129 10 – 139
Currency gain – 152 7 159
Benefits paid (565) (73) (7) (645)
Value of plan assets at 31 December 2005 10,833 1,628 92 12,553
1
Department for Works and Pensions 118 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
22 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations before allocation to equity accounted investments are as follows:
UK defined US and
benefit other US 
pension pension healthcare
plans plans plans Total
£m £m £m £m
Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 2004 (11,152) (1,234) (133) (12,519)
Liabilities assumed on acquisitions (183) (43) – (226)
Current service cost (182) (39) (2) (223)
Members’ contributions (including DWP rebates) (118) (10) – (128)
Past service cost (30) – – (30)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on liabilities (1,441) (180) 18 (1,603)
Curtailment gains 16 – – 16
Liabilities extinguished on settlements 19 – – 19
Interest expense (609) (77) (8) (694)
Currency gain – 109 9 118
Benefits paid 606 66 8 680
Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2004 (13,074) (1,408) (108) (14,590)
Liabilities assumed on acquisitions – (522) (40) (562)
Current service cost (160) (56) (2) (218)
Members’ contributions (including DWP rebates) (129) (10) – (139)
Past service cost (17) (1) 9 (9)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on liabilities
1
(2,054) (46) 11 (2,089)
Curtailment gains 62 – – 62
Interest expense (685) (98) (8) (791)
Currency loss – (207) (13) (220)
Benefits paid 565 73 7 645
Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2005 (15,492) (2,275) (144) (17,911)
1
the loss in the year was due to changes in mortality assumptions (£503m) and changes in other assumptions (£1,586m)
Contributions
The Group contributions made to the defined benefit plans in the year ended 31 December 2005 were £260m (2004 £243m). In 2006, the
Group expects to make regular contributions at a similar level to those made in 2005. The Group is in consultation with pension plan trustees
and employees as to significant incremental contributions.The Group also incurred a charge in respect of the cash contributions of £41m
(2004 £40m) paid to defined contribution pension plans for employees. It expects to make a contribution of £52m to these plans in 2006.
The amounts recognised in the income statement after allocation to equity accounted investments are as follows:
2005 2004
UK defined US and UK defined US and
benefit other US benefit other US
pension pension healthcare pension pension healthcare
plans plans plans Total plans plans plans Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Included in operating costs:
Current service cost (123) (56) (2) (181) (127) (39) (2) (168)
Past service cost (12) (1) 9 (4) (20) – – (20)
Curtailments and settlements –––– 26 – – 26
(135) (57) 7 (185) (121) (39) (2) (162)
The loss for the year from discontinued operations is stated after recording a £62m curtailment gain.
Included in finance costs:
Expected return on plan assets 523 104 5 632 459 80 3 542
Interest on obligations (527) (98) (8) (633) (436) (77) (8) (521)
(4) 6 (3) (1) 23 3 (5) 21
Included in share of results of equity accounted investments:
Group’ s share of equity accounted investments’ operating costs (11) – – (11) (20) – – (20)
Group’ s share of equity accounted investments’ finance costs (4) – (4) 2–– 2 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 119
22 Retirement benefit obligations continued
A one percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects:
One One
percentage percentage
point point
increase decrease
£m £m
Effect on the aggregate of service cost and interest cost 0.2 0.2
Effect on defined benefit obligations 32
23 Provisions
Legal costs,
Aircraft Warranties and Reorganisations – environmental 
financing after-sales service ongoing operations and other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
Non-current 15 105 – 121 241
Current 45 70 34 101 250
At 1 January 2005 60 175 34 222 491
Created 85 45 61 170 361
Released (3) (23) (9) (61) (96)
Utilised (40) (36) (17) (33) (126)
Provisions and fair values arising on acquisitions – 15 – 99 114
On disposal of discontinued operations – (22) (8) (2) (32)
T ransfer to disposal groups held for sale – (4) – (15) (19)
Exchange adjustments 6 2 1 16 25
Other provision movements – 2 1 (3) –
At 31 December 2005 108 154 63 393 718
Represented by:
Non-current 55 90 13 217 375
Current 53 64 50 176 343
108 154 63 393 718
Aircraft financing
The provision primarily relates to probable exposures under residual value guarantees issued by the Group on previous sales transactions.
Further information is provided in note 24. Such costs are generally incurred within five years.
Warranties and after-sales service
Warranties and after-sales service are provided in the normal course of business with provisions for associated costs being made based on
an assessment of future claims with reference to past experience. Such costs are generally incurred within three years post-delivery.
Reorganisations – ongoing operations
The costs associated with the reorganisation programmes are supported by detailed plans and based on previous experience as well as
other known factors. Such costs are generally incurred within one to three years.
Legal costs, environmental and other provisions
The Group holds provisions for expected legal, environmental and other costs that it expects to incur over an extended period. These costs
are based on past experience of similar items and other known factors and represent management’ s best estimate of the likely outcome. 120 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
24 Contingent liabilities and commitments
Aircraft financing contingent liabilities
Included within the aircraft financing provision of £108m (note 23) is an exposure of £65m as discussed below:
31 December 2005 1 January 2005 31 December 2004
£m £m £m
Potential future cash flow payments in respect of aircraft financing obligations 460 628 755
Anticipated aircraft values (391) (604) (727)
Adjustments to net present values (4) (4) (5)
Net exposure provided 65 20 23
As stated in note 1, the Group has adopted IAS 39 from 1 January 2005. As a result the Group has restated the amounts shown above to the
appropriate exchange rate as at 1 January 2005. In accordance with IFRS 1, the Group is not required to restate comparative information
which is presented under UK GAAP .
The Group has provided residual value guarantees (RVGs) in respect of certain commercial aircraft sold. At 31 December 2005 the Group’ s
exposure to make future payments in respect of these arrangements was £460m (31 December 2004 £755m). Certain of these
arrangements are covered by a Financial Risk Insurance Programme (FRIP) under which the Group would place reliance on insurance cover
for the anticipated aircraft values if the guarantees were called.
After taking account of the FRIP and independent appraisal valuations the directors consider that the Group’ s net exposure to these
guarantees is covered by the provisions held and the residual values of the related aircraft.
The Group is also exposed to actual and contingent liabilities arising from commercial aircraft financing and RVGs given by Saab AB and
Airbus SAS. Provision is made against the expected net exposures on a net present value basis within the accounts of Airbus and Saab.
The Group’ s share of such exposure is limited to its percentage shareholding in each of these equity accounted investments.
Guarantees and performance bonds
The Group has entered into a number of guarantee and performance bond arrangements in the normal course of business. Provision is
made for any amounts that the directors consider may become payable under such arrangements.
Operating lease commitments – where the Group is the lessee
The Group leases various offices, factories, shipyards and aircraft under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have
varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases and associated future minimum sublease income
are as follows:
2005 2004
Payments due: £m £m
Not later than one year 66 125
Later than one year and not later than five years 273 258
Later than five years 552 493
891 876
T otal of future minimum sublease income under non-cancellable subleases 118 133
Capital commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided for in the accounts is as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 93 55
Intangible assets 8 2
101 57
Treasury contingent liabilities
T reasury contingent liabilities are set out in note 32. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 121
25 Share capital
Equity Non-equity Total
Ordinary shares Preference shares Special Share
of 2.5p each of 25p each of £1
Number of Nominal Number of Nominal Number of Nominal Nominal
shares value shares value shares value value
m£m m £m ££m
Authorised
At 1 January and 31 December 2004 3,850 96 275 69 1 1 165
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 – – (275) (69) – – (69)
At 1 January 2005 3,850 96 – – 1 1 96
Authorised in the year 600 15 –––– 15
At 31 December 2005 4,450 111 – – 1 1 111
Issued and fully paid
At 1 January and 31 December 2004 3,060 77 266 66 1 1 143
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 – – (266) (66) – – (66)
At 1 January 2005 3,060 77 – – 1 1 77
Placing of shares
1
150 3–––– 3
Exercise of options 9 ––––––
At 31 December 2005 3,219 80 – – 1 1 80
1
placing of shares represents 150 million new ordinary shares of 2.5p each issued at a price of 240 pence on 7 March 2005, raising £360m before expenses
Preference shares
The 7.75p (net) cumulative redeemable preference shares of 25p each are convertible into ordinary shares of 2.5p each at the option 
of the holder on 31 May in any of the years up to 2007, on the basis of 0.47904 ordinary shares for every preference share. During the 
year 187,489 shares were converted for 89,814 ordinary shares. The Group may redeem all of the remaining preference shares at any
time after 1 July 2007 and, in any case, will redeem any remaining shares on 1 January 2010, in each case at 100p per share together 
with any arrears and accruals of dividend. The maximum redemption value of the preference shares, ignoring any arrears or accruals of
dividend, is therefore £266m.
As stated in note 1, the Group has adopted IAS 39 from 1 January 2005. In accordance with IAS 32 the convertible preference shares are
considered to be a compound financial instrument consisting of both a debt element and an equity component which require separate
accounting treatment. Under IAS 32, the equity option element of preference shares of £78m is included as a separate component of
equity. The debt component is recognised within loans and overdrafts (note 20).
The preference shares carry voting rights at a general meeting of BAE Systems plc (the Company) only where the preferential dividend 
is six months or more in arrears, or where a motion is to be proposed which abrogates, varies or modifies the rights of the preference
shareholders, or where a motion is to be proposed for the winding up of the Company. On a winding up, holders of the preference shares 
are entitled, after repayment of the capital paid up on the Special Share and in priority to any payment to any other class of shareholder,
to the return of amounts paid up or credited as paid up on the preference shares together with a premium of 75p per share, and all 
arrears of preferential dividends.
Special Share
One Special Share of £1 in the Company is held on behalf of the Secretary of State for T rade and Industry (the Special Shareholder).
Certain parts of the Company’ s Articles of Association cannot be amended without the consent of the Special Shareholder . These 
articles include the requirement that no foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, can have an interest in more than 15% 
of the Company, the requirement that the majority of the directors are British, and the requirement that the Chief Executive and any
executive chairman are British citizens. The effect of these requirements can also be amended by regulations made by the directors 
and approved by the Special Shareholder .
The Special Shareholder may require the Company at any time to redeem the Special Share at par or to convert the Special Share into 
one ordinary voting share. The Special Shareholder is entitled to receive notice of and to attend general meetings and class meetings 
of the Company’ s shareholders but has no voting right, nor other rights, other than to speak in relation to any business in respect of the
Special Share. 122 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
26 Share-based payments
Details of the terms and conditions of each share option scheme are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 63.
Executive Share Option Scheme (ExSOS)
Equity-settled options
2005 2004
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number of exercise Number of exercise
shares price shares price
’000 £ ’000 £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 63,475 2.76 53,627 2.97
Granted during the year 10,569 2.89 13,060 2.09
Exercised during the year (992) 1.65 (165) 1.70
Expired during the year (1,653) 3.35 (3,047) 3.65
Outstanding at the end of the year 71,399 2.78 63,475 2.76
Exercisable at the end of the year 2,350 3.18 3,346 2.73
Cash-settled options
2005 2004
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number of exercise Number of exercise
shares price shares price
’000 £ ’000 £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 61,957 2.90 50,204 3.11
Granted during the year 8,946 2.71 11,753 2.02
Exercised during the year (5) 2.40 ––
Expired during the year (1,769) 2.68 ––
Outstanding at the end of the year 69,129 2.88 61,957 2.90
Exercisable at the end of the year –– ––
2005 2004
Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled
Range of exercise price of outstanding options (£) 1.72 – 4.87 1.72 – 4.21 1.72 – 2.41 1.72 – 4.21
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 77 77
Weighted average fair value of options granted (£) 1.00 1.62 0.67 0.83
Expense recognised for the year (£m) 627 48
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Equity-settled options
2005 2004
Number of Number of
shares shares
’000 ’000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 14,462 7,570
Granted during the year 5,261 6,915
Expired during the year (806) (23)
Outstanding at the end of the year 18,917 14,462
Exercisable at the end of the year – – BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 123
26 Share-based payments continued
Cash-settled options
2005 2004
Number of Number of
shares shares
’000 ’000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 16,076 8,237
Granted during the year 5,822 7,839
Expired during the year (509) –
Outstanding at the end of the year 21,389 16,076
Exercisable at the end of the year – –
2005 2004
Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 55 66
Weighted average fair value of options granted (£) 1.48 2.77 1.13 1.40
Expense recognised for the year (£m) 625 45
The exercise price for the PSP is £nil (2004 £nil).
Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
All awards are equity-settled.
2005 2004
Number of Number of
shares shares
’000 ’000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 799 211
Granted during the year 481 588
Forfeited during the year (20) –
Released during the year (213) –
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,047 799
Exercisable at the end of the year – 211
2005 2004
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 2 2
Weighted average fair value of options granted (£) 2.38 1.76
Expense recognised for the year (£m) 1 –
The exercise price for the RSP is £nil (2004 £nil).
Save-As-You-Earn (SAYE)
Equity-settled options
2005 2004
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number of exercise Number of exercise
shares price shares price
’000 £ ’000 £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 54,214 2.10 58,484 2.34
Granted during the year –– 10,960 1.56
Exercised during the year (7,372) 2.51 (31) 0.96
Expired during the year (13,191) 2.62 (15,199) 2.63
Outstanding at the end of the year 33,651 1.80 54,214 2.10
Exercisable at the end of the year –– 3,745 3.21 124 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
26 Share-based payments continued
Cash-settled options
2005 2004
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number of exercise Number of exercise
shares price shares price
’000 £ ’000 £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 16,924 2.46 12,094 2.48
Granted during the year 4,424 3.56 4,830 2.40
Exercised during the year (557) 2.56 ––
Expired during the year (6,403) 2.66 ––
Outstanding at the end of the year 14,388 2.70 16,924 2.46
Exercisable at the end of the year 3,093 2.71 5,553 2.72
2005 2004
Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled
Range of exercise price of outstanding options (£) 0.93 – 3.21 1.72 – 3.56 0.93 – 3.21 1.72 – 2.72
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 22 32
Weighted average fair value of options granted (£) – 1.15 0.65 0.58
Expense recognised for the year (£m) 39 21
Share Investment Plan
At 31 December 2005 there were no options outstanding under this plan (2004 nil).
Details of options granted in period
The fair value of both equity-settled and cash-settled options granted in the period have been measured using the weighted average inputs
below and the following valuation models:
PSP – Monte Carlo
RSP – Dividend valuation model
ExSOS & SAYE – Binomial model
2005 2004
Range of share price at date of grant (£) 2.62 – 3.85 2.01 – 2.40
Exercise price (£) 0 – 3.56 0 – 2.40
Expected option life (years) 3 – 5 3 – 5
Volatility 27 – 42% 39 – 45%
Spot dividend yield 2.6% 3.4%
Risk free interest rate 4.1 – 4.2% 4.3 – 4.5%
Volatility was calculated with reference to the Group’ s weekly share price volatility, after allowing for dividends and stock splits, for the
greater of 30 weeks or for the period until vest date.
The average share price in the year was £2.94 (2004 £2.10).
The liability in respect of the cash-settled elements of the schemes shown above and reported within provisions at 31 December 2005 is
£80m (2004 £19m).
The intrinsic value of cash-settled options that have vested at 31 December 2005 is £3m (2004 £nil). BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 125
27 Reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Equity
Issued option of
share Share preference Other Retained Minority Total
capital premium shares reserves earnings Total interest equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2004 143 412 – 5,425 (2,301) 3,679 10 3,689
T otal recognised income and expense – – – (102) (628) (730) – (730)
Share-based payments –––– 8 8 – 8
Ordinary share dividends –––– (281) (281) – (281)
Preference share dividends –––– (21) (21) – (21)
At 31 December 2004 143 412 – 5,323 (3,223) 2,655 10 2,665
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 (66) – 78 691 (281) 422 – 422
At 1 January 2005 77 412 78 6,014 (3,504) 3,077 10 3,087
Reclassification
1
– – – (636) 636–––
T otal recognised income and expense – – – (658) 295 (363) 2 (361)
Share-based payments –––– 16 16 – 16
Shares issued 3 370––– 373 – 373
Other –––––– 4 4
Ordinary share dividends –––– (315) (315) – (315)
At 31 December 2005 80 782 78 4,720 (2,872) 2,788 16 2,804
Other reserves includes a merger reserve of £4,589m (2004 £4,589m), statutory reserve
2
of £202m (2004 £202m), a fair value reserve 
of £nil (2004 £636m) and a hedging reserve of £225m (2004 £nil).
1
At 31 December 2004, the fair value reserve of £636m represented the unrealised gain on the Group’ s holdings in the shares of Vodafone Group Plc that arose on uplifting the
shares from historical cost to market value at that date. On adoption of IAS 32, and in accordance with IFRS 1, the Group’ s holding in these shares was designated as a financial
asset at fair value through profit or loss. As a result from 1 January 2005, movements in the market value of these shares will be recorded through the income statement.
Accordingly, this has been reclassified into retained earnings (note 1).
2
Under section 4 of the British Aerospace Act 1980 the statutory reserve may only be applied in paying up unissued shares of the Group to be allotted to members of the Group 
as fully paid bonus shares.
Own shares held
Own shares held are recognised as a deduction from retained earnings.
BAE Systems ESOP Trust Limited
Own shares with a weighted average cost of £5m (2004 £7m) comprise a holding of 1,748,945 (2004 2,567,228) ordinary shares of 2.5p
each in BAE Systems plc, listed on The London Stock Exchange, and are held by BAE Systems ESOP T rust of which IFG T rust (Jersey) Limited 
are the trustees.
Information on the market value and allocation of these shares to the Group’ s various share option schemes is as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Market value
Under option 4 2
Not yet allocated to share option schemes 3 4
7 6
2005 2004
Number of Number of
shares shares
Allocation
Held under Restricted Share Plan
Executive directors: under option 384,524 285,563
Other employees: under option 661,940 513,076
Not yet allocated to share option schemes 702,481 1,768,589
1,748,945 2,567,228
Dividends on the shares held in the ESOP T rust have not been waived. Finance costs and other administrative charges are included in the
income statement on an accruals basis. 126 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
28 Reconciliation of operating business cash flow
2005 2004
£m £m
Cash inflow from operating activities 2,099 2,350
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (318) (343)
Capital expenditure on investment property (12) –
Additions to intangible assets (17) (23)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 30 131
Proceeds from the sale of investment property 54 –
Proceeds from the sale of non-current other investments 30 –
Purchase of non-current other investments (17) (50)
Dividends received from equity accounted investments 88 69
Operating business cash flow 1,937 2,134
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 323 190
Land & Armaments 168 60
Programmes 285 442
Customer Solutions & Support 850 1,102
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 17 59
Commercial Aerospace 327 226
HQ and other businesses (3) 82
Discontinued operations (30) (27)
Operating business cash flow 1,937 2,134 29 Debt
Net debt as defined by the Group
2005 2004
£m £m
Other investments – current 634 763
Cash and cash equivalents 2,581 1,651
3,215 2,414
Loans – non-current (3,534) (2,113)
Loans – current (815) (950)
Overdrafts – current (90) (1)
Loans and overdrafts – current (905) (951)
Cash received on customers’ account
1
(included within payables) (53) (18)
(4,492) (3,082)
Closing net debt as defined by the Group (1,277) (668)
Movement in net debt as defined by the Group
2005 2004
£m £m
Opening net debt as defined by the Group (668) (1,806)
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 (283) –
Restated opening net debt as defined by the Group (951) (1,806)
Operating business cash flow 1,937 2,134
Interest and preference dividends (152) (179)
Taxation (27) (31)
Free cash inflow 1,758 1,924
Acquisitions and disposals (1,548) (550)
Debt acquired on acquisition of subsidiary undertaking (288) (80)
Proceeds from issue of share capital 373 –
Equity dividends paid (315) (281)
Other non-cash movements (52) 9
Foreign exchange (219) 129
Movement in cash received on customers’ account
1
(35) (13)
Closing net debt as defined by the Group (1,277) (668)
Analysis of acquisitions and disposals
Precision
United Other Total Aero- Total
Defenseacquisitions acquisitions Avionics stuctures disposals Saab Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash (consideration)/proceeds (2,204) (58) (2,262) 451 9 460 125 (1,677)
Cash and cash equivalents net of overdrafts acquired/disposed 130 (2) 128 1– 1 – 129
Aquisitions and disposals (2,074) (60) (2,134) 452 9 461 125 (1,548)
Debt acquired on acquisition of subsidiary (283) (5) (288) –––– (288)
(2,357) (65) (2,422) 452 9 461 125 (1,836)
1
cash on customers’ account is the unexpended cash received from customers in advance of delivery which is subject to advance payments guarantees unrelated to
company performance
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 127 128 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
30 Dividends
2005 2004
£m £m
Equity dividends
Prior year final 5.8p dividend per ordinary share paid in the year (2004 5.5p) 186 168
Interim 4.0p dividend per ordinary share paid in the year (2004 3.7p) 129 113
315 281
After the balance sheet date, the directors proposed a final dividend of 6.3p (2004 5.8p). The dividend, which is subject to shareholder
approval, will be paid on 1 June 2006 to shareholders registered on 21 April 2006.
The ex-dividend date is 19 April 2006.
31 Acquisition of subsidiaries
The Group made a number of acquisitions during the year , the most significant of which was of United Defense Industries, Inc. (United
Defense) in the US. The acquisitions took place throughout the year but if they had occurred on 1 January 2005, Group sales would have
been £16.2bn and profit after tax would have been £0.6bn. In the period from acquisition to 31 December 2005 the acquisitions
contributed profit after tax of £nil to the Group’ s consolidated results.
United Defense
On 24 June 2005, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of the issued share capital of United Defense, in the US, for a consideration
of £2,205m. Goodwill arising on consolidation amounted to £1,984m. United Defense is a leader in the design, development and
production of combat vehicles, artillery, naval guns, missile launchers and precision munitions used by the US Department of Defense 
and its allies worldwide and the largest US non-nuclear ship repair , modernisation, overhaul and conversion company.
With the combination of the existing RO Defence business, the acquisition of Alvis plc in 2004 and United Defense, the new global Land &
Armaments business group is positioned to take advantage of the US Department of Defense’ s mission and funding outlook, which is
expected to prioritise the evolutionary and affordable development of military platforms and the refurbishment and upgrade of existing
systems. The planned restructuring of the US Army is also likely to require an upgrade of the large inventory of Bradley and other United
Defense vehicles. The 2005 US defence budget and supplemental requests include approximately $1.3bn for resets and upgrades to the
Bradley vehicle fleet.
Land & Armaments provides the Group with a significant position within the Future Combat Systems programme, the US Army’ s largest
procurement programme, as well as enhanced opportunities on programmes such as the UK’ s Future Rapid Effect System and Sweden’ s
SEP and in the export market.
The acquisition complements existing US business in advanced electronic systems and sub-systems creating significant synergy potential.
It also allows for the further development of the Group’ s through-life support and services capabilities by adding to its operations the US
Navy’ s largest non-nuclear ship repair and overhaul contractor .
The opportunities presented by these circumstances do not translate to separately identifiable intangible assets but represent much of the
assessed value within the United Defense business supporting the recognised goodwill.
Provisional fair values have been assigned to the net assets acquired. These will be amended as necessary in light of subsequent
knowledge or events to the extent that these reflect conditions as at the date of acquisition. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 129
31 Acquisition of subsidiaries continued
The acquisition had the following effect on the Group’ s assets and liabilities:
Accounting
Book policy Fair value Fair
value alignments adjustments value
£m £m £m £m
Intangible assets 11 (6) 351 356
Property, plant and equipment 108 (1) 51 158
Inventories 201 (112) 45 134
T rade and other receivables 165 (1) 2 166
Current tax recoverable (17) – 29 12
Deferred tax assets 1 – (1) –
Retirement benefit obligations, net 43 (129) – (86)
Other investments 2 – – 2
Cash and cash equivalents 167 – – 167
Overdrafts (37) – – (37)
Loans (283) – – (283)
T rade and other payables (344) 134 (1) (211)
Other financial liabilities ––––
Deferred tax liabilities (13) 43 (113) (83)
Provisions (61) 20 (33) (74)
(57) (52) 330 221
Goodwill arising 1,984
Total consideration 2,205
Satisfied by:
Cash 2,185
Directly attributable costs:
paid 19
accrued 1
2,205 130 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
31 Acquisition of subsidiaries continued
Other acquisitions
Other acquisitions includes the acquisition, in April 2005, of AMS’ s UK operations, Integrated System T echnologies Limited, and, in May
2005, the OMC Group. AMS was the 50/50 joint venture of BAE Systems and Finmeccanica SpA which was dissolved as part of the
Eurosystems transaction. The acquisition of the OMC Group is part of the Group’ s investment in offset companies as it continues to
develop a greater indigenous presence in Saudi Arabia.
Accounting
Book policy Fair value Fair
value alignments adjustments value
£m £m £m £m
Intangible assets – – 87 87
Property, plant and equipment 42 – 1 43
Inventories 52–– 52
T rade and other receivables 102 – – 102
Deferred tax assets 85 – – 85
Retirement benefit obligations (278) – – (278)
Equity accounted investments 18 – 5 23
Cash and cash equivalents 6 – – 6
Overdrafts (8) – – (8)
Loans (5) – – (5)
T rade and other payables (247) – – (247)
Corporation tax liabilities (3) – 3 –
Deferred tax liabilities – – (26) (26)
Provisions (44) – 4 (40)
Equity minority interest (2) – (2) (4)
(282) – 72 (210)
Adjustment relating to the restructuring of the Group’ s interest in AMS NV
as part of the Eurosystems transaction 48
(162)
Goodwill arising (including £79m relating to the original investment in AMS NV) 279
Total consideration 117
Satisfied by:
Cash – paid 2004 48
Cash – paid 2005 58
Accrued costs 11
117 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 131
32 Financial risk management
A discussion of the Group’ s treasury objectives and policies and the use of financial instruments can be found in the operating and financial
review and the directors’ report. Financial instruments comprise net debt (note 29) together with other financial assets and other financial
liabilities and other instruments deemed to be financial instruments under IAS 32 including non-current receivables, non-current payables
and non-current provisions.
Hedging instruments
The notional, or contracted, amounts of derivative financial instrument are shown below, analysed between foreign exchange contracts and
interest rate contracts, classified by year of maturity.
At 31 December 2005
Not Between
exceeding 1 year and More than
1 year 5 years 5 years T otal
Foreign exchange contracts £m £m £m £m
Net forward (sales)/purchase contracts
US dollar (1,406) 93 (35) (1,348)
Euro 1,240 (59) 2 1,183
Other 20 136 – 156
(146) 170 (33) (9)
Not Between
exceeding 1 year and More than
1 year 5 years 5 years T otal
Interest rate contracts £m £m £m £m
Interest rate swap contracts
US dollar – 437 466 903
Sterling 12 73 31 116
12 510 497 1,019
Not Between
exceeding 1 year and More than
1 year 5 years 5 years T otal
Cross currency swap contracts £m £m £m £m
Net forward (sales)/purchase contracts
US dollar 21 277 460 758
Euro – (95) – (95)
Other – (135) – (135)
21 47 460 528
Fair value of financial instruments
The fair value of a financial instrument is the price at which one party would assume the rights and/or duties of another party.
The fair values of financial instruments have been determined based on available market information at the balance sheet date,
and the valuation methodologies listed below:
• the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts are calculated by discounting the contracted forward values and translating 
at the appropriate balance sheet rates;
• the fair value of both interest rate and cross currency swaps are calculated by discounting expected future principal and interest 
cash flows and translating at the appropriate balance sheet rates;
• the fair value of loans and overdrafts has been estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate
market-based interest rates prevailing at 31 December . 
Due to the variability of the valuation factors, the fair values presented at the balance sheet date may not be indicative of the amounts the
Group would expect to realise in a current market environment. 132 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
32 Financial risk management continued
The following table compares the estimated fair values of the financial assets and liabilities to their carrying value at the balance sheet date.
Net carrying Estimated
amount fair value
2005 2005
£m £m
Assets
Non-current
Other receivables
1
912 912
Other financial assets 65 65
Current
Other investments 634 634
Other financial assets 54 54
Cash and cash equivalents 2,581 2,581
Liabilities
Non-current
Loans (3,534) (3,825)
Other financial liabilities (45) (45)
Current
Loans and overdrafts (905) (905)
Other financial liabilities (81) (81)
(319) (610)
1
net carrying amount approximates to estimated fair value as there is no active market 
Interest rate risk
Based on contracted maturities and/or repricing dates, the following amounts are exposed to interest rate risk over the future as shown below:
Beyond
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2010
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Non-current
T rade and other receivables 80–––––
Current
Other investments 634–––––
Cash and cash equivalents 2,581–––––
Liabilities
Non-current
Loans (1,208) (1,208) (1,036) (707) (662) (327)
Current
Loans and overdrafts (105) ––––– BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 133
32 Financial risk management continued
Other information
Collateral
As shown above, the Group has entered into a number of financial derivative contracts to hedge certain long-term foreign currency and
interest rate exposures. Cash collateral payments can be required to be made periodically to the counterparty dependent upon the market
value of these financial derivatives. Cash deposited in this way is treated as a non-current receivable and at 31 December 2005 totalled
£80m (2004 £104m).
Committed undrawn borrowing facilities
At 31 December 2005 the Group had a revolving credit facility (RCF) of £1.5bn, which expires in more than two years but less than five
years (2004 £1.5bn which expires in more than two years but less than five years). The RCF was renewed during the year for five years with
the ability for the Group to request two additional one year extensions prior to the first and second anniversaries of the facility. In January
2006 the banks in the facility agreed to the first one year extension and as a result the facility will now expire in 2011. The RCF remained
undrawn throughout the year .
The Group’ s commercial paper programme is supported by the RCF with any amount outstanding reducing the amount that can be drawn
down on the facility. As at 31 December 2005, no amounts were outstanding under the commercial paper programme (2004 £nil).
31 December 2004
Financial risk management
For the period to 31 December 2004, the Group is reporting its comparative information on the basis of FRS 13 as required by IFRS1.
Financial instruments comprise net borrowings together with other instruments deemed to be financial instruments under FRS 13 including
non-current receivables, non-current payables, provisions and own non-equity shares (preference shares). Disclosures dealt with in this
note exclude current receivables and current payables where permitted by FRS 13 except for the analysis of net currency exposures.
Interest rate risk management
At 31 December 2004, after taking account of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps, the currency and interest rate profile of the
financial assets and liabilities of the Group was as follows:
Financial assets
Financial assets 
Floating rate Fixed rate on which no interest
financial assets financial assets is paid T otal
£m £m £m £m
Currency
Sterling 1,519 – 799 2,318
US dollar 133 60 256 449
Other 188 – 3 191
1,840 60 1,058 2,958
Floating rate financial assets attract interest at short-term interbank rates. The average period until maturity for financial assets on which
no interest is paid is two to ten years.
Fixed rate financial assets have a weighted average interest rate of 7.8% and a weighted average period to maturity of 10 years.
Interest bearing financial assets comprise cash and cash equivalents, other current investments, certain non-current investments and non-
current receivables. Financial assets on which no interest is paid include certain other current investments and non-current receivables.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities 
Floating rate Fixed rate on which no interest
financial liabilities financial liabilities is paid T otal
£m £m £m £m
Currency
Sterling 430 1,789 237 2,456
Sterling own non-equity shares – 266 – 266
US dollar 519 680 265 1,464
Other 7 2 90 99
956 2,737 592 4,285 134 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
32 Financial risk management continued
Fixed rate financial liabilities No interest is paid
Weighted average Weighted average period Weighted average
interest rate for which rate is fixed period until maturity
% Years Years
Currency
Sterling 6.80% 7.34 see below
US dollar – – 1–2
Other 8.00% 6.00 see below
Floating rate financial liabilities bear interest based on short-term interbank rates.
Interest bearing financial liabilities comprise loans and overdrafts, as disclosed in note 20. Financial liabilities on which no interest is paid
primarily comprise non-current payables, and current and non-current provisions.
Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity profile of loans and overdrafts at 31 December 2004 is set out in note 20. Non-equity shares are redeemable on 1 January
2010. For the other financial liabilities, note 23 gives an indication of the underlying liabilities which in general cover a period of between
one and five years from the balance sheet date.
Currency exposure
The analysis below shows the net monetary assets and liabilities of group companies that are not denominated in their functional currency
and therefore give rise to exchange gains and losses in the profit and loss account as at 31 December 2004. The amounts shown in the
table take into account the effect of hedging instruments used to manage these exposures.
Functional currency
Net currency monetary asset
Sterling US dollar Other Total
£m £m £m £m
Sterling –15 6 21
US dollar 2–– 2
Total 215 6 23
Fair values
The estimated fair values of financial assets and liabilities were:
Net carrying amount Estimated fair value
2004 2004
£m £m
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations
Current assets – cash and cash equivalents 1,651 1,651
Current assets – other investments 763 763
Loans and overdrafts (3,064) (3,252)
(650) (838)
Derivative financial instruments held to manage the currency and interest rate profile
Foreign exchange contracts 18 (5)
Interest rate contracts –19
Cross currency swaps 15 15
33 29
Other long-term (liabilities)/assets
Own non-equity shares (266) (333)
Non-current receivables 511 511
Non-current payables (464) (464)
Provisions (491) (491)
(710) (777)
The fair values of quoted assets and borrowings are based on period end mid-market quoted prices. The fair values of other borrowings and
derivative financial instruments are estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market rates
prevailing at 31 December . BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 135
32 Financial risk management continued
Hedges
Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are not recognised until the exposure that is being hedged is itself recognised. The table
below shows the extent to which the Group has unrecognised gains and losses on financial instruments used as hedges at 31 December 2004.
Unrecognised gains and losses
2004
Gains Losses Net
£m £m £m
At 1 January 150 (129) 21
Net movement in unrecognised gains and losses (32) 7 (25)
At 31 December 118 (122) (4)
Expected to be recognised in one year or less 61 (81) (20)
In later years 57 (41) 16
118 (122) (4)
Interest rate management
The Group uses interest rate derivative financial instruments to manage the Group’ s exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its
borrowings and deposits by varying the proportion of fixed rate debt relative to floating rate debt over the forward time horizon.
The Group’ s current interest rate management strategy is that a minimum of 25% and a maximum of 75% of debt is maintained at fixed
interest rates.
Currency management
The Group’ s principal currency exposure is the US dollar/Sterling exchange rate. Following the formation of Airbus SAS in 2001, the US
dollar exposure arising from the sale of Airbus aircraft has been managed through the joint shareholder treasury committee. Hedging
decisions have to be unanimously approved by the shareholders in this committee. BAE Systems continues to be fully hedged against its
forecast five-year US dollar transactional and economic exposures.
The Group also has transactional currency exposure arising from exports/supplies denominated in currencies other than the US dollar. 
The Group’ s policy is to hedge such exposures where appropriate using forward contracts.
33 Related party transactions
The Group has a related party relationship with its directors and key management (as disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 57 
to 74 and in note 7), its equity accounted investments (note 14) and the pension plans (note 22).
T ransactions occur with the equity accounted investments in the normal course of business and are priced on an arm’ s-length basis and
settled on normal trade terms.The more significant transactions are disclosed below: 
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Lease
Purchases Amounts Amounts income/
Sales to from owed by owed to (expense)
related related related related with related 
party party party party party Other
Related party £m £m £m £m £m £m
Airbus SAS 177 – – 745 17 –
AMS NV 2––– 1–
Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH 1,242 – 18 – – –
Flagship T raining Limited – 2 – 13––
Fleet Support Limited – 9 ––––
Gripen International KB –– 4 24––
MBDA SAS 106 14 27 478 2 –
Panavia Aircraft GmbH 24 79 2 3 – 3
Saab AB 431 – – –
Xchanging Procurement Services 14 22 1 – – –
Xchanging HR Services – 6 2––– 136 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
33 Related party transactions continued
For the year ended 31 December 2004
Lease
Purchases Amounts Amounts income/
Sales to from owed by owed to (expense)
related related related related with related
party party party party party Other
Related party £m £m £m £m £m £m
Airbus SAS 141 – 22 413 16 –
AMS NV 3 61 69 117 3 –
Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH 745 – 50 – – 1
Flagship T raining Limited ––– 10––
Fleet Support Limited 251 – – –
Gripen International KB 835 23 – –
MBDA SAS 49 23 29 516 2 –
Panavia Aircraft GmbH 87 46 6 – – 1
Saab AB ––––––
Xchanging Procurement Services – 19 ––––
Xchanging HR Services – 13––––
34 Group entities
Principally Country of
Principal activities operates in incorporation
Principal subsidiary entities
BAE Systems (Operations) Limited Defence and commercial UK England 
(Held via BAE Systems Enterprises Limited and BAE Systems (Holdings) Ltd) aerospace activities and Wales
BAE Systems Australia Limited Defence support and avionics Australia Australia
(Held via BAE Systems Australia Holdings Limited)
BAE Systems Electronics Limited Naval prime contracting UK England 
(Held via Meslink Limited) and Wales
BAE Systems Marine Limited* Shipbuilding UK England 
(Held via BAE Systems Marine (Holdings) Limited) and Wales
BAE Systems Integrated System T echnologies Limited Defence Systems UK England 
(Held via BAE Systems Electronics Limited) and Wales
BAE Systems Inc. Defence Systems US US
(Held via BAE Systems Holdings Inc.)
BAE Systems Land & Armaments Inc. Manufacture and support of 
(Held via BAE Systems Inc.) military vehicles and ship repair US & Sweden US
BAE Systems Land Systems (Munitions & Ordnance) Limited Manufacture of ammunition UK England 
formally Royal Ordnance plc and weapon systems and Wales
(Held via BAE Systems (Holdings) Limited)
BAE Systems Land Systems (Weapons & Vehicles) Limited Design, manufacture, supply and UK & Sweden England
(Held via BAE Systems Land Systems (Finance) Limited and Alvis Limited) support of armoured vehicles and Wales
Alvis Limited Manufacture and support of military vehicles UK England
(Held via BAE Systems (Holdings) Limited) and Wales
The above list sets out the principal subsidiaries within the Group accounts. It does not represent a full list of subsidiaries. All holdings
represent 100% of ordinary share capital.
*company subject to specific Office of Fair T rading undertakings. Copies of this company’ s accounts may be obtained from the BAE Systems Company Secretary.
35 Events after the balance sheet date
On 31 January 2006, the Group agreed the disposal of its UK Aerostructures business to Spirit AeroSystems Inc. for £80m in cash.
Accordingly the Aerostructures business is presented as a disposal group (note 19). BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 137
36 Explanation of transition to IFRS
As stated in note 1, these are the Group’ s first consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The accounting policies set out in note 1 have been applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005,
the comparative information presented in these financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004 and in the preparation of an
opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004 (the Group’ s date of transition).
In preparing its opening IFRS balance sheet, the Group has adjusted amounts reported previously in financial statements prepared in
accordance with UK GAAP . An explanation of how the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS has affected the Group’ s financial position, financial
performance and cash flows is set out in the following tables and notes.
Reconciliation of equity
1 January 2004 31 December 2004
T otal IFRS T otal IFRS
UK GAAP adjustments IFRS UK GAAP adjustments IFRS
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets b, c, d, e 6,017 3 6,020 5,678 437 6,115
Property, plant and equipment a, h 1,527 242 1,769 1,581 165 1,746
Investment property 167 – 167 155 – 155
Equity accounted investments b, d, e 1,610 (153) 1,457 1,604 (135) 1,469
Other investments 95 –9566 – 66
Other receivables a, b 836 (378) 458 944 (433) 511
Deferred tax assets a-h, j 84 920 1,004 107 983 1,090
10,336 634 10,970 10,135 1,017 11,152
Current assets
Inventories 388 – 388 498 – 498
T rade and other receivables including amounts due 
from customers for contract work a, g 2,970 32 3,002 2,168 30 2,198
Other investments 699 – 699 763 – 763
Cash and cash equivalents a 964 7 971 1,644 7 1,651
5,021 39 5,060 5,073 37 5,110
Total assets 15,357 673 16,030 15,208 1,054 16,262
Non-current liabilities
Loans a (1,749) (614) (2,363) (1,665) (448) (2,113)
T rade and other payables (463) – (463) (464) – (464)
Retirement benefit obligations b (170) (2,319) (2,489) (166) (3,044) (3,210)
Deferred tax liabilities a-h, j (83) 83 – (196) 182 (14)
Provisions a, c, f (427) 223 (204) (328) 87 (241)
(2,892) (2,627) (5,519) (2,819) (3,223) (6,042)
Current liabilities
Loans and overdrafts a (779) (329) (1,108) (719) (232) (951)
T rade and other payables a, c, g, i (5,681) 366 (5,315) (6,377) 223 (6,154)
Retirement benefit obligations b (5) 5 – (13) 13 –
Current tax (196) – (196) (200) – (200)
Provisions a (203) – (203) (346) 96 (250)
(6,864) 42 (6,822) (7,655) 100 (7,555)
Total liabilities (9,756) (2,585) (12,341) (10,474) (3,123) (13,597)
Net assets 5,601 (1,912) 3,689 4,734 (2,069) 2,665
Capital and reserves
Issued share capital 143 – 143 143 – 143
Share premium 412 – 412 412 – 412
Other reserves 5,572 (147) 5,425 5,574 (251) 5,323
Retained earnings (536) (1,765) (2,301) (1,405) (1,818) (3,223)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 5,591 (1,912) 3,679 4,724 (2,069) 2,655
Minority interests 10 –1010 – 10
Total equity 5,601 (1,912) 3,689 4,734 (2,069) 2,665 138 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
36 Explanation of transition to IFRS continued
Reconciliation of profit
For the year ended 31 December 2004
T otal IFRS Discontinued Continuing 
UK GAAP adjustments IFRS operations operations
Notes £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Combined sales of Group and equity accounted investments a, g 13,479 73 13,552 330 13,222 
Less: share of equity accounted investments g (4,384) 14 (4,370) 35 (4,405)
Revenue 9,095 87 9,182 365 8,817 
Operating costs a-h (9,443) 262 (9,181) (812) (8,369)
Other income 110 – 110 – 110 
Group operating profit excluding amortisation 
and impairment of intangible assets 695 10 705 37 668 
Amortisation (4) (9) (13) – (13)
Impairment (929) 348 (581) (484) (97)
Group operating profit (238) 349 111 (447) 558 
Share of results of equity accounted investments 
excluding finance costs and taxation expense b, e 322 26 348 – 348 
Goodwill impairment d (109) 109 – – – 
Finance costs b, e (30) 3 (27) – (27)
T axation expense b, d (95) (10) (105) – (105)
Share of results of equity accounted investments b, d, e 88 128 216 – 216 
Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,
finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) 1,017 36 1,053 37 1,016 
Amortisation (4) (9) (13) – (13)
Impairment (1,038) 457 (581) (484) (97)
Finance costs of equity accounted investments (30) 3 (27) – (27)
T axation expense of equity accounted investments (95) (10) (105) – (105)
Operating profit (150) 477 327 (447) 774 
Finance costs
Financial income a, b 57 552 609 – 609 
Financial expense a, b (234) (524) (758) – (758)
(177) 28 (149) – (149)
Profit before taxation (327) 505 178 (447) 625 
Taxation expense a-h, j (139) (36) (175) (7) (168)
Profit for the year from continuing operations (466) 469 3 457 
Loss for the year from discontinued operations – – – (454)
Profit for the year (466) 469 3 (454) 457 
Attributable to:
BAE Systems shareholders (467) 469 2 (454) 456 
Equity minority interests 1– 1 – 1 
(466) 469 3 (454) 457 
Earnings per share
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (16.0)p 15.4p (0.6)p (14.8)p 14.2p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (16.0)p 15.4p (0.6)p (14.8)p 14.2p BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 139
36 Explanation of transition to IFRS continued
Pro-forma consolidated balance sheet (reflecting the impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39):
At Derivative At 
31 December financial Preference Exchangeable 1 January
2004 instruments shares Bond 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 6,115––– 6,115
Property, plant and equipment 1,746––– 1,746
Investment property 155––– 155
Equity accounted investments 1,469 770 – – 2,239
Other investments 66––– 66
Other receivables 511 (11) – – 500
Other financial assets – 12 – – 12
Deferred tax assets 1,090 14 – (8) 1,096
11,152 785 – (8) 11,929
Current assets
Inventories 498––– 498
T rade and other receivables including amounts 
due from customers for contract work 2,198 (72) – – 2,126
Other investments 763––– 763
Other financial assets – 150 – – 150
Cash and cash equivalents 1,651 (16) – – 1,635
5,110 62 – – 5,172
Total assets 16,262 847 – (8) 17,101
Non-current liabilities
Loans (2,113) (63) (223) 24 (2,375)
T rade and other payables (464) – – – (464)
Retirement benefit obligations (3,210) – – – (3,210)
Other financial liabilities – (10) – (62) (72)
Deferred tax liabilities (14) – – – (14)
Provisions (241) (4) – – (245)
(6,042) (77) (223) (38) (6,380)
Current liabilities
Loans and overdrafts (951) (5) – – (956)
T rade and other payables (6,154) 64 – – (6,090)
Other financial liabilities – (138) – – (138)
Current tax (200) – – – (200)
Provisions (250) – – – (250)
(7,555) (79) – – (7,634)
Total liabilities (13,597) (156) (223) (38) (14,014)
Net assets 2,665 691 (223) (46) 3,087
Capital and reserves
Issued share capital 143 – (66) – 77
Share premium 412––– 412
Equity option of convertible preference shares – – 78 – 78
Other reserves 5,323 691 – – 6,014
Retained earnings (3,223) – (235) (46) (3,504)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 2,655 691 (223) (46) 3,077
Minority interests 10––– 10
Total equity 2,665 691 (223) (46) 3,087
Notes to the reconciliation of equity
In addition to the accounting adjustments described below, the Group reclassified the following items:
• Current/non-current assets and liabilities – IFRS requires that all assets and liabilities are presented on a current/non-current basis;
• Short-term deposits – under IFRS these are classified as cash and cash equivalents;
• Investment property – in accordance with IFRS, all land and buildings that are owned but not in use within the Group are separately classified; 140 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
36 Explanation of transition to IFRS continued
• Software – IFRS requires that software costs are capitalised as intangible assets;
• Retirement benefit obligation – under IFRS this is separately presented from trade and other payables;
• Long-term contract balances – under IFRS the amounts recoverable under long-term contacts are presented on the balance sheet 
as a single amount;
• T axation – in accordance with IFRS, assets and liabilities for current tax and deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented separately;
• Share of results of equity accounted investments – IFRS requires that the Group’ s share of operating profit, finance costs and taxation
expense of equity accounted investments are presented as a single line in the income statement.
(a) Regional aircraft financing
As previously reported, the Group has provided guarantees in respect of residual values and head lease and finance payments on certain
regional aircraft sold. These arrangements were transacted through Special Purpose Entities (SPEs) that were not considered to be quasi
subsidiaries forming part of the consolidated Group under UK GAAP . In addition, the Group entered into various lease arrangements that are
treated as operating leases under UK GAAP .
A significant proportion of the net exposures arising from these arrangements is covered by a Financial Risk Insurance Programme (FRIP),
which provides insurance cover for potential shortfalls in contracted and expected income.
On transition to IFRS, IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (IAS 27) requires the consolidation of all subsidiaries 
and SPEs the Group controls at 1 January 2004. Based on the IAS 27 definition of control, and after taking into account the facts and
circumstances relevant at the transition date, the Group has determined that it controls these SPEs. Accordingly, the gross assets 
and obligations of the SPEs are consolidated in the IFRS balance sheet as at 1 January 2004. In addition, a number of the lease
arrangements are reclassified from operating leases under UK GAAP to finance leases following their assessment against the 
lease classification criteria in IAS 17 Leases with resulting changes to assets and debt.
Additionally, the reclassification of certain operating leases as finance leases outlined above require the reclassification of amounts
payable under operating leases included within trade and other payables due after more than one year to amounts payable under 
finance leases within net debt. The post-FRIP aircraft provision under UK GAAP remains under IFRS.
The balance sheet adjustment replaces the UK GAAP recourse provision and Option Aircraft Bond with aircraft (property, plant and
equipment), an insurance receivable (trade and other receivables), trade and other payables and external debt. The adjustment to the
income statement includes the recognition of additional lease income on the aircraft within revenue, depreciation on the aircraft within
operating costs and an interest charge on the additional net debt offset by the reversal of the NPV adjustment disclosed under UK GAAP .
The impact from these changes is summarised as follows:
At For the year ended
1 January 2004 31 December 2004
£m £m
Income statement
Revenue 44
Operating costs (40)
EBITA 4
Financial income 10
Financial expense (3)
Adjustment to profit before taxation 11
Related taxation effect (3)
Adjustment to profit after taxation 8
Net assets
Property, plant and equipment 389 301
T rade and other receivables 153 169
Cash and cash equivalents 77
T rade and other payables 220 56
Loans and overdrafts (943) (680)
Provisions 227 198
53 51
Related taxation effect (16) (15)
Adjustment to net assets 37 36 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 141
36 Explanation of transition to IFRS continued
(b) Pensions
Under UK GAAP , the Group accounted for defined benefit pension schemes in accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice
24 Accounting for Pension Costs (SSAP 24). The Group also reported the transitional disclosures required in accordance with Financial
Reporting Standard 17 Retirement Benefits (FRS 17), including the adjustment from the figures reported under SSAP 24 which would 
be required if FRS 17 was adopted in the financial statements.
The methodology and assumptions used to calculate the value of pension assets and liabilities under FRS 17 are substantially consistent
with the requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (IAS 19). An area of difference that impacts the adjustment from SSAP 24 to IAS19
relates to the valuation of pension fund assets. Under FRS 17, equities are valued using mid-market prices at valuation date whereas IFRS
requires the use of bid prices.
The Group has allocated an appropriate share of the IAS 19 pension deficit to the equity accounted investments using a consistent method
of allocation.
The balance sheet adjustment replaces the existing SSAP 24 pension asset and related deferred tax with the Group’ s share of the IAS 19
pension liability in provisions and the Group’ s share of the IAS 19 deficit allocated to the equity accounted investments within fixed asset
investments, and the related deferred tax assets. The adjustment to intangible assets represents the impact of replacing the SSAP24
pension asset in the acquisition balance sheet of certain acquisitions made in 2004 with the IAS 19 liability and the related deferred tax.
The income statement adjustment reflects the difference between the existing SSAP 24 operating charge and the Group’ s IAS 19 pension
charge and net pension financing credit. The Group’ s share of the operating charge recorded by the equity accounted investments is shown
as an adjustment to the share of equity accounted investments result.
The impact from these changes is summarised as follows:
At For the year ended
1 January 2004 31 December 2004
£m £m
Income statement
Operating costs 11
Share of results of equity accounted investments 6
Financial income 542
Financial expense (521)
Adjustment to profit before taxation 38
Related taxation effect (17)
Adjustment to profit after taxation 21
Net assets
Intangible assets –51
Investments in joint ventures and associates (154) (260)
T rade and other receivables (531) (602)
Retirement benefit obligation (2,314) (3,031)
(2,999) (3,842)
Related taxation effect 896 1,132
Adjustment to net assets (2,103) (2,710)
(c) Business combinations
Under UK GAAP , the difference between the consideration paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the net tangible assets acquired is
recognised as goodwill. IFRS requires that intangible assets of an acquired business are separately recognised from goodwill if their fair
value can be measured reliably. Intangible assets include trademarks, order backlog, licences and patented technologies. Intangible
assets recognised are then amortised over their useful life. Under the transition rules, the Group is not required to identify any acquired
intangible assets for acquisitions prior to 2004. As a result of acquisitions made in 2004, the Group has reclassified intangible assets 
of £153m out of goodwill arising on acquisition, with an associated amortisation charge of £7m for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Under UK GAAP , the fair value of acquired inventory is stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Under IFRS, the fair value of
acquired inventory is based on selling price less a reasonable allowance for the costs of completion and disposal. As a result, an
adjustment of £6m was made to the acquisition balance sheet. As at 31 December 2004 the uplifted inventory had been traded through
the income statement, resulting in a £6m decrease in profit before tax for the year . Deferred tax liabilities have also been recognised in
respect of these intangible assets with a corresponding increase in acquired goodwill. 142 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
36 Explanation of transition to IFRS continued
The impact from these changes is summarised as follows:
For the year ended
31 December 2004
£m
Income statement
Operating costs (6)
Amortisation of intangible assets (7)
Adjustment to profit before taxation (13)
Related taxation effect 5
Adjustment to profit after taxation (8)
Net assets
Intangible assets 30
T rade and other payables 7
Provisions (1)
36
Related taxation effect (48)
Adjustment to net assets (12)
(d) Intangible assets – goodwill
Under UK GAAP , the Group’ s policy was to capitalise goodwill in respect of businesses acquired and amortise it on a straight line basis 
over its estimated useful economic life, which had been assessed as 20 years for all recent acquisitions.
On transition to IFRS, IFRS 1 requires the Group to conduct an impairment review of the carrying value of capitalised goodwill at 
1 January 2004 for potential impairments. No further impairments above those made under UK GAAP were required at 1 January 2004.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, no amortisation of goodwill is charged in the Group’ s consolidated IFRS accounts from 
1 January 2004. Instead, annual reviews of the goodwill are performed to test for impairments.
The adjustment reverses the amortisation charged in the year under UK GAAP of £492m. In addition, £35m of amortisation charged under
UK GAAP relating to the Avionics business is treated as an additional impairment under IFRS. As a result there is a net increase to net assets.
The impact from these changes is summarised as follows:
At For the year ended
1 January 2004 31 December 2004
£m £m
Income statement
Operating costs 348
Share of results of equity accounted investments 109
Adjustment to profit before taxation 457
Related taxation effect –
Adjustment to profit after taxation 457
Net assets
Goodwill – 348
Investments in joint ventures and associates – 109
– 457
Related taxation effect ––
Adjustment to net assets – 457 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 143
36 Explanation of transition to IFRS continued
(e) Intangible assets – development costs
Under IAS 38 Intangible Assets (IAS 38), the Group is required to recognise, capitalise and amortise intangible assets on the balance sheet
providing they meet certain recognition criteria.
Intangible assets include company-funded development expenditure.
Most of the Group’ s expenditure on research and development is conducted under specific customer contracts. The balance relates to
company-funded research and development expenditure which under UK GAAP was expensed as incurred. Of this balance, a significant
proportion relates to research costs that will continue to be expensed as incurred.
IAS 38 requires company-funded development expenditure to be capitalised from the point it meets certain recognition criteria and
amortised over the estimated life of the development product.
The adjustment capitalises certain research and development costs previously expensed under UK GAAP .
The impact from these changes is summarised as follows:
At For the year ended
1 January 2004 31 December 2004
£m £m
Income statement
Operating costs 4
Share of results of equity accounted investments 13
Adjustment to profit before taxation 17
Related taxation effect (1)
Adjustment to profit after taxation 16
Net assets
Intangible assets 38
Investments in joint ventures and associates 116
424
Related taxation effect (1) (2)
Adjustment to net assets 322
(f) Share-based payments
Under UK GAAP , the cost of share options was based on the intrinsic value in the option at the date of grant, meaning that options granted to
employees at market price do not generate an expense. Options granted under Save-As-Y ou-Earn schemes are at a 20% discount to market
price on the date of the grant and are exempt from UK GAAP accounting.
Under IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, the Group measures the cost of all share options granted since November 2002 using fair value
models. As a result, additional expense is recognised in the IFRS income statement.
The adjustment increases the operating charge of the Group’ s share option schemes, with a portion of the increase being reflected in an
increased balance sheet liability in respect of cash-settled share option schemes operated in the Group’ s US business.
The impact from these changes is summarised as follows:
At For the year ended
1 January 2004 31 December 2004
£m £m
Income statement
Operating costs (18)
Adjustment to profit before taxation (18)
Related taxation effect 9
Adjustment to profit after taxation (9)
Net assets
Provisions (4) (14)
(4) (14)
Related taxation effect 16
Adjustment to net assets (3) (8) 144 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the group accounts continued
36 Explanation of transition to IFRS continued
(g) Long-term contracts
The Group accounted for long-term contracts under UK GAAP in accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 9 Stocks and
Long-term Contracts. Under IFRS, long-term contracts are accounted for under either IAS 11 Construction Contracts or IAS 18 Revenue
depending on the characteristics of the contract and its deliverables. These standards provide more guidance on the determination of the
timing and amount of revenue recognition.
The impact from these changes is summarised as follows:
At For the year ended
1 January 2004 31 December 2004
£m £m
Income statement
Combined sales of Group and equity accounted investments 29
Less: adjustment for share of equity accounted investments 14
Operating costs (41)
Adjustment to profit before taxation 2
Related taxation effect (1)
Adjustment to profit after taxation 1
Net assets
T rade and other receivables 33 31
T rade and other payables (22) (18)
11 13
Related taxation effect (4) (5)
Adjustment to net assets 78
(h) Revaluation of land and buildings
It had been the Group’ s policy under UK GAAP to revalue its land and buildings until Financial Reporting Standard 15 T angible Fixed Assets
was adopted in 2000. At that point the Group elected that no further revaluation of land and buildings would be undertaken. The Group will
not be adopting the exemption under the transition rules of IFRS 1 that allows the previous GAAP valuation to be used as the deemed cost
on transition to IFRS. Accordingly, the Group has reversed the previously recognised revaluations and has reverted to the use of historical
cost for land and buildings.
The balance sheet adjustment reverses the existing UK GAAP revaluation reserve against the underlying fixed assets. The income
statement adjustment reflects the reduction in the depreciation charge.
The impact from this change is summarised as follows:
At For the year ended
1 January 2004 31 December 2004
£m £m
Income statement
Operating costs 11
Adjustment to profit before taxation 11
Related taxation effect (3)
Adjustment to profit after taxation 8
Net assets
Property, plant and equipment (147) (136)
(147) (136)
Related taxation effect 19 16
Adjustment to net assets (128) (120) BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 145
36 Explanation of transition to IFRS continued
(i) Proposed dividends
Under Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 17 Post Balance Sheet Events, proposed dividends are accrued for as an adjusting post
balance sheet event in the accounting period to which they relate. Under IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, dividends are
recognised in the accounting period in which they are declared. Accordingly, the Group has reversed the accrual for its proposed dividends.
(j) Taxation
Under IAS 12 Income T axes, certain temporary timing differences, principally in respect of capital losses and rollover relief, that previously
were not recognised under UK GAAP , have been recognised. In addition, under IFRS deferred tax liabilities are created on a periodic basis
where goodwill is tax deductible.
The impact from these changes is summarised as follows:
At For the year ended
1 January 2004 31 December 2004
£m £m
Income statement
T axation expense (25)
Adjustment to profit after taxation (25)
Net assets
Deferred tax assets 107 80
Adjustment to net assets 107 80
Explanation of material adjustments to the cash flow statement for 2004
Short-term deposits that were classified as liquid resources under UK GAAP are reclassified as cash and cash equivalents under IFRS.
There are no other material differences between the cash flow statement presented under IFRS and the cash flow statement presented
under UK GAAP .
Further detailed information on the Group’ s transition to IFRS can be found on the Group’ s investor relations website at www.baesystems.com 146 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Company balance sheet
as at 31 December
Restated
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
T angible assets 2 19 22
Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 3 4,978 4,603
4,997 4,625
Current assets
Stocks 4 2 2
Debtors due within one year 5 6,115 3,306
Debtors due after one year 5 121 176
Investments 6 599 1,242
Other financial assets due within one year 7 152 –
Other financial assets due after one year 7 57 –
Cash at bank and in hand 1,332 743
8,378 5,469
Liabilities falling due within one year
Loans and overdrafts 8 (748) (923)
Creditors 10 (9,707) (7,169)
Other financial liabilities 7 (167) –
(10,622) (8,092)
Net current liabilities (2,244) (2,623)
Total assets less current liabilities 2,753 2,002
Liabilities falling due after one year
Loans 8 (936) (722)
Creditors 10 (1) (4)
Other financial liabilities 7 (42) –
(979) (726)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 11 (3) (5)
1,771 1,271
Capital and reserves
Issued share capital 13 80 143
Equity option of convertible preferences shares 13 78 –
Share premium account 14 782 412
Statutory reserve 15 202 202
Other reserves 14 49 128
Profit and loss account 14 580 386
Equity shareholders’ funds
1
1,771 1,271
1
2004 includes £266m non-equity shareholders’ funds
Approved by the Board on 22 February 2006 and signed on its behalf by:
M J T urner G W Rose
Chief Executive Group Finance Director BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 147
1 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale
financial assets and financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through profit or loss, and 
in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom (UK GAAP). The going concern basis has been applied 
in these accounts.
In the Company’ s accounts, all fixed asset investments (including subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures) are stated at cost (or
valuation in respect of certain listed investments) less provisions for impairments. Dividends received and receivable are credited to 
the Company’ s profit and loss account. In accordance with section 230(4) of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from 
the requirement to present its own profit and loss account. The amount of profit for the financial year of the Company is disclosed 
in note 14 to these accounts.
Relief under sections 131 and 133 of the Companies Act 1985 is taken wherever possible. Accordingly, where such relief is available, the
difference between the fair value and aggregate nominal value of shares is not recognised in either shareholders’ funds or cost of investment.
Cash flow statement
The Company is exempt under the terms of Financial Reporting Standard 1, paragraph 5a, from the requirement to publish its own 
cash flow statement, as its cash flows are included within the consolidated cash flow statement of the Group.
Foreign currencies
T ransactions in overseas currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. These exchange
differences are recognised in the profit and loss account unless they qualify for hedge accounting treatment, in which case the effective
portion is recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
Tangible fixed assets
Depreciation is provided, normally on a straight line basis, to write off the cost or valuation of tangible fixed assets over their estimated
useful economic lives to any estimated residual value using the following rates:
Buildings up to 50 years, or the lease term if shorter
Computing equipment, motor vehicles 
and short life works equipment 3 to 5 years
No depreciation is provided on freehold land and assets in the course of construction.
Impairment reviews are undertaken if there are indications that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Leases
Assets obtained under finance leases are included in tangible fixed assets at cost and are depreciated over their useful economic lives,
or the term of their lease, whichever is shorter . Future instalments under such leases, net of finance charges, are included within loans.
Rental payments are apportioned between the finance element, which is charged as interest to the profit and loss account, and the 
capital element, which reduces the outstanding obligation for future instalments, so as to give a constant rate of charge on the 
outstanding obligation.
Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis in arriving at operating profit.
Investments
The Company’ s investment in shares in group companies are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Stocks
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost, including all relevant overhead expenditure, and net realisable value.
Notes to the company accounts 148 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the company accounts continued
1 Accounting policies continued
Tax
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes account of taxation deferred because of timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. Deferred tax is recognised on an undiscounted basis in respect of 
all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed 
by the balance sheet date where there is an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, in the future.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The Company contributes to Group pension plans operated in the UK. Details of the principal plans and the financial assumptions used 
are contained in the consolidated accounts of BAE Systems plc. As permitted by Financial Reporting Standard 17 Retirement Benefits 
(FRS 17), the plans are accounted for as defined contribution plans, as the employer cannot identify its share of the underlying assets 
and liabilities of the plans. The employer’ s contributions are set in relation to the current service period only.
Share options and own shares held 
In accordance with Urgent Issues T ask Force Abstract 25 – National insurance contributions on share option gains (UITF 25) the Company
provides in full for the employer’ s national insurance liability estimated to arise on the future exercise of share options granted, except
where the employee has agreed to settle the employer’ s national insurance liability as a condition of the grant of the options.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption offered in Urgent Issues T ask Force Abstract 17 – Employee share schemes (UITF 17)
from charging to the profit and loss account the 20% discount offered to employees partaking in such Company operated SAYE schemes.
As required under Urgent Issues T ask Force Abstract 38 – Accounting for ESOP trusts (UITF 38) the cost to the Company of own shares 
held is shown as a deduction from shareholders’ funds within the profit and loss account. Consideration paid or received for the purchase
or sale of the Company’ s own shares in the ESOP trust is shown separately in the reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds.
Preference share capital
The Company has in issue 7.75p (net) cumulative preference shares of 25p each that are convertible into the Company’ s ordinary shares 
of 2.5p each at the option of the holder on 31 May in any of the years up to 2007, on the basis of 0.47904 ordinary shares for every
preference share. From 1 July 2007 to 1 January 2010, the Company may redeem any outstanding shares at 100p per share, together 
with any arrears and accruals of dividends.
The Company has adopted Financial Reporting Standard 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation (FRS 25) with effect from 
1 January 2005. In accordance with FRS 25, the Company is not required to restate comparative information but is required to present the
comparative information. Accordingly, the Company has presented its 2004 comparative information for preference share capital in
accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 4 Capital Instruments (FRS 4). The policies for the year ended 31 December 2005 and
31 December 2004 are discussed below. Further information on the impact of the changes in accounting policies are given below.
Periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
In accordance with FRS 25 the preference shares are considered a compound financial instrument and accordingly, have been split into 
an underlying debt instrument, classified within loans and overdrafts, and an equity conversion option, classified within equity.
The underlying debt instrument is presented on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the preference shares.
The equity conversion option is presented at its historic fair value, based on the date of original issue of the preference shares. On
conversion of a preference share into ordinary shares, the attributable amount of the equity component is reclassified to share capital 
and share premium. From 1 July 2007, the option to convert into ordinary shares is extinguished, and accordingly the remaining balance 
on the equity conversion option will be transferred to the retained earnings reserve.
Dividends thereon are recognised in the income statement as finance costs.
Period to 31 December 2004
The preference shares are presented as a component of equity. Dividends thereon are recognised as a deduction from reserves.
Dividends
Equity dividends on ordinary share capital are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 149
1 Accounting policies continued
Changes in accounting policies
Adoption of FRS 17
For accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005, the Company is required to account for retirement benefit plans in
accordance with FRS 17, and is required to apply the requirements of FRS 17 retrospectively. Accordingly, the pension prepayment of
£273m at 31 December 2004 previously recognised within debtors due after one year under Statement of Standard Accounting Practice
24 Accounting for pension costs has been reversed. This has reduced net assets at 31 December 2004.
Adoption of FRS 21
For accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005, the Company is required to account for events occurring after the balance
sheet date in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 21 Events after the balance sheet date (FRS 21), and is required to apply the
requirements of FRS 21 retrospectively. Accordingly, the 2004 final equity dividend of £178m previously recognised at 31 December 2004
within creditors due within one year has been reversed since it was not declared at the balance sheet date. This has increased net assets
at 31 December 2004.
Adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26
For accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005, the Company is required to measure and disclose amounts defined as
financial instruments in accordance with FRS 25 and FRS 26. In accordance with FRS 25, the Company is not required to restate
comparative information. The impact of adopting FRS 25 and FRS 26 is discussed below:
Derivative financial instruments
Under UK GAAP the fair value of financial instruments designated as hedging instruments were not separately recognised on the balance
sheet as either a financial asset or financial liability. The underlying assets and liabilities against which the hedging instruments had been
designated were recorded at the appropriate hedge rate.
With the adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26 from 1 January 2005, the Company was required to restate its underlying hedged assets and
liabilities at the prevailing balance sheet rate, and separately account for the fair value of the hedging instruments as either financial
assets or financial liabilities. All such instruments were measured at fair value as at the balance sheet date. The impact of this change was
a reduction in the Company’ s net assets of £41m.
Exchangeable Bonds
Following adoption of FRS 26, the Company determined that the option holders’ right to request to exchange their Bonds for the Exchange
Property, represented by the Company’ s shareholding in Vodafone Group Plc (note 6), was an embedded derivative. Accordingly, this
embedded derivative had to be separated from the underlying debt instrument, measured at fair value and accounted for separately 
within the balance sheet.
The fair values of the underlying debt instrument and the embedded derivative are determined as follows:
Underlying debt instrument
On adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26, the underlying debt instrument is presented on a net present value basis within loans and overdrafts
(note 8).
At subsequent period ends, the value of the debt instrument continues to be presented on a net present value basis, with the amortisation
charge being recognised in finance costs in the profit and loss account, until the instrument is extinguished on conversion to the Exchange
Property or maturity.
The impact of this change was a £24m reduction in the recorded value of the Exchangeable Bonds as at 1 January 2005.
Embedded derivative
On adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26, the value of the embedded derivative was calculated by reference to the market value of the Bonds 
at 1 January 2005, less the carrying value of the underlying debt instrument recognised at that date. Subsequent movements in the 
fair value of the embedded derivative are recognised in finance costs in the profit and loss account.
The impact of this change was the recognition of a £62m embedded derivative liability within other financial liabilities as at
1 January 2005. 150 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the company accounts continued
1 Accounting policies continued
Exchange property
Following adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26, the Company has designated the Exchange Property as at fair value through profit or loss.
Movements in the fair value of the Exchange Property will continue to be recognised in finance costs in the profit and loss account.
Preference shares
Under UK GAAP , the preference shares were treated as a component of equity, and the redemption value of £266m was recorded as the
total of non-equity shareholders’ funds. The preference shares allow the preference shareholders to convert their holding into ordinary
shares of the Company on the basis of 0.47904 ordinary shares for every preference share on 31 May each year to 2007. From 1 July 2007
to 1 January 2010, the Group may redeem all of the remaining preference shares at any time at 100p per share, together with any arrears
and accruals of dividends.
Following adoption of FRS 25, the Company determined that the existence of the conversion option over the Company’ s ordinary shares
meant the preference shares met the definition of a compound financial instrument, consisting of an underlying debt component and an
equity conversion option. Accordingly the equity conversion option had to be separated from the underlying debt instrument, measured at
fair value at the date of issue of the preference shares and accounted for separately.
The fair values of the underlying debt instrument and equity conversion option were determined as follows:
Underlying debt instrument
The fair value of the liability component was calculated by discounting the value of the expected future cash flows under the terms 
of the instrument using a market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond.
The impact of this change was the recognition of a £223m loan within liabilities falling due after one year as at 1 January 2005.
Equity option of convertible preference shares
The equity option over the Company’ s ordinary shares was calculated as at the date of issue of the preference shares as the difference
between the discounted value of the underlying debt instrument as at issue date and the net proceeds received on issue of the 
preference shares. The value of the equity conversion option does not change other than where options have been extinguished.
The impact of this change was a net £12m increase in the total equity of the Company:
£m
De-recognition of amounts previously recorded within issued share capital (66)
Recognition of fair value of equity conversion option 78
12 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 151
2 Tangible fixed assets
Land and buildings Plant and equipment T otal
£m £m £m
Cost 
At 1 January 2005 30 38 68
Additions –22
Disposals (4) – (4)
At 31 December 2005 26 40 66
Depreciation and Impairment
At 1 January 2005 13 33 46
Depreciation 112
Disposals (1) – (1)
At 31 December 2005 13 34 47
Net book value
At 31 December 2005 13 6 19
At 31 December 2004 17 5 22
The amounts above at 31 December 2005 include:
Land and buildings Plant and equipment T otal
£m £m £m
Capitalised finance leases
Cost –2424
Accumulated depreciation –2424
Assets let under operating leases
Cost 13 – 13
Accumulated depreciation 7– 7
Net book value of:
Freehold property 3– 3
Long leasehold property 6– 6
Short leasehold property 4– 4
Fixtures, fittings and equipment –66
13 6 19
Land and buildings comprise:
• freehold and long leasehold land and buildings owned by the Company as at 30 June 1996, excluding certain overseas properties,
revalued at that date. The majority of the Group’ s operational properties at that time were valued on a depreciated replacement basis,
owing to their specialisation, with the remainder on an existing use value basis. Other non-operational properties were valued on the
basis of open market value;
• short leaseholds at cost;
• additions subsequent to 30 June 1996 at cost; and
• land and buildings owned by subsidiary undertakings acquired since 30 June 1996 at fair value at the date of acquisition. 152 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the company accounts continued
3 Fixed asset investments
Subsidiary
undertakings Others Total
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2005 4,885 10 4,895
Additions 4,301 14 4,315
Disposals (4,144) (29) (4,173)
Revaluation –55
At 31 December 2005 5,042 – 5,042
Impairment provisions
At 1 January 2005 292 – 292
Released (228) – (228)
At 31 December 2005 64 – 64
Net carrying value
At 31 December 2005 4,978 – 4,978
At 31 December 2004 4,593 10 4,603
4 Stocks
2005 2004
£m £m
Development properties 2 2
5 Debtors
2005 2004
£m £m
Due within one year
Corporation tax recoverable 32 36
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 5,988 3,071
Amounts owed by joint ventures 7 81
Other debtors 72 69
Prepayments and accrued income 16 49
6,115 3,306
Due after one year
Amounts owed by joint ventures 7 9
Other debtors 113 142
Pensions – –
Prepayments and accrued income 1 25
121 176
Other debtors includes cash collateral of £80m (2004 £104m).
6 Current asset investments
2005 2004
£m £m
T erm deposits – 559
Exchange Property (note 1) 599 674
Other securities – 9
599 1,242
T erm deposits have been reclassified under cash and cash equivalents after adoption of FRS 25 from 1 January 2005.
Exchange Property represents the Company’ s shareholding in Vodafone Group Plc. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 153
7 Other financial assets and liabilities
2005 2005
Assets Liabilities
£m £m
Due within one year
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts 35 (70)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts 117 (94)
Embedded derivatives – (3)
152 (167)
Due after one year
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts 28 (38)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts 29 (4)
57 (42)
Full disclosures relating to the Group’ s other financial assets and liabilities and financial risk management strategies are given in the
financial review and note 32 to the Group accounts.
8 Loans and overdrafts
2005 2004
£m £m
Due within one year
Bank loans and overdrafts 44 221
European Investment Bank loans, final instalment 2009 26 24
SYSTEMS 2001 Asset T rust:
Option Aircraft bond 11 4
Exchangeable £676m 3.75% Bond (note 9) 667 674
748 923
Due after one year
Euro-Sterling £150m 11
7
/ 8% bond, repayable 2008 150 150
European Investment Bank loan, final instalment 2009 18 44
Euro-Sterling £100m 10
3
/ 4% bond, repayable 2014 99 100
SYSTEMS 2001 Asset T rust:
Option Aircraft bond, final instalment 2013 287 425
Permitted Investment bond, repayable 2010 1 1
Debt instrument of the convertible preference shares, redeemable 2009 240 –
Debt-related financial instruments 139 –
Alvis loan notes, redeemable 2009 2 2
936 722
Bank loans and overdrafts are at a floating rate of interest.
The European Investment Bank borrowing consists of three sterling denominated loans, two of which mature in 2006 and the third during
2009. The coupon rate on each loan is fixed with the weighted average interest rate on these loans being 6.86%.
The SYSTEMS 2001 Asset T rust bonds are at a floating rate of interest, having been converted to a sterling floating rate bond by utilising 
a cross-currency swap which resulted in an effective interest rate during 2005 of 5.74%.
The Alvis loan notes were issued to certain shareholders of Alvis plc as part of the consideration paid on acquisition of that company in
2004. The notes pay a floating sterling rate of interest on the principal amount outstanding and are redeemable at par at the option of 
the holder on 31 December in any of the years up to 2009, at which time any outstanding balance will be redeemed by the Company. 154 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the company accounts continued
8 Loans and overdrafts continued
Loans and overdrafts are repayable as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
In one year or less 748 923
Between one and two years 91 48
Between two and five years 484 295
In later years 361 379
1,684 1,645
The total amount of loans repayable by instalments, where any instalment is due after five years, is £299m (2004 £432m).
9 Exchangeable Bonds
The Company has in issue £676m (2004 £676m) 3.75% Senior Unsecured Exchangeable Bonds (the Bonds), due in 2006. At any time
prior to the expiry date the bondholders have the right to request to exchange their Bonds for the Exchange Property, which is represented
by the Company’ s holding in the ordinary share capital of Vodafone Group Plc. 
This option within the Bonds is classified as an embedded derivative under FRS 26. Further information on Exchange Property is given in
note 1. Following the adoption of FRS 26, the Bonds are now presented on a net present value basis instead of amortised cost.
10 Creditors
2005 2004
£m £m
Due within one year
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 8,268 5,859
Amounts owed to joint ventures 1,246 1,061
Other creditors 162 163
Accruals and deferred income 31 86
9,707 7,169
Due after one year
Other creditors 1 2
Accruals and deferred income – 2
1 4
11 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Contracts and other
£m
At 1 January 2005 5
Created 2
Utilised (4)
At 31 December 2005 3
Provisions created relate to onerous property leases.
12 Contingent liabilities and commitments
Company guaranteed borrowings
Borrowings by subsidiary undertakings totalling £2,868m (2004 £1,878m) which are included in the Group’ s borrowings have been
guaranteed by the Company. The Company has not adopted amendments to FRS 26 in relation to financial guarantee contracts which will
apply for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2006. Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the
indebtedness of other companies within its group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as
such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the
Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. The Company does not expect the amendments to have any impact on
the financial statements for the period commencing 1 January 2006. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 155
13 Share capital
Equity Non-equity Total
Ordinary shares Preference shares Special Share
of 2.5p each of 25p each of £1
Number of Nominal Number of Nominal Number of Nominal Nominal
shares value shares value shares value value
m£m m £m ££m
Authorised
At 1 January and 31 December 2004 3,850 96 275 69 1 1 165
Adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26 – – (275) (69) – – (69)
At 1 January 2005 3,850 96 – – 1 1 96
Authorised in the year 600 15–––– 15
At 31 December 2005 4,450 111 – – 1 1 111
Issued and fully paid
At 1 January and 31 December 2004 3,060 77 266 66 1 1 143
Adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26 – – (266) (66) – – (66)
At 1 January 2005 3,060 77 – – 1 1 77
Placing of shares
1
150 3–––– 3
Exercise of options 9 ––––––
At 31 December 2005 3,219 80 – – 1 1 80
1
placing of shares represents 150 million new ordinary shares of 2.5p each issued at a price of 240 pence on 7 March 2005, raising £360m before expenses
Preference shares
The 7.75p (net) cumulative redeemable preference shares of 25p each are convertible into ordinary shares of 2.5p each at the option 
of the holder on 31 May in any of the years up to 2007, on the basis of 0.47904 ordinary shares for every preference share. During the 
year 187,489 shares were converted for 89,814 ordinary shares. The Group may redeem all of the remaining preference shares at any
time after 1 July 2007 and, in any case, will redeem any remaining shares on 1 January 2010, in each case at 100p per share together 
with any arrears and accruals of dividend. The maximum redemption value of the preference shares, ignoring any arrears or accruals 
of dividend, is therefore £266m.
As stated in note 1, the Company has adopted FRS 26 from 1 January 2005. In accordance with FRS 25 the convertible preference shares
are considered to be a compound financial instrument consisting of both a debt element and an equity component which require separate
accounting treatment. Under FRS 25, the equity option element of preference shares of £78m is included as a separate component of
equity. The debt component is stated at amortised cost within loans and overdrafts.
The preference shares carry voting rights at a general meeting of BAE Systems plc (the Company) only where the preferential dividend 
is six months or more in arrears, or where a motion is to be proposed which abrogates, varies or modifies the rights of the preference
shareholders, or where a motion is to be proposed for the winding up of the Company. On a winding up, holders of the preference shares 
are entitled, after repayment of the capital paid up on the Special Share and in priority to any payment to any other class of shareholder,
to the return of amounts paid up or credited as paid up on the preference shares together with a premium of 75p per share, and all 
arrears of preferential dividends.
Special Share
One Special Share of £1 in the Company is held on behalf of the Secretary of State for T rade and Industry (the Special Shareholder).
Certain parts of the Company’ s Articles of Association cannot be amended without the consent of the Special Shareholder . These 
articles include the requirement that no foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, can have an interest in more than 15% 
of the Company, the requirement that the majority of the directors are British, and the requirement that the Chief Executive and any
executive chairman are British citizens. The effect of these requirements can also be amended by regulations made by the directors 
and approved by the Special Shareholder .
The Special Shareholder may require the Company at any time to redeem the Special Share at par or to convert the Special Share into 
one ordinary voting share. The Special Shareholder is entitled to receive notice of and to attend general meetings and class meetings 
of the Company’ s shareholders but has no voting right, nor other rights, other than to speak in relation to any business in respect of the
Special Share. 156 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Notes to the company accounts continued
14 Reserves
Share premium Other Profit and 
account reserves loss account
£m £m £m
At 31 December 2004 (restated) 412 128 386
Adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26 – (76) (235)
Retained profit – – 728
Dividends paid – – (315)
Share-based payments –– 16
Shares issued 370––
Movements in hedging reserve –(3) –
At 31 December 2005 782 49 580
Other reserves
Other reserves for the Company comprise: capital reserve £24m (2004 £24m) hedging reserve £(79)m (2004 £nil) and non-distributable
reserve arising from property disposals to other Group undertakings £104m (2004 £104m). The non-distributable reserve arising from
property disposals to other Group undertakings relates to the revaluation surplus realised by the Company on properties which were sold 
to other Group companies as part of operational reorganisations in prior years. Amounts within this reserve will be transferred to the profit
and loss account as distributable when the related properties are disposed of outside the Group, or written down following impairment.
Own shares held and share-based payments
Within the profit and loss account of the Company there are deductions for the value of own shares held of £5m (2004 £7m) which
comprise a holding of 1,748,945 (2004 2,567,228) ordinary shares of 2.5p each in the Company, listed on the London Stock Exchange
and are held by the BAE Systems ESOP T rust of which IFG T rust (Jersey) Limited are the trustees. 
Information on the market value and allocation of these shares to the Company’ s various share option schemes is as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Market value
Under option 4 2
Not yet allocated to share option schemes 3 4
7 6
2005 2004
Number of Number of
shares shares
Allocation
Held under Restricted Share Plan
Executive directors: under option 384,524 285,563
Other employees: under option 661,940 513,076
Not yet allocated to share option schemes 702,481 1,768,589
1,748,945 2,567,228
Dividends on the shares held in the ESOP T rust have not been waived. Finance costs and other administrative charges are included in the
profit and loss account on an accruals basis.
Company profit
The Company’ s profit for the financial year was £728m (2004 restated loss £44m). BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 157
15 Statutory reserve
Under section 4 of the British Aerospace Act 1980 this reserve may only be applied in paying up unissued shares of the Company to be
allotted to members of the Company as fully paid bonus shares.
16 Other information
Employees
The total number of employees of the Company at 31 December 2005 was 478 (2004 488). T otal staff costs, excluding charges for share
options, were £59m (2004 £54m).
T otal directors’ emoluments, excluding company pension contributions, were £7,730,000 (2004 £7,014,000). These emoluments were
paid for their services on behalf of the BAE Systems Group. No emoluments related specifically to their work in the Company.
Company audit fee
The remuneration of the Company’ s auditors for 2005 totalled £688,000 (2004 £618,000). 158 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Five year summary
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
IFRS IFRS UK GAAP
1
UK GAAP
1
UK GAAP
1
£m £m £m £m £m
Income statement
2
Sales including Group’s share of equity accounted investments
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 3,697 3,063–––
Land & Armaments 1,270 482–––
Programmes 2,819 2,219 2,374 2,060 2,817
Customer Solutions & Support 2,923 2,856 2,042 2,133 1,978
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 1,834 2,022–––
Commercial Aerospace 3,232 2,924 2,904 2,716 3,051
HQ and other businesses 69 73 281 300 342
Avionics
3
– – 650 727 632
North America – – 2,636 2,561 2,538
International Partnerships – – 1,685 1,648 1,780
Intra-segment sales (433) (417) – – –
15,411 13,222 12,572 12,145 13,138
EBITA
4
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 324 256–––
Land & Armaments 42 (8) – – –
Programmes 133 10 56 69 161
Customer Solutions & Support 419 497 411 454 414
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 109 95 –––
Commercial Aerospace 179 201 204 195 213
HQ and other businesses (24) (35) – (18) 11
Avionics – – 12 66 109
North America – – 232 247 250
International Partnerships – – 65 (11) 102
1,182 1,016 980 1,002 1,260
Amortisation and impairment (122) (110) (518) (615) (495)
Exceptional items (UK GAAP only) – – (9) (797) (518)
Finance costs including share of equity accounted investments (215) (176) (220) (206) (177)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 845 730 233 (616) 70
T axation including share of equity accounted investments (262) (273) (225) (70) (198)
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 583 457 8 (686) (128)
Loss for the year from discontinued operations (28) (454) – – –
Profit/(loss) for the year 555 3 8 (686) (128)
Balance sheet
Intangible assets 8,217 6,115 6,000 6,417 6,909
Property, plant and equipment, and investment property 1,922 1,901 1,699 1,709 1,776
Non-current investments 1,730 1,535 1,710 1,515 1,457
Inventories 485 498 775 768 1,046
Payables (excluding cash on customers’ account) less receivables (4,596) (3,891) (3,126) (2,887) (2,829)
Other financial assets and liabilities (7) ––––
Retirement benefit obligations (4,101) (3,210) 362 315 357
Provisions (current and non-current) (718) (491) (749) (858) (1,132)
Tax, net 1,012 876 (195) 4 (95)
Net debt (1,277) (668) (870) (1,298) (831)
Disposal groups held for sale 137 ––––
Minority interests (16) (10) (15) (20) (20)
Shareholders’ funds 2,788 2,655 5,591 5,665 6,638 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 159
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
IFRS IFRS UK GAAP
1
UK GAAP
1
UK GAAP
1
Movement in net debt as defined by the Group £m £m £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities 2,099 2,350 836 136
Net capital expenditure
5
(250) (285) (248) (183)
Dividends from equity accounted investments 88 69 37 78
Operating business cash flow 1,937 2,134 625 31 510
Acquisitions and disposals (1,836) (630) (62) 41 98
Finance costs (152) (179) (117) (150) (189)
T ax and dividends (342) (312) (227) (391) (381)
Other non-cash movements (52) 9 121 (136) –
Net proceeds from equity issues 373 – – 32 30
Exchange movements (219) 129 72 97 –
Net increase/(decrease) in net funds (291) 1,151 412 (476) 68
Movement in cash on customers’ account (35) (13) 16 9 –
Movement in net debt (326) 1,138 428 (467) 68
Opening net debt (668) (870) (1,298) (831) (899)
Impact of IFRS transition (283) (936) – – –
Closing net debt (1,277) (668) (870) (1,298) (831)
The reconciliation of operating business cash flow is presented for 2002 to 2005 only.
Other information 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
Basic earnings/(loss) per share – total 17.4p (0.6)p (0.5)p (23.2)p (5.1)p
Basic earnings per share – underlying
6
22.5p 17.4p 16.6p 17.3p 23.4p
Dividend per ordinary share 10.3p 9.5p 9.2p 9.2p 9.0p
Number of employees, excluding share of employees of equity accounted investments, at year end 74,000 73,300 68,400 68,100 70,110
Capital expenditure including leased assets £347m £359m £243m £274m £287m
Order book including the Group’ s share of equity accounted investments £59.8bn £50.1bn £46.0bn £42.5bn £43.8bn
T o aid comparison, certain presentational changes have been made to the IFRS amounts in 2004 and 2005.
1
for the years ended 31 December 2001 to 2003, the information is presented on a UK GAAP basis. The nature of the adjustments that would be required to restate this
information on an IFRS basis are presented in note 36 to the financial statements
2
for the years ended 31 December 2001 to 2003, the business group information presented under UK GAAP has not been restated to reflect the changes made to the business
groups in 2005
3
for the years ended 31 December 2004 and 2005, the Avionics business group is presented as discontinued operations under IFRS
4
for the years ended 31 December 2004 and 2005 this is defined as earnings before interest, tax and amortisation. For the years ended 31 December 2001 to 2003, this is
defined as profit before interest and tax, excluding goodwill amortisation and impairment, and exceptional items
5
includes expenditure on property, plant and equipment, investment property, intangible assets and other investments
6
for IFRS, underlying earnings is presented for continuing operations after adjusting for amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on
pensions and financial derivatives, and uplift on acquired inventories. For UK GAAP , underlying earnings is presented after adjusting for goodwill amortisation and impairment, and
exceptional items 160 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Shareholder information
Registered office
6 Carlton Gardens
London
SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
T elephone: +44 (0)1252 373232
Company website: www.baesystems.com
Registered in England and Wales,
No. 1470151
Registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars (0140)
The Causeway, Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
T elephone: 0870 600 3982
(+44 121 415 7058 from outside the UK)
If you have any queries regarding your
shareholding, please contact the registrars.
However , if you choose ‘post’ as your
preference, you will be sent paper
documents as usual.
Visit the website for more details:
www.shareview.co.uk 
Details of software and equipment
requirements are given on the website.
Shareholder dealing service
Hoare Govett Limited offers a low cost postal
dealing service enabling UK resident
shareholders to buy or sell BAE Systems plc
shares. Basic commission is 1%, subject to
a minimum charge of £15.00. If you require
further information please contact: 
Hoare Govett Limited on 
T elephone: +44 (0)20 7678 8300
This notice has been approved by Hoare
Govett Limited which is authorised and
regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates 
a charity donation scheme for shareholders
with small parcels of shares which may 
be uneconomic to sell. Details of the
scheme are available from ShareGift 
at www.sharegift.org or by telephone 
on 020 7337 0501.
Share price information
The middle market price of the Company’ s
ordinary shares on 31 December 2005 
was 381.75p, the range during the year 
was 224.5p to 388p.
Daily share prices are available in the UK 
on the FT Cityline service as follows:
BAE Systems plc ordinary shares
T elephone: 0906 003 1890
BAE Systems plc preference shares
T elephone: 0906 003 5174
(Calls are charged at 60p per minute at all times)
Alternatively you can view teletext or 
a similar service.
Dividend reinvestment plan
The Company offers holders of its ordinary
shares the option to elect to have their
dividend reinvested in shares purchased 
in the market instead of cash. If you would
like to make this election, please request 
a dividend reinvestment plan mandate 
from our registrars:
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway, Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
T elephone: 0870 241 3018 
T elephone number from outside the UK: 
+44 121 415 7058 
American Depositary Receipts
The BAE Systems plc American Depositary
Receipts (ADRs) are traded on the Over 
The Counter market (OTC) under the 
symbol BAESY . One ADR represents 
four BAE Systems plc ordinary shares.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the
depositary. 
If you should have any queries,
please contact:
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
JPMorgan Service Center
PO Box 3408
South Hackensack NJ 07606-3408
USA
T oll free telephone number: 800 990 1135
T elephone number from outside the US:
+1 201 680 6630
Website: www.adr .com
Email: adr@jpmorgan.com
Shareview service
The Shareview service from our registrar ,
Lloyds TSB Registrars, gives
shareholders:
• direct access to data held on their behalf
on the share register including recent
share movements and dividend details;
• the ability to change their address or
dividend payment instructions on-line.
T o sign up for Shareview you need the
‘shareholder reference’ printed on your 
proxy form or dividend stationery. 
There is no charge to register .
When you register with the site, you can
register your preferred format (post or 
e-mail) for shareholder communications. 
If you select ‘e-mail’ as your mailing
preference, you will be sent shareholder
communications, such as proxy forms and
annual/interim results by e-mail instead 
of post, as long as this option is available. 
If you have your dividends paid straight to
your bank account, and you have selected
‘e-mail’ as your mailing preference, you
can also collect your tax voucher
electronically. Instead of receiving the
paper tax voucher , you will be notified by 
e-mail with details of how to download
your electronic version. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 161
Financial calendar
Financial year end 31 December
Annual General Meeting 4 May 2006
Preference shares conversion date 31 May 2006
2005 final ordinary dividend payable 1 June 2006
2006 half yearly preference dividend payable 3 July 2006
2006 interim results announcement September 2006
2006 interim ordinary dividend payable November 2006
2006 half yearly preference dividend payable 2 January 2007
2006 full year results – preliminary announcement February 2007
– report and accounts April 2007
2006 final ordinary dividend payable June 2007
Analysis of share register at 31 December 2005
Ordinary shares of 2.5p Preference shares of 25p
Accounts Shares Accounts Shares
Number Number Number Number
‘000 % million % ‘000 % million %
By category of shareholder
Individuals 139.7 94.4 127.6 4.0 2.5 64.7 10.5 3.9
Nominee companies 7.0 4.8 2,991.2 93.0 1.3 33.3 235.1 88.4
Banks – – 46.4 1.4 – – 9.3 3.5
Insurance and pension funds ––––––––
Other 1.2 0.8 53.5 1.6 0.1 2.0 11.1 4.2
147.9 100.0 3,218.7 100.0 3.9 100.0 266.0 100.0
By size of holding
1 – 99 33.8 22.8 1.7 0.1 – 0.1 – –
100 – 499 43.7 29.5 11.7 0.3 0.1 2.5 – –
500 – 999 30.1 20.4 21.2 0.6 0.2 4.8 0.1 0.1
1,000 – 9,999 37.7 25.5 89.0 2.8 3.1 77.8 10.9 4.1
10,000 – 99,999 1.6 1.1 42.0 1.3 0.4 11.3 9.0 3.3
100,000 – 999,999 0.6 0.4 234.6 7.3 0.1 2.5 27.1 10.2
1,000,000 and over 0.4 0.3 2,818.5 87.6 – 1.0 218.9 82.3
147.9 100.0 3,218.7 100.0 3.9 100.0 266.0 100.0 162 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Glossary 
AGS
Advanced Gun System: a 155mm gun
system being developed under the 
DD(X) programme.
AJT
Hawk Advanced Jet T rainer: an advanced 
jet training and light combat aircraft.
ATTAC
Availability T ransformation: 
T ornado Aircraft Contract.
BONUS
A sensor fused 155mm munition.
Bradley
T racked armoured fighting vehicles, which
fulfil critical infantry, cavalry, fire support,
battle command and engineer roles for 
the US Army.
C3I
Command, Control, Communications 
and Intelligence.
C4ISR
Command, Control, Communications and
Computing (C4), Intelligence, Surveillance
and Reconnaissance (ISR): systems that
provide a precise picture of the battlefield 
in ‘real-time’, optimising the information
available for decision making. C4ISR
systems sense the environment, process
data and combine it with existing knowledge
for optimised mission plans.
CfPE
Centre for Performance Excellence 
(see page 13).
COSYS
A combat control system.
CV90
An armoured infantry fighting vehicle
developed by BAE Systems Land Systems
Hagglunds to meet international demand.
DD(X)
A next-generation destroyer for the US Navy.
DIS
The Defence Industrial Strategy paper ,
published by the UK government in December
2005 following consultation with industry,
recognises the skills and capabilities that
will be needed to equip and support the 
UK armed forces and ensure the defence
industry remains a world-leading sector .
DLO
United Kingdom Defence Logistics
Organisation, part of the UK Ministry of
Defence, providing logistic support to all
three armed forces.
DM2A4
A heavyweight torpedo weapon system.
DoD
United States Department of Defense.
Eurosystems
A transaction with Finmeccanica of Italy 
to secure control and clear management
responsibility for both companies’ 
European defence electronics businesses
(see page 21).
FCS
Future Combat System.
FREMM
Franco-Italian Frégate (Européenne) 
Multi-Missions (FREMM) frigate.
FRES 
Future Rapid Effect System: The UK Ministry
of Defence (MoD) programme to provide 
the British Army with a family of medium-
weight, network-enabled, air-deployable
armoured vehicles.
IMCMS
Integrated Mine Counter Measures System
combining Minehunting, Minesweeping,
Mine Disposal, Surveillance and
Communication with other naval forces.
ISO14001
The standard for environmental
management published by the International
Standards Organisation, which specifies the
actual requirements for an environmental
management system.
IT 
Information technology.
JSF
F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (see page 19).
LCM
Lifecycle Management: a process and
control environment within which the
Company’ s projects are executed.
LRLAP 
Long Range Land Attack Projectile: 
a system being developed under 
the DD(X) programme.
M113
Armoured personnel carriers, medical,
command and control, and engineering
mortar launching vehicles.
M777
A lightweight 155mm field howitzer 
(see page 17).
MoD
UK’ s Ministry of Defence.
Mistral RMV
Low altitude air defence missile.
NATO
North Atlantic T reaty Organisation, the world’ s
most powerful regional defence alliance.
NAVSEA
Naval Undersea Warfare Center in the
United States.
NEC
Networked Enabled Capability.
Nimrod MRA4
The replacement Maritime and Patrol Attack
aircraft for the UK’ s Royal Air Force.
PAAMS
Principal Anti-Air Missile System. Aster
PAAMS: a medium-range anti-aircraft vertical
launching missile system based on the
Aster 15 and Aster 30 anti-missile missiles.
PCL
Performance Centred Leadership: a
leadership and performance management
system used throughout the Company.
RG-31
Mine protected armoured personnel carrier .
SEP
A modular multi-role vehicle system.
SETAC
System Engineering and T echnical
Assistance Contract.
SHE
Safety, health and environment.
Spearfish
An advanced heavyweight torpedo in service
with the UK Royal Navy.
UAV
Unmanned Air Vehicles.
UCAV
Unmanned Combat Air Vehicle.
USAF
United States Air Force.
VLS
Vertical Launching System. BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 163
Shareholder feedback
Thank you to everyone who took the time and effort to provide feedback on last year’ s Annual Report. It was most appreciated.
In essence:
• you are spending more time reading the Annual Report;
• you firmly believe that the report improves your understanding of BAE Systems;
• you would like more photos, fewer acronyms and simpler language; 
• you have also requested more information about the market environment we operate in (especially our relationship with UK and US
governments), possible future strategy developments (especially in the US), and potential risks (especially pension fund deficits).
We hope the design, layout and copy in this Annual Report has helped to address these requirements.
If you would like to give us any feedback on this year’ s Annual Report, please send your written comments to our investor relations team at:
BAE Systems plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London
United Kingdom
SW1Y 5AD
or by e-mail to andy.mann@baesystems.com 164 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005  Operating and financial review
BAE Systems at a glance
BAE Systems is the premier transatlantic defence and aerospace company
delivering a full range of products and services for air , land and naval forces 
as well as advanced electronics, information technology solutions and
customer support services.
Electronics,
Intelligence & Support
Land & Armaments Programmes
Principal operations An industry leader in a variety of
military communications, electronic
identification, navigation and guidance
systems, and a provider of network
centric warfare solutions and a broad
range of support solutions, including
major ship repair activities for the 
US Navy.
A global leader in the design,
development, production and through-
life service support of armoured 
combat vehicles, major and minor
calibre naval guns, missile launchers,
canisters, artillery systems and
intelligent munitions.
Comprises the Company’ s air 
systems, naval ships and submarines
activities together with the Company’ s
participation in the UK’ s Future 
Carrier programme.
Main operating regions US, UK/Europe US, UK, Sweden, South Africa UK
Major markets US, Global US, UK/Europe UK 
Contribution 
to 2005 Group sales
Key points 
from 2005
• Sustained leadership positions 
in electronic warfare and military
communications – secured US Air
Force mission planning contract
• Acquisition of largest US non-
nuclear ship repair business
• Successful integration of 2004
acquisitions
• Successful flight test of infrared
missile countermeasures system 
for commercial airliners
• T ransatlantic growth 
with acquisition of 
United Defense Industries 
• Global land systems 
business established 
• Key contracts secured
– Bradley reset and upgrade
– Danish CV90, US RG-31, M777
• UK Future Rapid Effect System
(FRES) demonstrator award
• UK cost base being addressed
• 37 T yphoon aircraft delivered 
in the year (12 to UK RAF) 
• First flight of UK Hawk Advanced 
Jet T rainer aircraft achieved early 
• Successful delivery of F-35 JSF 
airframe assemblies
• T ype 45 first of class launched 
in February 2006
• Landing Ship Dock (Auxiliary) 
first ship delivered
23% 8% 18%
Customer Solutions 
& Support
Integrated Systems 
& Partnerships
Commercial
Aerospace
Location in this report page 24-25 page 26-27 page 28-29
includes six months of United Defense
Provides support solutions for current
and future customer requirements,
addressing the trend within armed
forces to work more closely with
industry to optimise their military
capability in the most effective manner .
Key capabilities include the integration
and delivery of effective supply chain
and logistics management. CS&S 
is the prime contractor on the
Al Yamamah programme.
Comprises a portfolio of high-
technology defence systems
businesses: Integrated System
T echnologies; Underwater Systems;
37.5% interest in MBDA; 20.5%
interest in Saab; and 50% interest 
in Gripen International.
Comprises the Company’ s 20%
interest in Airbus together with the
Aerostructures business and the
regional aircraft asset management
and support activities.
Principal operations
UK, Saudi Arabia, Australia UK, Sweden, France, Germany, Italy UK, France, Germany, Spain, US Main operating regions
UK/Europe, Middle East, Australia UK/Europe Global Major markets
Contribution 
to 2005 Group sales
• Delivery of Saudi strategy on track
– Compound construction
– Saudi joint venture 
company formed
– Increasing employment 
of Saudi nationals 
• Government to government 
Understanding Document signed on
Saudi armed forces modernisation
• Delivery of UK partnered 
support growth strategy
• Improved performance 
from Australian business 
• Continued restructuring of
European business portfolio
– Eurosystems transaction
completed
– Integrated System 
T echnologies formed
– Saab stake reduced to 20.5%
– Atlas Elektronik sale agreed
• Revised Gripen International
marketing arrangements with Saab
• Strong Airbus order intake 
• First flight of A380 long-range airliner 
• Airbus cost reduction programme 
on track 
• Airbus new product development
programmes underway
• Ongoing losses in Regional Aircraft
• Aerostructures disposal announced
Key points 
from 2005
page 30-31 page 32-33 page 34-35 Location in this report
18% 12% 21% Delivering real advantage
Annual Report 2005 BAE SYSTEMS plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
T elephone +44 (0)1252 373232
Registered in England and Wales No. 1470151
Website details
www.baesystems.com
Bradley A3
In 2005 BAE Systems acquired 
United Defense, who have produced 
the Bradley Combat System for over 20
years. The Bradley family of vehicles is
a key vehicle system for the US Army
supporting a variety of missions.
BAE SYSTEMS plc Annual Report 2005 Delivering real advantage
Annual Report 2005 BAE SYSTEMS plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
T elephone +44 (0)1252 373232
Registered in England and Wales No. 1470151
Website details
www.baesystems.com
Bradley A3
In 2005 BAE Systems acquired 
United Defense, who have produced 
the Bradley Combat System for over 20
years. The Bradley family of vehicles is
a key vehicle system for the US Army
supporting a variety of missions.
BAE SYSTEMS plc Annual Report 2005 Delivering real advantage
Annual Review 2005 BAE SYSTEMS plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
T elephone +44 (0)1252 373232
Registered in England and Wales No. 1470151
Website details
www.baesystems.com
Cover image
Bradley A3
BAE Systems is an international company 
engaged in the development, delivery and support
of advanced defence and aerospace systems in 
the air , on land, at sea and in space. The Company
designs, manufactures and supports military
aircraft, surface ships, submarines, combat
vehicles, radar, avionics, communications,
electronics and guided weapon systems. It is a
pioneer in technology with a heritage stretching
back hundreds of years. It is at the forefront of
innovation, working to develop the next generation
of intelligent defence and security systems.
BAE Systems has major operations across five
continents and customers in some 130 countries.
The Company employs approximately 100,000
1
people and generates annual sales in excess of 
£15 billion through its wholly-owned and equity
accounted investment operations.
1 
including share of employees of equity accounted investments
Important note
This Annual Review is a summary of the information in the full Annual Report of BAE Systems plc. It does not
contain sufficient information to allow a full understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of 
the Company or of the Group, and of their policies and arrangements concerning directors’ remuneration.
For further information, the full Annual Report should be consulted. This can be found on the Company’ s
website, www.baesystems.com.
Alternatively, copies are available, free of charge, from: 
The Company Secretary
BAE Systems plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London SW1Y 5AD
If in future years you wish to receive the full Annual Report you should write to the Company’ s registrars,
Lloyds TSB Registrars, at the address shown on page 37.
CONTENTS
Results in brief,
highlights and outlook 1
Chairman’s letter 2
Chief Executive’s review 3
Market overview 5
Group strategy framework 6
Embed a high performance 
culture across the Company 7
Win profitable new business and 
optimise value from our order book 8
Grow our export business from a 
strong transatlantic business base 9
Increase UK/US industrial 
technology sharing 10
Optimise our business portfolio 11
Business portfolio actions 12
Electronics, Intelligence 
& Support 14
Land & Armaments 16
Programmes 18
Customer Solutions & Support 20
Integrated Systems 
& Partnerships 22
Commercial Aerospace 24
Summarised financial review 26
Corporate responsibility 27
Board of directors 28
Corporate governance 30
Summarised financial statements 33
Auditors’ statement 36
Shareholder information 37 Delivering real advantage
Annual Review 2005 BAE SYSTEMS plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
T elephone +44 (0)1252 373232
Registered in England and Wales No. 1470151
Website details
www.baesystems.com
Cover image
Bradley A3
BAE Systems is an international company 
engaged in the development, delivery and support
of advanced defence and aerospace systems in 
the air , on land, at sea and in space. The Company
designs, manufactures and supports military
aircraft, surface ships, submarines, combat
vehicles, radar, avionics, communications,
electronics and guided weapon systems. It is a
pioneer in technology with a heritage stretching
back hundreds of years. It is at the forefront of
innovation, working to develop the next generation
of intelligent defence and security systems.
BAE Systems has major operations across five
continents and customers in some 130 countries.
The Company employs approximately 100,000
1
people and generates annual sales in excess of 
£15 billion through its wholly-owned and equity
accounted investment operations.
1 
including share of employees of equity accounted investments
Important note
This Annual Review is a summary of the information in the full Annual Report of BAE Systems plc. It does not
contain sufficient information to allow a full understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of 
the Company or of the Group, and of their policies and arrangements concerning directors’ remuneration.
For further information, the full Annual Report should be consulted. This can be found on the Company’ s
website, www.baesystems.com.
Alternatively, copies are available, free of charge, from: 
The Company Secretary
BAE Systems plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London SW1Y 5AD
If in future years you wish to receive the full Annual Report you should write to the Company’ s registrars,
Lloyds TSB Registrars, at the address shown on page 37.
CONTENTS
Results in brief,
highlights and outlook 1
Chairman’s letter 2
Chief Executive’s review 3
Market overview 5
Group strategy framework 6
Embed a high performance 
culture across the Company 7
Win profitable new business and 
optimise value from our order book 8
Grow our export business from a 
strong transatlantic business base 9
Increase UK/US industrial 
technology sharing 10
Optimise our business portfolio 11
Business portfolio actions 12
Electronics, Intelligence 
& Support 14
Land & Armaments 16
Programmes 18
Customer Solutions & Support 20
Integrated Systems 
& Partnerships 22
Commercial Aerospace 24
Summarised financial review 26
Corporate responsibility 27
Board of directors 28
Corporate governance 30
Summarised financial statements 33
Auditors’ statement 36
Shareholder information 37 Operating and financial review
BAE Systems at a glance
BAE Systems is the premier transatlantic defence and aerospace company
delivering a full range of products and services for air , land and naval forces 
as well as advanced electronics, information technology solutions and
customer support services.
Electronics,
Intelligence & Support
Land & Armaments Programmes
Principal operations An industry leader in a variety of
military communications, electronic
identification, navigation and guidance
systems, and a provider of network
centric warfare solutions and a broad
range of support solutions, including
major ship repair activities for the 
US Navy.
A global leader in the design,
development, production and through-
life service support of armoured 
combat vehicles, major and minor
calibre naval guns, missile launchers,
canisters, artillery systems and
intelligent munitions.
Comprises the Company’ s air 
systems, naval ships and submarines
activities together with the Company’ s
participation in the UK’ s Future 
Carrier programme.
Main operating regions US, UK/Europe US, UK, Sweden, South Africa UK
Major markets US, Global US, UK/Europe UK 
Contribution 
to 2005 Group sales
Key points 
from 2005
• Sustained leadership positions 
in electronic warfare and military
communications – secured US Air
Force mission planning contract
• Acquisition of largest US non-
nuclear ship repair business
• Successful integration of 2004
acquisitions
• Successful flight test of infrared
missile countermeasures system 
for commercial airliners
• T ransatlantic growth 
with acquisition of 
United Defense Industries 
• Global land systems 
business established 
• Key contracts secured
– Bradley reset and upgrade
– Danish CV90, US RG-31, M777
• UK Future Rapid Effect System
(FRES) demonstrator award
• UK cost base being addressed
• 37 T yphoon aircraft delivered 
in the year (12 to UK RAF) 
• First flight of UK Hawk Advanced 
Jet T rainer aircraft achieved early 
• Successful delivery of F-35 JSF 
airframe assemblies
• T ype 45 first of class launched 
in February 2006
• Landing Ship Dock (Auxiliary) 
first ship delivered
23% 8% 18%
Customer Solutions 
& Support
Integrated Systems 
& Partnerships
Commercial
Aerospace
Location in this report page 14-15 page 16-17 page 18-19
includes six months of United Defense
Provides support solutions for current
and future customer requirements,
addressing the trend within armed
forces to work more closely with
industry to optimise their military
capability in the most effective manner .
Key capabilities include the integration
and delivery of effective supply chain
and logistics management. CS&S 
is the prime contractor on the
Al Yamamah programme.
Comprises a portfolio of high-
technology defence systems
businesses: Integrated System
T echnologies; Underwater Systems;
37.5% interest in MBDA; 20.5%
interest in Saab; and 50% interest 
in Gripen International.
Comprises the Company’ s 20%
interest in Airbus together with the
Aerostructures business and the
regional aircraft asset management
and support activities.
Principal operations
UK, Saudi Arabia, Australia UK, Sweden, France, Germany, Italy UK, France, Germany, Spain, US Main operating regions
UK/Europe, Middle East, Australia UK/Europe Global Major markets
Contribution 
to 2005 Group sales
• Delivery of Saudi strategy on track
– Compound construction
– Saudi joint venture 
company formed
– Increasing employment 
of Saudi nationals 
• Government to government 
Understanding Document signed on
Saudi armed forces modernisation
• Delivery of UK partnered 
support growth strategy
• Improved performance 
from Australian business 
• Continued restructuring of
European business portfolio
– Eurosystems transaction
completed
– Integrated System 
T echnologies formed
– Saab stake reduced to 20.5%
– Atlas Elektronik sale agreed
• Revised Gripen International
marketing arrangements with Saab
• Strong Airbus order intake 
• First flight of A380 long-range airliner 
• Airbus cost reduction programme 
on track 
• Airbus new product development
programmes underway
• Ongoing losses in Regional Aircraft
• Aerostructures disposal announced
Key points 
from 2005
page 20-21 page 22-23 page 24-25 Location in this report
18% 12% 21%
Registered office
6 Carlton Gardens
London
SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
T elephone: +44 (0)1252 373232
Company website: www.baesystems.com
Registered in England & Wales,
No. 1470151
Registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars (0140)
The Causeway, Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
T elephone: 0870 600 3982
(+44 121 415 7058 from outside the UK)
If you have any queries regarding your
shareholding, please contact the registrars.
Shareview service
The Shareview service from our registrar ,
Lloyds TSB Registrars, gives shareholders:
• direct access to data held on their behalf
on the share register including recent
share movements and dividend details;
• the ability to change their address or
dividend payment instructions on-line.
To sign up for Shareview you need the
‘shareholder reference’ printed on your
proxy form or dividend stationery. There 
is no charge to register. When you register
with the site, you can register your preferred
format (post or e-mail) for shareholder
communications. If you select ‘e-mail’ 
as your mailing preference, you will be 
sent shareholder communications, such 
as proxy forms and annual/interim results
by e-mail instead of post, as long as this
option is available.
If you have your dividends paid straight to
your bank account, and you have selected
‘e-mail’ as your mailing preference, you can
also collect your tax voucher electronically.
Instead of receiving the paper tax voucher ,
you will be notified by e-mail with details of
how to download your electronic version.
However , if you choose ‘post’ as your
preference, you will be sent paper
documents as usual.
Visit the website for more details:
www.shareview.co.uk
Details of software and equipment
requirements are given on the website.
Shareholder dealing service
Hoare Govett Limited offers a low cost
postal dealing service enabling UK resident
shareholders to buy or sell BAE Systems plc
shares. Basic commission is 1%, subject to
a minimum charge of £15.00. If you require
further information please contact:
Hoare Govett Limited
T elephone: +44 (0)20 7678 8300
This notice has been approved by Hoare
Govett Limited which is authorised and
regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a
charity donation scheme for shareholders
with small parcels of shares which may 
be uneconomic to sell. Details of the
scheme are available from ShareGift 
at www.sharegift.org or by telephone 
on 020 7337 0501.
Share price information
The middle market price of the Company’ s
ordinary shares on 31 December 2005 
was 381.75p, the range during the year 
was 224.5p to 388p.
Daily share prices are available in the UK 
on the FT Cityline service as follows:
BAE Systems plc ordinary shares
T elephone: 0906 003 1890
BAE Systems plc preference shares
T elephone: 0906 003 5174
(Calls are charged at 60p per minute at all times)
Alternatively you can view teletext 
or a similar service.
Dividend reinvestment plan
The company offers holders of its ordinary
shares the option to elect to have their
dividend reinvested in shares purchased 
in the market instead of cash. If you would
like to make this election, please request 
a dividend reinvestment plan mandate 
from our registrars:
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway, Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
T elephone: 0870 241 3018
T elephone number from outside the UK: 
+44 121 415 7058
American Depositary Receipts
The BAE Systems plc American Depositary
Receipts (ADRs) are traded on the Over 
The Counter market (OTC) under the 
symbol BAESY . One ADR represents 
four BAE Systems plc ordinary shares.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the depositary .
If you should have any queries,
please contact:
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
JPMorgan Service Center
PO Box 3408
South Hackensack NJ 07606-3408
USA
T oll free telephone number: 800 990 1135
T elephone number from outside the US: 
+1 201 680 6630
Website: www.adr .com
Email: adr@jpmorgan.com
Financial calendar
Financial year end 31 December
Annual General Meeting 4 May 2006
Preference shares 
conversion date 31 May 2006
2005 final ordinary 
dividend payable 1 June 2006
2006 half yearly preference 
dividend payable 3 July 2006
2006 interim 
results announcement September 2006
2006 interim ordinary 
dividend payable November 2006
2006 half yearly preference 
dividend payable 2 January 2007
2006 full year results 
– preliminary announcement February 2007
– report and accounts April 2007
2006 final ordinary 
dividend payable June 2007
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 37
Shareholder information Operating and financial review
BAE Systems at a glance
BAE Systems is the premier transatlantic defence and aerospace company
delivering a full range of products and services for air , land and naval forces 
as well as advanced electronics, information technology solutions and
customer support services.
Electronics,
Intelligence & Support
Land & Armaments Programmes
Principal operations An industry leader in a variety of
military communications, electronic
identification, navigation and guidance
systems, and a provider of network
centric warfare solutions and a broad
range of support solutions, including
major ship repair activities for the 
US Navy.
A global leader in the design,
development, production and through-
life service support of armoured 
combat vehicles, major and minor
calibre naval guns, missile launchers,
canisters, artillery systems and
intelligent munitions.
Comprises the Company’ s air 
systems, naval ships and submarines
activities together with the Company’ s
participation in the UK’ s Future 
Carrier programme.
Main operating regions US, UK/Europe US, UK, Sweden, South Africa UK
Major markets US, Global US, UK/Europe UK 
Contribution 
to 2005 Group sales
Key points 
from 2005
• Sustained leadership positions 
in electronic warfare and military
communications – secured US Air
Force mission planning contract
• Acquisition of largest US non-
nuclear ship repair business
• Successful integration of 2004
acquisitions
• Successful flight test of infrared
missile countermeasures system 
for commercial airliners
• T ransatlantic growth 
with acquisition of 
United Defense Industries 
• Global land systems 
business established 
• Key contracts secured
– Bradley reset and upgrade
– Danish CV90, US RG-31, M777
• UK Future Rapid Effect System
(FRES) demonstrator award
• UK cost base being addressed
• 37 T yphoon aircraft delivered 
in the year (12 to UK RAF) 
• First flight of UK Hawk Advanced 
Jet T rainer aircraft achieved early 
• Successful delivery of F-35 JSF 
airframe assemblies
• T ype 45 first of class launched 
in February 2006
• Landing Ship Dock (Auxiliary) 
first ship delivered
23% 8% 18%
Customer Solutions 
& Support
Integrated Systems 
& Partnerships
Commercial
Aerospace
Location in this report page 14-15 page 16-17 page 18-19
includes six months of United Defense
Provides support solutions for current
and future customer requirements,
addressing the trend within armed
forces to work more closely with
industry to optimise their military
capability in the most effective manner .
Key capabilities include the integration
and delivery of effective supply chain
and logistics management. CS&S 
is the prime contractor on the
Al Yamamah programme.
Comprises a portfolio of high-
technology defence systems
businesses: Integrated System
T echnologies; Underwater Systems;
37.5% interest in MBDA; 20.5%
interest in Saab; and 50% interest 
in Gripen International.
Comprises the Company’ s 20%
interest in Airbus together with the
Aerostructures business and the
regional aircraft asset management
and support activities.
Principal operations
UK, Saudi Arabia, Australia UK, Sweden, France, Germany, Italy UK, France, Germany, Spain, US Main operating regions
UK/Europe, Middle East, Australia UK/Europe Global Major markets
Contribution 
to 2005 Group sales
• Delivery of Saudi strategy on track
– Compound construction
– Saudi joint venture 
company formed
– Increasing employment 
of Saudi nationals 
• Government to government 
Understanding Document signed on
Saudi armed forces modernisation
• Delivery of UK partnered 
support growth strategy
• Improved performance 
from Australian business 
• Continued restructuring of
European business portfolio
– Eurosystems transaction
completed
– Integrated System 
T echnologies formed
– Saab stake reduced to 20.5%
– Atlas Elektronik sale agreed
• Revised Gripen International
marketing arrangements with Saab
• Strong Airbus order intake 
• First flight of A380 long-range airliner 
• Airbus cost reduction programme 
on track 
• Airbus new product development
programmes underway
• Ongoing losses in Regional Aircraft
• Aerostructures disposal announced
Key points 
from 2005
page 20-21 page 22-23 page 24-25 Location in this report
18% 12% 21%
Registered office
6 Carlton Gardens
London
SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
T elephone: +44 (0)1252 373232
Company website: www.baesystems.com
Registered in England & Wales,
No. 1470151
Registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars (0140)
The Causeway, Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
T elephone: 0870 600 3982
(+44 121 415 7058 from outside the UK)
If you have any queries regarding your
shareholding, please contact the registrars.
Shareview service
The Shareview service from our registrar ,
Lloyds TSB Registrars, gives shareholders:
• direct access to data held on their behalf
on the share register including recent
share movements and dividend details;
• the ability to change their address or
dividend payment instructions on-line.
To sign up for Shareview you need the
‘shareholder reference’ printed on your
proxy form or dividend stationery. There 
is no charge to register. When you register
with the site, you can register your preferred
format (post or e-mail) for shareholder
communications. If you select ‘e-mail’ 
as your mailing preference, you will be 
sent shareholder communications, such 
as proxy forms and annual/interim results
by e-mail instead of post, as long as this
option is available.
If you have your dividends paid straight to
your bank account, and you have selected
‘e-mail’ as your mailing preference, you can
also collect your tax voucher electronically.
Instead of receiving the paper tax voucher ,
you will be notified by e-mail with details of
how to download your electronic version.
However , if you choose ‘post’ as your
preference, you will be sent paper
documents as usual.
Visit the website for more details:
www.shareview.co.uk
Details of software and equipment
requirements are given on the website.
Shareholder dealing service
Hoare Govett Limited offers a low cost
postal dealing service enabling UK resident
shareholders to buy or sell BAE Systems plc
shares. Basic commission is 1%, subject to
a minimum charge of £15.00. If you require
further information please contact:
Hoare Govett Limited
T elephone: +44 (0)20 7678 8300
This notice has been approved by Hoare
Govett Limited which is authorised and
regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a
charity donation scheme for shareholders
with small parcels of shares which may 
be uneconomic to sell. Details of the
scheme are available from ShareGift 
at www.sharegift.org or by telephone 
on 020 7337 0501.
Share price information
The middle market price of the Company’ s
ordinary shares on 31 December 2005 
was 381.75p, the range during the year 
was 224.5p to 388p.
Daily share prices are available in the UK 
on the FT Cityline service as follows:
BAE Systems plc ordinary shares
T elephone: 0906 003 1890
BAE Systems plc preference shares
T elephone: 0906 003 5174
(Calls are charged at 60p per minute at all times)
Alternatively you can view teletext 
or a similar service.
Dividend reinvestment plan
The company offers holders of its ordinary
shares the option to elect to have their
dividend reinvested in shares purchased 
in the market instead of cash. If you would
like to make this election, please request 
a dividend reinvestment plan mandate 
from our registrars:
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway, Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
T elephone: 0870 241 3018
T elephone number from outside the UK: 
+44 121 415 7058
American Depositary Receipts
The BAE Systems plc American Depositary
Receipts (ADRs) are traded on the Over 
The Counter market (OTC) under the 
symbol BAESY . One ADR represents 
four BAE Systems plc ordinary shares.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the depositary .
If you should have any queries,
please contact:
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
JPMorgan Service Center
PO Box 3408
South Hackensack NJ 07606-3408
USA
T oll free telephone number: 800 990 1135
T elephone number from outside the US: 
+1 201 680 6630
Website: www.adr .com
Email: adr@jpmorgan.com
Financial calendar
Financial year end 31 December
Annual General Meeting 4 May 2006
Preference shares 
conversion date 31 May 2006
2005 final ordinary 
dividend payable 1 June 2006
2006 half yearly preference 
dividend payable 3 July 2006
2006 interim 
results announcement September 2006
2006 interim ordinary 
dividend payable November 2006
2006 half yearly preference 
dividend payable 2 January 2007
2006 full year results 
– preliminary announcement February 2007
– report and accounts April 2007
2006 final ordinary 
dividend payable June 2007
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 37
Shareholder information BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 1
Results in brief, highlights and outlook
Results in brief
Results from continuing operations 2005 2004
1
Sales
2
£15,411m £13,222m
EBITA
3
£1,182m £1,016m
Operating profit £900m £774m
Underlying earnings per share
4
22.5p 17.4p
Basic earnings per share
5
18.3p 14.2p
Other results including discontinued operations
Dividend per share 10.3p 9.5p
Cash inflow from operating activities £2,099m £2,350m
Net debt as defined by the Group £1,277m £668m
Order book
6
£59.8bn £50.1bn
Highlights
• Delivering US growth strategy
• Global land systems business established
• Programmes business profitability and risk profile improved
• Growth from UK MoD partnered support
• European business portfolio restructuring
• Strong Airbus order intake
• Strong operating cash flow
• Underlying earnings per share
4
up 29.3% at 22.5p
• Dividend increased 8.4% to 10.3p per share for the year
Outlook
Looking forward to 2006, we anticipate an
improved performance from our defence
businesses with modest organic growth 
and a full year contribution from the former
United Defense activities. We also
anticipate an increased contribution 
from the commercial aerospace sector .
We expect to translate operating profit into
operating cash flow, other than some small
utilisation of customer advances. We intend
to make one-off cash contributions to the
pension schemes in 2006.
1
as restated under International Financial Reporting Standards
2
including share of equity accounted investments’ sales 
3
earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 
4
earnings per share excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and uplift on acquired inventories
5
basic earnings per share in accordance with International Accounting Standard 33
6
including share of equity accounted investments’ order books and after the elimination of intra-group orders of £0.9bn (2004 £2.6bn) 2 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005
Chairman’s letter
With a combination of effective
strategy, continued good programme
execution and achievement of key
business objectives, including a
focus on winning future business,
2005 was a successful year for
BAE Systems.
I believe that BAE Systems has evolved a
comprehensive and robust process for
developing strategy, including appropriate
review and challenge by the Board. The
Company’ s strategy, described in detail later
in this report, reflects the accomplishment
of key objectives in 2005 and establishes
the framework for continued performance
improvement and growth in future.
There were several noteworthy developments
over the past twelve months: first, the
acquisition of United Defense in June was a
step change in the implementation of our
US strategy and establishes BAE Systems
as the world’ s second largest land systems
company; second, the Understanding
Document signed between the governments
of the UK and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
establishes a framework for modernising the
Saudi armed forces, including the supply of
T yphoon aircraft; and finally, the publication
in December of the UK government’ s
Defence Industrial Strategy recognised the
key position of the UK defence industry in
supporting the UK’ s armed forces. These
developments, combined with good progress
on resolving pension funding issues and
good project execution combined to make
2005 a landmark year for BAE Systems.
In addition to overseeing Company strategy,
the Board is responsible for monitoring the
Company’ s performance, maintaining the
governance framework, overseeing
succession planning for the Board and
senior executives, setting appropriate
standards of conduct and monitoring
compliance with those standards. 
Part of my role as Chairman is to ensure 
the Board has the required skills and
experience to carry out these responsibilities
in a large international business. With the
increasing importance of BAE Systems’
operations in the United States, which 
now manage 35% of sales, we have
appointed three new non-executive 
directors to the Board to provide further 
US perspective and experience. 
Peter Weinberg was a senior director of
Goldman Sachs Inc. and is a dual US/UK
citizen; Phil Carroll is the former chairman
and chief executive officer of Fluor
Corporation and is a US citizen; and Roberto
Quarta is the chairman of BBA Group plc,
a partner of the private equity firm Clayton,
Dubilier & Rice and a dual US/Italian citizen. 
With the addition of these three new
directors, the Board is well equipped to
monitor performance and oversee the
Company’ s future strategic development. 
Social, environmental and ethical aspects 
of a company’ s business operations 
are increasingly of interest to a broad
stakeholder community. In order to advance
our leadership in this area, the Board has
established a new Corporate Responsibility
Committee chaired by Peter Weinberg. 
A summary of the Company’ s corporate
responsibility performance is included in
this Review, supplemented by a detailed
Corporate Responsibility Review for 2005,
published separately. 
The Board is also responsible for setting
realistic, yet stretching, targets for
management with appropriate incentives
for both baseline and stretch performance.
These targets include both financial and
non-financial objectives and further 
details are included in the summarised
Remuneration Report. 
The executive team and all employees 
have demonstrated their ability to deliver
results and I applaud their hard work 
and dedication. Looking forward, the
Company will be operating in a time 
of challenging defence budgets and 
our top priority is to deliver continuing
performance improvement. 
The Board is recommending an increased
final dividend of 6.3p per share, making a
total of 10.3p for the year . At this level the
annual dividend is covered 2.2 times by
underlying earnings from continuing
operations (2004 1.8 times). Subject to
shareholder approval at the 2006 Annual
General Meeting, the dividend will be paid 
on 1 June 2006 to holders of ordinary
shares registered on 21 April 2006.
Dick Olver
Chairman
22 February 2006
“The executive team and all employees
have demonstrated their ability to
deliver results and I applaud their 
hard work and dedication. ”
Dick Olver
Chairman Chief Executive’s review
BAE Systems has performed well
against its objectives in 2005.
Financial results have been delivered
in line with our plan and further
significant steps have been taken to
implement the Company’s strategy.
In particular, the acquisition of
United Defense builds on our strong
defence technology business in the
United States and complements our
established position as the largest
defence company in the UK
and Europe.
The United Defense acquisition has
elevated BAE Systems to the second largest
supplier in the global land systems market.
The former United Defense activities have
been integrated with BAE Systems Land
Systems, which comprised the former 
RO Defence and Alvis activities including
Hagglunds. Integration of these operations
has resulted in a single US headquartered
global land systems business with
operations in the US, UK, Sweden and
South Africa. 
In 2005, the Company has continued to
improve performance through a combination
of good project execution, cost and
productivity improvements within the
business operations together with the
benefit of actions over recent years to
eliminate inappropriate risk and improve
returns, especially in our UK Ministry of
Defence (MoD) Programmes business. 
The outlook for our UK Programmes
business is now good. Following agreement
on the way forward for the T yphoon
programme, it is now making a significant
contribution to the Company’ s performance.
Other UK platform programmes, such as the
T ype 45 destroyer , Nimrod MRA4, Hawk and
Astute submarine, are also expected to
progress to make good contributions when
they transition from design to production. 
Alongside the good operational execution
now being delivered we continue to strive to
further embed a high performance culture
across the Company. 
The formation of the Centre for Performance
Excellence will help ensure consistency of
performance measurement and provide
leadership and focus for the sharing of 
best practice across the Company. 
In December , the Company welcomed the
publication by the UK government of the
Defence Industrial Strategy following
extensive consultation with industry. 
The strategy paper recognises the need 
for government and industry to work in
partnership to secure the best technologies
to meet the needs of the UK’ s armed forces.
The paper also identifies the skills and
capabilities required to equip and support
the UK armed forces whilst ensuring the UK
maintains a world class defence industry.
BAE Systems recognises that implementing
the Defence Industrial Strategy sets
challenges for both the MoD and industry. 
Addressing pension deficits is a challenge.
Reduced discount rates used to value
scheme liabilities and the need to address
changes in assumptions for increased life-
expectancy combined to create a significant
deficit in the funding of the Company’ s
pension schemes. 
The Company has recently finalised a 
plan for the largest of its funds, the Main
Scheme. The plan addresses the deficit
through increased contributions and benefit
concessions from employee scheme
members and contributions of cash and
property assets from the Company. These
actions enable the Company to maintain
this defined benefit pension scheme for
existing scheme members, at a cost
acceptable to the Company, eliminating the
substantial funding deficit and introducing
flexibility into the benefit structure to self-
fund any further increases in employee
longevity going forward.
A continuing success for the Company 
is the provision of defence support
solutions. The Company has a large and
growing business providing support for
armed forces and government agencies.
Through-life support and upgrades for 
in-service defence equipment is expected 
to become an increasingly important 
activity for BAE Systems as air , naval 
and land sector platforms are expected 
to remain in service for many decades 
and require progressive upgrades in
capability with advances in technology. 
In partnership with the MoD’ s Defence
Logistics Organisation (DLO) the Company
has continued to develop and grow its
support solutions activities for the UK’ s
armed forces. The successful delivery
of cost savings, together with improved
equipment availability across a number 
of pilot air systems activities, has enabled 
the Company to broaden the scope of its
DLO support activities to the UK land sector .
Further support opportunities have been
identified with the potential to deliver 
further cost savings and improved system
availability for our UK customer and to
deliver future profitable growth for the
benefit of shareholders. 
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 3
Mike Turner
Chief Executive 4 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005
BAE Systems continues to provide extensive
support in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,
principally to the Royal Saudi Air Force,
building on a relationship spanning several
decades. We employ some 4,600 people
within the Kingdom on wide-ranging
activities including flying training and
support for aircraft previously supplied. 
The Company has recently invested in
facilities to enhance in-Kingdom capability
for the maintenance and sustainment of
capability of in-service aircraft. 
In December 2005, the governments of 
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the UK
signed an Understanding Document,
intended to establish a greater partnership
in modernising the Saudi Arabian armed
forces and developing close service-to-
service contacts especially through joint
training and exercises. Under the terms of
the Understanding, the two governments
recognise the requirement to provide
enhanced capabilities to existing military
assets and ensure that they can be
supported by local industry. It is also
intended that T yphoon aircraft will replace
T ornado Air Defence Variant aircraft and
other aircraft in service with the Royal Saudi
Air Force. The details of these arrangements
are confidential. 
Support is also now a substantial
component of our business in the US.
Following the acquisition of United Defense,
its marine repair business has been added
to the Company’ s established US Navy and
federal systems support activities to form
an integrated support solutions business in
the US. 
Drawing on the depth of experience now
residing on both sides of the Atlantic, a
cross-company support solutions council
has been formed to share best practice. 
A number of actions have been taken to
rationalise the Company’ s portfolio of
activities in Europe and to manage non-
strategic businesses for optimum value. 
In March 2005, BAE Systems agreed a
reduced involvement in marketing the Gripen
combat aircraft and reduced its equity
interest in Saab AB from 34.2% to 20.5%. 
The AMS joint venture was restructured 
with BAE Systems acquiring the UK based
operations of AMS and Finmeccanica
acquiring the Italian operations. In a related
transaction BAE Systems sold its UK based
sensor systems and electronic warfare
avionics activities to Finmeccanica. The
agreement includes the deferred sale of 
a retained 25% interest in the resulting
enlarged avionics business, Selex. The
wholly owned UK activities of the former
AMS business have been combined with
BAE Systems’ other C4ISR activities to form
Integrated System T echnologies (Insyte). 
The integration of systems into digital
networks, or Network Enabled Capability
(NEC), is transforming defence capabilities.
Insyte is working in partnership with the UK
MoD, to deliver transformational capabilities
to the UK armed forces through the
application of emerging NEC technologies. 
The sale of Atlas Elektronik, the naval
systems business based in Germany,
jointly to ThyssenKrupp and EADS was
agreed in December 2005 and is expected
to complete in the first half of 2006,
subject to regulatory approval. 
BAE Systems has valuable interests in 
the MBDA guided weapons joint venture 
and Airbus. 
MBDA continues to perform well with 
good order intake. A further step in the
consolidation of the European guided
weapons industry was achieved with the
agreement to integrate fully the German
missile business LFK into MBDA. 
Airbus produced another strong financial
performance despite a continued high level
of investment in new product development.
Order intake was substantially ahead of
plan, benefiting from strength in a number 
of markets including China, India and the
Middle East. Aircraft demand has also 
been stimulated by the enhanced 
operating economics of new products 
such as the A380 and A350 airliners 
now under development. 
In summary, we have had a good year ,
delivering a strong set of financial results
and meeting our overall objectives for 2005. 
We are successfully executing our strategy.
We have further strengthened our position in
the United States, restructured our portfolio
of business interests in Europe and, through
a combination of factors, we now have a
much enhanced outlook for our business in
the UK. We are delivering shareholder value
by being the premier transatlantic defence
and aerospace company. 
We are now a very well balanced Company,
not overly dependent on any one sector but
generating good returns for shareholders
from a broad base of operations in the
world’ s key defence and aerospace markets.
BAE Systems is set to deliver good growth
and we look forward with confidence to
building on our particularly strong
performance in 2005 with continued 
good progress through 2006.
Mike Turner
Chief Executive
22 February 2006
“Financial results have been delivered 
in line with our plan and further
significant steps have been taken to
implement the Company’ s strategy. ” Market overview
Defence
Global defence spending grew by eight
percent in 2004 among the fifteen largest
military nations.
BAE Systems is heavily reliant upon the
levels of funding committed by the domestic
governments where the Company’ s
operations are based, principally the US and
UK. In addition, export markets are defined
and regulated by those governments.
The US represents 45% of the world 
defence market. It is, and will remain, one 
of BAE Systems’ key markets, offering
programme scale and a high level of
investment in research and development.
Although growth in US defence spending 
is expected to slow, the Company is well
placed to support the US Department of
Defense’ s likely emphasis on force
sustainment and affordable transformation.
In the UK, BAE Systems is seeing the benefit
from its work over recent years to eliminate
inappropriate risk and improve returns from
its Programmes business with the UK
Ministry of Defence (MoD). The Company
has continued to deliver wide-ranging
support activities in partnership with the
MoD’ s Defence Logistics Organisation and
the armed forces.
The UK customer is undergoing a
transformation, driven by the need for
greater agility, affordability and more
effective technology exploitation.
Fundamentally, this transformation 
is a shift towards integrated capability 
and managed through-life, to deliver 
the required military effect.
This evolution is expected to see the scope
of industry’ s role change as the MoD seeks
long-term partnering relationships to deliver
through-life capability management as
indicated in the recently published MoD
Defence Industrial Strategy.
Although defence spending in some western
European nations is static, the region still
offers significant market opportunities for
BAE Systems. In particular , countries in
central Europe are investing in their armed
forces as they move from Warsaw Pact
equipment to NATO standard equipment.
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is another
major market with the Company serving 
as prime contractor for the UK government-
to-government agreement. BAE Systems
provides support to the Royal Saudi Air
Force, the Kingdom’ s ground defence
infrastructure and naval minehunters.
A number of Asian countries represent
growth market opportunities and 
BAE Systems has a long and 
growing relationship with India.
In Australia, BAE Systems has continued 
to build on its position as the Australian
Defence Force capability partner of choice 
in integrated military systems and 
support contracts.
South Africa is another market which
continues to offer opportunity to 
BAE Systems and where the Company 
has in-country capability.
The US represents over 45% of the total forecast
global defence spend (including equipment,
personnel and operating costs) to 2010.
Aerospace
The market for large commercial jets is
forecast to continue to grow on the back 
of rising passenger travel. Annual revenue
passenger kilometres are forecast to 
grow by approximately 5%
1
through to 2023.
The market in 2005 was particularly
buoyant, with strong order intake for 
larger jet aircraft across the industry.
BAE Systems supports a number of 
regional aircraft supplied in prior years. 
The leasing market for these smaller 
aircraft remains difficult.
1
Airbus forecast (December 2004)
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 5
2000
● Rest of world
● Europe  
● US
Source: BAE Systems internal analysis
0
1,200
900
600
300
10 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09
Forecast defence budget by major region
(US$ billions in constant 2006 prices) 6 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005
Group strategy framework
What do we mean when we say
“sustainable shareholder value”? 
“Shareholder value” means growth in our
share price and dividends. “Sustainable”
means continually reviewing the portfolio 
of businesses and building a consistent
track record of delivery to our shareholders.
It also means continually improving the
consistency and quality of application 
of our best practice processes and the 
skills of our people to enable us to 
deliver on our commitments to customers
and shareholders. 
Why “transatlantic”?
“T ransatlantic” relates to our most
important markets. It means having a
presence in both the UK/Europe and in the
US. The US, by a very large margin, is the
world’ s largest defence and aerospace
market and the largest investor in
technology. This technology investment,
as well as the scale of the market, is key 
to our drive to grow in the US. Our other
home markets, Sweden, Saudi Arabia,
South Africa and Australia, complement 
our strong transatlantic base.
Why “defence and aerospace”?
While defence remains our core market,
our historically strong presence in the
aerospace sector , through our holding 
in Airbus, is a major contributor to the 
value of the Company.
Over half of the Company’ s total sales are
now from electronic systems, software and
services. Defence platform programmes
contribute roughly a quarter and the balance
comes from the commercial aerospace
market. On both sides of the Atlantic,
defence now increasingly includes
Homeland Security markets.
BAE Systems’ strategy is to create sustainable shareholder value by being the premier transatlantic defence 
and aerospace company. This is delivered through Group Strategic Objectives, Business Portfolio Actions and
Integrated Business Plans. The five Group Strategic Objectives are owned by the Executive Committee and 
applied across the Group. The Business Portfolio Actions are championed by relevant Executive Committee
members and are delivered either separately or jointly by the businesses. Many of our businesses now support 
more than one portfolio action to encourage them to work together across business boundaries.
The following pages (7 to 13) describe how we are delivering the 
strategic objectives and actions that underpin the Group strategy.
Grow our business 
in the United States
Establish in the 
UK sustainably
profitable through-life
businesses in Air ,
Land and Sea
Grow our global land
systems business
Grow our global
support,solutions
and services
businesses
Grow and maximise
the value of Airbus
Manage non-strategic
businesses for 
optimal value
Business Portfolio Actions
Integrated Business Plans
Group Strategy
• Embed a high performance culture across the Company
• Win profitable new business and optimise value from our order book
• Grow our export business from a strong transatlantic business base
• Increase US/UK industrial technology sharing
• Optimise our business portfolio
Group Strategic Objectives
T o create sustainable shareholder value by being the 
premier transatlantic defence and aerospace company Developing employees
The ‘Developing Y ou’ programme is at the 
heart of the continual training and skills
development that BAE Systems provides for
employees. In 2005 over 1,350 engineers
participated in ‘Engineering Developing Y ou’,
a framework which maps engineering capability
to an individual’ s career aspirations and
BAE Systems business needs. ‘Developing Y ou’
now spans most of the business functions 
and comprises a bespoke range of training
modules, many of which are accredited by
leading universities and professional bodies.
Group strategic objectives
A high performance culture within
BAE Systems will be achieved by
ensuring that:
• the Company operates with 
clear governance
• businesses and employees 
have clear objectives
• best practices are shared 
across the Company
• benchmark core processes 
are consistently applied
• appropriate values and 
standards are applied
BAE Systems is focused on embedding 
a high performance culture by consistent
application of its core assets of governance,
processes and values, and identifying and
sharing best practices across the Company.
T o help achieve this strategic objective, in
2005 the Company formed the Centre for
Performance Excellence (CfPE), which 
is now playing a key role in accelerating 
the pace of change to achieve higher 
levels of performance.
The CfPE is introducing a set of Group-wide
measures, so that business data can be
monitored in a comparable and transparent
way, facilitating assessment of progress
towards achieving our Group strategy. 
In 2006, the CfPE will focus on identifying
and sharing best practices, in order to 
foster performance improvement across 
the Company.
A further aspect of the high performance
culture is driven through Performance
Centred Leadership (PCL). This is a
leadership and performance management
system, introduced in 2002, that establishes
a clear link between performance and
rewards. It establishes an underpinning
competency and behaviour set for business
leaders, enabling all leaders to understand
what ‘high performance’ means for them
and their teams. The system continues to
be extended to a wider set of managers 
to ensure that the principles of PCL are
embedded further throughout the Company.
Consistently delivering good programme
execution is what drives customer
satisfaction, financial growth, and 
ultimately returns to shareholders.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 7
Embed a high performance culture 
across the Company Type 45
HMS Daring was launched on 1 February 2006.
It is the first of a planned class of up to eight
T ype 45 destroyers for the Royal Navy, and will
be the UK’ s next generation anti-air warfare
destroyer . Daring has been assembled from
large pre-outfitted ‘megablock’ modules,
increasing build efficiency and driving down
construction man-hours. The division of 
work between shipyards across the UK,
at BAE Systems’ facilities at Scotstoun 
and Govan in Glasgow and VT Shipbuilding 
in Portsmouth, has pioneered a new way 
of building complex warships. 
8 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005
Group strategic objectives
BAE Systems has had considerable
recent success in establishing an
appropriate balance of risk and
reward in its order book, creating 
a sound foundation for growth and
enabling the Company to focus on
winning profitable new business.
BAE Systems is determined to build on its
strong market position by continuing to win
business with an acceptable balance of risk
and return for shareholders. The progress
made in this regard, particularly with major
UK programmes, will be sustained for future
contracting arrangements, including the
anticipated production contracts for Nimrod
maritime patrol aircraft, Astute submarines
and additional T ype 45 destroyers.
A key objective is to deliver greater value 
to shareholders from our order book 
by applying best practice, tools and
processes in a consistently efficient 
manner throughout the Company.
The Company’ s programme execution 
is being achieved by the consistent
application of our Lifecycle Management
(LCM) process. LCM lies at the heart of 
the Company’ s project management. It
provides a powerful and flexible process 
and control environment within which 
to execute projects. The LCM process
considers the whole life of projects from
inception to delivery into service and
eventual disposal and provides the
framework for the application of best
practice programme management.
A key enabler to winning new business is
establishing a track record of delivering
projects on time, to specification and cost.
Win profitable new business and optimise 
value from our order book M777
The M777 is the world’ s first 155mm howitzer
weighing under 10,000lbs and meets
requirements for rapid deployment and accurate
artillery fire support. It has been designed and
developed in both the US and the UK and 
has been selected by the US Marine Corps and
US Army as their next generation medium force
weapon. M777 is now in full rate production 
and units have already been delivered to 
the US Marine Corps, US Army and Canadian 
Armed Forces. 
Transatlantic markets remain at 
the core of our strategy given our
leading position in the UK/Europe
and strong and growing presence in
the US. These markets will continue 
to shape our capabilities and our
product and services portfolio and
form the basis from which export
opportunities can be addressed.
From a strong transatlantic base we shall
continue to export to, and work in, markets
around the world where we can deliver good
shareholder returns. We prioritise key export
markets and identify potential products and
services which will be better suited to those
markets. In addition, the expansion of
existing home markets, where our business
operations are located, and identification of
new ones is a strategic objective for 2006.
The acquisition of United Defense was a key
step in our strategy to build BAE Systems’
position as the premier transatlantic
defence and aerospace company. The
Company is now well placed to support 
the US military’ s growing emphasis on
interoperability, affordable transformation
and force sustainment. In particular , the
acquisition enables us to address the
increasing emphasis on land systems in
emerging customer requirements, including
the refurbishment, upgrade and long-term
support of existing vehicles and equipment.
Following the acquisition of United Defense,
we combined our existing land systems
activities in the UK, Sweden and South
Africa with United Defense to form the 
Land & Armaments business group. 
This created one of the world’ s leading
design, manufacture and support providers
of land and armament systems. Less than
two years ago, the Company had a small
foothold in this sector . BAE Systems is the
world’ s second largest global land systems
business, with an annualised turnover in
excess of £2bn.
Both organic growth and growth through
acquisitions will continue to be pursued 
in the US.
With its transatlantic foundation 
BAE Systems is well positioned to grow at
the very highest level of technology and
capability in the US whilst also delivering
value from its strong technology base,
capabilities and market position in the UK
and its other home markets of Sweden,
Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Australia.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 9
Grow our export business from a strong
transatlantic business base F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (JSF)
BAE Systems’ JSF involvement includes
delivering the System Development and
Demonstration phase of the programme
involving airframe assemblies and mission
systems. The aft fuselage and empennage for
each aircraft are being designed, engineered
and built at the BAE Systems Samlesbury site 
in the UK. The JSF will set new standards for
assembly precision and pace. Innovative
precision machining techniques help ensure
that the JSF meets its stealth requirement.
Accuracy is achieved through digital design 
and manufacturing controls pioneered by
BAE Systems.
10 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005
Group strategic objectives
The US and the UK have a long
history of defence industrial
cooperation that has provided
significant benefits to both
countries. BAE Systems has itself
played an important role in that
transatlantic cooperation and
continues to do so, most notably in
the M777 howitzer and F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter programmes.
The UK government’ s Defence Industrial
Strategy, published on 15 December 2005,
made clear “the importance of transatlantic
defence industrial cooperation in enabling
both UK and US Armed Forces to acquire
more effective military capabilities, at better
value for money, than would otherwise be
the case, and to cooperate together in
pursuit of common security objectives”. 
It went on to say “It is in the interest of 
both governments and of both industries 
to improve the current situation”.
Notwithstanding the strong tradition of
cooperation, the constraints imposed by 
the current US export control regulations
(the International T raffic in Arms Regulations)
act as a disincentive to maximising the
benefits from such cooperation. While 
it is self-evident that the movement of
sensitive information and technology 
has generally to be controlled, in today’ s
environment of coalition operations it would
be to the advantage of both governments
and defence industries to allow and,
indeed, to encourage freer technology
sharing between the UK and the US.
BAE Systems therefore fully supports the 
UK government’ s efforts to establish a
technology sharing agreement with the 
US government that will enable government 
and industry on both sides of the Atlantic 
to work more effectively together both to
enhance interoperability and to facilitate 
the delivery of systems that our respective
armed forces need. 
For BAE Systems an improved technology
sharing environment would enable our
engineers and scientists in the US and the
UK to collaborate more effectively, and bring
together their collective skills and expertise
to the benefit of our two major customers,
the UK and US governments, as well as to
our shareholders.
Increase UK/US industrial technology sharing Eurosystems
The Eurosystems transaction, completed 
in April 2005, achieved BAE Systems’ and
Finmeccanica’ s mutual goals of securing 
control and clear management responsibility for
their European defence electronics businesses.
Following the transaction, BAE Systems 
formed Integrated System T echnologies 
by combining the capabilities of the former
AMS’ s UK operations and BAE Systems’ C4ISR
Networked Systems and Solutions business.
This business is working in partnership with 
the UK MoD to identify opportunities to
participate in the transformation of the
capabilities of the UK armed forces through 
the application of emerging network enabled
capability technologies.
To ensure delivery of value to
shareholders the Company is
focused on determining where
appropriate returns can be achieved. 
T o maximise returns the Company will
continue to focus on markets with attractive
terms of trade as well as addressing costs,
productivity and business performance. 
T o achieve this, businesses operating in
markets not considered central to the
Company’ s strategy are managed to
maximise their contribution to the Group.
Actions to optimise our business portfolio 
in 2005 included further restructuring of 
the Company’ s activities in Europe and 
the acquisition of United Defense in the 
United States.
In Europe, the Eurosystems transaction was
completed. This comprised the sale of the
UK-based sensor systems and electronic
warfare activities of the former Avionics
business group and the restructuring of 
the former AMS joint venture business to
exit businesses in Italy and consolidate 
its UK network enabled capability activities
in a wholly-owned UK-based business,
Integrated System T echnologies. 
In March 2005, BAE Systems reduced its
interest in Saab AB from 34.2% to 20.5%.
In August 2005, BAE Systems sold
Precision Aerostructures, the US based
aircraft component machining and
fabrication facility.
In December 2005, an agreement for the 
sale of the Atlas Elektronik business to
ThyssenKrupp and EADS was announced.
In January 2006, an agreement for the sale
of the UK based Aerostructures business to
Spirit AeroSystems Inc. was announced.
The acquisition of United Defense 
was a key step in our strategy to build
BAE Systems’ position as the premier
transatlantic defence and aerospace
company. The Company is now well placed
to support the US military’ s growing
emphasis on inter-operability, affordable
transformation and force sustainment. 
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 11
Optimise our business portfolio 12 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005
Business portfolio actions
Grow our business in the
United States
In the summer of 2005, BAE Systems
completed the acquisition of United
Defense, growing the US business base 
by $2.6bn in annual sales and 8,000
additional employees. This acquisition
established BAE Systems as a major land
systems prime contractor with a strong
position in support of the US Department 
of Defense’ s requirements for force
sustainment and affordable transformation.
The acquisition provides new opportunities
in land vehicle and naval gun programmes.
It also broadens our access to platforms,
supporting our customers with enhanced
solutions including new target acquisition,
communications and networked awareness
systems, and diversifies our business base
with the US Army.
In addition, the existing US business 
is achieving organic growth across 
its established businesses with key 
successes in electronic warfare,
tactical communications, intelligence
systems, information technology,
and customer support.
Establish in the UK sustainably
profitable through-life businesses 
in air, land and sea
Good progress continues to be made 
across all major platform programmes. 
In 2005, the financial performance 
of the Programmes business group
benefited both from improved project
execution and agreement on the way 
forward on the T yphoon programme 
made in December 2004.
In December 2005, the UK MoD published 
its Defence Industrial Strategy (DIS). This
strategy will shape the future of the UK
defence industrial base and recognises 
the need to sustain in the UK the highest
system integration skills and capabilities
across air , land and sea domains. The 
DIS also emphasises the importance 
of a through-life capability approach and
envisages long-term partnering agreements
within each of the key sectors of air , land
and sea. Successful implementation of this
strategy will create a positive investment
environment. The Company will work 
closely with the MoD to help them realise
the DIS intent.
The enduring requirement for retaining 
an on-shore, through-life, prime systems
integration capability across air , land 
and sea presents BAE Systems with
opportunities to sustain its UK 
business base.
Grow our global land systems
business
Following the successful completion 
of the acquisition of Alvis in 2004 and 
United Defense in 2005, BAE Systems 
has established a major land systems
position, with home markets in the US,
Sweden, South Africa and the UK. The
formation of the Land & Armaments
business group in June 2005 brought
BAE Systems’ existing land systems
activities together with those of United
Defense, to create a global leader in
armoured combat vehicles and armaments.
These integrated capabilities, our position
on future programmes and our extensive
installed base of legacy systems provides
BAE Systems with a platform from which 
it can develop its global land systems
business. We shall capitalise on the reset 
and modularity priorities of the US Army 
to restore battle-worn equipment and 
to convert active and reserve units to
standardised expeditionary organisations.
The next generation of combat systems 
will be rapidly deployable, lethal, survivable
and networked. We have an integral role 
in the UK’ s Future Rapid Effect System
programme, the US Army’ s Future Combat
Systems programme and the Swedish SEP
future ground systems programmes.
In the UK land support arena the award of
the AS90 equipment support contract was 
an excellent first step as we enter a long-
term partnering arrangement with the 
MoD to support the UK armoured fighting
vehicle fleet.
The business portfolio actions are championed by relevant 
Executive Committee members and are delivered either 
separately or jointly by the business groups. Grow our global support, solutions
and services business
In the UK, Customer Solutions & Support
(CS&S) has continued the evolution of its
successful partnering relationship with the
UK Defence Logistics Organisation. This
relationship is underpinned by a partnering
arrangement which is being refreshed to
reflect the drive for through-life capability
management as emphasised in the DIS.
The CS&S International and Australian
businesses continue to implement their
growth strategies. 
Good progress has been made with 
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, where the
Company employs some 4,600 people,
in particular with the signing of the
government to government Understanding
Document in December 2005.
Restructuring in the US led to the creation 
of the US Customer Solutions organisation,
strengthening our position to address
emerging support opportunities. The US
business is focused primarily in the areas 
of technology solutions and services,
Information T echnology (IT), and ship repair .
While the US services market is large, it is
generally flat, resulting in a very competitive
environment. Future growth plans remain
centred in the high growth IT market.
BAE Systems is in an excellent position 
to grow business by assisting customers
with defence logistics transformation 
to increase operational effectiveness.
Grow and maximise the 
value of Airbus
In addition to its 20% equity interest in
Airbus, BAE Systems continues to exercise
important management influence on the
business. Airbus achieved good growth in
2005. It secured net new orders for 1,055
aircraft in 2005, including firm orders
received from China, Kingfisher Airlines,
UPS and Virgin Atlantic.
In 2005, Airbus delivered 378 aircraft
compared to 320 in 2004. The 2005 total
comprised 289 single-aisle A320 family
aircraft and 89 wide-body and long-range
airliners (essentially A330s and A340s).
In April 2005, the first A380 successfully
undertook its maiden flight. The entry into
service for the A380 is now expected in 
late 2006.
Development of the A400M military
transport aircraft continues, with the first
export order for the aircraft achieved 
during 2005.
Following approval from its shareholders,
EADS and BAE Systems, Airbus formally
launched the new long-range A350 airliner in
October 2005. Airbus has already received
172 firm orders and commitments.
Manage non-strategic businesses 
for optimal value
Where a business is operating in a market
that is not contributing to achieving our
desired long-term strategic positioning it 
will be managed to optimise value. This
could mean focusing on managing for 
cash or divesting the business. Whatever
the chosen action, such businesses will 
be managed to maximise their contribution 
to the overall Group performance.
A number of disposal transactions were
agreed during 2005.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 13 14 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005
Electronics, Intelligence & Support
Electronics, Intelligence & Support
(EI&S) is headquartered in the US,
and is responsible for the former
businesses of BAE Systems North
America, the group’s UK-based
displays and inertial systems
activities and US marine repair
activities. EI&S comprises two
businesses, Electronics & Integrated
Solutions and Customer Solutions.
During 2005, Electronics, Intelligence 
& Support achieved EBITA
2
of £324m 
(2004 £256m) on sales
1
of £3,697m 
(2004 £3,063m). The business group
generated operating cash inflow
3
of 
£323m (2004 £190m).
Electronics & Integrated Solutions
The Electronics & Integrated Solutions
(E&IS) business is a major defence and
aerospace electronics business with
products and services encompassing: 
• Communications, including 
tactical networking
• Electronic warfare, including electronic
protection and information warfare
• Avionics and controls
• Sensors
• Integrated systems
E&IS is an industry leader in a variety of
military communications, electronic
identification, navigation and guidance
systems. The Company has wide technical
expertise in C4ISR
6
and C3I
7
systems and 
is a provider of network centric warfare
solutions to command centres, platforms
and individual soldiers in the battle space. 
It has a prominent position integrating
communications on the US Army’ s Future
Combat Systems, including provision of an
Integrated Global Positioning and Inertial
Navigation System for the programme. 
In 2005 the Company was also selected 
to provide the new mobile military
communications system for the Slovak
armed forces.
The Company is a major supplier of
integrated avionics systems for military
aircraft. Such systems include the 
electronic countermeasures for the US 
Air Force’ s F-22 Raptor and development 
of the electronic warfare suite for the F-35
Joint Strike Fighter . In 2005 the Company
was selected by the US Navy to develop 
the T actical Aircraft Directable Infrared
Countermeasures system and has been
successfully flight testing a related infrared
missile countermeasures system for
commercial aircraft.
E&IS provides signals and information
management solutions for defence and
government agencies. Its Diamond 
Software product family architecture
underpins the latest generation of 
electronic support measures for the UK
Shaman communications programme. 
The Company’ s radiation hardened
computers have guided spacecraft on
missions to Mars and to intercept a comet. 
As a market leader in advanced information
technology, geospatial exploitation software
and data production, integration of
knowledge-based systems and avionics test
equipment, the Company was selected as
one of the prime contractors for the US Air
Force mission planning consolidation in
2005. Another programme, Gridlock, gives
the war fighter distinctive advantages with
its ‘smart imaging’ targeting that rapidly
generates accurate target coordinates using
still or motion imagery from tactical manned
and unmanned platforms.
Capabilities in vehicle management, human-
machine interface, precision guidance and
power systems provide improved operational
safety and enhanced mission effectiveness.
Contract awards in 2005 included the digital
electronic engine controls for the GE T700
engine that will make BAE Systems the
leader in the army helicopter segment.
BAE Systems also provides the HybriDrive
propulsion system, used on commercial
buses, which improves fuel economy by 
35% and dramatically reduces emissions.
Five hundred systems for operation in
New Y ork City were ordered in 2005. 
In a related technology, the US Office of
Naval Research selected BAE Systems to
develop an on-board power system for the
Marine Corps’ High-Mobility Multipurpose
Wheeled Vehicle (the Humvee).
Electronics, Intelligence & Support – Summary
2005 2004
5
Sales
1
£3,697m £3,063m
EBITA
2
£324m £256m
Cash inflow
3
£323m £190m
Number of employees
1
32,900 30,000
Order book
1
£3.5bn £3.1bn
Share of Group sales
4
Share of Group EBITA
2
Key points
• Sustained leadership positions
in electronic warfare and 
military communications –
secured US Air Force mission
planning contract
• Acquisition of largest US 
non-nuclear ship repair business
• Successful integration of 
2004 acquisitions
• Successful flight test of infrared
missile countermeasures
system for commercial airliners
Financial highlights
• Organic sales growth of 6% 
over 2004
• Return on sales improved 
to 8.8%
• Good conversion of EBITA
2
to operating cash flow
• Order book growth
23% 27% The Company is a supplier of state-of-the-art
infrared, millimetre-wave, and laser
technologies for missile seekers, guided
munitions, and target designators. It is
upgrading the technology for the Theater
High Altitude Area Defense (THAD)seeker 
for Lockheed Martin. In an important entry
point to the $1bn military thermal imaging
market, the Company is producing the 
new thermal weapons sights to equip 
the US Army and Marine Corps, and is 
to manufacture the TIM1500 thermal
imaging module for the US Army’ s Stryker
armoured vehicle. 
In 2005, BAE Systems won the US Air
Force’ s key Design and Engineering Support
Program II, leveraging expertise in aircraft
modifications and operations.
The business operates two technology
organisations focused on enhancing its
technology base, Advanced Systems 
and T echnology and the Center for
Transformation.
Advanced Systems and T echnology identifies
strategic technology needs and delivers 
that technology in four major domains:
Sensors and Signal Processing; Radio
Frequency; Electro-Optical and Infrared; 
and Networking and Information Processing.
Major customers include the US Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency and
other government laboratories, with
research and development programmes
ranging from multi-functional low-observable
antenna systems to high performance
scalable signal processing technologies,
mixed-signal (digital, RF and optical)
devices, and advanced sensors.
The Center for T ransformation focuses on
development of advanced programmes and
concepts in the C4ISR
6
domain and deploys
leading-edge technology solutions to solve
time-critical problems. 
Customer Solutions
Customer Solutions comprises three
business units:
• BAE Systems Information T echnology (IT)
• T echnology Solutions and Services (TSS)
• BAE Systems Ship Repair
IT capabilities include enterprise-wide
managed IT operations, mission-critical
performance and information analysis 
and assured delivery. TSS provides 
services including system engineering 
and technical assistance, system and 
sub-system integration and operations 
and maintenance. Ship Repair provides 
non-nuclear ship repair , conversion and
modernisation, principally in the home 
ports of the US Navy.
The business provides a broad range 
of services in the areas of systems
integration, systems engineering and
technical assistance, operations and
maintenance and logistics. It also develops
communications systems and precision
tracking radars, is one of the largest
suppliers to the US Navy, is a leader in air
and missile defence systems and is one 
of the world’ s largest manufacturers of
explosives. It also includes the US’ s leading
non-nuclear ship repair company.
During 2005, the major projects for the US
government included a blanket purchase
agreement for the supply of information
technology support and services, a cost-
plus award fee/level of effort contract for
operations, and maintenance support for
IT systems. Combined annual sales for
these are estimated at $94m.
TSS provides professional engineering
services to the NAVSEA DDG51 Shipbuilding
Program Office under a $863m contract
which will run until 2015. It also handles 
the SETAC contract, for which the primary
customer is the Army Space and Missile
Defense Command. The full year sales for
SETAC are $90m.
Ship Repair has continued to support 
the US Navy repairs, alterations and
continuous repair work on Landing Platform
Dock/Landing Ship Dock (LPD/LSD) class
vessels in San Diego, as well as similar LSD
Multi-Ship Multi-Option in Norfolk, Virginia.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 15
Defence spending in the US continues to be robust for the near term,
however fiscal pressures may make the budget environment more
challenging in subsequent years. Customers will need to balance priorities 
to equip effectively the current fighting force, whilst developing capabilities 
to transform the future force.
EI&S was reorganised in 2005 to enable it to compete more effectively. The
business group can now leverage a breadth of capability in critical domains,
whilst rapidly aligning technologies and resources to those sub-segments of
the market which are likely to see higher than market growth.
Looking forward
1
including share of equity accounted investments
2
earnings before amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 
3
net cash inflow from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment,
and dividends from equity accounted investments
4
before elimination of intra-group sales
5
as restated under International Financial 
Reporting Standards
6
Command, Control, Communications and Computing,
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
7
Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence
Advanced Airborne Systems
BAE Systems designs, develops and
manufactures a wide range of electronic 
systems and subsystems for both military 
and commercial applications. The Electronics 
& Integrated Solutions business develops
advanced airborne systems, including the
electronic warfare suites for the F-35 Joint 
Strike Fighter (JSF), F-22 Raptor and other 
air platforms. In July 2005, BAE Systems
successfully completed the first flight test 
of its F-35 electronic warfare (EW) suite. 
The tests were funded internally and outside 
of the JSF programme flight test schedule in
order to evaluate potential cost savings and
performance improvement options. T o date,
the EW system continues to exceed all contract
performance metrics within the System Design
and Development phase. 16 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005
Land & Armaments
The Land & Armaments business
group, headquartered in the US,
is a global leader in the design,
development, production and 
service support of armoured 
combat vehicles, major and 
minor calibre naval guns, missile
launchers, canisters, artillery
systems and intelligent munitions.
During 2005, Land & Armaments achieved
EBITA
2
of £42m (2004 £(8)m) on sales
1
of £1,270m (2004 £482m), and generated
an operating cash inflow
3
of £168m 
(2004 £60m).
This group was established in June 2005
from the newly acquired United Defense 
and the existing Land Systems (formed by
the integration of RO Defence and Alvis in
2004). This global business has operations
in the US, UK, South Africa and Sweden, with
markets in more than two dozen countries.
The Land & Armaments business is shaped
by the contracts awarded for its products by
primarily the governments of the US, the UK
and Sweden. The success of the business
results from its history of securing key
government contracts and the ability to
satisfy customer needs in its various home
and export markets. In the US, the Army’ s
requirement to restore its current systems
to combat-ready condition following
extensive operational use and to upgrade
and remanufacture to the most advanced 
configurations is the subject of one of the
largest ongoing programmes being
undertaken by the group.
Land
Contract awards on current systems have
been exceptional. Most noteworthy were the
orders in 2005 worth some $1.5bn for the
refurbishment and upgrade of Bradley and
M113 fighting vehicles, demonstrating the
value and potential of the United Defense
acquisition. Other contracts on current
systems included the remanufacture and
upgrade of 59 M88A2 HERCULES Improved
Recovery Vehicles.
The M777 lightweight 155mm howitzer , 495
of which were ordered for the US Marines
and US Army in 2005, has now expanded its
market with the first delivery of guns to the
Canadian Department of National Defense.
In addition to mine protection, current
survivability programmes include an
armouring programme of M113 personnel
carriers in Iraq, the manufacture and
installation of T ransparent Armour Gun
Shield kits for Humvees, trucks, M2
Bradleys, M1 Abrams and add-on armour 
for the Stryker .
In the area of development,Land & Armaments
is well positioned for key future forces
programmes including the Future Combat
Systems (FCS) programme for the US Army,
Future Rapid Effect System programme for 
the UK and the Swedish Modular Armoured
T actical System. 
Land & Armaments continues to make
substantial progress on the development
and maturation of the Non-Line-of-Sight-
Cannon (NLOS-C), the lead system of the 
US Army’ s FCS manned ground vehicles. 
In 2005, company engineers and the Army
completed functional and preliminary 
design reviews. The NLOS-C remains on
track to deliver prototypes in 2008 and
achieve system fielding in 2010. 
Other contract wins and ongoing
development programmes related to
Manned Ground Vehicles for the US Army’ s
FCS include the Integrated Army Active
Protection System and the common 
T raction Drive Subsystem for all FCS
manned ground vehicles.
The group secured two key contracts in
robotic systems – the acceleration of 
the FCS Armed Robotic Vehicle (ARV), together
with Carnegie Mellon University, and 
the US Marine Corps’ Gladiator T actical
Unmanned Ground Vehicle. It also showed
its own internally-developed Armed Robotic
Demonstrator at the annual meeting of the
Association of the US Army.
In the UK, the award of the AS90 Equipment
Support Contract followed by the contract to
upgrade 500 of the British Army’ s FV430
tracked vehicles, are key enablers in
Land & Armaments – Summary
2005 2004
5
Sales
1
£1,270m £482m
EBITA
2
£42m £(8)m
Underlying EBITA
6
£86m £(2)m
Cash inflow
3
£168m £60m
Number of employees
1
10,600 4,800
Order book
1
£4.4bn £2.2bn
Key points
• T ransatlantic growth with
acquisition of United Defense
• Global land systems business
established 
• Key contracts secured
– Bradley reset and upgrade
– Danish CV90, US RG-31, M777
• UK Future Rapid Effect System
(FRES) demonstrator award 
• UK cost base being addressed
Financial highlights
• Sales of £625m from acquired
United Defense business
• EBITA
2
stated after UK
rationalisation charge of £24m
• Cash flow benefits from advance
payments secured
• Order book growth
8%
Share of Group sales
4
Share of Group EBITA
2
3%
includes six months of United Defense becoming the through-life support and
capability provider to the UK armed forces.
In the UK and export markets T rojan, an
obstacle-crossing vehicle and Titan, a tank
bridgelayer , are both based on Challenger 2.
Roll-out of the first production vehicles is
scheduled for the first quarter of 2006.
Over the past ten years, some £25m has been
invested in developing insensitive munitions
technology and in UK production facilities.
The first contract was awarded in 2005 by
the UK MoD for the manufacture of 105mm
improved ammunition for the L18 Light Gun.
Subsequent awards have been contracts to
qualify 155mm ammunition for the L15 and
L21 and 4.5” improved ammunition.
The premium that militaries are placing on
accuracy and precision in both area and
point target fires has raised the importance
of intelligent munitions for artillery and mortar
systems. Land & Armaments has a leading
role in the accelerated fielding of Excalibur
to US and Canadian forces in Iraq and
Afghanistan. BONUS, a sensor fused
155mm munition fielded in Sweden and
France, is being evaluated by the US and UK.
BAE Systems’ operations in Sweden
continue their strong presence in the
northern European armoured fighting
vehicles market with further orders for the
CV90. The newest customer , Denmark,
brings to six the number of European
countries fielding this highly successful
infantry fighting vehicle.
The growing international need for mine-
protected vehicles has generated orders for
the four-wheeled RG-31 from South Africa
including the sale of 148 vehicles to the US
with further exports to Canada and the
United Arab Emirates under contract.
Naval
One immediate benefit of the United Defense
acquisition for BAE Systems was the
opportunity to meet the US Navy’ s urgent
need for a superior medium-calibre gun and
ammunition for the DD(X) next-generation
destroyer and the Coast Guard’ s Deepwater
modernisation programme. Both have
selected the Land & Armaments’ 57mm 
Mk 110 as a close-in gun system for the
DD(X) and as the main battery for the
Maritime Security Cutter Large. Partnering
with Northrop Grumman Ship Systems, the
first Mk 110 will be delivered in December
2006. The weapon system is also baselined
on both the General Dynamics and
Lockheed Martin designs for the Littoral
Combat Ship for the US Navy. 
Development of the 155mm Advanced Gun
System (AGS) and the Long Range Land
Attack Projectile (LRLAP) for the US Navy
continues to support Navy and Marine Corps
expeditionary and joint operations forces
engaged near the coastline and deep inland.
The AGS will be capable of a maximum
sustained firing rate of 10 rounds per minute
at ranges of up to 60 nautical miles with an
objective of being able to reach targets
beyond 80 nautical miles. In 2005, the
engineering development models
successfully demonstrated the key
requirements to support the DD(X) ship
design. T ests have already established the
propulsion approach for the LRLAP needed
to meet the challenging range targets.
In addition to key new gun systems,
BAE Systems is designing and testing 
a new Vertical Launching System (VLS),
Mk 57. This next generation VLS will 
provide capabilities for the DD(X) ship to
launch a wide range of missile designs.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 17
Land & Armaments is expected to contribute growth in 2006 driven largely 
by the ongoing requirements in the US to both reset and upgrade the Bradley
family of vehicles. Reset is the need to repair vehicles to return them to a 
fully operational condition as a result of wear incurred by sustained military
operations. Upgrade activity is enhancing the vehicles’ mobility, lethality 
and survivability to support effectively the US Army as it drives to deploy 
a modular force.
In the UK, there will be continued emphasis on improving profitability 
and establishing a role on the Future Rapid Effect System programme. 
The businesses in both Sweden and South Africa continue to perform 
well in both home markets and in securing export opportunities.
In the longer term, progress on the US Army’ s Future Combat Systems
programme, where BAE Systems has a major role for both manned and
unmanned vehicles, will be a major sensitivity for the business.
Looking forward
1
including share of equity accounted investments
2
earnings before amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 
3
net cash inflow from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment,
and dividends from equity accounted investments
4
before elimination of intra-group sales
5
as restated under International Financial 
Reporting Standards
6
earnings before amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, uplift on acquired inventories,
finance costs and taxation expense
Non-Line-of-Sight-Cannon (NLOS-C)
The fully automated NLOS-C will deliver more
firepower with greater effects faster and more
accurately than ever before. BAE Systems is
proving new capabilities on the fully automated,
38 calibre NLOS-C Concept T echnology
Demonstrator , which has fired more than 
1,900 rounds at Yuma Proving Ground, Arizona.
The first NLOS-C Increment 0 prototypes are
scheduled for delivery in 2008.
(Artist’ s impression) 18 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005
Programmes
The Programmes business group 
is a major contributor to the 
defence of the UK, with the MoD its
principal customer. The business
group comprises the Company’s air
systems, naval ships and submarines
activities together with the
Company’s participation in the UK’s
Future Carrier (CVF) programme.
During 2005, Programmes achieved 
EBITA
2
of £133m (2004 £10m) on sales
1
of £2,819m (2004 £2,219m), and 
generated an operating cash inflow
3
of £285m (2004 £442m).
Air Systems
The principal Air Systems programmes are:
Typhoon
The introduction of the T yphoon to the 
Royal Air Force (RAF) was successfully
implemented under the Case White initial
support arrangement. The contracted flying
hours were completed ahead of schedule,
and the first two RAF squadrons have now
been deployed to their operational base 
at RAF Coningsby. A total of 74 aircraft 
have been accepted by the air forces of 
the four partner nations for deployment 
to operational and training squadrons
across Europe. Discussions are underway
regarding further development to enhance
the capability of the aircraft. In addition to
the sale of 18 aircraft to Austria, further
export possibilities are being pursued.
Hawk
The Hawk Advanced Jet T rainer (AJT)
development programme made good
progress during 2005, with a successful
maiden flight for the first RAF Mk 128 
in July, two months ahead of schedule. 
A production order is expected in 2006.
Export contracts for Bahrain, South Africa
and India were progressed during the year .
Programmes – Summary
2005 2004
5
Sales
1
£2,819m £2,219m
EBITA
2
£133m £10m
Cash inflow
3
£285m £442m
Number of employees
1
16,200 15,700
Order book
1
£12.3bn £13.0bn
Key points
• 37 T yphoon aircraft delivered 
in the year (12 to UK RAF) 
• First flight of UK Hawk Advanced
Jet T rainer aircraft achieved early 
• Successful delivery of F-35 JSF
airframe assemblies
• T ype 45 first of class launched in
February 2006.
• Landing Ship Dock (Auxiliary)
first ship delivered
Financial highlights
• Sales growth of 27% over 2004
• Margin recovery to 4.7%
including £30m benefit from risk
retirement on T yphoon
• Margin constrained
– No contribution from Astute
and Nimrod sales
– No margin traded on 
T ype 45 with programme 
at an early stage
• Good cash performance
The Astute class submarine.
(Artist's impression)
18%
Share of Group sales
4
Share of Group EBITA
2
11% Nimrod MRA4
Nimrod passed a number of key
milestones in 2005, and the development
fleet of three aircraft continues its
extensive flight testing programme. Design
and development continues to meet the
targets to support the production bid, which
was submitted in July, and to serve as the
technical baseline for future work. 
F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (JSF)
Air Systems is partnered with Lockheed
Martin and Northrop Grumman on the JSF
programme, with responsibility for the design
and manufacture of the rear fuselage and
empennage. Work progressed on the
system development and demonstration
contract, with the successful delivery of the
first rear fuselage and empennage to
Lockheed Martin. The first conventional
takeoff and landing flight is planned for 2006.
Activity has also continued in preparation for
the bid for the first JSF production contract,
with the contract award expected in 2007.
Unmanned Air Vehicles (UAVs)
In July 2005, the MoD formed the Strategic
UAVs (Experiment) integrated project team.
This will assemble evidence to allow the 
UK to make informed decisions about the
potential role of UAVs in future force mixes.
BAE Systems has been selected as prime
contractor , and has received a series of
contracts for de-risking work.
Naval Ships and Submarines
The principal Naval Ships and Submarine
programmes are:
Type 45
The Company is the prime contractor and
design authority for the T ype 45 destroyer ,
which will be the largest and most powerful
anti-air warfare destroyer ever deployed by
the Royal Navy. Of a projected eight ships,
six are under contract of which the first,
HMS Daring, was launched in February
2006. Build on ships 2 and 3 is progressing
well, with anticipated build efficiencies
already being achieved between first and
second of class. 
LSD(A)
T wo Landing Ship Dock (Auxiliaries) for 
the Royal Fleet Auxiliary (RFA) are under
contract. The first, RFA Mounts Bay, was
handed over in December 2005; and RFA
Cardigan Bay will be delivered in mid-2006.
OPV
The customer’ s refusal to accept the three
Brunei Offshore Patrol Vessels is now
subject to arbitration.
Astute
The Astute programme has achieved
milestones on or ahead of schedule
throughout the year with closure of the
pressure hull now complete. In 2005, every
module was shipped ahead of schedule with 
the main propulsion package shipped 
40 days early in June, the command deck
module 5 weeks early in November , while
shop floor led innovation enabled the bridge
fin and casings to be completed 22 weeks
early in October 2005. An innovative all-
employee bonus scheme has strongly
contributed to this performance.
CVF
The CVF project will be executed within 
an Alliance structure comprising MoD,
BAE Systems, VT Group, Babcock, Thales
and KBR. Within the Alliance framework,
BAE Systems continues to play a significant
role in the leadership and execution of the
CVF project. The Roles and Responsibilities
agreement signed in December 2005
formally appointed BAE Systems to lead 
the overarching design and integration 
of the two ships, as well as continuing to
lead the mission systems elements of the
project. From a shipbuilding perspective,
BAE Systems will design and build two of 
the four major blocks at both its facilities 
in Glasgow and in Barrow.
The MoD has approved a further £300m 
for the next phase (Demonstration 
Phase Contract) which will fund the 
Alliance for a further 18 months for
continued design evolution and
procurement of long-lead materials.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 19
The future of Programmes is closely linked to the future requirements of the
UK’ s armed forces as well as its ability to generate profitable export business.
For Air Systems the outlook is for reduced sizes of aircraft fleets, leading 
to increasing levels of weapons system upgrades, as customers seek to
incorporate technological improvements into existing platforms. There is
continued demand for training aircraft offering improved cost effectiveness
and the ability to train operators for the latest combat aircraft. In the UK this
need is being addressed by the advanced mission training capabilities of the
Hawk Mk128. There is increased interest in the potential of UAVs.
In the naval domain, the CVF programme and the longer term Military Afloat
Reach and Sustainability (MARS) programme to replace the RFA fleet with
new ships by 2020 offer encouraging growth prospects. BAE Systems is a
key participant in the UK government’ s Maritime Industrial Strategy review.
In the medium to longer term, growth prospects are dependent on anticipated
higher activity, as UK development programmes move to production, and the
potential for Hawk, T yphoon and naval ships exports.
Looking forward
1
including share of equity accounted investments
2
earnings before amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 
3
net cash inflow from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment,
and dividends from equity accounted investments
4
before elimination of intra-group sales
5
as restated under International Financial
Reporting Standards
Astute
Demanding targets and a modular build
strategy have combined during 2005 to achieve
the accelerating production schedule for the
Astute submarine project. Recognition of the
challenges of commissioning a first-of-class
submarine has driven high achievement in the
build and integration stages to de-risk the
programmed delivery date of August 2008.  20 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005
Customer Solutions & Support
The Customer Solutions & Support
(CS&S) business group provides
support solutions for current and
future requirements. It addresses
the trend within armed forces to
work more closely with industry 
to optimise their military capability 
in the most effective manner. Key
capabilities include the integration
and delivery of effective supply 
chain and logistics management,
spares, maintenance, repair and
overhaul, capability upgrade,
technical information services,
facilities management and
manpower services. CS&S is 
the prime contractor on the 
Al Yamamah programme.
During 2005, CS&S achieved EBITA
2
of £419m (2004 £497m) on sales
1
of £2,923m (2004 £2,856m), and
generated an operating cash inflow
3
of £850m (2004 £1,102m). 
As previously indicated, margins have been
reduced within the Al Yamamah support
operations as the programme embraces
greater indigenous Saudi content in repair
and overhaul work.
BAE Systems has a major presence in 
Saudi Arabia, as prime contractor for 
the UK’ s largest export contract. The
contract includes the provision of aircraft
and associated hardware, radar and
communications support, manpower
training and infrastructure for the Royal
Saudi Air Force. The business group
employs some 4,600 people in the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, of whom 
more than half are Saudi nationals.
Performance on the programme in Saudi
Arabia remains on plan. The Company
continues to develop a greater indigenous
presence in Saudi Arabia and has made a
number of investments in offset companies.
The security of our employees is the highest 
of our priorities and a significant investment
is being made in new residential facilities
and increased security measures.
Customer Solutions & Support – Summary
2005 2004
5
Sales
1
£2,923m £2,856m
EBITA
2
£419m £497m
Cash inflow
3
£850m £1,102m
Number of employees
1
14,300 13,800
Order book
1
£5.0bn £4.6bn
Share of Group sales
4
Share of Group EBITA
2
Key points
• Delivery of Saudi strategy 
on track
– Compound construction
– Saudi joint venture 
company formed
– Increasing employment 
of Saudi nationals
• Government to government
Understanding Document 
signed on Saudi armed 
forces modernisation
• Delivery of UK partnered 
support growth strategy
• Improved performance 
from Australian business 
Financial highlights
• Sales growth of 2% over 
2004 (18% from non-Al
Yamamah activity)
• EBITA
2
lower on reduced
contribution from Al Yamamah
support programme
• Cash flow benefits from
programme debt reduction
• Order book growth
Delivering upgraded ex-Royal Navy Type 22
frigates for Romania.
18% 35% In the UK, CS&S has continued the 
evolution of its successful partnering
relationship with the UK Defence Logistics
Organisation (DLO) during 2005. This
relationship is underpinned by a partnering
arrangement which is being refreshed to
reflect the drive for through-life capability
management as emphasised in the UK’ s
Defence Industrial Strategy.
Key highlights in the air domain include
securing major orders on VC10, Harrier ,
a major third-party support contract on 
E3D Sentry and T ornado. 
A joint DLO/BAE Systems team gained 
MoD approval in November for the next
phase of T ornado support to deliver
increased availability and operational
flexibility at much reduced cost. This ATTAC
programme (Availability T ransformation:
T ornado Aircraft Contract) will integrate all
non-engine T ornado support and upgrade
activity into one incentivised arrangement.
In the Naval domain, BAE Systems secured
the sale of three ex-Royal Navy frigates 
to Chile. This follows the successful
reactivation and upgrade of the two 
T ype 22 frigates for Romania completed 
on schedule in April 2005.
In addition, the naval joint ventures 
continue to perform strongly. BAE Systems
has 50% interests in Fleet Support Limited
and Flagship T raining Limited. These
support and services joint ventures 
form an integral part of the CS&S strategy.
Flagship T raining Limited, which manages
the Royal Navy training establishments 
and markets their courses to overseas
customers, has had another strong year .
Fleet Support Limited also continued 
to perform well underpinned by the 
partnering agreement at the UK’ s
Portsmouth naval base.
CS&S continues to develop a coherent
information and logistics infrastructure in
support of both new and in-service systems.
T rilogi, a web-based documentation system
jointly developed by BAE Systems and the
DLO, has now been selected for more than
20 UK MoD programmes and the F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter (JSF).
In July 2005, the MoD announced that
Defence Logistic Solutions (DLS), in 
which BAE Systems was a partner ,
was unsuccessful in the bid for the 
Future Defence Supply Chain initiative. 
BAE Systems’ Australian business has
made considerable progress in realising 
its strategy of becoming the Australian
Defence Force’ s capability partner of 
choice in integrated military systems 
and support solutions. An important
milestone is agreeing the wider industrial
participation with Boeing on the Wedgetail
programme and with Lockheed Martin 
on JSF .
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 21
CS&S will continue to work closely with the UK Defence Logistics
Organisation to provide smarter , more integrated, support solutions on
customer bases. Good progress is being made on the future support model
for the UK T ornado aircraft. Opportunities for similar support arrangements
exist on other UK platforms.
Looking forward, CS&S will continue to work to sustain a long-term presence in
Saudi Arabia, delivering on our commitments on current support contracts and
developing new business following the signing of the Understanding Document
in December 2005, between the governments of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
and the UK. 
Looking forward
1
including share of equity accounted investments
2
earnings before amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 
3
net cash inflow from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment,
and dividends from equity accounted investments
4
before elimination of intra-group sales
5
as restated under International Financial 
Reporting Standards
Saudi Arabia
BAE Systems is providing a comprehensive
defence package to Saudi Arabia under the
long-running Al Yamamah contract and CS&S
has played a key role in providing training 
for local people. The proportion of Saudi
nationals now working on the contract has
exceeded 50% – an important objective for the
Saudi government. 22 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005
Integrated Systems & Partnerships
Integrated Systems & Partnerships
is a portfolio of high-technology
defence systems businesses
comprising the wholly-owned
Integrated System Technologies,
Underwater Systems, and Atlas
Elektronik, together with a 37.5%
interest in the pan-European MBDA
joint venture, a 20.5% interest in Saab
of Sweden and a 50% interest in the
Gripen International joint venture.
The Integrated Systems & Partnerships
business group generated EBITA
2
of £109m
(2004 £95m) on sales
1
of £1,834m (2004
£2,022m). There was an operating cash
inflow
3
of £17m (2004 £59m). 
A significant restructuring of the Company’ s
portfolio of European defence systems
business interests was accomplished
in 2005.
The Eurosystems transaction, which was
completed in April 2005, restructured the
AMS joint venture with the UK based 
defence systems activities being retained 
by BAE Systems and with Finmeccanica
retaining the Italian based activities.
As part of this transaction the electronic
warfare systems and sensor systems
activities of the former UK based avionics
business group were sold to Finmeccanica.
The Eurosystems transaction realised a net
cash inflow of £402m in 2005 with a further
£268m receivable subject to a put option
exercisable by BAE Systems in the three
month period from the beginning of June
2007 and a call option by Finmeccanica 
at any time to August 2007.
The Group also reduced its equity interest 
in Saab from 34.2% to 20.5% generating
cash of £125m. In a revision to the earlier
joint marketing arrangements for the 
Gripen combat aircraft, Saab has now
assumed responsibility for winning new
export business.
Integrated System Technologies
The Integrated System T echnologies (Insyte)
business was formed in May 2005 from the
UK based defence system’ s activities of the
AMS joint venture and existing BAE Systems
UK based C4ISR
6
activities.
Insyte projects include the full-scale
engineering development of the Sampson
multi-function radar . A revised timetable 
has been agreed to address maturity in the
systems software, currently impacting the
Principal Anti-Air Missile System for the
T ype 45 destroyer programme.
Insyte has been selected for two key 
UK transformational technology network
enabled capability systems, the Falcon
communications infrastructure programme
and the Shaman communications 
electronic support measures system 
for the Royal Navy.
Insyte also secured the order for the
Maritime Composite T raining System (MCTS)
working as the lead in the SEABRIDGE team,
with partners Aerosystems International,
EDS, Flagship T raining, MDA and Serco. 
MCTS will provide the Royal Navy with 
a new shore-based warfare operator 
training capability that will meet the 
training needs of the T ype 45 destroyer 
in 2007 , and current in-service ships.
The creation of the Insyte business gives 
BAE Systems a new strength in the
integration of high technology systems.
MBDA (37.5%)
2005 saw MBDA’ s sales increase by 6% 
to €3.2bn and EBITA
2
grow by 19%. This
performance was driven by significant
deliveries of the Storm Shadow and Scalp
EG precision strike cruise missile to the
French and UK customers in addition to 
first deliveries to the Italian air force.
Significant deliveries of the Mica air-to-air
missile to both the French air force and
export customers also underpinned the
sales performance together with the entry
into service of the advanced air-launched
anti-armour weapon system, Brimstone,
to the Royal Air Force.
MBDA’ s order book of €12.6bn at
31 December 2005 benefited from the
award of the design and development 
phase of the new Medium Extended range
Air Defence System (MEADS), which is a
mobile ground-to-air missile defence system
to provide protection from future air and
missile defence threats. MBDA’ s share of
the MEADS order was €512m. Other orders
Integrated Systems & Partnerships – Summary
2005 2004
5
Sales
1
£1,834m £2,022m
EBITA
2
£109m £95m
Cash inflow
3
£17m £59m
Number of employees
1
12,000 13,900
Order book
1
£5.9bn £7.0bn
Key points
• Continued restructuring of
European business portfolio
– Eurosystems transaction
completed
– Integrated System
T echnologies formed
– Saab stake reduced to 20.5%
– Atlas Elektronik sale agreed
• Revised Gripen International
marketing arrangements 
with Saab
Financial highlights
• Financial results reflect portfolio
restructuring in the year
• EBITA
2
improved by 15% 
over 2004
• Continued good cash flow
Share of Group sales
4
Share of Group EBITA
2
12% 9% in the year included the French contract 
for the development and production of 
over 2,000 of the new Mistral RMV air
defence missiles for the new FREMM 
multi-mission frigate programme for 
which MBDA is the primary combat 
system partner . T wo important export
orders, including from India, for the Exocet
anti-ship weapon, were also achieved.
MBDA has made good progress on the
multi-national Meteor and Aster-PAAMS
programmes. Meteor met its key
development milestones in the year
culminating in flight trials of the missile 
on the Gripen and Rafale aircraft by the 
end of December . Key firings were also
successfully completed of the Aster 30
missile, an integral part of the PAAMS 
air defence system for the Royal Navy’ s 
new T ype 45 destroyers, while the new
180km-range Exocet Block 3 anti-ship
weapon commenced qualification.
The acquisition of the German missile
company, LFK, was agreed at the end of
2005 and the process to obtain regulatory
approval is currently in progress.
Atlas Elektronik
Atlas Elektronik, the Bremen-based naval
systems business, had a year of good
progress with the completion of trials for 
the COSYS Malaysia system. Important
progress has also been made towards
completing the development of the DM2A4
heavyweight torpedo and in successfully
concluding the NATO trials for the IMCMS
mine counter measures system for the
Dutch and Belgian navies. Export orders 
for DM2A4 contributed to good order 
intake in the year .
On 30 December , an agreement was
entered into for the disposal of Atlas
Elektronik jointly to ThyssenKrupp and EADS
for a cash consideration of approximately
€145m. In addition, pension and related
liabilities valued at 31 December 2005 of
€96m will remain with Atlas following the
sale. In 2005, Atlas Elektronik contributed
sales of £216m and EBITA
2
of £10m.
Completion of the sale, which is conditional
upon regulatory clearances, is expected 
to take place in the first half of 2006.
Underwater Systems
The main production order for Sting Ray
Mod1, an autonomous electrically-propelled
lightweight torpedo, is well underway. 
The first torpedoes will enter service in
2006. In April 2005, the Company secured
an extension to the existing support
arrangements for the Spearfish torpedo 
in a contract worth £58m over three years.
Securing a UK MoD agreement for the
upgrade of the Spearfish heavyweight
torpedo will be an important feature in
determining the future shape of the business.
Saab (20.5%)
2005 has seen a number of important
developments in the Saab business. In
October , the company’ s participation in
Neuron, a European Unmanned Combat 
Air Vehicle demonstrator project was
effectively confirmed with the Swedish
government announcement of its
involvement in the programme.
In the same month, Saab signed a
provisional contract to supply airborne
surveillance systems to Pakistan, with a
value of approximately SEK5.5bn (£400m).
Important conditions do remain to be met
before the contract becomes effective and
order intake should be recognised in 2006.
Saab’ s financial performance for 2005 was
affected by difficulties on a contract for the
supply of tactical mission systems for 18
Swedish helicopters.
Gripen International (50%)
Gripen International has been responsible
for the design and sale of the export variant
of the Gripen new generation, multi-role
combat aircraft. The aircraft has been
ordered by South African, Hungarian and
Czech Republic air forces. The first of the
aircraft for South Africa flew in November ,
ahead of schedule. Deliveries of Gripen
combat aircraft to the Czech Republic
continued as part of a leasing arrangement,
with final aircraft deliveries completed in
August 2005. Hungary has also ordered 14
Gripen with deliveries commencing in 2006.
Both these countries will be the first Gripen
operators within NATO. The UK Empire T est
Pilots’ School is also operating Gripen as 
an advanced fast jet training platform for
test pilots worldwide.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 23
The Integrated Systems & Partnerships businesses are expected to face
continued budget pressures in their principal domestic and export markets.
The substantial order books and strong positions of the businesses in their
respective market sectors are expected to sustain activity over the near term.
With a number of development programmes maturing, the MBDA business is
expected to progress to a higher proportion of production activity going forward.
Realignment of the business portfolio continues with the completion of the
sale of Atlas Elektronik anticipated in the first half of 2006.
Looking forward
1
including share of equity accounted investments 
2
earnings before amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 
3
net cash inflow from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment,
and dividends from equity accounted investments
4
before elimination of intra-group sales
5
as restated under International Financial 
Reporting Standards
6
Command, Control, Communications and Computing,
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
Maritime Composite Training System (MCTS)
BAE Systems has been awarded a contract to
supply the Royal Navy with a new shore-based
Warfare Operator T raining capability to meet 
the needs of current in-service surface
platforms and the T ype 45 Ready for T raining
later this decade. 24 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005
Commercial Aerospace
The Commercial Aerospace sector
comprises the Company’s 20%
interest in Airbus together with the
Aerostructures business and the
regional aircraft asset management
and support activities.
In 2005, Commercial Aerospace generated
EBITA
2
of £179m (2004 £201m) on sales
1
of £3,232m (2004 £2,924m). Airbus
contributed EBITA
2
of £273m (2004
£196m) on sales
1
of £3,002m (2004
£2,666m) after charging £227m of
development costs (2004 £235m).
The Company’ s Regional Aircraft business
has been impacted by poor lease rates in 
a weak regional aircraft market and by
adjustments to residual value assumptions
resulting from airlines operating in the US
under Chapter 11 protection. Of the loss 
for the Regional Aircraft business of £95m
in 2005, approximately half arose from
airlines moving into Chapter 11.
Airbus generated a strong operating cash
inflow
3
of £403m. Cash outflow
3
at Regional
Aircraft was £73m.
Airbus
Airbus is the leading supplier of large
commercial jets with 378 aircraft delivered 
in 2005. Airbus offers a comprehensive
range of passenger aircraft from 100 seats
to over 555 seats in the new A380 long-
range airliner .
In addition to commercial jet airliners Airbus
produces freighter aircraft and is developing
the A400M military transport aircraft.
Good growth in the global market for large
commercial jets above 100 seats has
continued through 2005. Orders for more
than 2,000 aircraft were placed during the
year of which Airbus secured a net 1,055
representing 51% of the market. Growth 
was driven by a combination of factors.
Passenger traffic has continued to recover
as confidence returned following the
terrorist activity in 2001. The market has
also benefited from the rise in low-cost
carriers, making air travel affordable and
accessible to a wider population. Similarly
strong growth is underway and expected to
continue in certain regional markets, notably
China, India and in the Middle East.
In a drive to maximise value from its large
order book Airbus continues to reduce
costs. A programme, targeting cost
reductions across the Airbus business of
approximately £1bn between 2003 and the
end of 2006, is on track. Manufacturing and
supply agreements are being implemented
in growth markets, including China, to
support growth and further reduce costs.
Commercial Aerospace – Summary
2005 2004
5
Sales
1
£3,232m £2,924m
EBITA
2
£179m £201m
Cash inflow
3
£327m £226m
Number of employees
1
12,500 12,600
Order book
1
£29.5bn £20.9bn
Key points
• Strong Airbus order intake 
• First flight of A380 long-range
airliner 
• Airbus cost reduction
programme on track 
• Airbus new product development
programmes underway
• Ongoing losses in Regional
Aircraft
• Aerostructures disposal
announced
Financial highlights
• Sales growth of 11% over 
2004 on 378 aircraft deliveries
by Airbus
• EBITA
2
stated after loss of £95m
from Regional Aircraft business
• EBITA
2
contribution from Airbus 
of £273m
• Cash outflow
3
from Regional
Aircraft of £73m
• Airbus order book for 
2,365 aircraft
A380 – the world’s largest passenger airliner.
Share of Group sales
4
Share of Group EBITA
2
21% 15% A number of major new product development
programmes are presently underway at Airbus.
A380 
When it enters service towards the end 
of 2006 the A380 will be the world’ s 
largest passenger airliner . T ypically it will 
be configured with 555 seats on two full-
length passenger decks. The first flight 
of the A380 took place in April 2005 
with two further aircraft joining the flight
development programme during the year . 
A350
The A350 is the latest addition to the Airbus
product range. This 250 seat all-new airliner
programme was launched in October 2005
and the aircraft is expected to enter service
in 2010. The A350 will make use of a
number of technical innovations applied to
the A380, such as new materials, to deliver
significant enhancements to range and fuel
consumption over comparable earlier
generation aircraft.
A400M
The A400M is an advanced military
transport designed with a load capacity 
of 37 tons and up to 120 personnel. 
180 aircraft are being produced for 
seven participating nations. The first 
export contract was secured in 2005 
with an order for eight aircraft from South
Africa. The first flight of the A400M is
planned for the end of 2007, with entry 
into service scheduled for 2009.
Aerostructures
Aerostructures is a supply chain
management and assembly business. 
It has customer relationships with the 
major aircraft manufacturers providing
airframe components and assemblies 
for commercial aircraft and business jets.
Contracts include assemblies for Airbus
commercial aircraft. The Aerostructures
business produces the leading and trailing
edges for the A380 wing as well as wing
structures for the Boeing B777 and B767
and major structures for Raytheon’ s Hawker
800XP business jet. All product lines met
customer requirements in 2005.
In August 2005, BAE Systems sold
Precision Aerostructures, its US based
aircraft component machining and
fabrication facility. 
In January 2006, the sale of the UK
Aerostructures business to Spirit
AeroSystems Inc. was announced,
for a cash consideration of £80m.
Completion is expected to take place 
in the first half of 2006. In 2005,
Aerostructures contributed sales 
of £223m and EBITA
2
of £8m.
Regional Aircraft
In 2005, Asset Management, BAE Systems’
commercial aircraft leasing team,
successfully reached agreements securing
over US$240m of income on over 100
aircraft from its Jet/T urboprop portfolio.
These included lease deals with SN
Brussels for 23 Regional Jets and
Eurowings/Air Dolomiti for 11 BAe 146
aircraft. Additionally, the team successfully
facilitated a number of airline credit
restructurings, securing ongoing income 
on portfolio aircraft.
Regional Aircraft derives 80% of its support
business from spares and logistics sales.
An increasing proportion of this activity is
provided under power by the hour contracts
that now cover over 50% of the regional 
jet fleet.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 25
The commercial aviation market continues to grow despite the financial
fragility of many airlines, exacerbated by high oil prices.
Near-term prospects for Airbus remain good, with a strong order book. 
Airbus aircraft deliveries are expected to continue to increase, with growth
from low cost carriers in the single-aisle market and as airline customers 
in Asia and the Far East equip with longer-range aircraft. 
The regional aircraft market remains difficult and underlying losses in the
support business will continue.
Looking forward
1
including share of equity accounted investments 
2
earnings before amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 
3
net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after
capital expenditure (net) and financial investment,
and dividends from equity accounted investments
4
before elimination of intra-group sales
5
as restated under International Financial 
Reporting Standards
Airbus
2005 was a record year for Airbus across 
the board surpassing previous numbers 
on deliveries, order intake and profitability. 
In terms of orders Airbus continued to outsell
its competitors for the fifth consecutive year ,
whilst continuing to lead in terms of deliveries
for the third year in a row.  26 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005
Summarised financial review
Results for the year – 
continuing operations
Sales
1
increased 17% from £13,222m to
£15,411m. The growth reflects sales of
£789m from the acquired United Defense
business together with the benefit of 2004
acquisitions and increased deliveries
across the majority of the Group. This 
was partially offset by the impact of the
reduced Saab shareholding. 
Return on sales for the Group was
maintained at 7.7% (2004 7.7%).
EBITA
2
increased 16% from £1,016m to
£1,182m. EBITA
2
has been reduced by
rationalisation provisions of £89m and is
stated after United Defense acquisition
accounting adjustments of £44m. Losses 
at Regional Aircraft amounted to £95m.
Underlying earnings
3
per share from
continuing operations for 2005 increased 
by 29.3% to 22.5p compared with 2004.
Basic earnings per share in accordance 
with IAS 33 Earnings per Share, from
continuing operations, increased by 
28.9% to 18.3p (2004 14.2p).
The Group manages the performance of 
its businesses primarily on measures of
operating cash flow and underlying earnings
3
.
Cash inflow from operating activities was
£2,099m (2004 £2,350m).
Operating business cash flow was £1,937m
(2004 £2,134m). Good conversion of EBITA
to operating cash flow was delivered across
much of the Group together with the cash
benefits of securing advance payments at
Land & Armaments and programme debt
reduction at Customer Solutions & Support.
Free cash flow, after interest, preference
dividends and taxation, was £1,758m
(2004 £1,924m).
The net cash outflow on acquisitions and
disposals was £1,548m. In addition, net
debt acquired on acquisition of subsidiary
undertakings was £288m. During the year
the Group completed the acquisition of
100% of the issued share capital of United
Defense Industries, Inc, in the US, for a total
consideration of £2,205m. In addition, the
Group completed the Eurosystems disposal
transaction resulting in a net cash inflow 
of £402m. The Eurosystems transaction
comprised the sale of a majority holding 
in BAE Systems Avionics Limited and the
whole of the UK communications business,
and the dissolution of AMS, the 50/50 joint
venture of BAE Systems and Finmeccanica.
Finance costs
Finance costs, including the Group’ s share
of the finance costs of equity accounted
investments, were £215m (2004 £176m).
The underlying interest charge of £210m
(2004 £200m) was increased by a net
charge of £5m (2004 net gain £24m)
arising from pension accounting, marked-to-
market revaluations of financial instruments
and foreign currency movements.
The net debt of the Group at 31 December
2005 was £1,277m, an increase of £326m
from £951m at the start of the year , after
adjusting for IAS 32 and IAS 39. Interest
cover based on EBITA
2
decreased from 
5.8 times to 5.5 times. 
Taxation
The Group’ s effective tax rate for the year
was 29% (2004 32%).
The tax rate in the 2006 financial year is
expected to be in line with 2005.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend
of 6.3p per share (2004 5.8p), bringing 
the total dividend for the year to 10.3p 
per share (2004 9.5p), an increase of 8.4%.
The proposed dividend is covered 2.2 
times by earnings
3
from continuing
operations (2004 1.8 times).
Exchange rates
The principal exchange rates impacting 
the Group are as follows:
2005 2004 
£/€ – average 1.462 1.474
£/$ – average 1.819 1.832
£/€ – year end 1.455 1.417
£/$ – year end 1.718 1.932
Accounting policies
Detailed guidance on the Group’ s critical
and significant accounting policies can be
found in the Annual Report 2005 on our
website, www.baesystems.com.
1
including share of equity accounted investments’ sales
2
earnings before amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense
3
earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on
pensions and financial derivatives, and uplift on
acquired inventories Corporate responsibility 
Corporate responsibility at BAE Systems
BAE Systems recognises its responsibilities
to the people it employs, its customers and
suppliers, its shareholders, the wider
community and to the environment. 
Corporate responsibility (CR) in
BAE Systems is about good business
practice and continual improvement. We
recognise our wide-ranging responsibilities
and our CR framework has been developed
around key stakeholder interest and
feedback, potential risk to our business 
and the extension, review and improvement
of existing practices.
Governance of CR
The board of directors has overall
responsibility for governance of CR matters
within the Company. Specific responsibility
has been assigned to the recently formed
Corporate Responsibility Committee. 
All members of this committee are non-
executive directors and comprise Peter
Weinberg, Professor Sue Birley, Phil Carroll
and Michael Portillo. The committee is
responsible for reviewing and monitoring 
the processes the Company uses to
manage social, environmental and 
ethical risk, as well as assisting the 
Board in the development of strategy 
and policy in this area. The committee 
is supported by the Group Legal Director ,
Audit Director , Group HR Director and
Director of Corporate Responsibility.
The committee met for the first time in 
2005 and has agreed several long-term
strategic objectives to ensure CR
contributes to the sustainability of the
Company’ s performance through ensuring
continual improvement of application,
communication and evolution of non-
financial processes. Further information 
on these objectives can be found in our 
full Corporate Responsibility Report.
Performance
In 2005 BAE Systems maintained its
leading position in both the Dow Jones
Sustainability World Index and the pan
European Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability
Index. Our total score increased from 68% 
to 81%, a clear indication of our improved
performance in the area of corporate
responsibility and sustainability. The score
reflects improvements across the three
areas of social, economic and environment
but the results also highlighted a need 
to continue to increase transparency on 
how we manage certain business issues. 
We are committed to addressing this.
Key issues for our business
It is important that our CR reporting
addresses issues that are material to 
our business and reflect stakeholder
concerns. In 2005 we commissioned
PricewaterhouseCoopers to provide an
independent view of the issues relevant 
to our CR reporting and an understanding 
of our CR stakeholders and their key
concerns. We will use the findings from 
this work to focus our CR reporting and 
drive stakeholder engagement during 2006.
The key areas our stakeholders consider
material to our business are anti-bribery 
and corruption practices, health and 
safety, government relations and political
influence and product responsibility.
Additional information on these and 
other key issues is available in our full
Corporate Responsibility Report.
2006 CR objectives
We regularly review and update our CR
programmes to ensure we make progress.
We set yearly objectives, details of which
can be found in our full Corporate
Responsibility Report, at both a strategic
and operational level. The specific CR
objectives agreed for our Chief Executive
and his leadership team in 2006 are to:
• resolve 75% of employee grievances 
in the UK at local level;
• reflect gender diversity on leading
university courses in choice of 
graduate trainees through a 
focused recruitment plan;
• exceed safety performance 
commitments made to the 
UK Health and Safety Executive;
• meet safety, health and 
environment targets;
• meet standards defined through 
our internal assurance process; and
• develop, pilot and roll out online
ethics training to all employees
in the UK and Australia.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 27
Full information and supporting data on all our
CR activities can be found in our Corporate
Responsibility Report or on our website at
www.baesystems.com/corporateresponsibility
Real issues and responsibilities
Corporate Responsibility Report 2005 12 3 4 5 6 7
6. Mark Ronald CBE
4
,
Chief Operating Officer
Appointed to the Board in 2002 
as a Chief Operating Officer .
Formerly head of GEC’ s North
American defence business, in
1999 he was appointed President
and CEO of BAE Systems North
America (now BAE Systems, Inc.).
He is a member of the board of
governors of the Electronic
Industries Association and the board
and executive committee of the
Aerospace Industries Association.
Appointed: 2002 Age: 64
7. George Rose,
Group Finance Director
Appointed Group Finance Director 
in 1998, he is a member of the
shareholder committee of Airbus
SAS. Prior to joining the Company 
in 1992, he held senior positions in
the Rover Group and Leyland DAF . 
He is a non-executive director of
Saab AB and National Grid T ransco
plc, and a member of the Financial
Reporting Review Panel.
Appointed: 1998 Age: 53
1. Dick Olver
3, 4
Appointed Chairman on 1 July 2004.
A civil engineer , Dick Olver joined BP
in 1973 where he held a variety 
of senior positions culminating 
in his appointment to the board 
of BP p.l.c. as CEO of Exploration
and Production in 1998. He was
subsequently appointed deputy
group chief executive of BP in 2003,
stepping down from that position
when he assumed the chairmanship
of BAE Systems. Dick Olver chairs
the Board’ s Nominations Committee
and the Non-Executive Directors’
Fees Committee. He is a non-
executive director of Reuters 
Group plc and deputy chairman 
of TNK-BP and a Fellow of the 
Royal Academy of Engineering.
Appointed: 2004 Age: 59
Chairman Executive directors
2. Mike Turner CBE
4
,
Chief Executive
Appointed Chief Executive in 2002,
having been a Chief Operating
Officer since 1999. He is a member
of the shareholder committee of
Airbus SAS having formerly been 
a member of the Airbus Industrie 
GIE Supervisory Board. He is a 
non-executive director of The
Peninsular and Oriental Steam
Navigation Company (P&O) and a
former non-executive director of
Babcock International Group Plc.
Appointed: 1994 Age: 57
3. Chris Geoghegan,
Chief Operating Officer
Appointed to the Board in 2002 as 
a Chief Operating Officer . He was
formerly responsible for the group’ s
Airbus operations and, in 2000,
was appointed Group Managing
Director of the Avionics business. 
He is President of the Society of
British Aerospace Companies.
Appointed: 2002 Age: 51
4. Michael Lester
4
,
Group Legal Director
Appointed a member of the Board
following the BAe/MES merger . 
Prior to the merger he was a director
and vice chairman of The General
Electric Company, p.l.c. (GEC). 
He is a non-executive director of
Premier Farnell plc.
Appointed: 1999 Age: 65
5. Steve Mogford,
Chief Operating Officer
Appointed to the Board in 2000 as a
Chief Operating Officer , he has held
a number of senior positions within
the Group including responsibility 
for the Group’ s military aircraft
operations. He is chairman of the
Eurofighter Supervisory Board.
Appointed: 2000 Age: 49
28 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005
Board of directors 8 9 10 11 13 14 15 12
13. Rt Hon Michael Portillo
1, 2
A cabinet minister in the 1990s,
Michael Portillo was successively
Chief Secretary to the T reasury,
Secretary of State for Employment,
and Secretary of State for Defence.
He entered Parliament in 1984 
and was admitted to the Privy
Council in 1992, stepping down 
as a Member of Parliament in 2005
to pursue a career in broadcasting
and the media.
Appointed: 2002 Age: 52
14. Roberto Quarta
1,5
Appointed to the Board in 2005,
Roberto Quarta is chairman (and
was formerly chief executive) of BBA
Group plc and, as a partner of the
private equity firm Clayton, Dubilier 
& Rice, also serves as chairman 
of Rexel SA and Italtel. He was
previously an executive director of
BTR plc and a non-executive director
of PowerGen plc and Equant NV .
Appointed: 2005 Age: 56
15. Peter Weinberg
2, 5
Appointed to the Board in 2005,
Peter Weinberg was previously chief
executive officer of Goldman Sachs
International and co-head of the
Partnership Committee, and prior 
to that was co-head of the Global
Investment Banking Division. He
joined Goldman Sachs in 1988 
and became a partner in 1992.
Peter Weinberg chairs the Board’ s
Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Appointed: 2005 Age: 48
Each of the eight non-executive
directors listed above is considered
to be independent for the purposes
of the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance.
Company Secretary
David Parkes
8. Professor Sue Birley
2, 5
Formerly Professor of
Entrepreneurship at Imperial College,
University of London, and has held 
a number of academic posts at
INSEAD, London Business School
and Cranfield Institute of
T echnology. She was formerly a non-
executive director of National
Westminster Bank plc. Professor
Birley chairs the Board’ s
Remuneration Committee.
Appointed: 2000 Age: 62
9. Phil Carroll
2, 3
Appointed to the Board in 2005,
Phil Carroll is a former chairman 
and chief executive of Fluor
Corporation and a former president
and chief executive of Shell Oil
Company Inc. He was appointed by
the US Department of Defense in
2003 to serve as the first Senior
Adviser to the Iraqi Ministry of Oil.
He is a former non-executive director 
of Scottish Power plc.
Appointed: 2005 Age: 68
10. Dr Ulrich Cartellieri
1
Ulrich Cartellieri served as a member
of the Managing and subsequently
the Supervisory Board of Deutsche
Bank AG for over 20 years until 2004.
Until recently he was also a member
of the International Advisory
Committee of the Federal Reserve
Bank of New Y ork and is currently 
a director of Robert Bosch GmbH. 
He is a former chairman of Karstadt
AG and a former deputy chairman 
of Siemens AG.
Appointed: 1999 Age: 68
11. Michael Hartnall
1
Formerly finance director of Rexam plc,
prior to which he held senior positions
with a number of manufacturing
companies. He is also a non-executive
director of Lonmin plc and a former
non-executive director of Elementis
plc. Michael Hartnall chairs the
Board’ s Audit Committee. He is a
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England and Wales.
Appointed: 2003 Age: 63
12. Sir Peter Mason KBE
1, 3
Chief executive of AMEC plc. 
Prior to joining AMEC plc in 1996,
he served as an executive director 
of BICC plc, chairman and chief
executive of Balfour Beatty Limited
and chief executive of Norwest Holst
Group PLC. Sir Peter Mason has
been nominated the Board’ s Senior
Independent Director .
Appointed: 2003 Age: 59
Non-executive directors
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 29
1
member of the Audit Committee
2
member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee
3
member of the Nominations Committee
4
member of the Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee
5
member of the Remuneration Committee 30 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005
Corporate governance
Combined Code compliance
As required by the UK’ s Combined Code on
Corporate Governance (the ‘Combined Code’)
all companies that have a stock market
listing in the UK are required to make
disclosures in relation to corporate governance.
The Board has considered the Company’ s
compliance with the provisions of the
Combined Code and confirms that in 
the period since 16 June 2005 to the 
date of this report it was compliant with 
all provisions. Prior to this date it believes
that it was compliant with all provisions 
with the exception of provision A.3.2. 
This provision requires that at least half 
of the Board, excluding the Chairman,
should comprise non-executive directors
determined by the Board to be independent.
Summarised remuneration report
The Remuneration Committee
The Board has delegated to the
Remuneration Committee (‘the Committee’)
responsibility for remuneration policy and
determining the specific packages for the
Chairman and the executive directors; the
Committee also agrees the framework for the
remuneration of certain other members of
the executive management team. The
Committee’ s terms of reference conform with
the requirements of the Combined Code, and
can be found on the Company’ s website or
obtained from the Company Secretary .
Remuneration principles
The Committee’ s remuneration strategy is
to provide a remuneration package that:
• helps attract, retain and motivate the
highest calibre executives;
• is aligned to shareholders’ interests 
to create sustainable long-term
shareholder value;
• is competitive against the appropriate
market, providing median reward for
median performance and upper quartile
reward for upper quartile performance;
• encourages and supports a high
performance culture whilst providing a
balance between fixed and variable reward;
and
• is fair and transparent and can be applied
consistently throughout the Group.
Executive remuneration review 2005
The Remuneration Committee undertook 
a formal review of executive remuneration
policy in 2005 and subsequently undertook
a consultation with major shareholders. As a
result of this process, the following changes
have been made to remuneration policy:
(i) Chief Executive’s remuneration
The remuneration review concluded 
that the remuneration structure for the
executive directors remained appropriate
and generally in line with the market with the
exception of the remuneration of the 
Chief Executive, whose salary was shown to
be below market and for whom the bonus
potential and long-term incentives were
significantly below market. Given 
the Chief Executive’ s time in the role,
his performance and the performance 
of the Group, the Committee agreed 
the following improvements to the 
Chief Executive’ s package for 2006:
• Base salary: increased to £870,000 
with effect from 1 January 2006;
• Bonus potential: increased to 150% of
base salary but with one third of his 
bonus to be compulsorily deferred into 
the new Share Matching Plan (see below);
• Long-term incentives: a 50% increase 
in the annual awards of share options 
and performance shares to 225% of 
base salary in share options and 150% 
of base salary in performance shares.
These increases in annual awards will 
give a total combined expected value of
long-term incentives (including the new
Share Matching Plan) of around 150% 
of base salary.
These enhancements will position the 
Chief Executive’ s overall reward package 
in line with the market median.
(ii) Executive Share Schemes
Subject to formal shareholder approval 
in May 2006, the Restricted Share Plan
(referred to on page 31) will be replaced 
by a Share Matching Plan (SMP) and will
have performance conditions attached 
to the vesting of matching shares. The
current Performance Share Plan (PSP) will 
be replaced by a similar PSP , also subject to
formal shareholder approval in May 2006.
Further details of the new SMP and PSP
are included in the AGM Notice of Meeting
accompanying this Review.
(iii) UK executive pension arrangements 
In a separate exercise from the
remuneration review, the Committee 
has concluded its review of UK executive
pension arrangements in view of the 
new tax rules which come into effect 
from April 2006. These new tax rules
introduce the concept of a ‘Lifetime
Allowance’, i.e. the maximum amount of
pension savings that can benefit from tax
relief. The Company will not compensate
individuals, including directors, for the 
tax changes; instead it will offer choices 
that are broadly cost neutral to the 
Company but which may better suit 
the needs of the individuals affected.
Remuneration policy
The Committee’ s executive remuneration
policy continues to be to set basic salaries
at median competitive levels whilst seeking
to reward upper quartile performance with
potential upper quartile remuneration
through the use of bonus schemes and
share-based incentives. The Committee
intends to continue with the executive
remuneration policy as detailed in this
report in 2006 and subsequent years, and
will continue to consult on material changes
with principal shareholders.
Remuneration of executive directors
consists typically of basic salary, a bonus
based on annual performance, participation
in employee share schemes and retirement
benefits. The Committee reviews the split
between basic salary and the performance
related elements of remuneration each year
in order to incentivise properly executive
directors, and believes that a significant
proportion of remuneration should be 
based on schemes that encourage them 
to perform at the highest level. Through 
this arrangement, it is possible for those
individuals who contribute to sustained high
levels of company performance to receive at
least a similar level of reward from variable
compensation to that received from fixed
compensation. At median performance,
variable remuneration represents
approximately 50% of the remuneration
package as shown in the chart below:
Target performance (median)
The package of the Chief Executive is more highly 
geared with almost 60% of the remuneration being
performance related.
●  Salary 32%
●  Pension 20%
● Bonus  16%
●  Long-term 
 incentive rewards 32% Executive directors who participate in the
Annual Bonus Plan may be given the option
of taking any net cash bonus paid partly or
wholly in shares through the Restricted
Share Plan (RSP) for which a matching
award of shares is made after three years
providing the individual normally remains in
the Company’ s employment at the vesting
date. The matching award is not subject 
to performance criteria as the RSP was
designed to retain key staff and encourage
them to invest the cash bonuses they 
have earned under the bonus plan which
was itself based on performance criteria.
The RSP will operate in 2006 but will be
replaced by the new SMP (referred to on
page 30) in 2007 and will have performance
conditions attached to the matching shares.
The UK based executive directors are also
entitled to participate in the Company’ s
Share Incentive Plan, an all-employee 
share plan.
Post-retirement benefits
The executive directors of the Company are
members of group pension schemes and
pay contributions at the same rate as all
other employees participating in the
At upper quartile performance variable
remuneration represents significantly 
more than 50% of the total package.
Basic salary
Executive directors’ salaries are 
reviewed each year by the Committee 
and adjusted to reflect performance 
and the competitiveness of salaries 
relative to the market. Information on 
the market for comparable management
positions is obtained from independent
sources and is provided to the Committee
so that it can form a view as to where to
position basic salaries and benefits 
relative to comparable companies.
The methodology used is to construct
appropriate comparator groups for the
individual positions taking account of
company size, scale of operations and
breadth of role. As there is no readily
available market data for the Group Legal
Director , the Committee has used the data
for the other executive director roles as a
guide to position his package. The median
and upper quartile positions are then
analysed for base salary, total cash reward
(base salary plus annual bonus), total direct
reward (total cash reward plus long-term
incentives) and total reward including
pension. This gives the Committee a view 
on the competitiveness of the individual
elements as well as the package as a
whole. The Committee also reviews the
trends in the elements of remuneration to
ensure that the structure of the package
stays in line with market practice, and also
takes account of the performance of the
individual, the Company as a whole and the
pay and conditions of group employees.
Annual bonus plan
The executive directors and other senior
executives participate in a cash bonus
scheme that rewards those individuals if pre-
determined targets are met. The targets are
derived from the Integrated Business Plan
(IBP), which is agreed by the Board and which
implements corporate strategy on a group-
wide basis by ensuring that business plans
which support the strategy are integrated
across all businesses. The IBP is used to
set the objectives for senior management
including the base and stretch targets for the
financial measures used for the executive
directors in the Annual Bonus Plan. Non-
financial targets comprise key objectives
relevant to the individual and/or business
and also take account of behavioural
performance. The maximum bonus potential
for 2006 remains the same as for 2005 at
100% of salary (150% for the US based
executive director , Mark Ronald) with the
exception of the maximum bonus potential
for the Chief Executive which has increased
to 150% of base salary with at least 
one-third of his bonus being compulsorily
deferred into the new Share Matching Plan.
Share option schemes and long-term
incentive schemes
Through the use of share-based incentive
schemes the Committee seeks to align the
interests of the executive directors with
those of other shareholders.The Company
operates a combination of option and 
share-based awards for executive directors
within the following framework which is in
line with similar plans operated by other
FTSE 100 companies:
• Options granted under the Executive
Share Option Plan are to be set at a
maximum of 1.5 x base salary (2.25 x
base salary for the Chief Executive).
Vesting of options is subject to the
achievement of real earnings per share
(EPS) growth targets over a three-year
performance period. There will be no
retesting after the three year performance
period for options to be granted in 2006.
• Awards under the Performance Share 
Plan are to be set at 1 x base salary (1.5 
x base salary for the Chief Executive). 
The median level of vesting for the 2006
awards will be 25% of the shares under
award if the Company’ s total shareholder 
return (TSR) performance (share price
growth plus dividends) over a three-year
performance period is in the top 50% of
the TSR comparator group, with 100% 
of the shares under award being released
if the TSR is in the top 20%. Intermediate
positions will be calculated on a straight
line pro-rata basis. Vesting will also be
subject to the Committee being satisfied
there has been a sustained improvement
in underlying financial performance. The
TSR comparator group comprises 18
other major defence and aerospace
companies operating internationally.
In determining the performance criteria, the
Committee took the view that EPS is a key
indicator of long-term financial performance 
and value creation and that TSR is an indication
of earnings and capital growth relative to 
the industry-specific comparator group.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 31
Total shareholder return
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2005, of
£100 invested in BAE Systems on 31 December 2000
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE
100 Index. The other points plotted are the values at
intervening financial year ends.
The graph, which has been produced in accordance with
the requirements of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act
1985, shows the total shareholder return for a holding
in the Company’ s ordinary shares for the period 2000-
2005 relative to a holding of shares representing the
FTSE 100. The FTSE 100 is considered to be an
appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is a 
broad equity market index. As BAE Systems is a
constituent member of the FTSE 100, it was deemed 
to be the most appropriate general UK equity index.
£125
£100
£75
£50
£25
0
31 Dec 05 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 00
● BAE Systems plc
● FTSE 100 Index 32 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005
Corporate governance continued
Directors’ remuneration
2005 2004
Basic
salary Fees Bonus Benefits Total Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Chairman
R L Olver – 500 – 5 505 257 
Executive directors
C V Geoghegan
1
445 – 423 25 893 842 
M Lester 540 – 529 31 1,100 1,030 
S L Mogford
1
445 – 441 24 910 850 
M H Ronald
1, 2
495 – 744 32 1,271 1,096 
G W Rose
1, 2
500 – 495 27 1,022 928 
M J T urner
1
800 – 792 46 1,638 1,486 
Non-executive directors
Prof S Birley – 63 – – 63 55 
P J Carroll
*
– 18 – – 18 n/a
Dr U Cartellieri – 53 – – 53 45 
M J Hartnall – 73 – – 73 65 
Sir Peter Mason – 63 – – 63 55 
Rt Hon M Portillo – 53 – – 53 45 
R Quarta
*
– 18 – – 18 n/a
P A Weinberg
*
– 34 – – 34 n/a
Past directors
Sir Richard Evans
**
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 208 
Lord Hesketh
***
– 16 – – 16 45 
P Scaroni
**
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 7 
3,225 891 3,424 190 7,730 7,014
*
appointed during the year
**
retired as a director in 2004
***
retired as a director in 2005
1
accruing retirement benefits under defined benefit schemes at 31 December 2005
2
accruing benefits under money purchase arrangements at 31 December 2005
All emoluments and compensation paid to directors during the year are shown in the table. Where the individual 
was appointed during the year the amount shown is for the period from appointment.
The aggregate amount of unrealised gains made by directors on share options was £85,110 and the aggregate 
net value of assets received by directors from long-term incentive plans was £155,058. The aggregate amount of
company contributions paid in respect of money purchase retirement benefits for directors was £572,382 being (i) a
payment of £3,004 to Mark Ronald’ s 401(k) plan; and (ii) a payment of £569,378 to George Rose’ s FURBS
arrangement (comprising a normal contribution of approximately £377,328, plus a payment of approximately
£192,000 to deal with investment under-performance prior to 2003).
As a result of the detailed salary review undertaken by the Remuneration Committee, the base salary of the executive
directors has increased with effect from 1 January 2006 to the following: Chris Geoghegan: £467,500; Michael 
Lester: £567,500; Steve Mogford: £467,500; Mark Ronald: $1,000,000; George Rose: £530,000; and Mike T urner:
£870,000. (Mark Ronald’ s base salary was increased from $850,000 to $950,000 with effect from 1 July 2005
following the acquisition of United Defense and its subsequent integration into the Land & Armaments business group).
Within the 2005 Annual Bonus Plan for executive directors, all the financial targets were met at the stretch level. In
addition, excellent progress was made against all the key non-financial objectives although more work still needs to be
done in securing technology transfer from the US to the UK. Accordingly, bonus payments for 2005 as set out in the
table above range from 95% to 99% of the maximum bonus.
The Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee has agreed the following fee structure for the non-executive directors
in 2006: Chairman of the Audit Committee: £70,000; Chairmen of the Remuneration Committee and the Corporate
Responsibility Committee, and the Senior Independent Director: £65,000; and each of the other non-executive directors:
£50,000. In addition a transatlantic meeting allowance of £4,000 per meeting is paid to European based non-executive
directors attending board meetings in the US and to US based non-executive directors attending meetings in Europe.
executives in 2005 and 2006 are 
set out in the table above.
The Chairman and non-executive directors
do not have service contracts but do have 
a letter of appointment detailing the basis 
of their appointment.
Non-executive directors are paid a fee
reflecting the time commitment required
of the director . The fee level for the
chairmen of the individual committees
and the Senior Independent Director
reflects their additional responsibilities
and workload. Fees payable to non-
schemes (except where they have already
reached normal retirement age).
The Company has been in consultation 
with the UK employee representatives 
and National Trade Union Officials to
address its UK pension scheme deficits. 
Proposals are being put to the trustees 
of the Main UK Pension Scheme following
the support shown by a recent Trade Union
Consultative ballot and a survey carried out
by the Company on measures to be taken 
in respect of the Main Pension Scheme.
These measures include changes to
benefits in respect of future service
accrual. All changes, which at the date of
this Review remain subject to approval by
the trustees of the Main Pension Scheme,
will apply to the pension arrangements 
of the UK based executive directors who
are active members of that scheme.
Consultations with employee
representatives and National Trade Union
Officials are continuing in respect of the
resolution of deficit issues in relation to the
other UK pension schemes.
Executive directors’ service contracts
It is the Remuneration Committee’ s policy
that executive directors should normally
have service contracts that provide for 
the Company to give the individual 12
months’ notice of termination. This policy
has been chosen because it provides a
reasonable balance between the need 
to retain the services of key individuals 
and the need to limit the liabilities of the
Company in the event of the termination 
of a contract. Mark Ronald, who has a 
one-year rolling contract, is entitled inter 
alia to compensation of a lump sum equal 
to one year’ s salary if his contract is not
renewed at the end of its term.
Chairman
Dick Olver was appointed Chairman on
1 July 2004. He is required to devote at
least two days a week to his duties as
Chairman, unless his appointment is
terminated earlier in accordance with the
Company’ s Articles of Association, or by
either party giving to the other not less 
than six months’ prior written notice.
Non-executive directors
Fees payable to the non-executive
directors are agreed by the Non-Executive
Directors’ Fees Committee. Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December
Total Total
2005 2005 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Combined sales of Group and equity accounted investments 15,411 13,222
Less: share of equity accounted investments (4,392) (4,405)
Revenue 11,019 8,817
Operating costs (10,579) (8,369)
Other income 247 110
Group operating profit excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 809 668
Amortisation (77) (13)
Impairment (45) (97)
Group operating profit 687 558
Share of results of equity accounted investments excluding finance costs 
and taxation expense 373 348
Finance costs (11) (27)
T axation expense (149) (105)
Share of results of equity accounted investments 213 216
Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,
finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) 1,182 1,016
Amortisation (77) (13)
Impairment (45) (97)
Finance costs of equity accounted investments (11) (27)
T axation expense of equity accounted investments (149) (105)
Operating profit 900 774
Finance costs
Financial income 1,224 609
Financial expense (1,428) (758)
(204) (149)
Profit before taxation 696 625
Taxation expense
UK taxation (37) (58)
Overseas taxation (76) (110)
(113) (168)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 583 457
Loss for the year from discontinued operations (28) (454)
Profit for the year 555 3
Attributable to:
BAE Systems shareholders 553 2
Minority interests 2 1
555 3
Earnings per share
Continuing operations:
Basic earnings per share 18.3p 14.2p
Diluted earnings per share 18.2p 14.2p
Discontinued operations:
Basic loss per share (0.9)p (14.8)p
Diluted loss per share (0.8)p (14.8)p
Total:
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 17.4p (0.6)p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share 17.4p (0.6)p
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 33 34 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 8,217 6,115
Property, plant and equipment 1,704 1,746
Investment property 218 155
Equity accounted investments 1,721 1,469
Other investments 9 66
Other receivables 912 511
Other financial assets 65 –
Deferred tax assets 1,331 1,090
14,177 11,152
Current assets
Inventories 485 498
T rade and other receivables including amounts due from customers for contract work 1,877 2,198
Current tax 20 –
Other investments 634 763
Other financial assets 54 –
Cash and cash equivalents 2,581 1,651
5,651 5,110
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 407 –
6,058 5,110
Total assets 20,235 16,262
Non-current liabilities
Loans (3,534) (2,113)
T rade and other payables (432) (464)
Retirement benefit obligations (4,101) (3,210)
Other financial liabilities (45) –
Deferred tax liabilities (23) (14)
Provisions (375) (241)
(8,510) (6,042)
Current liabilities
Loans and overdrafts (905) (951)
T rade and other payables (7,006) (6,154)
Other financial liabilities (81) –
Current tax (316) (200)
Provisions (343) (250)
(8,651) (7,555)
Liabilities directly associated with non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale (270) –
(8,921) (7,555)
Total liabilities (17,431) (13,597)
Net assets 2,804 2,665
Capital and reserves
Issued share capital 80 143
Share premium 782 412
Equity option of convertible preference shares 78 –
Other reserves 4,720 5,323
Retained earnings (2,872) (3,223)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
1
2,788 2,655
Minority interests 16 10
Total equity
1
2,804 2,665
1
2004 includes £266m non-equity shareholders’ funds
Approved by the Board on 22 February 2006 and signed on its behalf by:
M J T urner G W Rose
Chief Executive Group Finance Director Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 
2005 2004
£m £m
Profit/(loss) for the year
Continuing operations 583 457
Discontinued operations (28) (454)
555 3
T axation expense (includes £1m (2004 £7m) from discontinued operations) 114 175
Share of results of equity accounted investments (213) (216)
Net finance costs (includes £3m (2004 £nil) from discontinued operations) 207 149
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 524 861
(Gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 12
(Gain)/loss on disposal of investment property (43) (40)
(Gain)/loss on disposal of business – continuing operations 12 –
(Gain)/loss on disposal of business – discontinued operations 8 –
Impairment of other investments 2 5
Cost of equity-settled employee share schemes 16 8
Movements in provisions 99 46
Increase in liabilities for retirement benefit obligations (98) (7)
(Increase)/decrease in working capital:
Inventories 54 (58)
T rade and other receivables (4) 703
T rade and other payables 864 709
Cash inflow from operating activities 2,099 2,350
Interest paid (213) (197)
Interest element of finance lease rental payments (17) (27)
T axation paid (27) (31)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,842 2,095
Dividends received from equity accounted investments 88 69
Interest received 99 66
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (318) (343)
Capital expenditure on investment property (12) –
Purchases of intangible assets (17) (23)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 30 81
Proceeds from sale of investment property 54 50
Proceeds from sale of non-current investments 30 –
Purchase of non-current other investments (17) (50)
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings (2,262) (663)
Net cash acquired with subsidiary undertakings 128 113
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary undertakings 460 –
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of with subsidiary undertakings 1 –
Proceeds from sale of equity accounted investments 125 –
Net proceeds from sale/(purchase) of other deposits/securities 45 (51)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (1,566) (751)
Capital element of finance lease rental payments (89) (141)
Proceeds from issue of share capital 373 –
Equity dividends paid (315) (281)
Dividends paid on preference shares (21) (21)
Cash inflow from loans 1,005 –
Cash outflow from repayment of loans (357) (219)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities 596 (662)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 872 682
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1,650 970
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (31) (2)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2,491 1,650
Cash and cash equivalents 2,581 1,651
Overdrafts (90) (1)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2,491 1,650
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 35 36 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005
Consolidated statement of recognised income 
and expense
for the year ended 31 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Currency translation on foreign currency net investments:
Subsidiaries 53 (56)
Equity accounted investments (23) (59)
Change in fair value of Exchange Property – 13
Adjustment to interest in net assets of Saab AB – 2
Amounts charged to hedging reserve (688) –
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes:
Subsidiaries (652) (803)
Equity accounted investments (72) (146)
Current tax on items taken directly to equity (3) –
Deferred tax on items taken directly to equity:
Subsidiaries 193 281
Equity accounted investments 276 35
Net income recognised directly in equity (916) (733)
Profit for the year 555 3
Total recognised income and expense (361) (730)
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 422 –
61 (730)
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders (363) (730)
Minority interest 2 –
(361) (730)
Auditors’ statement
Statement of the independent auditors to
the members of BAE Systems plc pursuant
to section 251 of the Companies Act 1985
We have examined the summary financial
statements set out on pages 33 to 36. 
This statement is made solely to the
Company’ s members, as a body, in
accordance with section 251 of the
Companies Act 1985. Our work has been
undertaken so that we might state to the
Company’ s members those matters we 
are required to state to them in such a
statement and for no other purpose. 
T o the fullest extent permitted by law,
we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and 
the Company’ s members as a body, for 
our work, for this statement, or for the
opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities 
of directors and auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing
the Annual Review in accordance with
applicable United Kingdom law. Our
responsibility is to report to you our opinion
on the consistency of the summary financial
statements within the Annual Review with 
the full annual financial statements, and 
the directors’ remuneration report, and its
compliance with the relevant requirements 
of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985
and the regulations made thereunder .
We also read the other information
contained in the Annual Review and
consider the implications for our report 
if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies
with the summary financial statements.
Basis of opinion
We conducted our work in accordance with
Bulletin 1999/6 ‘The auditor’ s statement
on the summary financial statements
issued by the Auditing Practices Board for
use in the United Kingdom. Our report on
the Group’ s full annual financial statements
describes the basis of our audit opinion on
those financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion the summary financial
statements are consistent with the full
annual financial statements and the
directors’ remuneration report of
BAE Systems plc for the year ended
31 December 2005 and comply with 
the applicable requirements of section 
251 of the Companies Act 1985 and 
the regulations made thereunder . 
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants 
London
Registered Auditor
22 February 2006 Operating and financial review
BAE Systems at a glance
BAE Systems is the premier transatlantic defence and aerospace company
delivering a full range of products and services for air , land and naval forces 
as well as advanced electronics, information technology solutions and
customer support services.
Electronics,
Intelligence & Support
Land & Armaments Programmes
Principal operations An industry leader in a variety of
military communications, electronic
identification, navigation and guidance
systems, and a provider of network
centric warfare solutions and a broad
range of support solutions, including
major ship repair activities for the 
US Navy.
A global leader in the design,
development, production and through-
life service support of armoured 
combat vehicles, major and minor
calibre naval guns, missile launchers,
canisters, artillery systems and
intelligent munitions.
Comprises the Company’ s air 
systems, naval ships and submarines
activities together with the Company’ s
participation in the UK’ s Future 
Carrier programme.
Main operating regions US, UK/Europe US, UK, Sweden, South Africa UK
Major markets US, Global US, UK/Europe UK 
Contribution 
to 2005 Group sales
Key points 
from 2005
• Sustained leadership positions 
in electronic warfare and military
communications – secured US Air
Force mission planning contract
• Acquisition of largest US non-
nuclear ship repair business
• Successful integration of 2004
acquisitions
• Successful flight test of infrared
missile countermeasures system 
for commercial airliners
• T ransatlantic growth 
with acquisition of 
United Defense Industries 
• Global land systems 
business established 
• Key contracts secured
– Bradley reset and upgrade
– Danish CV90, US RG-31, M777
• UK Future Rapid Effect System
(FRES) demonstrator award
• UK cost base being addressed
• 37 T yphoon aircraft delivered 
in the year (12 to UK RAF) 
• First flight of UK Hawk Advanced 
Jet T rainer aircraft achieved early 
• Successful delivery of F-35 JSF 
airframe assemblies
• T ype 45 first of class launched 
in February 2006
• Landing Ship Dock (Auxiliary) 
first ship delivered
23% 8% 18%
Customer Solutions 
& Support
Integrated Systems 
& Partnerships
Commercial
Aerospace
Location in this report page 14-15 page 16-17 page 18-19
includes six months of United Defense
Provides support solutions for current
and future customer requirements,
addressing the trend within armed
forces to work more closely with
industry to optimise their military
capability in the most effective manner .
Key capabilities include the integration
and delivery of effective supply chain
and logistics management. CS&S 
is the prime contractor on the
Al Yamamah programme.
Comprises a portfolio of high-
technology defence systems
businesses: Integrated System
T echnologies; Underwater Systems;
37.5% interest in MBDA; 20.5%
interest in Saab; and 50% interest 
in Gripen International.
Comprises the Company’ s 20%
interest in Airbus together with the
Aerostructures business and the
regional aircraft asset management
and support activities.
Principal operations
UK, Saudi Arabia, Australia UK, Sweden, France, Germany, Italy UK, France, Germany, Spain, US Main operating regions
UK/Europe, Middle East, Australia UK/Europe Global Major markets
Contribution 
to 2005 Group sales
• Delivery of Saudi strategy on track
– Compound construction
– Saudi joint venture 
company formed
– Increasing employment 
of Saudi nationals 
• Government to government 
Understanding Document signed on
Saudi armed forces modernisation
• Delivery of UK partnered 
support growth strategy
• Improved performance 
from Australian business 
• Continued restructuring of
European business portfolio
– Eurosystems transaction
completed
– Integrated System 
T echnologies formed
– Saab stake reduced to 20.5%
– Atlas Elektronik sale agreed
• Revised Gripen International
marketing arrangements with Saab
• Strong Airbus order intake 
• First flight of A380 long-range airliner 
• Airbus cost reduction programme 
on track 
• Airbus new product development
programmes underway
• Ongoing losses in Regional Aircraft
• Aerostructures disposal announced
Key points 
from 2005
page 20-21 page 22-23 page 24-25 Location in this report
18% 12% 21%
Registered office
6 Carlton Gardens
London
SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
T elephone: +44 (0)1252 373232
Company website: www.baesystems.com
Registered in England & Wales,
No. 1470151
Registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars (0140)
The Causeway, Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
T elephone: 0870 600 3982
(+44 121 415 7058 from outside the UK)
If you have any queries regarding your
shareholding, please contact the registrars.
Shareview service
The Shareview service from our registrar ,
Lloyds TSB Registrars, gives shareholders:
• direct access to data held on their behalf
on the share register including recent
share movements and dividend details;
• the ability to change their address or
dividend payment instructions on-line.
To sign up for Shareview you need the
‘shareholder reference’ printed on your
proxy form or dividend stationery. There 
is no charge to register. When you register
with the site, you can register your preferred
format (post or e-mail) for shareholder
communications. If you select ‘e-mail’ 
as your mailing preference, you will be 
sent shareholder communications, such 
as proxy forms and annual/interim results
by e-mail instead of post, as long as this
option is available.
If you have your dividends paid straight to
your bank account, and you have selected
‘e-mail’ as your mailing preference, you can
also collect your tax voucher electronically.
Instead of receiving the paper tax voucher ,
you will be notified by e-mail with details of
how to download your electronic version.
However , if you choose ‘post’ as your
preference, you will be sent paper
documents as usual.
Visit the website for more details:
www.shareview.co.uk
Details of software and equipment
requirements are given on the website.
Shareholder dealing service
Hoare Govett Limited offers a low cost
postal dealing service enabling UK resident
shareholders to buy or sell BAE Systems plc
shares. Basic commission is 1%, subject to
a minimum charge of £15.00. If you require
further information please contact:
Hoare Govett Limited
T elephone: +44 (0)20 7678 8300
This notice has been approved by Hoare
Govett Limited which is authorised and
regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a
charity donation scheme for shareholders
with small parcels of shares which may 
be uneconomic to sell. Details of the
scheme are available from ShareGift 
at www.sharegift.org or by telephone 
on 020 7337 0501.
Share price information
The middle market price of the Company’ s
ordinary shares on 31 December 2005 
was 381.75p, the range during the year 
was 224.5p to 388p.
Daily share prices are available in the UK 
on the FT Cityline service as follows:
BAE Systems plc ordinary shares
T elephone: 0906 003 1890
BAE Systems plc preference shares
T elephone: 0906 003 5174
(Calls are charged at 60p per minute at all times)
Alternatively you can view teletext 
or a similar service.
Dividend reinvestment plan
The company offers holders of its ordinary
shares the option to elect to have their
dividend reinvested in shares purchased 
in the market instead of cash. If you would
like to make this election, please request 
a dividend reinvestment plan mandate 
from our registrars:
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway, Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
T elephone: 0870 241 3018
T elephone number from outside the UK: 
+44 121 415 7058
American Depositary Receipts
The BAE Systems plc American Depositary
Receipts (ADRs) are traded on the Over 
The Counter market (OTC) under the 
symbol BAESY . One ADR represents 
four BAE Systems plc ordinary shares.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the depositary .
If you should have any queries,
please contact:
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
JPMorgan Service Center
PO Box 3408
South Hackensack NJ 07606-3408
USA
T oll free telephone number: 800 990 1135
T elephone number from outside the US: 
+1 201 680 6630
Website: www.adr .com
Email: adr@jpmorgan.com
Financial calendar
Financial year end 31 December
Annual General Meeting 4 May 2006
Preference shares 
conversion date 31 May 2006
2005 final ordinary 
dividend payable 1 June 2006
2006 half yearly preference 
dividend payable 3 July 2006
2006 interim 
results announcement September 2006
2006 interim ordinary 
dividend payable November 2006
2006 half yearly preference 
dividend payable 2 January 2007
2006 full year results 
– preliminary announcement February 2007
– report and accounts April 2007
2006 final ordinary 
dividend payable June 2007
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 37
Shareholder information Delivering real advantage
Annual Review 2005 BAE SYSTEMS plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
T elephone +44 (0)1252 373232
Registered in England and Wales No. 1470151
Website details
www.baesystems.com
Cover image
Bradley A3
BAE Systems is an international company 
engaged in the development, delivery and support
of advanced defence and aerospace systems in 
the air , on land, at sea and in space. The Company
designs, manufactures and supports military
aircraft, surface ships, submarines, combat
vehicles, radar, avionics, communications,
electronics and guided weapon systems. It is a
pioneer in technology with a heritage stretching
back hundreds of years. It is at the forefront of
innovation, working to develop the next generation
of intelligent defence and security systems.
BAE Systems has major operations across five
continents and customers in some 130 countries.
The Company employs approximately 100,000
1
people and generates annual sales in excess of 
£15 billion through its wholly-owned and equity
accounted investment operations.
1 
including share of employees of equity accounted investments
Important note
This Annual Review is a summary of the information in the full Annual Report of BAE Systems plc. It does not
contain sufficient information to allow a full understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of 
the Company or of the Group, and of their policies and arrangements concerning directors’ remuneration.
For further information, the full Annual Report should be consulted. This can be found on the Company’ s
website, www.baesystems.com.
Alternatively, copies are available, free of charge, from: 
The Company Secretary
BAE Systems plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London SW1Y 5AD
If in future years you wish to receive the full Annual Report you should write to the Company’ s registrars,
Lloyds TSB Registrars, at the address shown on page 37.
CONTENTS
Results in brief,
highlights and outlook 1
Chairman’s letter 2
Chief Executive’s review 3
Market overview 5
Group strategy framework 6
Embed a high performance 
culture across the Company 7
Win profitable new business and 
optimise value from our order book 8
Grow our export business from a 
strong transatlantic business base 9
Increase UK/US industrial 
technology sharing 10
Optimise our business portfolio 11
Business portfolio actions 12
Electronics, Intelligence 
& Support 14
Land & Armaments 16
Programmes 18
Customer Solutions & Support 20
Integrated Systems 
& Partnerships 22
Commercial Aerospace 24
Summarised financial review 26
Corporate responsibility 27
Board of directors 28
Corporate governance 30
Summarised financial statements 33
Auditors’ statement 36
Shareholder information 37
