 BAE Systems plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)1252 373232
Registered in England and Wales No. 1470151
www.baesystems.com
Shaping our business
Annual Report 2006
REAL PERFORMANCE. REAL ADVANTAGE.
BAE Systems plc Annual Report 2006
See overleaf for an overview
of our business today
Cover image: BAE Systems,
with its partners, is delivering the
Type 45 anti-air warfare destroyer.
The Group has responsibility
for the design, development
and delivery for the class. The
through-life support arrangements
are now under discussion, with
initial packages on contract.
Cautionary statement
All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this document, including, without limitation,
those regarding the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of BAE Systems and its strategy,
plans and objectives and the markets and economies in which it operates, are forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements which reflect management's assumptions made on the basis of information
available to it at this time, involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors which
could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of BAE Systems or the markets and economies
in which BAE Systems operates to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements
expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Nothing in this document shall be regarded as a
profit forecast. BAE Systems plc and its directors accept no liability to third parties in respect of this report
save as would arise under English law. In particular, section 463 Companies Act 2006 limits the liability of
the directors of BAE Systems plc so that their liability is solely to BAE Systems plc.
Information key
Cross reference
within report
67
For more information visit
www.baesystems.com BAE Systems plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)1252 373232
Registered in England and Wales No. 1470151
www.baesystems.com
Shaping our business
Annual Report 2006
REAL PERFORMANCE. REAL ADVANTAGE.
BAE Systems plc Annual Report 2006
See overleaf for an overview
of our business today
Cover image: BAE Systems,
with its partners, is delivering the
Type 45 anti-air warfare destroyer.
The Group has responsibility
for the design, development
and delivery for the class. The
through-life support arrangements
are now under discussion, with
initial packages on contract.
Cautionary statement
All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this document, including, without limitation,
those regarding the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of BAE Systems and its strategy,
plans and objectives and the markets and economies in which it operates, are forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements which reflect management's assumptions made on the basis of information
available to it at this time, involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors which
could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of BAE Systems or the markets and economies
in which BAE Systems operates to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements
expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Nothing in this document shall be regarded as a
profit forecast. BAE Systems plc and its directors accept no liability to third parties in respect of this report
save as would arise under English law. In particular, section 463 Companies Act 2006 limits the liability of
the directors of BAE Systems plc so that their liability is solely to BAE Systems plc.
Information key
Cross reference
within report
67
For more information visit
www.baesystems.com BAESystemsataglance
Electronics, 
Intelligence & Support
Provides a variety of military
communications, electronic
identification, navigation and guidance
systems, network-centric warfare
solutions and a broad range of 
support solutions, including major 
ship repair activities for the US Navy.
14
BAE Systems is the premier global defence and 
aerospace company delivering a full range of products 
and services for air, land and naval forces as well 
as advanced electronics, information technology 
solutions and customer support services.
Land & Armaments
Provides design, development,
production and through-life support
and upgrade of armoured combat
vehicles, naval guns, missile 
launchers, artillery systems and
intelligent munitions. 
16
Programmes
Comprises the Group’s air systems,
naval ships and submarines activities,
with the UK MoD its principal customer.
18
Principal 
operations
Main operating
locations
US, Global
£4,007m
28%
– Strong demand for electronic 
warfare systems
– Key support solutions business wins 
– Group-wide capabilities combine 
to win FastTrack contract
– Key Federal information technology
solutions awards
US, UK, Sweden, South Africa
£2,115m
15%
– Benefiting from high volume of reset
and upgrade activity
– Good progress in next-generation
technology programmes 
– Accelerated rationalisation in the 
UK business
– Wheeled armoured vehicle successes
UK, Global
£2,927m
21%
– Good schedule and cost adherence
– Programmes transitioning from
development to production
– Hawk and Nimrod production 
orders secured
– UAV technology agreements secured
Share of 2006
Group sales
(before elimination 
of intra-group sales)
Major markets
Key points 
from 2006 Customer Solutions 
& Support
20
Integrated Systems 
& Partnerships
A portfolio of high-technology defence
systems businesses comprising the
wholly-owned Integrated System
Technologies and Underwater Systems
businesses, together with a 37.5%
interest in the pan-European MBDA
joint venture, a 20.5% interest in Saab
of Sweden and a 50% interest in the
Gripen International joint venture.
22
HQ and other businesses
Comprises the regional aircraft asset
management and support activities,
head office and UK shared services
activity, including research centres 
and property management.
24
Principal 
operations
Main operating
locations
Group
– Good financial performance
– Continued growth from US businesses
– Implementation of UK Defence Industrial
Strategy underway
£13,765m 88,600
Sales for 2006 Number of employees, 
including share of employees 
of equity accounted investments 
Provides partnered, through-life
support and capability solutions to the
UK MoD and manages the businesses
in Saudi Arabia and Australia. 
UK/Europe, Middle East, Australia
£3,180m
22%
– Tornado ATTAC agreement signed
in the UK
– Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
modernisation programme underway
– Investment in Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia continues
– Australian Hawk support 
contract secured
UK/Europe
£1,748m
12%
– European portfolio restructuring
complete
– Major Insyte communication system
wins in UK
– MBDA programme milestones
achieved
– Saab’s acquisition of Ericsson
Microwave Systems complete
UK
£295m
2%
– Aerostructures sale completed
– UK pension funding deficit addressed
Share of 2006
Group sales
(before elimination 
of intra-group sales)
Major markets
Key points 
from 2006 www.baesystems.com 1
Contents
2 Highlights, outlook and results in brief
4 Chairman’s letter
6 Chief Executive’s review
10 Strategy
12 Markets
14 Electronics, Intelligence & Support
16 Land & Armaments
18 Programmes
20 Customer Solutions & Support
22 Integrated Systems & Partnerships
24 HQ and other businesses
25 Key Performance Indicators
26 Financial review including critical
accounting policies
31 Risks and uncertainties
34 Resources
35 Corporate responsibility
42 Board of directors
44 Corporate governance
51 Remuneration report
66 Directors’ report
68 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
71 Independent auditors’ report
72 Consolidated financial statements
76 Notes to the Group accounts
115 Company balance sheet
116 Notes to the Company accounts
124 Five year summary
126 Shareholder information
127 Financial calendar
128 Glossary
129 Shareholder feedback
Operating and financial review
Corporate governance
Financial statements
Shareholder information
22781 BAE001_p1.qxd:Layout 1  14/3/07  15:12  Page 1 Highlights
– Good financial performance
– Continued growth from US businesses
– Implementation of UK Defence Industrial Strategy underway
– European business portfolio restructuring completed
– UK pension funding deficit addressed
– Airbus sale completed
– Underlying earnings
3
per share up 29.3% at 23.8p
– Dividend increased 9.7% to 11.3p per share for the year
Outlook
Looking forward to 2007 we anticipate a further year of good growth led by our
US businesses, in particular from the Land & Armaments sector, and from further
progress in the Programmes business.
We anticipate good operating cash flow again in 2007.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 2
Operating and financial review
Highlights, outlook and results in brief
22781 BAE001_p2_3.qxd:Layout 1  14/3/07  15:12  Page 2 www.baesystems.com 3
Highlights and outlook
1 including share of equity accounted investments
2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense
3 earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and uplift on acquired inventories
(see note 10 to the Group accounts)
4 basic earnings per share in accordance with International Accounting Standard 33
5 including share of equity accounted investments’ order books and after the elimination of intra-group orders of £0.8bn (2005 £0.9bn)
6 restated following the sale of Airbus SAS
Results in brief
Restated
6
Results from continuing operations 2006 2005
Sales
1
£13,765m £12,581m
EBITA
2
£1,207m £909m
Operating profit £1,054m £761m
Underlying earnings
3
per share 23.8p 18.4p
Basic earnings per share
4
19.9p 13.9p
Order book
5
£31.7bn £30.8bn
Other results including discontinued operations
Dividend per share 11.3p 10.3p
Cash inflow from operating activities £778m £2,099m
Net cash/(debt) as defined by the Group £435m £(1,277)m
22781 BAE001_p2_3.qxd:Layout 1  14/3/07  15:12  Page 3 2006: a successful year
for BAE Systems
BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 4
Operating and financial review
Chairman’s letter
Chairman’s letter
Dick Olver
Chairman
Good operational performance 
and effective implementation 
of a well-defined, soundly based
strategy are combining to deliver 
real performance. www.baesystems.com 5
Chairman’s letter
Good operational performance and effective
implementation of a well-defined, soundly
based strategy are combining to deliver 
real performance.
The focus of the Group’s strategy in recent
years has seen a drive to improve returns
and eliminate excessive risk in the UK-
based operations, alongside the expansion
of the Group’s presence in the US. This 
twin approach is transforming the Group’s
performance in the UK market and has
established BAE Systems as one of the
major US defence companies. 
Notable achievements in 2006 included 
the resolution of the approach to funding the
deficit on the Group’s pension schemes, the
completion of the sale of our 20% interest in
Airbus and good progress towards securing
further significant business in Saudi Arabia.
Underlying these individual achievements
has been a broad-based improvement in
performance across the Group.
In addition to continuing to pursue the
development of the Group in its two largest
defence and aerospace markets, the UK 
and the US, the Group’s strategy recognises
opportunities in the other home markets 
in which BAE Systems has a local presence
and capability; Australia, Saudi Arabia, 
South Africa and Sweden.
Alongside the development of the Group 
in these six home markets, BAE Systems 
will continue to nurture a high performance
culture. The delivery of continuous
performance improvement remains key to 
the twin objectives of delivering cost-effective
capability to our customers and maximising
returns for our shareholders. 
The Group’s strategy is reviewed regularly as
part of the Group’s annual business planning
process. This review tests the continued
relevance of the current strategy. The
adaptations made to the strategy are set 
out on page 11 and reflect the progress
made over the past 12 months.
With the transition of the Group from
recovery to sustained performance growth,
we have looked hard at the composition 
of the Board to ensure it continues to
provide the most effective leadership 
of the Group’s development. 
BAE Systems has a Board with a wealth 
of collective experience. That experience
includes not just defence and aerospace
domain knowledge but brings learning from
other international contracting businesses
and finance backgrounds. In addition to the
three new non-executive directors appointed
in 2005, we welcomed Sir Nigel Rudd to 
the Board on 10 September 2006. Michael
Lester and Mark Ronald retired from the
Board on 31 December 2006. Both have
made major contributions to the Group 
and this industry, throughout long careers.
At the start of 2007 I was pleased to
welcome to the Board Walt Havenstein, as
Chief Operating Officer, with responsibility for
our US-led operations, and Ian King, as
Chief Operating Officer, with responsibility for
the Rest of World, including UK, businesses. 
In February we agreed retirement dates for
Sue Birley and Ulrich Cartellieri. They have
afforded the Group great service through 
their contribution to both the Board and its
committees. The Group has benefited from
their wise counsel and we thank them for this.
The Board now comprises approximately
60% non-executive directors. 
The changes in the composition of the
Board have enabled us to strengthen the
Board committee s that provide oversight to 
executive remuneration, succession planning,
audit and corporate responsibility. 
BAE Systems has a highly skilled and
dedicated workforce. Our people have
demonstrated that they can rise to the
challenge of delivering performance in 
a challenging technological industry and 
I am grateful to them for their contribution 
to the Group’s progress. 
In December 2006, a decision was reached
by the Serious Fraud Office to conclude 
its investigation related to the activities 
of the Group in Saudi Arabia. Our policies
for conducting ethical business are clear
and unambiguous, with established
processes to ensure compliance. 
The underlying UK company law provisions
concerning narrative reporting have changed
since our last annual report. The matters
required to be reported as part of the new
business review requirements are dealt with
on pages 2 to 40 of this report and cover
the Group’s activities during the year and
likely future developments. Best practice 
in narrative reporting will continue to evolve
and we will strive to remain at the forefront
of developments in this area.
The Group’s corporate responsibility
performance is summarised on pages 35
to 40 and also detailed in an important
separately published report. Like all high
performance companies, our policies 
are kept constantly under review, and 
we are committed to take action wherever
necessary to maintain the highest standard
of corporate governance.
The Board is recommending an increased
final dividend of 6.9p per share, making 
a total of 11.3p for the year. At this level,
having taken account of the sale of Airbus,
the annual dividend is covered 2.1 times 
by underlying earnings from continuing
operations (2005 1.8 times). Subject to
shareholder approval at the 2007 Annual
General Meeting, the dividend will be paid 
on 1 June 2007 to holders of ordinary
shares registered on 20 April 2007. 
Dick Olver
Chairman
21 February 2007
Dividend (pence per share)
06
05
04
03
02 9.2
9.2
9.5
10.3
11.3 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 6
Operating and financial review
Chief Executive’s review
Chief Executive’s review
Mike Turner
Chief Executive
A strong platform
for future performance
BAE Systems delivered another 
year of good financial performance,
underpinned by programme schedule
and cost adherence across the Group. www.baesystems.com 7
Performance Centred Leadership (PCL)
The Group’s PCL framework was
designed and developed using best
practice from around the globe. It drives
business success by linking individual
goals with the wider goals of the
organisation, enabling employees 
to understand how their own success
contributes to the success of the 
whole business. 
Support Council
A support council has been created 
to share best practice and co-ordinate
support activities and processes 
across the Group with the objective 
of optimising through-life support, not 
only for in-service equipment, but also
for platforms under development. 
Chief Executive’s review
Year in review
BAE Systems delivered another year of 
good financial performance, underpinned 
by programme schedule and cost adherence
across the Group and reflecting the benefits
now flowing from our world-class Lifecycle
Management and Performance Centred
Leadership processes. 
The performance of the US businesses 
has again been excellent with the Group’s
expansion in the US market over recent
years generating good returns. Good
progress has continued in the UK
businesses with programmes on track 
and meeting their key milestones. 
A number of export opportunities have also
progressed, most notably in the Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia where, under an agreement
between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and
the UK government, the Group is working to
modernise the Saudi armed forces including
progressing towards a contract for 72
Typhoon aircraft.
We have continued to divest those businesses
that were non-core to our strategy. In May 
the Group initiated the sale of its 20%
shareholding in Airbus. The decision to 
sell the Airbus stake was consistent with 
our strategy of maximising value from 
that business, recognising it was facing 
an increasing number of challenges. The 
sale was completed in October following
shareholder approval. The proceeds will 
be directed to developing the core business 
and a repurchase of up to £500m of the
Group’s shares is underway.
The sale of the Aerostructures business 
was completed in March and the sale of
Atlas Elektronik was completed in August.
A big concern for the Group in recent years
has been the funding of its pension schemes.
Agreements were concluded during 2006 
to address funding deficits. The revised
funding plan in the UK schemes includes a
combination of higher company and employee
contribution rates, reductions in future
benefits for employees and one-off cash and
asset contributions by the Group. This shared
approach has achieved a good outcome for
all parties. The Board is in consultation with
the trustees of the Group’s pension schemes
to consider the implication of the Airbus sale
on pension scheme funding.
US businesses
In the US, the integration of the former
United Defense activities into BAE Systems
has been completed successfully. The land,
armaments and ship repair activities that
comprised the acquired United Defense
business are performing well. 
The Electronics, Intelligence & Support
business continued to achieve growth 
ahead of the addressable US Department 
of Defense (DoD) budget, with like-for-like
sales up 6%. Contributing to this growth 
was strong demand for electronic protection
systems. The business continues to lay the
foundations for sustained performance with
new business wins, including substantial
contracts for Common Missile Warning
Systems to protect aircraft.
A number of significant new support
business wins include the award of a prime
contract to provide software development
and management support services to 
the Department of Homeland Security.
BAE Systems continues to look for
opportunities to grow its US business 
by acquisition following the successful
additions to the Group over recent years.
Progress has been slowed by sustained 
high valuations of businesses that would
align with the Group’s strategy. Further
acquisitions will have to continue to meet
our strict value creation criteria. In the
meantime, organic growth in the US
businesses continues.
The focus on current operations in
Afghanistan and Iraq is generating a high
level of armoured vehicle reset activity such
as the return of Bradley vehicles to ‘as 
new’ condition. Substantial funding for such
reset activities has been available through
supplemental budgets in support of current
military operations. Supplemental spending
is expected to continue in the near term 
but the Group’s business plans are based
on more prudent longer-term assumptions.
BAE Systems is a leader in electronic
warfare technology including electronic
protection systems. Such advanced
protection systems are expected to 
continue to be a funding priority.
Equipment modernisation is also expected
to continue and the Group is actively
involved in current and new generation 
land systems, including Future Combat
System variants. In addition, the digitised,
A3, version of the Bradley is a core element
of the modernisation and modularisation 
of US forces.
BAE Systems is a high technology 
business and a major participant in force
transformation activities including new
generation Intelligence, Surveillance and
Reconnaissance programmes. 
As a result of strong positions in these priority
areas, and notwithstanding expectations for a
flattening of growth in overall defence spend,
organic growth in the US businesses is
expected to continue at a level above the
underlying DoD addressable budget growth.
UK businesses
The performance on large complex weapon
system programmes in the UK has been
good and is expected to continue to progress
as more programmes move to production.
Deliveries of Typhoon continue to schedule.
113 aircraft have been delivered to the four
partner nations including 38 now in service
with the UK’s Royal Air Force (RAF).
Flight development of the Nimrod MRA4
programme continues and the formal Nimrod under ice 
Nimrod MRA4 undertook its first transatlantic
flight in September to Eglin Air Force Base,
Florida, where the development aircraft, 
PA2, underwent a series of successful
environmental trials to demonstrate the
maturity and reliability of the aircraft at
extreme temperatures, from -40
o
C to +44
o
C. 
BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 8
Operating and financial review
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
Chief Executive’s review
Pioneering work that BAE Systems previously
undertook through a series of small pilot
support programmes, in partnership with the
UK Defence Logistics Organisation, is now
being applied across the MoD’s fixed wing
aircraft fleet. In December the Group signed
a ten-year availability-based partnership
agreement providing all support up to the
front-line for the UK’s Tornado aircraft.
Within the land sector, the successful
introduction of the armoured fighting vehicle
partnering arrangement is underway with 
the in-service date achieved, on schedule,
for the upgraded FV430 Bulldog armoured
fighting vehicle. In addition, progress
continues towards the transformation of
arrangements for the supply of munitions.
At the end of 2005 the UK government
published its Defence Industrial Strategy
(DIS). DIS is a very significant change
programme for both industry and the UK
MoD. It will help determine the future level of
BAE Systems’ involvement in the UK defence
industrial base as it is implemented.
It is intended that long-term partnering
agreements, currently being discussed 
with the UK MoD in all three air, land and
sea sectors, will form the basis for much of
the implementation of DIS. These long-term
partnering agreements will specify the future
capabilities and requirements for each
sector, enabling both the UK MoD and
industry to make long-term investment
decisions with a greater degree of certainty
than has been possible previously.
The UK MoD has committed to a complex
weapon long-term partnering agreement that
will preserve capabilities and business within
the MBDA guided weapons joint venture.
An integral part of DIS is the identification of
those technologies that are likely to remain
key to the future capability of the UK armed
forces and that need to be retained on-shore.
A good early example was the launch of an
Unmanned Combat Air Vehicle technology
demonstrator programme in December.
At the heart of this strategic framework 
is the recognition that industry has to
demonstrate and deliver value for money 
and through-life capability for the UK armed
forces, whilst also generating appropriate
returns for shareholders. BAE Systems is well
positioned to address these requirements.
In response to encouragement from DIS,
BAE Systems has been considering
opportunities for a more integrated UK naval
capability. Such considerations included
discussions with VT Group regarding the
possibility of a bid for Babcock. These 
initial discussions were not taken forward
but opportunities for consolidation of the 
UK naval industry continue to be explored, 
and, in December, the Group announced
discussions with VT Group with a view to
integrating the naval surface ship activities.
Other markets
In addition to its strong positions in the 
UK and US markets, BAE Systems has a
significant presence in the other important
markets of Australia, Saudi Arabia, South
Africa and Sweden.
In all six countries, BAE Systems is
recognised as an important on-shore
defence and aerospace supplier. The 
Group continues to look for opportunities
to strengthen its position as part of the
defence industrial base of those countries. 
A major growth opportunity is the Group’s
role in supporting the partnership between
the UK government and the Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia to update the capability of
the Kingdom’s armed forces. A key feature
of this agreement is also to assist the
Kingdom in developing its defence industrial
base and the training of its workforce. 
BAE Systems has been pursuing a strategy
to transition its Saudi business from 
a UK-centric operation to a major 
in-Kingdom presence. Consistent with 
this strategy BAE Systems continues 
to invest in the Kingdom. 
Lifecycle Management (LCM)
The delivery of the Group’s strategy is
dependent upon the successful winning
and execution of projects. The application
of our world-class LCM process is critical 
to our capability to deliver these projects 
to schedule and cost. LCM is a powerful
and flexible process which promotes the
application of best practice programme
execution and facilitates continuous
improvement across the Group.
production contract was received in July 
for nine aircraft together with an option for
the conversion of the three aircraft currently
in flight development to production standard.
In October, a production order for 28 Hawk
Mk128 aircraft for the RAF was secured.
Following the launch of the first of class
Type 45 destroyer, outfitting is progressing
to programme. The second ship was
launched on 23 January 2007 and major
steel sections are also well underway for 
the third and fourth ships. The planned build
efficiencies from one ship to the next are
being met or exceeded. Following successful
risk reduction, a small amount of profit has
been recognised on the programme.
Both of the Landing Ship Dock (Auxiliary)
ships originally contracted to BAE Systems
for the UK’s Royal Fleet Auxiliary were
completed. The Group was asked to 
assist with completion of the fourth 
ship in addition to taking over lead 
yard responsibility for the ship class.
Development and assembly of the first of
class Astute submarine progressed well. 
A key 2006 milestone, electrical power 
to switchboards, was achieved enabling
commissioning activity on the boat to
commence. Work on the second boat,
Ambush, is also proceeding well with 
major milestones, such as the closure
of the reactor compartment, demonstrating
significant schedule advance compared with
the first boat. Pricing discussions on boats
two and three, together with the initial 
phase of boat four, are well advanced.
In addition to UK weapon system
procurement programmes, the development
of the support business continues.
BAE Systems is delivering a reduction in the
UK Ministry of Defence’s (MoD) in-service
cost, improving equipment availability and
consequently front-line capability for the
armed forces. Further opportunities for
valuable support business growth remain.  www.baesystems.com 9
Chief Executive’s review
Managing Major Subcontractors
Successful relationships with our partners
and subcontractors across the supply chain are
key to our performance. We have distilled best
practice from within the Group and other world
class organisations into a ‘Gold Standard for
Managing Major Subcontracts’. Roll-out of this
best practice across the Group will accelerate 
our learning and improve performance in this
strategically important capability.
Recognising that the security and welfare 
of the 4,600 employees and their
dependants in Saudi Arabia is paramount, 
a major construction programme is well
underway to create two new residential 
and workplace facilities.
These investments establish a significant
industrial footprint in Saudi Arabia with 
a growing in-Kingdom technical capability. 
This will enable the Group to satisfy 
many of its Saudi customer’s needs 
from on-shore companies.
Industrialisation is a key feature of 
the modernisation programme and the
commitment to Typhoon will allow us to 
build on the established Tornado support
activity. Opportunities for new business in
other areas of the Kingdom’s armed forces
are also being considered.
As in the UK, Typhoon and Tornado are
expected to operate side by side for many
years and these in-country investments 
are expected to generate returns for
shareholders over many decades.
In summary, BAE Systems is progressing
well. The Group’s strategy is delivering 
a focused, high performing, defence and
aerospace business with good positions in
key markets around the globe. As a result,
the Group has a robust plan to deliver
profitable growth for our shareholders.
Mike Turner
Chief Executive
21 February 2007
In support of the Group’s strategy, the Executive Committee has agreed the top ten objectives
for 2007.
Executive Committee 2007 Top Ten objectives: 
1. Financial targets
Meet our 2007 financial targets and
through the rolling five year Integrated
Business Planning process set 
business plans that are both realistic 
and challenging
2. Application of mandated business
processes
Ensure application of the mandated
business processes
3. Programme execution
Further increase management focus 
on meeting our contracted schedule 
and cost commitments
4. US businesses
Continue to grow our US businesses
5. UK businesses
Continue to implement DIS with focus on
through-life capability management in the 
air, land and sea domains to deliver cost 
and capability benefits to our customers and
acceptable profit levels to our shareholders
6. Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
Progress the business strategy with 
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
7. Exports 
Focus on key export opportunities
8. Partnering
Demonstrate a commitment to
partnering across the business to
maximise business-winning opportunities
9. Develop existing and new home markets
Maximise development and growth in
existing and new home markets
10. Leadership
Demonstrate leadership at all levels
towards achieving a world-class high-
performance culture that helps deliver 
the strategy and objectives Our Group strategy is ‘to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value by being the
premier global defence and aerospace company’. We deliver this through our group
strategic objectives, business portfolio actions and integrated business plans. The five
group strategic objectives are owned by the Executive Committee and apply across
the Group. The business portfolio actions are championed by the relevant Executive
Committee members and are delivered by the businesses either separately or jointly.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 10
Operating and financial review
Strategy
Strategy
To deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value by being 
the premier global defence and aerospace company
Delivering on our strategy
Financial metrics detailed on page 25 of sales, order intake and order book are used by the Board in measuring business growth. 
Return on sales, underlying EBITA and operating business cash flow are used to measure performance of the business. 
These metrics directly underpin the Group strategic objectives and business portfolio actions above.
Continue to embed a high-performance culture across the Company
Further enhance our programme execution capabilities
Increase sharing of expertise, technology and best practice between our global businesses
Develop a partnership approach to meet our customer requirements
Develop our capabilities in emerging growth markets
Establish in the 
UK sustainably
profitable through-life 
businesses in 
Air, Land and Sea
Grow our business 
in the United States 
both organically 
and via acquisitions
Implement the home
market strategy and 
grow in the Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia 
Grow our global land
systems business 
Grow our export
business from our
home markets
Grow our global
support, solutions
and services
businesses
Integrated business plans
Business portfolio actions
Group strategic objectives
Group strategy Type 45
The new-generation Type 45 destroyer will
deliver leading-edge capability whilst cutting
operating costs by 37%. Daring was launched
on 1 February 2006 and Dauntless’ launch
followed in January 2007.
Working with the customer
BAE Systems worked closely with the UK
MoD to develop Hawk, a highly capable
advanced jet trainer, to train pilots for
next generation combat aircraft such as
Typhoon and the F-35 Lightning II. The
Hawk has the very latest navigation and
avionics systems enabling future combat
pilots to experience features previously
only available on front-line aircraft.
www.baesystems.com 11
Strategy
Group strategy 
The significant progress made in 2006 
has been reflected by the evolution of our
Group strategy. We have refocused our
strategy to be ‘to deliver sustainable growth
in shareholder value by being the premier
global defence and aerospace company’
where previously the emphasis was just
transatlantic. This recognises the renewed
emphasis on growing our six home markets
(UK, US, Australia, Saudi Arabia, South
Africa and Sweden) and on generating
exports from these established home
markets. We will also now consider
opportunities in new high-growth markets. 
We have reviewed and updated the Group
strategic objectives. We have also made a
number of changes to the business portfolio
actions to reflect recent progress.
Customers’ requirements increasingly
demand the ability to offer ‘through-life’ 
and ‘capability’ solutions. We now identify
portfolio actions that, consistent with 
our customers’ requirements, will support
the delivery of our strategy. Increasingly
businesses must find ways to work together
across traditional business boundaries 
to deliver these actions. As a result 
our businesses may now support more
than one portfolio action. The updated
actions also reflect the Group’s revised
organisational structure. 
Business portfolio actions
The drive to build sustainable, profitable,
through-life businesses in the air, land and
sea sectors of the UK market continues,
building on the good progress last year.
We continue to seek growth in the US
through continuing to target above-market
organic growth from the Group’s established
business activities, and by looking for value-
enhancing acquisitions.
Following our success in recent years in
establishing a global land systems business
we continue to pursue growth opportunities
in this market sector.
The Group will continue to target growth 
in support, solutions and services activity in
our global markets, reflecting the increasing
focus of customers to procure capability 
on a through-life basis.
The sale of the Group’s 20% interest in
Airbus successfully delivered the action of
maximising the value from our Airbus stake
and that action has now been removed.
Good progress made in 2006 to address
non-core activities within the Group through
business disposals has enabled this action
to be removed.
Two new actions have been introduced.
Building on a relationship that spans several
decades we will pursue opportunities to
grow our business in the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia. Our focus will be the transition 
of the relationship from one of an export
market to the implementation of a home
market strategy. 
Export sales are an important source of
growth for the Group and we look to generate
export business from our home markets.  Global defence spend
Forecast defence expenditure by major region
(US$ billions at constant 2007 prices)
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01
US
Europe
Rest of World
20
40
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
BAE Systems’ market position
Top 10 defence companies in 2006
(Defence revenue US$ billion)
1. Lockheed Martin
2. Boeing
3. Northrop Grumman
4. BAE Systems
5. Raytheon
6. General Dynamics
7. EADS
8. L-3
9. Thales
10. Halliburton
The US represents around 45% 
of the total forecast global defence
spend (including equipment,
personnel and operating costs) 
to 2010.
The US accounts for over 45% of
forecast total global procurement 
in 2007.
US
2
Europe
Rest of World (accessible) 
106
59
65
Global equipment market
2007 forecast defence procurement
(US$ billions at constant 2007 prices)
Source: BAE Systems internal analysis Source: BAE Systems internal analysis Source: Defense News
BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 12
Operating and financial review
Markets
Markets
Our global markets
Global defence procurement expenditure
1
continued
to rise with a 7% real increase among the 15 largest
military nations. With customers in over 100 countries
and strong positions in the UK, US, Australia, 
Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Sweden, BAE Systems
is well placed for further growth in both new and
established defence markets. 
The defence industry in the UK and US has
consolidated over recent years resulting in
fewer, larger, defence companies. The nature
of the defence industry today is such that
many of these industry constituents are
suppliers, customers and partners as well 
as competitors. 
BAE Systems is one of the world’s leading
defence companies and is one of only 
four companies with global defence sales 
in excess of $20bn. It is Europe’s largest
defence company and ranks number seven
within the US defence industry. 
BAE Systems is reliant upon the levels 
of funding committed by the domestic
governments of the countries in which the
Group’s operations are based and those 
to which the Group exports.
United States 
The Group’s US business now delivers over
US$9bn (£5bn) of annual sales and employs
approximately 40,000 people in 36 states. 
BAE Systems is both a prime contractor 
to the US government and a supplier of
major sub-systems to the other large prime
contractors. The Group is a market leader in
the provision of electronic warfare systems,
many of which have application on airborne
programmes. BAE Systems has a substantial
business supporting network systems and 
IT for US government agencies and provides
technical support services to the US Navy,
US Army, NASA and the FAA. In land systems,
the Group is one of the two largest suppliers
BAE Systems home markets
1 last available data 2005
2 including supplemental budget, excluding 
Reseach Technology Development & Engineering Investing in Australia
BAE Systems is developing strategic
capabilities to enhance its support of 
the Australian Defence Force by investing
in fast jet support and autonomous
systems capabilities. CS&S Australia 
is responsible for delivering effective
through-life support to the Royal
Australian Air Force’s Hawk Lead-In
Fighter and the F/A-18 Hornet.
Sharing between our global businesses
The 57mm Mk 110 Mod 0 Naval Gun
System has currently been selected 
for both versions of the US Navy’s
Littoral Combat Ship and as the main
armament to go aboard the US Coast
Guard’s National Security Cutter. The
system is currently manufactured in
Sweden, but plans are underway to
transfer assembly to a US facility.
Delivering next-generation products
The RG33 series was developed to 
meet the growing requirement for highly
survivable, flexible mine-protected wheeled
vehicles. BAE Systems’ design teams in
South Africa and the US applied the latest
in collaborative design systems and tools 
to rapidly prototype and produce the first
RG33 family vehicle in a 6x6 configuration.
www.baesystems.com 13
Markets
of armoured vehicles in the US and the
wider accessible global market.
The US defence market accounts for over
45% of global defence spending and
remains one of BAE Systems’ key markets,
offering programme scale and high levels 
of investment in research and development. 
US defence spending has increased
substantially over recent years, including the
Procurement and Research and Development
budgets from which the defence industry
derives much of its business. This high 
level of funding is expected to sustain 
further growth in the near term, but with 
a levelling out anticipated towards the end 
of the decade. 
In addition to the underlying defence spend,
the US market has seen large supplemental
budget allocations to fund overseas
operations. This supplemental spend
includes the cost of resetting equipment to
combat readiness following heavy operational
use. BAE Systems has benefited from this
funding, which is expected to continue in 
the near term but then reduce as current
overseas deployments of armed forces
decrease. Although growth in US defence
spending is expected to slow, the Group is
well placed to support the US Department 
of Defense’s likely continued emphasis on
force sustainment and readiness.
United Kingdom
BAE Systems is the largest defence prime
contractor in the UK with strong positions 
in the design, development, manufacture
and support of air, land and sea systems.
The Group also provides command and
communications infrastructure. Business is
generated in other defence markets around
the globe through the export of UK-derived
weapon system programmes, subject to 
UK government regulation.
The publication in December 2005 by the
UK government of its Defence Industrial
Strategy (DIS) was significant in shaping 
the future UK defence market. A key element
of the industrial strategy is the formation
of long-term partnering agreements between
industry and the UK Ministry of Defence
(MoD). A good start has been made in
implementing such agreements and other
elements of DIS. 
BAE Systems now has a well-established,
growing and successful through-life capability
business in the air sector working closely with
the UK MoD and the Royal Air Force. Progress
has also been made in the land systems
sector with the development of a similar
armoured vehicle through-life partnership. 
Despite a substantial forward programme 
of new equipment requirements, the UK
defence procurement budget has been
pacing inflation with only limited real growth.
BAE Systems has successfully grown its
participation in UK defence support activity
which has, in turn, generated savings for the
customer that are being passed through 
to enhance equipment procurement.
For some years the UK government has
encouraged competition in the defence
market from off-shore suppliers and, despite
the Group’s strong presence in the UK, 
the market remains highly competitive.
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
Saudi Arabia has been an important market
for BAE Systems for many decades and
there are significant new opportunities 
to both continue, and strengthen, this
relationship into the future. 
A key growth opportunity is the Group’s role
in supporting the partnership between the
governments of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
and the UK in updating the capability of the
Kingdom’s armed forces. We are committed
to assisting the Kingdom in developing its
defence industrial base and the training 
and up-skilling of its workforce.
BAE Systems is pursuing a strategy to
transition our Saudi business from a UK-
centric export sales operation to a significant
in-Kingdom presence. In line with this
strategy, we continue to make substantial
investments in the Kingdom, establishing 
a major industrial footprint with a growing 
in-Kingdom technical capability enabling 
the Group to satisfy many of our Saudi
customer’s needs from on-shore companies.
Industrialisation is a key feature in this
market and the commitment to Typhoon will
allow us to build on the established Tornado
support activity. We also see opportunities
for new business in other areas.
Rest of World
In addition to its strong positions in the UK,
US and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia markets,
BAE Systems has a significant presence 
in the other important markets of Australia,
South Africa and Sweden.
BAE Systems’ Australian business continues
to secure contracts and strengthen its
position as a through-life capability partner 
to the Australian Defence Force. South Africa
is another market that continues to offer
opportunity, while our businesses in Sweden
continue to perform well both in home
markets and in securing export opportunities.
We continue to evaluate ways to develop 
in-country presence in markets which are
forecast to have significant and growing
defence expenditure and which want to
develop a significant local defence industry.
We have focused on a small group of
countries, including India, which meet 
these criteria. BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 14
Operating and financial review
Electronics, Intelligence & Support
Business group reviews
During 2006, Electronics, Intelligence &
Support achieved EBITA
2
of £429m (2005
£324m) on sales
1
of £4,007m (2005
£3,697m) and generated an operating 
cash inflow
3
of £273m (2005 £323m).
2006 EBITA
2
includes a £61m accounting
gain relating to a revision to pension
benefits arising from changes to the
calculation of final pensionable salaries.
A one-off cash contribution of $100m
(£54m) was made to the principal US
pension fund at the end of the year.
The Ship Repair business of United
Defense, acquired in June 2005, contributed
full year sales
1
of £316m (2005 £164m)
and EBITA
2
of £23m (2005 £15m).
Electronics & Integrated Solutions (E&IS)
E&IS designs, develops and produces
electronic systems and sub-systems for 
a wide range of military and commercial
applications. The business focuses on 
five primary capabilities: electronic warfare
(EW), including information operations;
communications, with emphasis on
integrated C4ISR
6
and tactical networking;
avionics, flight and engine controls; sensor
systems, providing remote sensing
technology, mission sub-systems and
missile seekers; and intelligence systems.
E&IS delivered the first EW system for the
Joint Strike Fighter F-35 Lightning II aircraft
and received funding for the system’s Low
Rate Initial Production. E&IS also delivered
the first production digital EW system for 
the US Air Force F-22A Raptor. Current
production quantities are for 183 aircraft,
taking F-22A production through to 2011.
The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
selected E&IS to lead the team to develop 
a web-based surveillance and targeting
system, Global Net-Centric Surveillance 
and Targeting, which will rapidly identify
battlefield targets to speed decision-making
by intelligence analysts and military personnel.
1 including share of equity accounted investments
2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible
assets, finance costs and taxation expense
3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment, and dividends
from equity accounted investments
4 before elimination of intra-group sales
5 excluding HQ and other businesses
6 Command, Control, Communications and Computing,
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance 
– Organic sales growth of 6% over 2005
– Return on sales improved to 9.2% (excluding one-off accounting gain)
– Good conversion of EBITA
2
to operating cash flow
Share of Group sales
4
Share of Group EBITA
2,5
2006 2005 2004
Sales
1
£4,007m £3,697m £3,063m
EBITA
2
£429m £324m £256m
Return on sales 10.7% 8.8% 8.4%
Cash inflow
3
£273m £323m £190m
Order intake
1
£4,311m £3,659m £3,310m
Order book
1
£3.4bn £3.5bn £3.1bn
28% 32%
Financial highlights
– Strong demand for electronic warfare systems
– Key support solutions business wins 
– Group-wide capabilities combined to win FastTrack contract
– Key Federal information technology solutions awards
Key points
Defence spending in the US continues to be robust for the near term, however fiscal pressures
may make the budget environment more challenging in subsequent years. Customers will need
to balance priorities to equip effectively the current fighting force, whilst developing capabilities
to transform the future force.
BAE Systems will continue to focus on offering tailored, mission-enabling support solutions 
and lifecycle services to the US defence, intelligence, Federal and civilian markets.
The business is positioned to capitalise on recent organisational and integration actions 
to reduce costs. Reducing costs will make the business more competitive and enable further
investment in new business opportunities to drive top-line growth.
Looking forward
The Electronics, Intelligence & Support business 
group, with 31,700 employees
1
and headquartered 
in the US, is a provider of defence and aerospace
systems, sub-systems and services. It comprises two
operating groups: Electronics & Integrated Solutions 
and Customer Solutions. www.baesystems.com 15
Business group reviews
BAE Systems continues to hold a leadership
position in the development of Advanced
Threat Infrared Countermeasure (ATIRCM)
systems. In 2006, E&IS began phase three
of a Department of Homeland Security
programme to develop a commercial version
of the ATIRCM system, JETEYE
TM
, which
seeks to defeat the threat of shoulder-fired
anti-aircraft missiles. 
BAE Systems was selected to develop the
active inceptor system for the US Army’s 
UH-60M Black Hawk helicopter programme.
The Black Hawk will be the first production
helicopter to combine active inceptor
technology with a fly-by-wire system that
saves weight and provides pilots with
intuitive tactile cues for easier aircraft
handling and reduced workload.
BAE Systems is the world’s leading supplier
of hybrid propulsion systems for urban transit
buses. New orders received in 2006 totalled
415 HybriDrive® propulsion systems.
E&IS is a supplier of state-of-the-art infrared,
millimetre-wave, and laser technologies 
for missile seekers, guided munitions and
target designators. Using a BAE Systems’
seeker, the THAAD (Terminal High Altitude
Area Defense) missile system successfully
detected and intercepted an incoming
ballistic missile target. This demonstration
of ‘a bullet hitting a bullet’ was a key
milestone in the development of this
defence against missile-borne weapons 
of mass destruction.
The US Army fully funded the Thermal
Weapon Sight (TWS) at $285m (£146m) 
with full production to produce and deliver
29,600 units by mid-2008. In 2006, more
than 4,500 TWS units were delivered on time
or ahead of schedule to meet critical fielding.
To increase focus on through-life product
and logistics support, E&IS opened its first
Readiness & Sustainment centre adjacent to
Robins Air Force Base, Georgia. E&IS also
signed partnership agreements with the US
Army’s Tobyhanna Depot in Pennsylvania 
to enhance communications and electronics
lifecycle management and with the US Air
Force’s Open Air Logistics Center, Utah, 
to support aircraft sustainment.
Customer Solutions
Customer Solutions comprises three
businesses:
– BAE Systems Information Technology (IT)
– Technology Solutions and Services (TSS)
– BAE Systems Ship Repair
BAE Systems IT capabilities include
enterprise-wide managed IT operations,
mission-critical application development 
and lifecycle support information analysis
and assured delivery. TSS provides services
including system engineering and technical
assistance, system and sub-system
integration, operations and maintenance.
Ship Repair is the US’s leading non-nuclear
ship repair company and also provides
conversion and modernisation services,
principally in the home ports of the US Navy.
Customer Solutions integrates
communications systems, builds and
maintains precision tracking radars, and 
is one of the largest service providers to 
the US Navy. The business is also a leader 
in air and missile defence systems and is
one of the world’s largest manufacturers 
of explosives.
During 2006, significant contract wins were
secured, underpinning the future growth in
the Customer Solutions business.
BAE Systems was awarded a prime contract,
worth approximately $250m (£128m), 
from the Department of Homeland Security
to improve efficiency and reduce IT costs.
The business also received an estimated
$250m (£128m) award from the US Army
under the Information Technology Enterprise
Solution – 2 Services contract. This contract
provides IT services to support the Army’s
enterprise information infrastructure
requirements and goals. BAE Systems IT
was also successful in 100% of its
recompetes in 2006. 
TSS won the US Air Force Space Command’s
potential 12-year, $509m (£260m) contract
for operation and maintenance of the Solid
State Phased Array Radar Systems at five
radar sites worldwide. The US Army Space
and Missile Defense Command’s Future
Warfare Center signed an agreement with
BAE Systems worth up to $482m (£246m)
under the Concepts and Operations for
Space and Missile Defense Integration
Capabilities contract.
BAE Systems Ship Repair provides a full
array of ship repair services in support of
US Navy vessels. In 2006, the Ship Repair
business was awarded a service contract 
for guided missile cruiser class ships home
ported in Norfolk, Virginia, potentially valued
at $169m (£86m). A second multi-ship,
multi-option contract was awarded for repair
and maintenance of all US Navy surface
ships home ported in Hawaii, potentially
valued at $270m (£138m).
Common Missile Warning System (CMWS)
Under a CMWS contract, potentially 
worth $1.4bn (£0.7bn), the US Army has
the flexibility to order at various times 
any number of systems. E&IS increased
production from 30 to 50 systems 
a month to outfit all US Army helicopters 
in Afghanistan and Iraq.
Transatlantic partnership delivers on a FastTrack
By leveraging its experience and expertise
found around the world, the BAE Systems
FastTrack team demonstrated speed, agility
and Group-wide collaboration to win a new
contract with the US Navy valued at up 
to $450m (£230m) over seven years. 
Under this contact, BAE Systems will
reengineer and remanufacture aircraft parts
to optimise the US military’s ageing aircraft. 
Terminal High Altitude Area Defence (THAAD)
BAE Systems is responsible for the
development of the infrared seeker head 
on the THAAD missile system. The THAAD
missile system is designed to defend
against attacks from short and medium-
range ballistic missiles. Here assemblers 
at BAE Systems in Nashua, New Hampshire,
install a THAAD seeker forward ring
assembly into a vibration test fixture. BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 16
Operating and financial review
Land & Armaments
Business group reviews
During 2006, Land & Armaments achieved
EBITA
2
of £168m (2005 £42m) on sales
1
of £2,115m (2005 £1,270m) and generated
an operating cash inflow
3
of £137m 
(2005 £168m). 
 The United Defense Land & Armaments
business, acquired in June 2005,
contributed full year sales
1
of £1,354m
(2005 £625m) and EBITA
2
of £146m 
(2005 £45m).
Following rationalisation activity in 2005 
and further announcements in 2006, 
the UK-managed business returned to 
profit a year ahead of plan.
United States 
The US business has substantial US 
Army contracts for the refurbishment and
upgrade of Bradley, M88 Hercules improved
recovery vehicles and M113 fighting
vehicles. These contracts involve restoring
current systems to combat-ready condition
following extensive operational use and
upgrading them to more advanced
configurations.
Following the final US FY07 Defense
Appropriations Bill, Land & Armaments
reached agreement with the US Army 
in November 2006 for contracts for 
610 reset/upgraded Bradley vehicles, 
113 M88 Hercules vehicles and upgrade 
of 447 M113 fighting vehicles at a total
value of $1.6bn (£0.8bn).
In May 2006, BAE Systems was awarded 
its first wheeled vehicle contract in the US
to manufacture the Iraqi Light Armoured
Vehicle, designed to protect Iraqi armed
forces against roadside bombs and mine
blasts. Under this $187m (£96m) contract,
Land & Armaments will supply an initial 
378 vehicles for Iraqi forces. If all contract
options are exercised, delivery orders could
total 1,050 vehicles.
Progress on the Future Combat Systems
programme continues with the successful
2006 2005 2004
Sales
1
£2,115m £1,270m £482m
EBITA
2
£168m £42m £(8)m
Return on sales 7.9% 3.3% (1.7)%
Cash inflow
3
£137m £168m £60m
Order intake
1
£2,964m £1,541m £869m
Order book
1
£4.9bn £4.4bn £2.2bn
– Benefiting from high volume of reset and upgrade activity
– Good progress in next-generation technology programmes 
– Accelerated rationalisation in the UK business
– Wheeled armoured vehicle successes
Key points
1 including share of equity accounted investments
2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible
assets, finance costs and taxation expense
3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment, and dividends
from equity accounted investments
4 before elimination of intra-group sales
5 excluding HQ and other businesses
Share of Group sales
4
Share of Group EBITA
2,5
15% 12%
In the near term, US Land & Armaments operations are expected to continue to benefit from
operational requirements in Iraq and Afghanistan. In the longer term, the business may be
impacted by increased pressure on defence budgets. 
UK operations will continue their emphasis on performance improvements, securing a leadership
role on the Future Rapid Effect System (FRES) programme and on reaching resolution on 
a mutually beneficial, sustainable munitions contract with the UK MoD. 
The businesses in Sweden and South Africa aim to deliver growth through both new domestic
government business and building on their track record of securing export opportunities.
Looking forward
Land & Armaments business group, with 11,600
employees
1
and headquartered in the US, is a leader 
in the design, development, production and through-life
support and upgrade of armoured combat vehicles,
naval guns, missile launchers, artillery systems and
intelligent munitions. 
– Sales of £1.4bn from acquired United Defense business
– Improvements in UK business performance
– Order book growth
Financial highlights Meeting the customer’s needs
Bradley combat vehicles have been playing
a crucial role in Iraq, providing outstanding
survivability, mobility and lethality in all types
of combat. BAE Systems has joined forces
with the US Army to create a first-of-its-kind,
national level reset programme to help
remanufacture and upgrade the vehicles.
Swedish future ground systems 
The Swedish Modular Armoured Tactical
Vehicle Programme (SEP) is the latest 
in the line of innovative products from 
BAE Systems AB in Sweden which 
includes the CV90, Bv206 and BvS10. 
www.baesystems.com 17
Business group reviews
completion of preliminary design and
commencement of system functional reviews
and critical design reviews on manned
ground and armed robotic vehicles.
Integration of the first Non-Line of 
Sight-Cannon (NLOS-C) prototype system
commenced with the mission module 
testing using tactical software in
Minneapolis, Minnesota, and chassis
fabrication in York, Pennsylvania. The 
NLOS-C firing platform was unveiled during
ceremonies in September. The platform was
delivered to the US Army’s Yuma Proving
Ground ahead of schedule and successfully
fired its first live test round in October,
beginning two years of live fire testing. 
The US Army has ordered two additional
prototypes for a total of eight to be 
delivered by early 2009.
Development of the 155mm Advanced 
Gun System (AGS) and the Long Range 
Land Attack Projectile (LRLAP) for the 
US Navy’s new destroyer, DDG-1000,
continues. In live fire testing, the AGS
achieved a sustained firing rate of ten
rounds per minute at ranges of up to 
63 nautical miles with accuracy well within
US Navy requirements. In September 2006,
Land & Armaments received a $251m
(£128m) contract for LRLAP . In addition,
Land & Armaments is designing and testing
a new Vertical Launching System that will
enable the DDG-1000 ship to launch a wide
range of missiles.
In the medium-calibre naval gun system
arena, the BAE Systems 57mm gun has
been selected for the DDG-1000, the US
Navy’s Littoral Combat Ship and the Coast
Guard’s Deepwater programme. 
United Kingdom
Initial production deliveries of the M777
Lightweight Artillery System to the US Army
and Marine Corps have been completed, and
full rate production has begun. The M777
system has also been ordered by Canada
and fielded in Afghanistan.
Engineering Tank Systems deliveries continue
on schedule with 17 bridge-laying Titan
vehicles and 17 Trojan obstacle-clearing
vehicles delivered to the British Army.
During 2006, the British Army identified
urgent operational requirements for FV430
Bulldog armoured personnel carriers to
support requirements in Iraq. In total, Land
& Armaments received orders for FV430
vehicles valued at £36m.
A Framework Partnering Agreement is the
current basis for the supply of munitions 
to the UK MoD. BAE Systems and the UK
MoD are evaluating a follow-on Munitions
Acquisition Supply Solution in order to build
a sustainable munitions business and
provide long-term savings to the customer.
The Land & Armaments businesses in the 
UK and Sweden are co-operating to establish
a strong position to develop the FRES
programme. The Swedish Modular Armoured
Tactical Vehicle Programme (SEP) is the basis
of one of the proposals from BAE Systems.
Sweden
During 2006, the Land & Armaments
Swedish businesses (Hägglunds and Bofors)
were combined under one newly created
company called BAE Systems AB. This will
leverage strengths of the individual
businesses in engineering and production,
while also allowing BAE Systems to become
a more effective solutions provider.
BAE Systems AB was awarded a £19m
contract for an additional 52 Bv206S
armoured all terrain vehicles from the Swedish
government. The company has manufactured
more than 11,000 Bv206 vehicles, which have
been sold to nearly 40 countries, including
customers in France, Germany, Sweden,
Netherlands, UK, Italy and Spain.
In the area of intelligent munitions for
artillery and mortar systems, the US Army
has declared Excalibur ready for formal
testing prior to accelerated fielding to US 
and Canadian forces in Iraq and Afghanistan
early in 2007. A major milestone was
achieved when a guided firing of the 155mm
Excalibur from an Archer self-propelled
artillery platform was successfully completed. 
Through December 2006, deliveries of
155mm BONUS Mk 2 munitions to the
Swedish government continued to schedule.
BONUS is also being evaluated by the 
US and UK governments. 
South Africa
The growing international need for mine-
protected vehicles has continued to
generate new orders for the four-wheeled
RG-31 and RG-32 from the business in
South Africa. In October, Land & Armaments
successfully unveiled the RG-33L Mine
Protected Vehicle at the Association of
United States Army trade show. A seven-
month collaborative effort between
operations in the US and South Africa
produced the RG-33L mine-protected vehicle
that has the potential to meet urgent mine
protection needs of US, UK and coalition
forces in Afghanistan and Iraq.
ILAV win
In May, BAE Systems received an initial
order for 378 Iraqi Light Armoured Vehicles
(ILAV). The 4x4 ILAV leverages proven designs
and includes a V-shaped hull designed to
deflect the force of explosions away from
passengers. The first ILAVs were delivered
to Iraq 90 days after contract award. BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 18
Operating and financial review
Programmes
Business group reviews
During 2006, Programmes achieved EBITA
2
of £167m (2005 £133m) on sales
1
of
£2,927m (2005 £2,819m) and generated
an operating cash inflow
3
of £173m 
(2005 £285m).
Air Systems 
The Air Systems group is responsible for
delivering five major programmes: Typhoon,
Nimrod MRA4, Hawk, F-35 Lightning II (JSF)
and Autonomous Systems & Future
Capability (Air).
Deliveries of Typhoon aircraft to the air
forces of the four partner nations continued
with a further 40 aircraft delivered in the
year. BAE Systems continues to provide
support to the UK’s Royal Air Force (RAF)
training and operational build up, with aircraft
operating in three squadrons in the UK.
Negotiations to establish ongoing integrated
logistics support contracts continue. In
addition, the UK MoD has awarded an initial
contract combining scheduled maintenance
work with upgrade activity.
Final assembly of the first of 236 Tranche 2
aircraft is underway, in addition to the first 
of 18 aircraft for Austria. 
Further export possibilities are being
pursued, including the supply of Typhoon
aircraft to Saudi Arabia.
During the year the UK MoD awarded the
Nimrod MRA4 production contract, signalling
renewed confidence in the programme and
in the capability the aircraft will deliver. 
The design and development programme 
is on target to achieve the product maturity
contained within the production bid
assumptions. Activities are now concentrated
in developing, jointly with the customer, an
innovative support solution for the first five
years of service.
Development of the UK’s Hawk Advanced Jet
Trainer proceeded to plan and helped secure
the production order for 28 Hawk Mk128
aircraft from the UK MoD. Hawk is well
The Programmes business group, with 17,900
employees
1
and based in the UK, comprises the Group’s
air systems, naval ships and submarines activities, 
with the UK Ministry of Defence its principal customer.
– Sales growth of 4% over 2005
– Margin further improved
– EBITA
2
up 26%
– Good cash performance
2006 2005 2004
Sales
1
£2,927m £2,819m £2,219m
EBITA
2
£167m £133m £10m
Return on sales 5.7% 4.7% 0.5%
Cash inflow
3
£173m £285m £442m
Order intake
1
£2,772m £2,101m £5,264m
Order book
1
£12.1bn £12.3bn £13.0bn
Financial highlights
– Good schedule and cost adherence
– Programmes transitioning from development to production
– Hawk and Nimrod production orders secured
– UAV technology agreements secured
Key points
1 including share of equity accounted investments
2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible
assets, finance costs and taxation expense
3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment, and dividends
from equity accounted investments
4 before elimination of intra-group sales
5 excluding HQ and other businesses
Share of Group sales
4
Share of Group EBITA
2,5
21% 13%
The future of Programmes is closely linked to UK MoD funding both to meet future
requirements of the UK’s armed forces and to subsequently generate export business.
For Air Systems, growth in the short term is dependent upon anticipated higher activity, 
as UK development programmes move to production, and on potential Hawk and Typhoon
export sales.
Naval Ships expects to be involved in the implementation of the Defence Industrial Strategy 
in the maritime sector. Growth prospects include the UK’s Future Carrier (CVF) programme 
and the MARS (Military Afloat Reach and Sustainability) programme.
The Submarines business is expected to grow with increased activity on the Astute programme
and the anticipated build of a major block of the Future Carrier. Completion of pricing of boats
2 and 3 and securing orders for Astute boats 4 to 7 is key in retaining the necessary skill base
in order to design and build the next-generation nuclear deterrent submarine.
Looking forward Astute class submarine – reducing costs
BAE Systems is actively looking at ways 
to work in partnership with its supply 
chain. The Submarines business has set 
up a ‘suppliers club’ which, together with
innovative build strategies, is helping to
drive down costs on the Astute programme.
Unmanned Air Vehicle (UAV) capability
The UK Defence Industrial Strategy
highlighted the importance of developing
UAV capability within the UK industrial base.
BAE Systems has developed, built and flight
tested UAV demonstration systems in as
little as six months, only a quarter of the
time usually needed.
www.baesystems.com 19
Business group reviews
positioned to meet continued market
demand for training aircraft, including
existing Hawk customers who wish to
upgrade their fleet.
All six Hawk aircraft for Bahrain were
delivered on time, the India contract is
proceeding to plan, with the first flight of 
an Indian Hawk achieved in December, 
and 15 aircraft have been delivered 
to South Africa.
BAE Systems is partnered with Lockheed
Martin and Northrop Grumman on the JSF
programme, having responsibility for the
design and manufacture of the rear fuselage
and empennage and for the supply of
certain air vehicle systems.
The first flight of the System Development
and Demonstration aircraft was achieved 
in December. 
2007 will see the substantial completion 
of the detailed design for each of the 
F-35 variants and the acceleration of the
manufacture and delivery of major units 
for the remaining development aircraft in 
the System Development and Demonstration
phase of the programme. Low rate initial
production is expected to commence in
2007. Discussions between the UK and 
US governments on appropriate levels of
technology sharing on the JSF programme
progressed during the year.
The medium-altitude long-endurance
Unmanned Air Vehicle (UAV) system (HERTI)
was unveiled in 2006 and the ASTRAEA
programme was launched – a multi-faceted
UK programme working towards creating 
the right conditions for operating unmanned
aircraft in UK airspace.
Risk reduction activities were completed 
for the Strategic Unmanned Air Vehicle
(Experiment) (SUAV(E)) project with the UK
MoD and, in December, a follow-on technology
demonstration programme, Taranis, to support
MoD evaluation of unmanned air combat
vehicle technologies, was secured. 
The business is focused on working with the
UK MoD to deliver the SUAV(E) and Taranis
demonstration contracts to establish the
role of UAVs/UCAVs in the future force mix
and transitioning the HERTI demonstration
system into a production programme. 
Naval Ships
The second of the originally contracted
Landing Ship Dock (Auxiliary) ships, RFA
Cardigan Bay, was handed over in August.
The contract was expanded as the UK MoD
contracted to Naval Ships the responsibility
for completion of the final vessel, Lyme Bay,
together with class design and warranty
authority. 
With four Type 45 ships in various stages 
of production, a high level of activity 
and resource load has been reached. 
To meet this demand, over 500 new staff
joined the business in 2006, largely in
production areas.
Whilst the major focus remains on the
setting-to-work and commissioning of the
Type 45 first of class, Daring, in readiness
for sea trials in the second half of 2007,
excellent progress was made on the second
and third ships, with build efficiency targets
met or exceeded.
Milestone achievements continue to plan
and these, combined with successful risk-
reducing system integration work in the
Maritime Integration Support Centre, have
enabled initial profit recognition on the
programme in 2006.
The Group is currently working with the
customer to restructure the existing contract
around a new six ship proposal to provide a
cost-effective solution that ensures timely
delivery of agreed capability across the
class under a jointly managed risk profile.
This is expected to conclude in mid-2007.
The Carrier Alliance has established a set 
of contracts with the various alliance
partners for the demonstration phase of the
CVF programme. One of the key components
to this work has been to prepare full cost,
schedule and programme inputs in 
support of the UK MoD Main Gate Review
for the approval of the whole programme.
BAE Systems, holding significant
responsibilities across the total CVF 
scope of work, is committed to working 
with the other alliance partners to secure 
a successful outcome.
The arbitration process over the acceptance
of the three offshore patrol vessels for
Brunei continues.
A letter of intent was signed with the
government of Malaysia for two frigates.
Negotiations continue to convert this
agreement into a contract.
Submarines
The construction of the first of class boat,
Astute, is largely completed with the test
and commissioning activities now the 
major focus.
The Astute programme continued its
improved performance with nine of its ten
key milestones achieved in the year, eight
being achieved ahead of plan and one
behind plan. The remaining milestone was
achieved early in 2007. The launch of
Astute has been brought forward by three
months to June 2007.
Productivity improvements are being
addressed through innovative build
strategies. These include increased use 
of modular assembly and vertical outfitting
of full sections, in addition to investment 
in facilities, simplification of processes,
systems and design to reduce cost. These
measures are aimed at reducing the cost of
production following the first of class boat.
Typhoon development programme 
The Typhoon development programme
continued through the year with a series 
of releases of UK Paveway II Laser Guided
Bombs, demonstrating its ability to perform
the air-to-ground role – a step towards
ensuring that Typhoon provides the
cornerstone of NATO’s defence capability 
for the next 30 years. BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 20
Operating and financial review
Customer Solutions & Support 
Business group reviews
During 2006, CS&S achieved EBITA
2
of £477m (2005 £419m) on sales
1
of £3,180m (2005 £2,923m) and 
generated an operating cash inflow
3
of £289m (2005 £850m).
Saudi Arabia
BAE Systems has a major presence in the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia where it acts as
prime contractor for the UK government-to-
government defence agreement. Over the
last two decades the programme has
included the provision of aircraft, associated
hardware, support, infrastructure and
manpower training for the Royal Saudi 
Air Force (RSAF). On 21 December 2005 
the UK and Saudi Arabian governments
signed an Understanding Document 
outlining plans to modernise the Saudi
armed forces. Modernisation activities are
now underway. Under the terms of the
signed document, Typhoon aircraft will
replace Tornado Air Defence Variant aircraft
and others currently in service with the
RSAF. Detailed negotiations are continuing
to progress the Understanding Document
towards a contract for the delivery of
Typhoon aircraft.
Around 4,600 people are employed by 
the Group in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, 
of whom more than half are Saudi nationals.
The business is continuing to develop its
presence in Saudi Arabia and is helping to
develop a greater indigenous capability in
the Kingdom. The security of employees 
is the highest priority and progress on new
residential and office facilities as well as
increased security measures continues.
Occupation of the first new residential
compound and new office facilities began 
on schedule in late 2006. 
Performance on the Saudi support
programme in 2006 has progressed well.
Margins have stabilised following increased
indigenous Saudi content in repair and
overhaul work.
The Customer Solutions & Support (CS&S) business
group, with 14,600 employees
1
, provides partnered,
through-life support solutions and capability to the UK
MoD and manages the Group’s business in Saudi Arabia
and Australia. 
– Sales growth of 9% over 2005
– Return on sales maintained at c.15%
– Cash flow includes £130m incurred on Saudi infrastructure
2006 2005 2004
Sales
1
£3,180m £2,923m £2,856m
EBITA
2
£477m £419m £497m
Return on sales 15.0% 14.3% 17.4%
Cash inflow
3
£289m £850m £1,102m
Order intake
1
£4,367m £3,280m £3,543m
Order book
1
£6.0bn £5.0bn £4.6bn
Financial highlights
– Tornado ATTAC agreement signed in the UK
– Kingdom of Saudi Arabia modernisation programme underway
– Investment in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia continues
– Australian Hawk support contract secured
Key points
1 including share of equity accounted investments
2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible
assets, finance costs and taxation expense
3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment, and dividends
from equity accounted investments
4 before elimination of intra-group sales
5 excluding HQ and other businesses 
Share of Group sales
4
Share of Group EBITA
2,5
22% 35%
CS&S will continue to seek to sustain its long-term presence in Saudi Arabia through developing
new business and delivering on current support commitments.
CS&S will continue to work with the UK customer to provide smarter, more integrated support
and capability solutions on customer bases. Development of these solutions will be underpinned
by the migration of the Availability Transformation: Tornado Aircraft Contract (ATTAC) model to
other future UK platforms. 
Looking forward Tornado ATTAC
BAE Systems is to provide availability
support to the Tornado platform for the
Royal Air Force (RAF), known as ATTAC
(Availability Transformation: Tornado
Aircraft Contract). ATTAC will see
BAE Systems partnering with the UK
MoD and the RAF, reflecting the aims
and objectives of the UK’s Defence
Industrial Strategy.
Ship reactivation
BAE Systems is prime contractor for 
the reactivation of former Royal Navy
warships for overseas customers
including preparation of the vessels 
and training of crews.
Saudi Arabia
BAE Systems’ home market strategy in
Saudi Arabia is focused on the
development of indigenous industrial
capabilities in-country to strengthen the
Group’s long-term presence in an
important and successful market. 
www.baesystems.com 21
Business group reviews
United Kingdom
In the UK, CS&S continued to develop its
successful partnering arrangement with the
UK MoD’s Defence Logistics Organisation
focusing on through-life capability management
and value for money in line with the UK’s
Defence Industrial Strategy (DIS). 
A key message from DIS is the need for
investment in supply chain skills, capabilities
and technologies. BAE Systems has
established a supply chain capability project
to further develop its suite of high-quality
support processes across the business. 
In air support, performance under the
Tornado Combined Maintenance and
Upgrade contract remains strong with
11 aircraft returned to front-line service
since contract award in December 2005.
In December, the Tornado ATTAC contract
was signed. The contract offers a full
Tornado availability service for the next 
ten years with an initial value of £947m.
ATTAC will deliver reduced costs and
increased operational efficiencies with
improved aircraft availability to the front-line. 
Experience of the ATTAC bid is being used 
to progress a similar availability contract 
for the Harrier aircraft, with negotiations 
on an initial risk reduction package well
advanced. The Harrier Joint Upgrade and
Maintenance Programme at RAF Cottesmore
is already helping to meet urgent operational
requirements for the front-line in Afghanistan
while at the same time maintaining the GR9
upgrade programme. 
In September, the in-service date for the
Harrier GR9 upgrade was achieved on
schedule. The GR9 upgrade is carried out in
a partnered arrangement with the UK MoD
based at RAF Cottesmore. The programme
has delivered cost savings and reduced
aircraft ‘downtime’ from 52 to 35 weeks
during the upgrade. 
The ATTAC model should also provide the
blueprint for future support arrangements
on Typhoon.
In support of the Hawk programme a bid
was submitted to provide availability support
to the RAF’s TMk1 aircraft.
An extension to the existing Nimrod Integrated
Support contract was received in June.
Naval
In the naval domain, the reactivation of
three ex-Royal Navy frigates for the Chilean
Navy is progressing. The handover and
commissioning of Almirante Cochrane on
22 November was a significant milestone in
the programme. The first of a series of
Memoranda of Understanding with the
customer with respect to delivering a
support solution for the vessels was signed
in October.
The naval joint ventures performed well.
BAE Systems has 50% interests in Fleet
Support Limited (FSL) and Flagship Training
Limited (FTL). In parallel with the naval base
review announced by the UK Secretary of
State for Defence in September 2006, FSL
has been involved in a number of cost-
saving initiatives. 
In October, FSL signed a Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) between FSL, DML and
Babcock and the Minister of Defence
Procurement in support of the Surface Ship
Support Alliance. This activity will develop
throughout 2007 to jointly identify a more
effective model for the support of surface
ships with projected savings of £90m 
per year. 
The results of the UK MoD naval base
review are expected in 2007.
The delivery of high-quality training solutions
continues, primarily through FTL which,
building on the strong partnering
relationship with the Royal Navy, was
awarded a £45m contract for the planning
and delivery of a number of courses for
existing and future naval personnel. 
FTL formed part of the MC3 Training bid for
the Defence Training Review programme.
However, in January 2007, it was announced
that this programme was to be awarded to
the competing consortium led by QinetiQ. 
The business was unsuccessful in its bid 
for an integrated through-life support
contract to support the Victoria Class
submarines in Canada. 
Australia
CS&S Australia performed well in 2006
securing a number of contracts and
strengthening its position as a through-life
capability partner to the Australian 
Defence Force.
Negotiations for a five-year A$343m
(£138m) support contract for the 
Australian Hawk Lead-In Fighter aircraft 
were successfully completed, and the
business is also a key supplier in providing
a new airborne early warning system to
South Korea. BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 22
Operating and financial review
Integrated Systems & Partnerships
Business group reviews
During 2006, Integrated Systems 
& Partnerships achieved EBITA
2
of £113m
(2005 £109m) on sales
1
of £1,748m (2005
£1,834m) and generated an operating cash
inflow
3
of £158m (2005 £17m). This result
follows the significant restructuring of the
Group’s portfolio of European defence
businesses in 2005.
In August the Group disposed of its wholly-
owned Atlas Elektronik business for €149m
(£103m), generating a profit on disposal 
of £3m.
In addition to its main businesses, the
results of which are explained in more 
detail below, the Group has a 25% interest
in Selex Sensors and Airborne Systems SpA.
This is subject to a put option at an agreed
value of £268m exercisable by BAE Systems
in the three-month period from the beginning
of June 2007 and a call option by
Finmeccanica at any time to August 2007. 
Integrated System Technologies (Insyte)
The Insyte business completed its first full
year of trading as a wholly owned subsidiary.
Order book grew primarily on receipt of the
FALCON Increment A contract (£267m).
FALCON will provide the British armed forces
with a new mobile, high-capacity, secure
information system infrastructure at the
operational and tactical levels of command. 
The business secured its first significant
national security contract in 2006 and 
was contracted as the mission system 
prime contractor on the CVF programme 
and was also awarded the T93 Radar
Replacement contract to support the UK 
Air Defence Systems.
The business has a number of key
programmes. Sampson radar, the Command
Management System and Long Range Radar
Development and Production contracts for the
Type 45 destroyers, and the Seawolf Midlife
Upgrade for Type 22 and 23 destroyers all
achieved their key milestones in the year.
The Integrated Systems & Partnerships business group, with 10,500
employees
1
, is a portfolio of high-technology defence systems
businesses comprising the wholly-owned Integrated System
Technologies and Underwater Systems, together with a 37.5% interest
in the pan-European MBDA joint venture, a 20.5% interest in Saab of
Sweden and a 50% interest in the Gripen International joint venture.
– Results reflect further portfolio restructuring in the year
– Margin further improved to 6.5% 
2006 2005 2004
Sales
1
£1,748m £1,834m £2,022m
EBITA
2
£113m £109m £95m
Return on sales 6.5% 5.9% 4.7%
Cash inflow
3
£158m £17m £59m
Order intake
1
£1,655m £1,516m £1,756m
Order book
1
£5.8bn £5.9bn £7.0bn
Financial highlights
– European portfolio restructuring complete
– Major Insyte communication systems wins in UK
– MBDA programme milestones achieved
– Saab’s acquisition of Ericsson Microwave Systems complete
Key points
1 including share of equity accounted investments
2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible
assets, finance costs and taxation expense
3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial investment, and dividends
from equity accounted investments
4 before elimination of intra-group sales
5 excluding HQ and other businesses
Share of Group sales
4
Share of Group EBITA
2,5
12% 8%
Implementation of the UK’s Defence Industrial Strategy (DIS) is material to the UK activities 
of the Integrated Systems & Partnerships business group.
Growth is anticipated from the Insyte business, building on the UK naval systems market
position and recent success in land systems. 
For Underwater Systems, the follow-on activities from DIS will play an important role in shaping
the future position of the business.
The announcement in 2006 by the UK MoD of the creation of ‘Team CW’ (Complex Weapons)
led by MBDA represented a significant step forward in the implementation of DIS in this sector. 
Looking forward Technology delivered to the battlefield
FALCON is a mobile, high-capacity
information infrastructure that brings 
the latest all-internet protocol technology 
to the battlefield. It is a rapidly deployable,
truck-mounted system that allows troops
and battlefield commanders to communicate
quickly, securely and reliably with each
other and with other levels of command.
Talisman launches a world first
Talisman, the BAE Systems’ developed
unmanned underwater vehicle (UUV), has
achieved its latest capability breakthrough, 
by becoming the first UUV to successfully 
fire and control weapons at sea during trials.
Talisman is an example of BAE Systems’
approach to rapid prototyping, with
concurrent design, development and testing.
www.baesystems.com 23
Business group reviews
Underwater Systems
The Sting Ray lightweight torpedo main
production order for the UK MoD is
progressing on schedule with the second
batch of torpedoes being accepted in
December 2006.
The Archerfish product was selected as 
the Common Mine Clearance Neutraliser 
for the US Navy and is to be used on three
different programmes.
Talisman, which is a Group-funded
Unmanned Underwater Vehicle, achieved
what is believed to be a world first by
launching and controlling another weapon
while itself operating at a distance from 
the mother ship. This successful test was
observed by potential customers.
The business continues discussions with
the UK MoD on a long-term partnering
agreement to sustain capability for the
longer term.
MBDA (37.5%)
MBDA performed well with increases in 
both sales and EBITA
2
as 4,000 missiles
were produced and delivered, including 
the Storm Shadow and Scalp airborne 
cruise missiles, Mica air-to-air weapon,
Exocet anti-ship missile, and the Taurus
cruise missile. The new Customer Service 
& Support division also reported successful
sales and orders in the year. 
A number of export orders were secured 
in the year, including a €450m (£303m)
order from the UAE (Exocet Blocks 2 and 3),
a contract from Saudi Arabia for the Mistral
air defence system, an order from India for
the ATAM missile system for the new ALH
helicopter, as well as orders from Chile for
the new Seawolf Block 2 naval missile and
Exocet. Domestic orders remained strong
underpinned by the Aster/PAAMS
programme, a contract from France for the
new Scalp Naval cruise missile and an order
from Germany for the Pars 3 next-generation
anti-armour weapon for the Tiger helicopter. 
MBDA has been selected by the UK MoD 
to lead the UK’s Complex Weapons sector
under the Defence Industrial Strategy,
working with the UK MoD to develop 
a Strategic Partnering Agreement which 
will underpin the sovereign UK capability 
in complex weapons technologies, design,
development and manufacturing for the
future. It is anticipated that 2007 will see
this work brought to fruition.
Important progress has been made 
during the year on MBDA’s development
programmes. Significant milestones included
the successful air-launched demonstration
firings of the new Meteor beyond visual
range air-to-air missile, the first system
qualification of the Franco-Italian
Aster/PAAMS (E) naval air defence system
and qualification firings of the SAMP/T 
land-based system. In addition, the PAAMS
programme for the Royal Navy’s Type 45
destroyer is now progressing through
integration and testing following deliveries 
of the Sampson radar. MBDA also achieved
development successes with the first firing
of the new Exocet Block 3 coastal attack
missile, completion of development of the
Marte Mk2/S helicopter-launched anti-ship
weapon and Milan ER anti-armour missile. 
The acquisition of the German missile
company LFK was completed in March
2006, with integration well advanced.
Financial performance of the acquired
business has exceeded expectations 
to date.
Saab (20.5%)
Sales rose by 9% to SEK21bn (£1.55bn), 
of which 65% is attributable to sales 
outside Sweden. Operating income rose 
to SEK1,745m (£129m), producing an
operating margin after restructuring costs 
of 8.3%. Order intake is substantially
improved compared with 2005, mainly
attributable to the SEK5.5bn (£411m) order
from Pakistan for an airborne surveillance
system together with a SEK1bn (£75m)
order from the Swedish government for the
continued development of the Gripen system.
The acquisition of Ericsson Microwave
Systems for SEK3.75bn (£280m) was
completed on 1 September. This acquisition
added radar and sensor operations to
Saab’s existing portfolio in the areas of
defence, aviation, space and civil security. 
Saab’s order book at the end of the year
was SEK51bn (£3.8bn).
Gripen International (50%)
The first Gripen test aircraft arrived in South
Africa and has commenced the integration
and development test programme. Deliveries
of aircraft to Hungary commenced in the
year and the contractual offset obligations
to both Hungary and the Czech Republic 
are being met. BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 24
Operating and financial review
HQ and other businesses
Business group reviews
During 2006, HQ and other businesses
reported a loss of £147m (2005 £118m)
and had an operating cash outflow
3
of
£225m (2005 £79m). Of this, the reported
loss for Regional Aircraft was £114m 
(2005 £95m), and operating cash outflow
was £66m (2005 £73m).
Regional Aircraft
The regional aircraft leasing market continued
to be impacted by high oil prices and over
supply of aircraft. The leasing team was
successful in securing extensions in 2006 
to existing leases with both large established
operators in Europe as well as new business
in India, Nepal and the Middle East. Leases
were also secured for a number of aircraft
converted to freighter configuration with
further demand expected. Other leasing
opportunities continue to emerge although
markets remain highly competitive.
Support revenues grew with a number of
orders secured during the year for power-by-
the-hour contracts and aircraft modifications. 
The majority of the leasing business is
underpinned by the Group’s Financial Risk
Insurance Programme (FRIP) which makes
good shortfalls in actual lease income
against originally estimated future income.
These insurance arrangements are discussed
in more detail in critical accounting policies
on page 30 and in the risks and uncertainties
section on page 32. 
The Regional Aircraft results for the 
year include £37m for costs incurred 
in managing the leased aircraft portfolio 
and supporting the fleet, and £77m for
provisions taken.
Aerostructures
In March 2006, the sale of the UK
Aerostructures business to Spirit AeroSystems
Inc. was completed, for a cash consideration
of £80m. This disposal generated a profit 
of £11m arising from the resultant reduction
of pension liabilities.
HQ and other businesses, with 2,300 employees
1
,
comprises the regional aircraft asset management 
and support activities, head office and UK shared
services activity, including research centres and 
property management.
1 including share of equity accounted investments
2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible
assets, finance costs and taxation expense
3 net cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities after
capital expenditure (net) and financial investment, and
dividends from equity accounted investments
4 restated following the sale of Airbus SAS
– Total Regional Aircraft loss of £114m
– Cash outflow from Regional Aircraft of £66m
– Aerostructures sale completed
– UK pension funding deficit addressed
Restated
4
Restated
4
2006 2005 2004
Sales
1
£295m £471m £464m
EBITA
2
£(147)m £(118)m £(50)m
Cash (outflow)/inflow
3
£(225)m £(79)m £57m
Order intake
1
£267m £398m £264m
Order book
1
£0.3bn £0.6bn £0.5bn
Financial highlights and key points
The regional aircraft leasing market remains challenging with new markets likely to be
dominated by higher risk customers. Support revenues are dependent on maintaining aircraft 
in service and conversion of new customers to managed services such as power-by-the-hour
contracts. Losses are expected to continue in this difficult market, albeit at levels lower than 
in the preceding two years.
Looking forward www.baesystems.com 25
Operating and financial review
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
Key Performance Indicators
The Board uses a range of financial and non-financial
performance indicators, reported on a periodic basis, 
to measure the Group’s performance over time. 
These include:
Financial metrics:
To measure growth of the business:
– Order intake represents the value of
funded orders received from customers 
in the period;
– Order book represents the balance of
unexecuted, funded orders received from
customers; and
– Sales represents the amounts derived
from the provision of goods and services,
and includes the Group’s share of equity
accounted investments’ sales.
To measure performance of the business:
– Underlying EBITA
1
is used by the Group 
for internal performance analysis as 
a measure of operating profitability
comparable over time;
– Return on sales represents underlying
EBITA
1
divided by sales, expressed as 
a percentage; and
– Operating business cash flow represents
net cash flow from operating activities
after capital expenditure (net) and financial
investment and dividends from equity
accounted investments.
Further explanation of these Group financial
KPIs for the years ending 31 December
2006 and 2005 are included on pages 26
to 30 within the financial review. In addition,
individual business group financial KPIs are
included within the business group reviews
on pages 14 to 24.
Sales and return on sales (£bn and %)
2
9
10
11
12
13
14
06 05 04
7.5
8.0
8.5
9.0
9.5
10.0
return on sales sales
Order intake and order book (£bn)
2
10
20
30
40
06 05 04
order book order intake
Underlying EBITA (£m)
2
810
920
1,030
1,140
1,250
06 05 04
Operating business cash flow (£m)
2
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
06 05 04
In addition to the above, long-term contracts
are managed through the application 
of mandated business processes at 
the operational level. These processes
include the reporting of consistent metrics
related to matters such as schedule and
cost performance, risk mitigation and
customer satisfaction. These metrics 
are consistently used by the Board and
operational management in the review 
of contract performance. 
Non-financial metrics:
The Board recognises its responsibilities 
to the Group’s shareholders, employees,
customers and suppliers, the wider community
and to the environment. The following
indicators are used by the Board and the
Corporate Responsibility Committee to monitor
the application of mandated policies and
procedures with the objective of meeting the
Group’s responsibilities in these areas:
– Health and safety management (injuries
and lost days): to minimise risk across 
our operations and drive continual
performance improvement (see page 36);
– Environment (energy and water
consumption, waste generation and
greenhouse gas emissions): to ensure
operational efficiency, regulatory
compliance and minimising environmental
impact (see page 36);
– Ethics (number of issues raised and
investigated): to demonstrate that
employees are aware of our ethical
standards and issues or concerns are
being raised and addressed. Also, to
measure how successful our ethics
training is in ensuring that all employees
are aware of the Group’s ethical standards
and policies (see page 36); and
– Workplace (employee opinion surveys and
demographic information): to monitor the
opinions of our employees as part of the
development of a high performance culture
across the Group and to increase diversity
and broaden the culture to drive innovation
and performance (see page 36).
The Board continues to adopt a progressive
approach in the development of appropriate
Group-wide metrics such that performance 
is monitored in a comparable and
transparent way.
1 Since the adoption of IFRS the directors have
calculated underlying earnings before amortisation 
and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs 
and taxation expense (underlying EBITA) to eliminate
the impact of an acquisition accounting entry required
to remove the profit in acquired inventory. This allows
the contribution from acquired businesses to be
assessed on a consistent basis from the date of
acquisition. This adjustment did not impact the 
results for 2006 (2005 £44m).
2 On a continuing basis.
Further historical financial information is presented 
on pages 124 and 125. BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 26
Operating and financial review
Financial review
Operating and financial review
Financial review
1 including share of equity accounted investments
2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense
3 earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions 
and financial derivatives, and uplift on acquired inventories
4 net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment, and
dividends from equity accounted investments
5 restated following the sale of Airbus SAS
A year of 
continued growth
Summary income statement – continuing operations
Restated
5
Year to 31 December 2006 Year to 31 December 2005
£m £m
Sales
1
13,765 12,581
EBITA
2
1,207 909
Amortisation (105) (77)
Impairment (34) (45)
Net finance costs
1
(174) (196)
Taxation expense
1
(248) (147)
Profit for the year 646 444
Basic earnings per share 19.9p 13.9p
Underlying earnings
3
per share 23.8p 18.4p
Dividend per share 11.3p 10.3p
Business group summary
2006 2005
5
Cash Cash 
inflow/ Order inflow/ Order 
Sales
1
EBITA
2
(outflow)
4
book
1
Sales
1
EBITA
2
(outflow)
4
book
1
£m £m £m £bn £m £m £m £bn
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 4,007 429 273 3.4 3,697 324 323 3.5
Land & Armaments 2,115 168 137 4.9 1,270 42 168 4.4
Programmes 2,927 167 173 12.1 2,819 133 285 12.3
Customer Solutions & Support 3,180 477 289 6.0 2,923 419 850 5.0
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 1,748 113 158 5.8 1,834 109 17 5.9
HQ and other businesses 295 (147) (225) 0.3 471 (118) (79) 0.6
Less intra-group (507) – – (0.8) (433) – – (0.9)
Discontinued businesses – – (23) – – – 373 –
13,765 1,207 782 31.7 12,581 909 1,937 30.8 www.baesystems.com 27
Financial review
Results for the year – 
continuing operations
Sales
1
increased 9% from £12,581m to
£13,765m. Organic growth was 5%. Sales 
in the full year from the former United
Defense activities, acquired in June 2005,
were £1,670m (2005 £789m). 
EBITA
2
increased 33% to £1,207m (2005
£909m). The growth includes the benefit 
of a full year’s trading from the former United
Defense activities, acquired in June 2005,
which contributed EBITA
2
of £169m (2005
£60m) in the year. As reported at the half
year, included within EBITA
2
is a £61m 
one-off accounting gain in the Electronics,
Intelligence & Support business group
arising from a reduction in the net pension
liability following the changes to the
calculation of final US pensionable salaries.
Losses at Regional Aircraft amounted to
£114m, these are reported within HQ and
other businesses. 
Return on sales (EBITA
2
adjusted for uplift 
on acquired inventories expressed as a
percentage of sales) for the Group increased
from 7.6% to 8.8%. Return on sales excluding
the one-off pension gain referred to above
was 8.3%.
Order book
1
increased to £31.7bn, primarily
on US awards in the Land & Armaments
business and on securing the Tornado 
ATTAC contract in CS&S.
Finance costs
Finance costs, including the Group’s share 
of the finance costs of equity accounted
investments, were £174m (2005 £196m).
The underlying interest charge of £157m
(2005 £191m) was increased by a net
charge of £17m (2005 £5m) arising from
pension accounting, marked-to-market
revaluation of financial instruments and
foreign currency movements.
Underlying interest cover based on EBITA
2
increased from 4.8 times to 7.7 times.
Sales – continuing operations
 
(£bn)
1
 
04
05
06
10.7
12.6
13.8
EBITA – continuing operations
 
(£m)
2
 
04
05
06
800
909
1,207
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax rate for continuing
operations for the year was 26% (2005 22%).
The increase in the rate arises principally 
due to recognition in 2005 of an Australian
deferred tax asset previously unrecognised.
Earnings per share
Underlying earnings
3
per share from
continuing operations for 2006 increased 
by 29% to 23.8p compared with 2005.
Basic earnings per share, in accordance with
IAS 33 Earnings per Share, from continuing
operations, increased by 43% to 19.9p
(2005 13.9p).
Basic earnings per share in respect of
discontinued operations amounted to 30.8p,
primarily arising from the gain made on the
disposal of the Group’s 20% interest in Airbus
to EADS (see note 10 to the Group accounts).
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend
of 6.9p per share (2005 6.3p), bringing the
total dividend for the year to 11.3p per share
(2005 10.3p), an increase of 9.7%. 
The proposed dividend is covered 2.1 times
by earnings
3
from continuing operations
(2005 1.8 times) which is consistent with
the policy of growing the dividend whilst
maintaining a long-term sustainable earnings
cover of approximately two times.
Discontinued operations
The results for discontinued operations are
disclosed in note 9 to the Group accounts
and relate to the disposal of the Group’s
shareholding in Airbus.
Capital structure
The Group funds its operations through 
a mixture of shareholders’ funds and
borrowing facilities, including bank and
capital market borrowings. All the Group’s
material borrowings are arranged by the
central treasury function and funds raised
are lent onward to operating subsidiaries
as required. The Group’s objective is to
ensure the continuity of competitively priced
funding through borrowing from a range 
of markets and at varied maturities.
Details of the Group’s debt are included 
in note 20 to the Group accounts. During
2006, the Exchangeable £676m 3.75% Bond
matured and was repaid, and the Exchange
Property, represented by the Group’s holding
in the ordinary share capital in Vodafone
Group Plc, was sold (see note 15 to the
Group accounts). The US$500m floating rate
note was repaid in the year with no new long
or medium-term debt raised. It remains the
Group’s intention to ensure the business 
is funded conservatively and to be proactive
in accessing the bank and capital markets 
in achieving this aim.
Liquidity
At 31 December 2006, the Group had gross
borrowings of £3.1bn (2005 £4.4bn). The
decrease in level of gross borrowings in the
year was predominantly as a result of the
repayment of the Exchangeable £676m 3.75%
Bond and the US$500m floating rate note.
In addition to its gross borrowings, the
Group has a committed revolving credit
facility (RCF) of £1.5bn, which is syndicated
amongst the Group’s core relationship
banks, that is available to meet any general
corporate funding requirement and supports
the Group’s commercial paper programme.
The RCF was originally contracted for five
years until 2010. However, it has been
extended by the agreement of two one-year
extensions until 2012, although the
available amount for the final year has been
reduced from £1.5bn to £1.3bn. The RCF
remained undrawn throughout the year.
The Group had cash, short-term investments
and non-current term deposits of £3,607m
(2005 £3,215m) and cash on customers’
account of £62m (2005 £53m) giving 
net cash of £435m (2005 net debt of
Exchange rates
The principal exchange rates impacting the
Group are as follows: 
2006 2005
£/€ – average 1.467 1.462
£/$ – average 1.844 1.819
£/€ – year end 1.484 1.455
£/$ – year end 1.957 1.718 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 28
Operating and financial review
Financial review (continued)
Financial review
£1,277m). Generally, excluding the impact 
of acquisition or disposal financing, the net
debt of the Group is driven by operational
performance, the level of receipts on the
major contracts and the performance of the
equity accounted investments. Historically,
the net debt/cash position of the Group is
usually at its best at the half and full year.
Cash flows
Cash inflow from operating activities was
£778m (2005 £2,099m), which includes
£441m one-off contributions into the UK
pension schemes, representing cash of
£199m and proceeds from the sale of
property of £242m. A one-off contribution 
of $100m (£54m) was also made into the
US pension schemes in December 2006.
Good conversion of EBITA
2
to operating
business cash flow was delivered across 
the Group.
There was an outflow from net capital
expenditure and financial investment of
£141m (2005 £250m). This includes the
receipt of £242m from the disposal of Group
property to fund the additional contributions
made to the UK pension funds (see note 22
to the Group accounts). Excluding this item,
the underlying net capital expenditure and
financial investment cash outflow was
£383m (2005 £250m).
The resulting operating business cash 
inflow of £782m (2005 £1,937m) gave 
rise to free cash inflow, after interest,
preference dividends and taxation, of
£490m (2005 £1,758m).
The net cash inflow from acquisitions and
disposals was £1,330m including the receipt
of net proceeds of £1,212m from the October
disposal of the Airbus shareholding.
Net cash of the Group at 31 December 2006
was £435m, a net inflow of £1,712m from
the net debt position of £1,277m at the
start of the year.
Insurance
The Group operates a policy of partial self-
insurance, with a majority of cover placed 
in the external market. The Group continues
to monitor its insurance arrangements to
ensure the quality and adequacy of cover.
Credit rating
The Group subscribes to Moody, Standard &
Poor’s, and Fitch investors’ service for 
its official publicised credit ratings. As at
31 December 2006, the Group’s long-term
6 cash on customers’ account is the unexpended cash
received from customers in advance of delivery which
is subject to advance payment guarantees unrelated 
to Group performance
7 underlying earnings per share has been restated 
to exclude the results of Airbus SAS
Underlying earnings
3
 per share from 
continuing operations (pence per share)
7
04
05
06
13.6
18.4
23.8
Reconciliation of cash flow from operating activities to net cash/(debt)
Excluding 
one-off One-off
pension pension
funding funding 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities 1,273 (495) 778 2,099
Capital expenditure (net) and
financial investment (383) 242 (141) (250)
Dividends received from equity
accounted investments 145 – 145 88
Operating business cash flow 1,035 (253) 782 1,937
Interest and preference dividends (207) (152)
Taxation (85) (27)
Free cash flow 490 1,758
Equity dividends paid (346) (315)
Acquisitions and disposals 1,330 (1,836)
Other non-cash movements (5) (52)
(Purchase)/issue of equity shares (71) 373
Foreign exchange 323 (219)
Movement in cash on customers’ account
6
(9) (35)
1,712 (326)
Opening net debt as defined by the Group (1,277) (668)
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 – (283)
Closing net cash/(debt) as defined by the Group 435 (1,277)
Analysed as:
Term deposits – non-current 4 –
Other investments – current 503 634
Cash and cash equivalents 3,100 2,581
Loans – non-current (2,776) (3,534)
Loans – current (308) (815)
Overdrafts – current (26) (90)
Loans and overdrafts – current (334) (905)
Cash on customers’ account
6
(included within trade and other payables) (62) (53)
Closing net cash/(debt) as defined by the Group 435 (1,277)
credit ratings provided by these agencies
were as follows:
Rating agency Rating Outlook Category
Moody Baa2 Stable Investment
grade
Standard BBB Stable Investment
& Poor’s grade
Fitch BBB Stable Investment
grade
During the year the Group’s outlook
assigned by these agencies improved to
stable, a positive development from the
‘negative’ outlook held at 31 December
2005 which was predominantly attributable
to the increased gearing following the United
Defense acquisition.
The Board continues to view the maintenance
of an investment grade credit rating as
important to the efficient operation of the
Group’s activities. www.baesystems.com 29 www.baesystems.com 29 www.baesystems.com 29 www.baesystems.com 29 29 www.baesystems.com 29
In June 2006, the Group announced it had
agreed a programme of measures to address
the funding deficit in its principal UK pension
schemes. The measures included one-off
contributions and agreed changes to the
members’ benefits to reduce future liabilities.
Following one-off contributions of £733m,
comprising cash of £253m, property and
deferred cash assets of £480m, higher 
than expected investment returns and an
increase in real discount rates, the Group’s
share of the pension deficit decreased 
to £2,428m after allocation to equity
accounted investments and other
participating employers. 
A net deferred tax asset of £778m is
disclosed in note 8 to the Group accounts
relating to the above deficit.
Further disclosure on the above is given 
in note 22 to the Group accounts.
Critical accounting policies
The Group’s significant accounting policies
are outlined in note 1 to the Group accounts
(page 76). Not all of these significant
accounting policies require management 
to make difficult, subjective or complex
judgements or estimates. 
The following is intended to provide an
understanding of those policies that
management considers critical because 
of the level of complexity, judgement or
estimation involved in their application and
their impact on the consolidated financial
statements. These judgements involve
assumptions or estimates in respect of
future events, which can vary from what is
anticipated. However, the directors believe
that the consolidated financial statements
reflect appropriate judgements and
estimations and provide a true and fair 
view of our financial performance and
position over the relevant period.
Retirement benefit plans
The Group accounts for post-retirement
pension and healthcare plans in accordance
with International Accounting Standard 19
Employee Benefits (IAS 19).
For defined benefit retirement plans, the
cost of providing benefits is determined
periodically by independent actuaries and
charged to the income statement in the
period in which those benefits are earned 
by the employees. Actuarial gains and
losses are recognised in full in the period 
in which they occur and are recognised in
the statement of recognised income and
expense. Past service cost is recognised
immediately to the extent the benefits are
already vested, or otherwise is amortised 
on a straight-line basis over the average
period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligations
recognised in the balance sheet represent
the present value of the defined benefit
obligation as adjusted for unrecognised 
past service cost and as reduced by the 
fair value of plan assets.
The main assumptions made in accounting
for the Group’s post-retirement plans relate
to the expected return on investments within
the Group’s plans, the rate of increase in
pensionable salaries, the rate of increase 
in the retail price index, the mortality rate of
plan members and the discount rate applied
in discounting liabilities. For each of these
assumptions there is a range of possible
values and, in consultation with our
actuaries, management decides the point
within that range that most appropriately
reflects the Group’s circumstances. Small
changes in these assumptions can have a
significant impact on the size of the deficit
calculated under IAS 19.
The reported IAS 19 net pension deficit,
including healthcare plans, at 31 December
2006 is £2.4bn (2005 £4.1bn). Liabilities
decreased due to one-off company
contributions of cash and assets of 
£733m, together with a reduction in pension
liabilities from revised retirement benefits.
The remainder of the decrease was primarily
attributable to an increase in discount rates
and higher than expected return on assets.
The Group has allocated an appropriate share
of the pension deficit to the equity accounted
investments and other participating
employers using a consistent and reasonable
method of allocation which represents, based
on current circumstances, the directors’ best
estimate of the proportion of the deficit
anticipated to be funded by these entities.
The Group’s share of the pension deficit
allocated to the equity accounted investments
is included on the balance sheet within equity
accounted investments. 
The valuing of assets and liabilities 
at a point in time rather than matching
expectations of assets and liabilities over
time has no impact on short-term cash
contributions to the pension plans. These
funding requirements are derived from
separate independent actuarial valuations.
Additional details concerning the Group’s
retirement benefit plans are given in note 1
and note 22 to the Group accounts.
Contract revenue and profit recognition
The majority of the Group’s defence
activities are conducted under long-term
contract arrangements and are accounted
for in accordance with IAS 11 Construction
Contracts. Revenue is recognised on 
such contracts based on the achievement 
of performance milestones. No profit is
recognised on contracts until the outcome 
of the contract can be reliably estimated. 
Financial review
Retirement benefit obligations
The movement in retirement benefit obligations during the year is as follows:
£m
Deficit in defined pension plans at 1 January 2006 (5,306)
Decrease in liabilities due to changes in assumptions 473
Actual return on assets above expected returns 521
One-off contributions 733
Recurring contributions over service cost 131
Curtailment gains 113
Acquisitions/disposals 66
Other movements 102
Deficit in defined benefit pension plans at 31 December 2006 (3,167)
US healthcare plans (35)
Total IAS 19 deficit (3,202)
Allocated to equity accounted investments and other participating employers 774
Group’s share of IAS 19 deficit (2,428) BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 30
Operating and financial review
Financial review (continued)
Financial review
Profit is calculated by reference to reliable
estimates of contract revenue and forecast
costs after making suitable allowance 
for technical and other risks related to
performance milestones yet to be achieved.
Owing to the complexity of many of the
contracts undertaken by the Group the 
cost estimation process requires significant
judgement and is based upon the knowledge
and experience of the Group’s engineers,
project managers, finance and commercial
professionals and using the Group’s contract
management processes. Factors that are
considered in estimating the cost of work 
to be completed and ultimate profitability 
of the contract include the availability 
and productivity of labour, the nature and
complexity of the work to be performed, the
effect of change orders, the availability of
materials, performance of subcontractors
and availability and access to government-
furnished equipment.
Cost and revenue estimates and judgements
are reviewed and updated at least quarterly
and more frequently as determined by
events or circumstances. When it is
probable that total contract costs will
exceed total contract revenue, the expected
loss is recognised immediately as an
expense. Contract costs comprise directly
attributable costs including an allocation 
of direct overheads. Indirect overheads are
only regarded as contract costs when their
recovery is explicitly allowed for under the
terms of the contract. Indirect costs are
otherwise treated as a period cost and are
expensed as incurred. Material changes in
one or more of these estimates, whilst not
anticipated, would affect the profitability 
of individual contracts.
Where goods are supplied under arrangements
not considered to represent construction
contracts, sales are recognised when the
significant risks and rewards of ownership 
have been transferred and the related revenue
and costs can be measured reliably.
Where services are rendered, sales are
recognised when the stage of completion 
of the services and the related revenue 
and costs can be measured reliably.
Additional details concerning the Group’s
revenue recognition policy are in note 1 
to the Group accounts.
Intangible assets
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business
Combinations (IFRS 3), goodwill arising 
on acquisition of subsidiaries is capitalised
and included in intangible assets. Goodwill
on acquisitions of joint ventures and
associates is included in equity accounted
investments. IFRS 3 also requires the
identification of other acquired intangible
assets. The techniques used to value 
these intangible assets are in line with
internationally used models but do require
the use of estimates which may differ 
from actual outcomes. Future results 
are impacted by the amortisation period
adopted for these items and, potentially, 
any differences between estimated and
actual circumstances related to individual
intangible assets.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested
annually for impairment and carried at 
cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The impairment review calculations require
the use of estimates related to the future
profitability and cash-generating ability of
the acquired business. Additional details
concerning the Group’s treatment of
intangible assets and impairment reviews
are given in note 1 to the Group accounts. 
Regional Aircraft valuations
The Group holds a number of regional 
aircraft on its balance sheet. These aircraft
are leased to airline operators. In addition,
the Group has provided residual value
guarantees (RVGs) in respect of certain
regional aircraft sold. The aircraft held 
on balance sheet are subject to regular
impairment testing comparing their carrying
value with estimates of the future net rental
inflows. To the extent that rental income is
not contracted, estimates of future income
levels are made.
Provisions related to the RVGs are measured
as the difference between amounts payable
to customers and the estimated fair value 
of the aircraft. The fair value of these aircraft
is determined through independent appraisal
valuations using specific data such as aircraft
model, age and condition, and the market
conditions for specific aircraft and similar
models. These valuations inherently require 
a number of judgements and assumptions 
to be made.
The Group holds insurance cover through 
the Financial Risk Insurance Programme
(FRIP) contracted for in 1998 that makes
good shortfalls in actual income against
estimated future income used for the
valuation of the majority of the on-balance
sheet aircraft and a number of the aircraft
where residual value guarantees have been
granted. The value of this cover to the 
Group takes account of the actual net 
income generated by these aircraft, over 
a significant period of time. Accordingly, 
the Group is required to make estimates 
of the future net income for these aircraft
to assess the value of this cover.
The assumptions and judgements used to
determine the values of these aircraft and
any related impairment charges, adjustments
to provision levels and the assessed value 
of the FRIP cover reflect the best estimate 
of the current circumstances.
The Group has granted residual value
guarantees in respect of aircraft sold of 
which £191m remains outstanding (2005
£460m). After taking account of the FRIP 
and independent appraisal valuations it is
considered that the Group’s net exposure to
these guarantees is covered by the provisions
held, on a net present value basis, and the
residual values of the related aircraft.
Additional details concerning the Group’s
aircraft financing contingent liabilities are
given in note 24 to the Group accounts. www.baesystems.com 31
Operating and financial review
Risks and uncertainties
The Group is dependent on defence spending
and any reductions in such spending could
adversely affect the Group.
The Group’s core businesses are primarily
defence-related, selling products and services
directly and indirectly primarily to the US, the
UK and Saudi Arabian governments. In any
single market, defence spending depends 
on a complex mix of political considerations,
budgetary constraints and the ability of the
armed forces to meet specific threats and
perform certain missions. Because of these
factors, defence spending may be subject 
to significant fluctuations from year to year. In
addition, downturns in broad economic trends
in the markets in which the Group operates
may result in decreases in defence purchases
by the Group’s major customers.
Certain parts of the Group’s business 
are dependent on a small number of 
large contracts.
A significant proportion of the Group’s
revenue comes from a small number of 
large contracts. These contracts individually
are typically worth or potentially worth £1bn
or more including, but not limited to, those
contracts in the Programmes business
group. The loss, expiration, suspension,
cancellation or termination of any one of
these contracts, for any reason, could have a
material adverse effect on the Group’s future
results of operations and financial condition. 
The Group has fixed-price contracts.
A significant portion of the Group’s revenues
are derived from fixed-price contracts,
although the Group has reduced its exposure
to fixed-priced design and development
activity which is in general more risk
intensive than fixed-price production activity.
An inherent risk in these fixed-price contracts
is that actual performance costs may exceed
the projected costs on which the fixed
contract prices were based. The Group’s
failure to anticipate technical problems,
estimate costs accurately or control costs
during performance of a fixed-priced contract
may reduce the profitability of a fixed-price
contract or cause a loss.
To mitigate contract-related risks and
uncertainties, contracts are managed through
the application of the Group’s mandated
Lifecycle Management business process 
at the operational level and the consistent
application of metrics is used to support the
review of individual contract performance.
The Group’s largest customer contracts 
are government contracts.
The governments of the United Kingdom, 
the United States and the Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia are the Group’s three largest
end customers. Any significant disruption or
deterioration in the relationship with these
governments and a corresponding reduction
in government contracts would significantly
reduce the Group’s revenues. Moreover,
companies engaged in the supply of 
defence-related equipment and services 
to government agencies are subject to
certain business risks particular to the
defence industry. These governments could
unilaterally cancel, suspend or amend their
contractors’ funding under existing contracts
or eligibility for new contracts potentially at
short notice. In addition, the Group, as a
government contractor, is subject to financial
audits and other reviews by some of its
governmental customers with respect to 
the performance of, and the accounting and
general practices relating to, government
contracts. As a result of these audits and
reviews, costs and prices under these
contracts may be subject to adjustment.
The US government usually appropriates
funds for a given programme on an annual
basis, even though contract performance
may take more than one year. Consequently,
at the outset of a major programme, the
contract is usually only partially funded and
additional monies are normally committed 
to the contract by the procuring agency 
as appropriations are made by the US
government for future fiscal years. The
termination of one or more of the contracts
for the Group’s programmes by the US
government, or the failure of the relevant
agencies to obtain expected appropriations
for the Group’s programmes, could have a
material adverse effect on the Group’s future
results of operations and financial condition.
The timing of contracts could materially
affect the Group’s future results of 
operations and financial condition.
The Group’s operating performance and 
cash flows are dependent, to a significant
extent, upon the timing and amounts of
defence contracts and the work performed
thereunder. Because the amounts payable
under these contracts can be substantial,
the award or completion of one or more
contracts, the timing for manufacturing and
delivery of products under these contracts 
or the failure to receive anticipated orders
could materially affect the Group’s operating
results and cash flow for the periods affected.
The Group is exposed to risks inherent 
in operating in a global market.
BAE Systems is a global company which
conducts business in a number of regions,
including the Middle East, and, as a result,
assumes certain risks associated with
businesses with a broad geographical reach.
In some countries these risks include, and
are not limited to, the following: government
regulations and administrative policies 
could change quickly and restraints on the
movement of capital could be imposed;
governments could expropriate the Group’s
assets; burdensome taxes or tariffs could 
be introduced; political changes could lead 
to changes in the business environment in
which the Group operates; and economic
downturns, political instability and civil
disturbances could disrupt the Group’s
business activities. The occurrence of 
This section addresses the principal risks to which 
the Group is exposed, which could adversely affect 
the business, results of operations, cash flow, financial
condition, turnover, profits, assets, liquidity and capital
resources of the Group.
31 31 31 31
Operating and financial review
Risks and uncertainties BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 32
Risks and uncertainties
any such events could have a material
adverse effect on the Group’s future results
of operations and financial condition. 
Addressing this exposure the Group has 
a balanced portfolio with six home markets
and we are considering opportunities in new
high-growth markets.
The Group is subject to export controls 
and other restrictions.
A portion of the Group’s sales is derived
from the export of its products. Many 
of the products the Group designs and
manufactures for military or dual use are
considered to be of national strategic
interest. The export of such products 
outside of the jurisdictions in which they are
produced may be subject to licensing and
export controls and other restrictions where
many of the Group’s activities are located.
No assurance can be given that the export
controls to which the Group is subject will
not become more restrictive, that new
generations of the Group’s products will not
also be subject to similar or more stringent
controls, or that political factors or changing
international circumstances will not result in
the Group being unable to obtain necessary
export licences. Reduced access to export
markets could have a material adverse effect
on the Group’s future results of operations
and financial condition. 
Addressing this exposure the Group has
formal systems and policies in place to
ensure adherence to regulatory requirements
and to identify any restrictions that could
adversely impact the Group’s future activities.
The Group’s business is subject to 
significant competition.
Most of the Group’s businesses are focused
on the defence industry and subject to
competition from multinational firms with
substantial resources and capital and many
contracts are obtained through a competitive
bidding process. The Group’s ability to
compete for contracts depends to a large
extent on the effectiveness and innovation of
its research and development programmes, its
ability to offer better programme performance
than its competitors at a lower cost to its
customers, and the readiness of its facilities,
equipment and personnel to undertake the
programmes for which it competes.
Additionally, in some instances, governments
direct to a single supplier all work for a
particular programme, commonly known as a
sole-source programme. Although governments
have historically awarded certain programmes
to the Group on a sole-source basis, they 
may in the future determine to open such
programmes to a competitive bidding process.
Government contracts for defence-related
products can, in certain countries, be
awarded on the basis of home country
preference. Therefore, other defence
companies may have an advantage over the
Group for some defence-related contracts on
the basis of the jurisdiction in which they are
organised, where the majority of their assets
are located or where their officers or
directors are located.
Although the Group expects growth in 
US defence spending to slow, the Group
believes it is well placed to support the US
Department of Defense’s likely emphasis 
on force sustainment and affordable
transformation. The UK defence equipment
budget is expected to continue to be
constrained, having potential implications 
for the sustainability of long-term funding for
future defence technologies and engineering
capabilities in the UK.
In the event that the Group is unable
adequately to compete in the markets in which
it operates, the Group’s business and results
of operations may be adversely affected. 
The Group’s strong global market positioning,
balanced portfolio, leading capabilities and
performance continue to address this risk.
The Group is involved in consortia, joint
ventures and equity holdings where it 
does not have control.
The Group participates in various consortia,
joint ventures and equity holdings, exercising
varying and evolving degrees of control. 
While the Group seeks to participate only in
ventures in which its interests are aligned with
those of its partners, the risk of disagreement
is inherent in any jointly controlled entity, and
particularly in those entities that require the
unanimous consent of all members with
regard to major decisions, and that specify
restricted rights.
The Group is exposed to funding risks in
relation to the defined benefits under its
pension schemes.
The Group operates certain defined benefit
pension schemes. At present, in aggregate,
there is an actuarial deficit between the value
of projected liabilities of these schemes and
the value of the assets they hold. The Group
is making contributions towards deficits 
in line with agreements reached with the
respective scheme trustees based on the
recommendations of actuaries. The amount
of the deficits may be further affected by 
a number of factors including declines in
investment returns and changes in interest
rates, which may require the Group to
increase the amount of cash contributions 
to these schemes, thereby reducing cash
available to meet the Group’s other
obligations or business needs. 
The Group has experienced growth 
through acquisitions. Anticipated benefits 
of acquisitions may not be realised.
The Group has experienced growth through
acquisitions and continues to pursue
acquisitions in order to meet its strategic
objectives. Integrating the operations and
personnel of acquired businesses is a
complex process. The Group may not be 
able to integrate the operations of acquired
businesses with its operations rapidly 
or without encountering difficulties. The
diversion of the attention of management 
to the integration effort and any difficulties
encountered in combining operations could
adversely affect the Group’s business. The
failure to manage such growth, while at the
same time maintaining adequate focus on
the existing assets of the Group, could have
a material adverse effect on the Group’s
business, future results of operations or
financial condition. 
Addressing this exposure the Group has an
established methodology in place to deliver
the effective integration of acquisitions.
The Group holds a number of regional
aircraft on its balance sheet and has
provided residual value guarantees in 
respect of certain aircraft sold.
The Group holds a number of regional 
aircraft on its balance sheet. These aircraft
are leased to airline operators. In addition,
the Group has provided residual value
guarantees (RVGs) in respect of certain
regional aircraft sold.
Values of regional aircraft are impacted by 
a wide range of factors including the financial
strength of regional aircraft operators, market
demands for regional aircraft and the impact of
economic factors on aircraft operating costs.
Reductions in the valuations of these aircraft
could result in impairment charges against
the on-balance sheet aircraft or additional
provisions against the guarantees given.
The Group holds insurance cover through the
Financial Risk Insurance Programme (FRIP)
contracted for in 1998 that makes good
shortfalls in actual income against estimated
future income used for the valuation of the
Operating and financial review
Risks and uncertainties (continued) www.baesystems.com 33
Risks and uncertainties
33
majority of the on-balance sheet aircraft and
a number of the aircraft where RVGs have
been granted. 
At the end of 2006, the anticipated income
from the FRIP was £250m on a net present
value basis. This may increase further if
outstanding residual value guarantees are
exercised by the airlines or if there are
further reductions in market lease rates.
In 2006, some FRIP reinsurers asserted
claims that they were entitled either to
terminate, or to be discharged from, liability
under their reinsurance contracts. Having
raised formal arbitration proceedings,
reinsurers subsequently decided, in January
2007, that they would not pursue these
claims. Arbitration proceedings are however
ongoing in relation to various other claims
advanced by reinsurers. These claims will 
be vigorously defended.
The Group is subject to risk from a failure 
to comply with laws and regulations.
The Group’s operations are subject to
numerous domestic and international 
laws, regulations and restrictions, and
non-compliance with these laws, regulations
and restrictions could expose the Group 
to fines, penalties, suspension or debarment,
which could have a material adverse effect. 
The Group has contracts and operations in
many parts of the world and operates in a
highly regulated environment. The Group is
subject to numerous UK, US and other laws
and regulations, including, without limitation,
regulations relating to import-export controls,
money-laundering, false accounting, anti-
bribery and anti-boycott provisions. From time
to time, the Group is subject to government
investigations relating to its operations.
Failure by the Group or its sales
representatives, marketing advisers or
others acting on its behalf to comply with
these laws and regulations could result 
in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities 
and could result in significant fines 
and penalties and could result in the
suspension or debarment of the Group 
from government contracts for some 
period of time or suspension of the 
Group’s export privileges. 
Addressing this exposure the Group has
mandated policies and procedures to help
ensure that employees act with the highest
ethical standards and comply with relevant
laws and regulations. In particular, all dealing
with sales representatives and marketing
advisers are governed by detailed compliance
procedures, the application of which is
monitored by a dedicated compliance function.
In 2004 the UK Serious Fraud Office and
Ministry of Defence Police commenced an
investigation into suspected false accounting
and corruption. The investigation is wide
ranging and concerns a number of jurisdictions
and contractual arrangements. 
In December 2006, the Serious Fraud Office
discontinued the investigation in so far as it
related to Saudi Arabia. The Group continues
to co-operate fully with the investigation.
The Group is exposed to volatility in currency
exchange rates. 
The global nature of the Group’s business
means it is exposed to volatility in currency
exchange rates in respect of foreign currency
denominated transactions, the translation 
of net assets and the translation of income
statements of foreign subsidiaries and equity
accounted investments. The Group is
exposed to a number of foreign currencies,
the most significant being the US dollar.
In order to protect itself against currency
fluctuations, the Group’s policy is to hedge all
material firm transactional exposures as well
as to manage anticipated economic cash 
flow exposures over the medium term. The
Group aims, where possible, to apply hedge
accounting treatment for all derivatives that
hedge material foreign currency exposures.
The Group does not hedge the translation
effect of exchange rate movements on 
the income statement or balance sheet 
of overseas subsidiaries and equity
accounted investments it regards as long-
term investments. Hedges are, however,
undertaken in respect of investments that
are not considered long-term or core to 
the Group.
The Group’s gross debt, after the impact 
of foreign currency swaps, was 52% (2005
58%) denominated in sterling and 48%
(2005 42%) denominated in US dollars.
Additional risks and uncertainties currently
unknown to the Group, or which the Group
currently deems immaterial, may also have
an adverse effect on the financial condition
or business of the Group.
Further information on how the Group
manages risk through the activities of the
Audit Committee is included on page 48. BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 34
Operating and financial review
Resources
Resources
The principal resources the Group uses to
achieve its strategic objectives are its people,
relationships with customers, intellectual
property and capital. The Group’s capital
structure is explained on page 27 of the
financial review and people, relationships
with customers and intellectual property 
are discussed below.
People
The Group employs 79,000 people in 
its subsidiaries with a further 10,000
employed in joint ventures. 
The workforce encompasses a broad range
of skills and experience delivering a full
range of products and services for air, land
and naval forces as well as advanced
electronics, information technology solutions
and customer support services.
The Group aims to get the best from its
employees by treating them with respect,
creating a supportive and diverse workplace
and giving them opportunities for
development. This helps the Group attract and
retain highly talented people who can deliver
the products and services customers need.
Performance Centred Leadership (PCL) is 
the Group’s performance management and
leadership development framework, founded
on world-class methodologies that focus 
on delivering performance through effective
leadership behaviours and competencies.
The process was applied to 600 leaders at
its launch in 2000 and is now deployed to
over 6,000 executives globally across all of
the Group’s home markets. It ensures that
the Group’s strategic objectives are realised
through a clear flow down of objectives and 
a strong link between achievement of an
individual’s personal objectives and reward.
Further details on the approach to employee
engagement and development are detailed
on pages 35 to 40 in the Corporate
Responsibility section of this report.
Relationship with customers
The Group regards the relationship with 
its customers as a key discriminator in a
competitive industry. The Group’s customers
primarily comprise government agencies and
armed forces of countries around the world
together with other defence and aerospace
prime contractors. In many cases these
relationships extend over decades and span
the full product and service lifecycle from the
initial concept definition, through the system
development phase, into production and then
on to support for the system in service. 
Throughout this lifecycle the Group engages
extensively with its customers and
undertakes customer satisfaction surveys
as part of its drive for continuous
performance improvement.
Increasingly contracts are being awarded for
the delivery of a capability, rather than just 
a product. Reflecting this new approach,
traditional customer relationships are
evolving into long-term partnerships with
governments and their armed forces. 
Intellectual property
Intellectual property is created every day, in
every part of the Group, and can take many
forms, not only tangible products but also
‘know how’ developed over the years. The
Group protects this intellectual property, 
so that full benefit is retained and returns
made from the investment in research and
development, and techological innovation 
are protected.
The Group files patent applications covering
some 100 new inventions each year in
support of its global businesses, and has 
a total portfolio of patents and patent
applications covering more than 1,500
inventions worldwide. www.baesystems.com 35
Corporate responsibility
Operating and financial review
Corporate responsibility
Highlights of our progress and performance
across all areas of our social, ethical and
environmental responsibilities during 2006
are detailed below. Further information 
and supporting data can be found in 
our Corporate Responsibility Report or 
on our website www.baesystems.com.
Strategy and direction
Corporate Responsibility (CR) in BAE Systems
is based on good business practice and
continual improvement. Our CR framework 
has been developed through analysis of
potential risk to our business, key stakeholder
interest and feedback, and the extension 
and evaluation of existing practices. 
Over the last four years we have progressed
from communicating existing policies and
practices to the use of the external reporting
process and stakeholder feedback so as to
evaluate the effectiveness and subsequent
development of those processes. 
A sustainable CR agenda must be based
upon both the communication and effective
deployment of our policies and practices as
a means of challenging the Group to ensure
we are delivering on our commitment to high
performance and continual improvement,
consistent with Group strategy, which is 
to be the premier global defence and 
aerospace company. 
The implication of this global agenda on 
our CR strategy is to broaden the number 
of companies against which we benchmark
our performance and to look wider than 
local impacts to develop our position on 
global issues. 
Key development areas for 2007 concern
ethics, safety and environment and their
impact on our reputation. This will include
our response to climate change and a more
formal approach to product stewardship. 
The UK defence sector is evolving from
being product orientated to a through-life
capability model and this, in conjunction 
with our global aspirations, will require 
us to align both culture and capabilities 
to take the Group forward. 
Governance of CR
The board of directors has overall
responsibility for the governance of 
CR matters within the Group. Specific
responsibility has been assigned to the 
CR Committee of the Board. All members 
of this Committee are non-executive
directors and comprise Peter Weinberg,
Professor Sue Birley, Sir Nigel Rudd and 
Phil Carroll.
Reputation is vital to the long-term
sustainability of all companies. The CR
Committee is central to the Board’s oversight
of the critical non-financial issues that are
fundamental to the Group’s reputation. 
The Committee is responsible for reviewing
and monitoring the processes the Group
uses to manage social, environmental and
ethical risk, as well as supporting the Board
in the approval of strategy and policy in 
this area. 
The Committee is supported by the Group
Legal Director, Audit Director, Group HR
Director and Director of Corporate
Responsibility. 
Non-financial metrics
The Board recognises its responsibilities 
to the Group’s shareholders, employees,
customers and suppliers, the wider community
and the environment. The indicators on page
36 are used by the Board to monitor the
application of mandated policies and
procedures with the objective of meeting 
the Group’s responsibilities in these areas. 
Commentary on progress against these
indicators is summarised on pages 37 to 39
and a full analysis of the data is included 
in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
Monitoring our performance
We monitor our CR performance through
sector benchmarking. In 2006 BAE Systems
maintained its position in both the Dow
Jones Sustainability World Index and the
pan-European Dow Jones STOXX 
Sustainability Index. 
Our total score for 2006 was 77%, this
being the highest score reached in our
specific industry sector and considerably
higher than the sector average of 47%.
The total score is an average of three
dimension scores (see below).
With the continued growth of our US business
we also monitor our performance within 
the Pacific Sustainability Index, which
analyses and ranks the environmental and
sustainability reporting of all the companies
in the aerospace and defence sector listed
on the Fortune Global 500 and Fortune 1000
list. BAE Systems was ranked third of the 
18 companies in that sector.
Roberts Environmental Center – Pacific
Sustainability Index
BAE Systems Industry 
score average 
% score %
Environmental Intent 80 46
Environmental Reporting 69 31
Environmental Performance 19 8
Social Intent 89 43
Social Reporting 65 31
Social Performance 41 11
Overall Score 67 32
Economic Dimension
Environmental Dimension
Social Dimension
69%
85%
80%
BAE Systems recognises its responsibilities to its
shareholders, the people it employs, its customers and
suppliers, the wider community and the environment. Employee opinion survey 
Positive changes (top 4) % Change
favourable from
Question 2006 2004
I have access to the training I need to be productive in my current position 68 10
I have confidence in the job being done by the senior management of BAE Systems 52 9
I would recommend BAE Systems to others as a good place to work 68 6
I understand how my job contributes to my Business Unit/Line of business
in achieving its business plan 84 6
Negative changes (worst 4) % Change
favourable from
Question 2006 2004
Poor individual performance issues are addressed effectively where I work 33 -3
I am supported and encouraged to make my own decisions 74 -3
In my team we get regular feedback on how satisfied customers are with the work we perform 54 -2
My immediate manager/team leader lets me know how I am doing on an ongoing basis 56 -2
BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 36
Operating and financial review
Corporate responsibility
2006 2005 2004 2003
Health and safety
1 
(per 100,000 employees)
Major accidents 47 55 61 56
Days lost to work-related injuries 10,204 8,774 9,126 12,658
Total injuries to BAE Systems’ employees 4,788 6,009 7,969 11,181
Environment
1,2
Energy use (Gwh) 1,742 1,767 1,321 1,279
CO
2
emissions (million tonnes) 0.57 0.58 0.49 0.4
Waste (‘000 tonnes) 105 57 345 540
Waste recycled (‘000 tonnes) 66 37 67 437
Volatile organic compound emissions (tonnes) 742 610 241 341
Water use (million m
3
) 40 36 46 72
Ethics
Ethics enquiries 410 367 616 206
Diversity
Gender diversity: Male employees 80% 81% 80% 81%
Female employees 20% 19% 20% 19%
Ethnic diversity: White 87% 88% 92% xx%92%
Non-white 13% 12% 8% 8%
Age diversity
3
: under 25 6.6% 6.6% 5.9% 7.5%
26 to 35 18.2% 18.4% 14.7% 16.2%
36 to 49 42.6% 43.3% 40.8% 37.6%
50 to 59 25.9% 25.3% 20.8% 19.0%
60+ 6.7% 6.4% 5.2% 4.6%
1 the increases shown for 2006 reflect the expansion of our business in the US in 2005 to include the former United
Defense and Ship Repair businesses (2006 is the first full reporting year). This particularly affects the safety risk profile
and use of resources. We will be aiming to reduce the impact of each individual business year on year.
2 recalculated to include 2005 acquisitions
3 2003 and 2004 figures do not include data for Saudi Arabia 
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
We use a range of non-financial performance indicators
to measure the Group’s performance over time.
Operating and financial review
Corporate responsibility (continued) www.baesystems.com 37
Corporate responsibility
Naval Ships held Learning at Work Days at our Filton
and Govan sites where employees were given health
advice, learned new skills and were encouraged to
take up new hobbies. 
They also launched an Everyday Skills programme
which offers courses on basic IT, communication,
literacy and numeracy. 
Workplace
The Group employs 79,000 people in 
its wholly owned businesses across five
continents, the majority being based in the
UK and the US, with a significant presence 
in Australia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa
and Sweden.
To deliver the products and services our
customers require we need to attract and
retain a highly talented workforce. We do 
this with a focus on a high performance
culture which, in addition to setting out 
goals and objectives, also defines the
behaviours we expect of our employees.
2006 Objectives
In 2006 two workplace-related objectives
were set as part of the leadership objectives
for the Group’s senior executives (other CR-
related leadership objectives are discussed
in context in subsequent sections).
– Reflect gender diversity on leading university
courses in our choice of graduate trainees
through a focused recruitment plan.
– Resolve 75% of employee grievances in 
the UK at local level (i.e. drive solutions 
to employee issues through effective 
local management).
Progress
Diversity
We met our target to recruit at least an 
equal proportion of female graduates to that
seeking a career in engineering. Over the
year, 12% of our UK and 20% of our US
engineering graduate recruits were women.
Our Group HR Director, Alastair Imrie, is 
our senior Gender Champion with a remit 
to raise awareness of potential barriers to
the career progress of women in the Group
and to identify ways to address those
potential barriers. 
Recognising that the Group’s senior
leadership plays a significant role in
influencing behaviours, a number of our
senior female managers represented the
Group at events such as the International
Women of Excellence and the International
Women’s Forum. Junior female employees
also attended these events as participants.
An outcome of this representation was the
initiative to establish a women’s network at
our Submarines site at Barrow in the UK as
a pilot to assess the potential to develop
further network groups elsewhere across 
the business.
A workshop was held with senior female
managers from the UK Ministry of Defence to
discuss barriers to gender progression within
the respective organisations and to explore
mutual areas to address.
The Group sponsors science education events
targeted at young women including the UK
2006 Women Into Science and Engineering
(WISE) event for 13-14-year-old girls. 
Respect at work
97% of employee grievances in the UK 
were resolved at a local level during 2006.
Only one complaint required a corporate 
level investigation under the Group’s Respect
at Work policy. This indicated improved
management and resolution of issues at 
a local level. In the UK, we have continued 
to work closely with the DTI and AMICUS on
the Dignity At Work partnership. This year 
the partnership launched research into 
the impact of bullying in the workplace and
hosted several high-profile events to raise
awareness of this important issue.
Employee recognition
The Group rewards employee excellence 
and innovation through the Chairman’s
Awards Scheme. Over 3,000 nominations
were received for 2006, recognising over
17,000 employees from around the world.
From those, 6 Gold, 54 Silver and over 
100 Bronze awards were awarded across 
the three categories of Innovation,
Transferring Best Practice, and Enhancing
Customer Performance. 
Training and development 
In the UK employees completed 38,000
e-learning courses (equating to 24,000 
hours of online training time). Many courses
are run in partnership with colleges and
universities. In the US we have invested 
in employee development and recent
executive appointments from within our
leadership ranks demonstrate career growth
opportunities. Two new CEO-sponsored
leadership programmes were introduced 
in 2006 and were delivered to more than
600 executives in the US and UK.
Employee engagement 
In 2006, more than 45,000 employees 
took part in our bi-annual global Employee
Opinion Survey (EOS). Overall the results
were encouraging with clear improvement
reported against 2004 performance.
The greatest areas of improvement were 
in career development and rewards, trust 
in leadership and engagement. The most
negative score related to employee
perceptions as to how ‘poor performers’ 
are managed. While this reflects the high
standards our employees expect, it is an
issue of concern which the Group’s Executive
Committee has committed to improve in
2007 (see table on page 36).
2007 Objectives
The specific CR objectives agreed by the
Board for the Chief Executive and Group’s
Executive Committee for 2007 are:
– In each of the home markets, move
towards establishing a workforce reflective
of the national average in terms of gender
mix and ethnic diversity, taking into account
variations by region and industrial sector.
– 85% of employee grievances under the 
UK ‘Respect at Work’ policy to be resolved
through local discussion without escalation
to the corporate investigation process.
Insyte participated in the Women Into Science 
and Engineering (WISE) scheme. The scheme aims 
to promote science, engineering, technology (SET) 
and construction as suitable career choices for girls
and women. Our ethical principles are:
Accountability: We are personally answerable for our conduct and actions
Honesty: There is no substitute for the truth
Integrity: We say what we do, we do what we say
Openness: When questions are asked, we will be frank and straightforward in our answers
Respect: We value and treat each individual with dignity and thoughtfulness
BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 38
Corporate responsibility
Operating and financial review
Corporate responsibility (continued)
Ethics
We are committed to meeting the highest
ethical standards in our relationships 
with others. We will not tolerate unethical
behaviour or attempts to improperly influence
the decisions of customers or suppliers.
Unethical behaviour is wrong, could lead 
to loss of business, seriously damage our
reputation and leave the Group and its
employees open to criminal sanction.
2006 Objectives
In 2006 two objectives specifically 
relating to ethics were set within the
leadership objectives.
– Meet the standards defined in our internal
assurance statement (for ethical issues,
the minimum acceptable score within 
our assurance process is confirmation 
of compliance with all applicable laws 
and standards).
– Develop, pilot and roll out ethics training 
to all employees in the UK and Australia.
Progress
Meeting our standards
The Group has training and awareness
programmes to ensure employees understand
our policies and the standards expected 
of them. 
We provide training on our anti-bribery
programme to managers from marketing,
commercial, procurement, finance, customer
support and other functions. On completing
the training, employees are required to sign
a statement confirming they will comply with
our policies and will report any issues of
concern. This training is mandatory for all
senior employees and for those employees
involved in dealings with marketing advisers.
Awareness and training
A survey of UK employees undertaken in
2005 showed that although our employees
regard the Group as ethical, awareness of
our ethical standards and helpline was low.
In 2006 we introduced new online training for
all UK employees covering: What is Business
Ethics and Why is it Important to Me?, 
Why Following the Law is not Enough, and
Examples of Ethics in the Workplace. 
Employees must complete a test at the 
end of the course to measure understanding
of the issues raised during the training. 
A DVD and classroom training package 
was used for employees who did not have
ready access to a computer. Both training
packages were introduced and endorsed 
by our Chief Executive.
By the end of 2006 80% of UK employees
had successfully completed the training.
Plans are in place to ensure the remaining
20% complete the training early in 2007. We
missed our target to also train all employees
in Australia during 2006 but intend to roll out
the training to all employees in Australia,
Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Sweden
during 2007.
In the US, all employees completed refresher
training on our workplace harassment, ethics
policies, and ethical decision making. All
employees receive annual training on ethics-
related topics. This year all employees
viewed a new ethics video called Playing With
Fire: Abuse and Intimidation in the Workplace. 
We held our annual conference for
BAE Systems Ethics Officers in Baltimore,
US. More than 50 participants from the US,
the UK and Sweden were joined by speakers
from the US Department of Defense and the
Ethics Resource Center. Experts led training
sessions on ethics investigations and
regulations on harassment and violence 
in the workplace.
During 2006 we also held ethics training 
for the Board and Executive Committee,
debating and agreeing the role of leadership
in ensuring high ethical standards throughout
the Group.
Monitoring and compliance
In 2006, 62 enquiries were made to our UK
ethics helpline and worldwide e-mail address.
These covered a variety of topics, but
primarily concerned workplace issues and
acceptable IT Use policy. In the US, there
were 348 formal enquiries (including 186
requiring formal investigation) to ethics
officers via our helpline, post,  e-mail or 
visits to the ethics office. 
50 employees were dismissed for reasons
relating to unethical behaviour during 2006.
Reasons for dismissal included misuse of
company IT, fraud and threatening behaviour.
Working with others
In July 2006 BAE Systems and other UK
defence companies established the UK
Defence Industry Anti-corruption Forum, 
to share good practice on ethics and  
anti-corruption programmes. Members of 
the Forum met twice in 2006 and heard from
a range of speakers including the Institute 
of Business Ethics, ICC (UK), Transparency
International (UK) and law firms, Linklaters
and Bryan Cave LLP . 
In the US we are a signatory to the Defense
Industry Initiative on Ethics and Business
Conduct, and a sponsoring partner of the
Ethics and Compliance Officers Association.
2007 Objectives
The specific CR objectives agreed by the
Board for the Chief Executive and Group’s
Executive Committee for 2007 are:
– Initial ethics training to be completed by
new employees within one month of joining 
the Group.
– Initial ethics training to be implemented for 
all employees within three months of 
the completion date of any acquisition.
– A survey to be undertaken to evaluate
effectiveness of the 2006 UK Ethics
training package with implementation 
of agreed corrective actions. www.baesystems.com 39 39
Electronics & Integrated Systems is
working with the US Federal Transit
Administration (FTA) to develop
hydrogen fuel cell technology for city
buses. Fuel cells generate electricity
cleanly and quietly, like a battery.
Fuelled by hydrogen, their only by-
products are water and heat, so they
don’t contribute to climate change. 
Our Customer Solutions & Support
business group this year achieved the
international health and safety standard
OHSAS 18001 for all its UK businesses.
New safety, health and environment (SHE)
‘passport’ training was introduced for 
all employees, as well as SHE training
specifically for senior executives. A
distance learning health and safety
course was also put in place for our
Saudi employees.
39
Safety, health and environment
The health and safety of our employees,
contractors and engagement with the
communities around our facilities is of
primary importance to BAE Systems.
We recognise the risks associated with the
variety of operations we conduct and aim to
minimise these as far as possible. All sites
are required to comply with our safety, health
and environment policy and to demonstrate
continual improvement in performance
though the setting of targets. Performance 
is reviewed through our business assurance
processes and overseen by the Executive
Committee and the CR Committee on behalf
of the board of directors. 
Our environment policy and framework 
is focused on preventing or controlling
environmental impacts and minimising waste
(or consumption when related to energy and
water). All our major manufacturing sites are
certified to the international environmental
management standard ISO 14001.
2006 Objectives
We recognise the role of leadership in 
driving high standards of safety, health and
environment performance and, accordingly, 
a number of leadership objectives in 2006
related to this area.
– Meet our safety, health and environment
targets (performance improvement criteria
appropriate to risk established for each
individual business).
– Exceed the safety performance
commitments made to the UK Health 
and Safety Executive (HSE).
Progress
Targets were set against individual business
issues and all businesses included safety,
health and environment in their quarterly
business reviews. The overall performance
on safety reflects the good performance
against those targets.
Compared with 2005 both the overall
number of accidents and the number of
serious accidents decreased in 2006. 
The majority of our businesses continue to
demonstrate improvements (i.e. reductions)
in the days lost to work-related injuries
indicating both a reduction in the number 
of accidents and length of time for
rehabilitation back into the workplace. The
increase indicated in the table on page 36
reflects the inclusion of a full year of data for
our US Ship Repair business and does not
therefore indicate a significant deterioration.
The commitments made as part of the UK
government’s ‘Revitalising Health & Safety’
initiative have been exceeded; we have
already met targets for performance. 
Partnership with the UK HSE
We continued our partnership project with the
UK HSE and other large UK manufacturers.
The project, named Large Organisation
Partnership Pilot (LOPPs), aims to raise 
safety standards in UK manufacturing sites. 
In 2006 a joint team of BAE Systems’
managers, trade union safety representatives
and the HSE developed key performance
indicators (KPIs) in six areas: work at height;
control of contractors; hand-arm vibration;
work in confined spaces; slips and trips; 
and manual handling.
The KPIs are used by our businesses to
monitor and improve performance through 
an audit programme. Eight of our UK sites
were audited against the relevant topic
standard during 2006. Only one audit failed.
Improvement actions were put in place and 
a follow-up audit confirmed that corrective
actions had been implemented.
We are communicating the output of these
audits to all UK businesses through news
bulletins, office and workshop talks and a
training DVD. Employees can also access the
information on our LOPPs website. We will
continue to use the audit programme as part
of our drive for high performance across all
areas of safety, health and environment. 
Environment
The environment data shown on page 36
reflects the numerous changes to our
business and activity over the last four
years. We monitor trends at an individual 
site level and continue to see reductions 
in both water and energy consumption.
The overall data now includes the former
United Defense businesses and these
account for the increases in consumption.
Whilst the use of natural resources is driven
by the growth of our business we remain
committed to delivering ongoing operational
efficiencies and improvements in this area.
Further breakdown and explanation of our
environmental data for our main operating
regions are provided in our full CR Report.
Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment
(WEEE) Directive
The WEEE Directive became effective in
January 2007 requiring producers of certain
electronic equipment to account for end of
life disposal. During 2006 we conducted
reviews to assess the impact of this
Directive and put in place measures to
monitor and manage the issue going forward. 
2007 Objectives
The specific CR objectives agreed by the
Board for the Chief Executive and Group’s
Executive Committee for 2007 are:
– To achieve an improved position relative 
to 2006.
– Establish, where practical, appropriate
industry benchmarks for each line of
business to monitor performance and
establish targets to move towards best 
in class.
– Group performance (lost days metric) to 
be better than relevant industry average.
– Continue to achieve an improvement 
year on year in injuries/lost working time.
Corporate responsibility BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 40
Operating and financial review
Corporate responsibility (continued)
Corporate responsibility
Platform Solutions is helping to prepare
young people for life after school by
partnering with the Medway Education
Business Partnership (MEBP), a charity
working to improve the links between
schools and businesses. Our employees
donate money and time and this year
11 employees mentored students 
from schools.
Many remote communities in the
Peruvian Amazon have no access to
medical services. Five years ago, Naval
Ships employees converted a former
Royal Navy boat into the Amazon Hope,
a floating hospital, which extended a
lifeline to these communities. In 2006,
Submarines employees helped create 
a sister medical vessel for the region. 
Education and community 
Education, specifically in the fields of science
and engineering, is extremely important to
the future sustainability of our business. 
The number of students enrolling in
engineering and technology courses has
fallen considerably in recent years. We are
concerned that in the future there will be too
few candidates with the skills our business,
and the engineering sector in general, needs.
We therefore invest worldwide in a range of
programmes which support and encourage
young people into science and engineering.
We also have a structured programme 
for support to charities and encourage our
employees to support their local communities
through fundraising and volunteering. 
Education
In Australia, Saudi Arabia, the UK and 
the US we run an education programme 
to encourage young people at all stages 
of their education to take an interest in
science and technology.
United Kingdom 
Over 350 employees (known as ambassadors)
visit schools to help with engineering projects
and to give careers advice.
Our schools road show is designed to
encourage children to think about a career 
in engineering before making subject choices
at 14. The 2006 road show visited 100
schools, involving 10,000 children aged 9 
to 13 in performances and workshops. In
2006 our education programme was awarded
a Business in the Community ‘Big Tick’
Award and was a finalist in the Opportunity
Now Awards.
We participated in Enterprise Week 2006
delivering a schools road show performance
at an Enterprise in Education conference. 
We have strategic partnerships with 
20 colleges and universities to support
research and improve graduate recruitment.
BAE Systems has made a commitment to 
be one of the ‘corporate champions’ behind
the British Council’s UK India Education &
Research Initiative. The Initiative, which was
launched last year by the Prime Minister, 
is designed to strengthen education and
business links between the UK and India. 
As part of our commitment we will be
supporting links between schools in Brough
in the UK with Bangalore in India, an
exchange of best practice in vocational
training and an innovative research project
on Unmanned Aircraft Vehicles linking
Leicester University with the Indian Institute
of Science at Bangalore.
United States 
We sponsor a number of programmes to
support science and technology across 
the US. Our scholarships to colleges and
universities have enabled hundreds of
students to take technical courses.
In 2006 this support included: providing
project challenges and mentors to Penn
State’s Learning Factory – an innovative and
nationally recognised programme that has
multi-disciplinary student teams working on
industry-sponsored projects; sponsorship 
of Science and Technology Way at Maryland
Day – an open house showcase held at the
University of Maryland; and the sponsorship
of the annual Rube Goldberg Machine
Contest held at Purdue University.
Saudi Arabia
BAE Systems’ long association with
academia from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
has continued with the funding of research
carried out by Saudi lecturers in the UK. 
Following completion of the four-year 
Saudi government campaign to establish
national vocational skill standards, backed 
by BAE Systems, the Group sponsored a
conference on the next round of challenges
facing those in the vocational training
establishment in meeting the needs of 
the Saudi labour market. 
The Saudi-British sports co-operation
programme, which began in 1987, had 
its most active year to date in 2006. This
BAE Systems managed project is geared to
the raising of standards and the introduction
of new sports, and takes as a main aim 
the education of administrators, medical
practitioners, coaches and others who will
stimulate the development of the sector. 
Australia
In Australia, BAE Systems supports a wide
range of school and university programmes,
offering sponsorship and mentoring
programmes, with the aim of inspiring young
people to become involved in engineering.
These projects included sponsorship of 
South Australia’s Engineering Week and 
Super Science Sunday, involvement with 
the Doxa Youth Foundation mentoring
programme; and the support for the 
Young Achievement Australia Business 
Skills Programme.
Community
Employee involvement
In the 18 months to September 2006, our
global employee fundraising scheme, Charity
Challenge, raised £8m. This was donated
primarily to the Stroke Association in the UK,
the National Heart Foundation in Australia
and The American Cancer Society in the 
US. Over the same period, employees
volunteered 10,500 days of their own time.
Our partner charities for the next 18-month
campaign will be Macmillan Cancer Support
in the UK, the Australian Cancer Council 
and the Alzheimer’s Association in the US.
Company giving
In 2006 our total global community
investment was £8,223,160. This figure
includes cash and in-kind donations as 
well as our direct support for education.
We are a member of the London
Benchmarking Group (LBG) and use their
agreed methodology to evaluate our annual
community contributions.  Corporate governance
Contents
42 Board of directors
44 Corporate governance
51 Remuneration report
66 Directors’ report
68 Statement of directors’
responsibilities
www.baesystems.com 41
Corporate governance
22781 BAE001_p35_41.qxd:Layout 1  14/3/07  15:26  Page 41 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 42
Corporate governance
Board of directors
Board of directors
1. Dick Olver FREng 
3, 4
Appointed Chairman on 1 July 2004. 
A civil engineer, Dick Olver joined BP 
in 1973 where he held a variety of senior
positions culminating in his appointment to
the board of BP p.l.c. as CEO of Exploration
and Production in 1998. He was subsequently
appointed deputy group chief executive 
of BP in 2003, stepping down from that
position when he assumed the chairmanship
of BAE Systems. Dick Olver chairs the
Board’s Nominations Committee and the
Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee.
He is a non-executive director of Reuters
Group plc, a Fellow of the Royal Academy 
of Engineering and a member of the Royal
Academy and the Trilateral Commission.
Appointed: 2004 Age: 60
2. Mike Turner CBE 
4
Chief Executive
Appointed Chief Executive in 2002, having
been a Chief Operating Officer since 1999.
He is a non-executive director of Lazard
Limited and a former non-executive director
of Babcock International Group Plc and The
Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation
Company (P&O).
Appointed: 1994 Age: 58
3. Chris Geoghegan
Group Executive Director 
Appointed to the Board in 2002 as a Chief
Operating Officer he is now Group Executive
Director responsible for Businesses. He was
formerly responsible for the Group’s Airbus
operations and, in 2000, was appointed
Group Managing Director of the Avionics
business. He is President of the Society 
of British Aerospace Companies.
Appointed: 2002 Age: 52
4. Walt Havenstein 
4
Chief Operating Officer, US
Appointed to the Board on 2 January 2007,
he is President and CEO of BAE Systems,
Inc. He was previously President of the
Company’s US-based Electronics & Integrated
Solutions business. He was President of the
Sanders defence electronics business prior
to it being acquired by the Company from
Lockheed Martin in 2001. A graduate of 
the US Naval Academy, he served 12 years
in the US Marine Corps.
Appointed: 2007 Age: 57
5. Ian King
Chief Operating Officer, UK and Rest of World
Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2007,
he was previously Group Managing Director
of the Company’s CS&S business and, prior
to that, Group Strategy and Planning Director.
Immediately prior to the BAe/MES merger 
he was Chief Executive of Alenia Marconi
Systems, having previously served as
Finance Director of Marconi Electronic
Systems and of Marconi Defence Systems.
He is a non-executive director of Rotork plc. 
Appointed: 2007 Age: 50
6. Steve Mogford
Group Executive Director 
Appointed to the Board in 2000 as a Chief
Operating Officer he is now Group Executive
Director responsible for leading the
Company’s drive for the restructuring of the
Naval Ships and Submarines industry in line
with the Defence Industrial Strategy. He has
held a number of senior positions within the
Group. He is a non-executive director of
Carillion plc.
Appointed: 2000 Age: 50
7. George Rose
Group Finance Director
Appointed Group Finance Director in 1998.
Prior to joining the Company in 1992, he held
senior positions in the Rover Group and Leyland
DAF . He is a non-executive director of Saab AB
and National Grid Transco plc, and a member 
of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Appointed: 1998 Age: 54
Chairman Executive directors
12 3 4 5 7 6
1 member of the Audit Committee
2 member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee
3 member of the Nominations Committee
4 member of the Non-Executive Directors’ 
Fees Committee
5 member of the Remuneration Committee www.baesystems.com 43
Board of directors
8. Professor Sue Birley 
2, 5
Formerly Professor of Entrepreneurship 
at Imperial College, University of London, 
and has held a number of academic posts 
at INSEAD, London Business School and
Cranfield Institute of Technology. She was
formerly a non-executive director of National
Westminster Bank plc. Professor Birley chairs
the Board’s Remuneration Committee.
Appointed: 2000 Age: 63
9. Phil Carroll 
2, 3
Appointed to the Board in 2005, Phil Carroll
is a former chairman and chief executive 
of Fluor Corporation and a former president
and chief executive of Shell Oil Company Inc.
He was appointed by the US Department 
of Defense in 2003 to serve as the first
Senior Adviser to the Iraqi Ministry of Oil. 
He is a former non-executive director of
Scottish Power plc.
Appointed: 2005 Age: 69
10. Dr Ulrich Cartellieri 
1
Ulrich Cartellieri served as a member 
of the Managing and subsequently the
Supervisory Board of Deutsche Bank AG 
for over 20 years until 2004. He was also 
a member of the International Advisory
Committee of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York. He is currently a director of
Robert Bosch GmbH and is a past chairman
of Karstadt AG and a past deputy chairman
of Siemens AG.
Appointed: 1999 Age: 69
11. Michael Hartnall 
1
Formerly finance director of Rexam plc, 
prior to which he held senior positions 
with a number of manufacturing companies.
He is also a non-executive director of 
Lonmin plc and a former non-executive
director of Elementis plc. Michael Hartnall
chairs the Board’s Audit Committee. 
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England and Wales.
Appointed: 2003 Age: 64
12. Sir Peter Mason KBE 
1, 3
Non-executive chairman of Thames Water
and a non-executive director of Acergy S.A.
Formerly chief executive of AMEC plc,
executive director of BICC plc, chairman 
and chief executive of Balfour Beatty Limited
and chief executive of Norwest Holst Group
PLC. Sir Peter Mason has been nominated
the Board’s Senior Independent Director.
Appointed: 2003 Age: 60
13. Roberto Quarta 
5
Appointed to the Board in 2005, Roberto
Quarta is a partner in the private equity 
firm Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, in connection
with which he serves as chairman of 
Rexel SA and Italtel. He was previously
chairman and chief executive of BBA Group,
an executive director of BTR plc and a
non-executive director of PowerGen plc 
and Equant NV.
Appointed: 2005 Age: 57
14. Sir Nigel Rudd 
2, 5
Appointed to the Board on 10 September
2006. Currently chairman of Alliance Boots
Group PLC and Pendragon plc and deputy
chairman of Barclays PLC. Until recently, 
he was chairman of Pilkington plc. 
He also holds a number of other public
appointments including chairman of the
CBI’s Boardroom Issues Group. He is 
a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England and Wales.
Appointed: 2006 Age: 60
15. Peter Weinberg 
2, 5
Appointed to the Board in 2005, Peter
Weinberg is a partner at Peretta Weinberg
Partners, a financial services firm. He was
previously chief executive officer of Goldman
Sachs International and co-head of the
Partnership Committee, and prior to that 
was co-head of the Global Investment
Banking Division. He joined Goldman Sachs
in 1988 and became a partner in 1992.
Peter Weinberg chairs the Board’s Corporate
Responsibility Committee.
Appointed: 2005 Age: 49
Each of the eight non-executive directors
listed above is considered to be independent
for the purposes of the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance.
Company Secretary
David Parkes
Non-executive directors
8 9 10 11 13 14 12 15 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 44
Corporate governance
Corporate governance
Corporate governance
In this section of the Annual Report, I and my
fellow directors report on how we discharge
our duties, both individually and collectively,
for the good governance of the Company. 
I will begin by drawing together some of the
highlights and important themes of the work
undertaken by the Board in the last year. 
In 2006 we continued to push forward 
in developing the work that the Board
undertakes and one of our priorities for the
year was senior management succession
planning. This is a fundamental task for 
all large company boards and one that is
widely seen as being critical to the long-term
success of a company. Last year I reported 
to shareholders that we had reviewed our
succession planning tools and work had 
been undertaken to understand the ‘critical
competencies’ that we require in our senior
executives. From this work we developed 
an externally facilitated programme for 50 
of our most senior executives. The results
from this were presented to the Nominations
Committee, together with information 
from other executive performance review
processes. This gave the committee the
information it required to make informed
decisions about the overall strength of our
management resource, the depth of talent
available against the key management
positions and to make recommendations on
individual appointments. This was of great
assistance in agreeing the appointment of
two new executive directors. 
During 2006 the Nominations Committee
agreed that the Board would benefit from the
knowledge and experience of an additional
non-executive director with large UK company
experience. I am therefore very pleased that
we were able to appoint Sir Nigel Rudd to 
the Board in September. He brings a wealth
of industrial management and boardroom
experience which complement the skill 
and knowledge that our other non-executives 
bring to the Board. Following his appointment,
there are eight non-executive directors
Our governance framework
As Chairman my principal duty 
is to ensure that BAE Systems 
is headed by an effective board
that is accountable to shareholders
for the Company’s performance. 
Dick Olver
Chairman 2006 Achievements
– Conducted in-depth succession planning
and reviewed bench strength among senior
management leading to the appointment 
of two new executive directors.
– Broadened the scope of director
development to include ethics and 
long-term contract accounting training. 
– Continued the Board’s involvement in
strategy development and increased 
focus on longer-term strategic challenges
and opportunities.
Looking ahead in 2007
– Continue the work started in 2006 on
succession planning, with a focus on 
the support and development of the next
generation of senior executives and also
the identification and enhancement of 
the Group’s management bench strength. 
– Develop further the work the Board has
initiated on financial performance
monitoring, and looking at project and
programme KPIs in more detail.
– Build on current non-financial performance
monitoring, including the Corporate
Responsibility Committee’s focus on
corporate reputation issues.
– Provide additional opportunities for non-
executive directors to meet to discuss issues
independently and with the Chief Executive.
www.baesystems.com 45
Corporate governance
(excluding myself) and six executive directors
on the Board. 
The Board is responsible for setting goals and
objectives for the Company and monitoring
performance against these. I reported last
year on the formation of the Centre for
Performance Excellence (CfPE), a small
strategic team reporting to the Chief Executive
and helping to drive performance improvement
across the Company. The suite of performance
metrics developed by the CfPE was used to
inform the Board about performance during
the year and we are encouraged by the
progress made in this area.
It is important that we have clear alignment
between executive pay and the Company’s
performance during the year. To help 
ensure that we achieve this alignment the
Remuneration Committee and I have been
working with the Chief Executive on refining
the process we use for setting and measuring
performance against the non-financial
measures used to determine the level 
of annual bonus payable to the executive
directors. These non-financial measures
account for 25% of the maximum bonus.
We have just completed our third formal
performance evaluation as required by the
Combined Code – all of which have been
facilitated externally. As Chairman, I find 
the evaluation process a very powerful tool 
in helping me do my job of overseeing the
development of the Board and looking at how
we can do things better. I meet with directors
on a one-to-one basis and use feedback from
the evaluation to inform them of their own
performance and to discuss any areas for
improvement. Similarly, each year I receive
feedback from our Senior Independent
Director, Sir Peter Mason, on my performance
as Chairman.
One of the objectives we set ourselves
following last year’s evaluation was to
conduct in-depth succession planning as 
well as developing senior leadership bench
strength. As reported, I think we have made
great strides in this area. We also wanted 
to broaden the scope of director training and
development and in 2006 we focused on
long-term contract accounting and also the
cultural and political background to certain
overseas markets. Finally, in line with our
commitment to provide ethics training to 
all employees, the whole board participated 
in an ethics awareness session. 
Last year we agreed that we should refine
how the Board helps to develop and agree
the Company’s strategy. We have further
evolved the process during the year and
I believe we have a sound basis for the
development of Group strategy that is
facilitated by a central team, draws on the
knowledge of senior management across the
Company and is subject to robust analysis
and challenge by the Board. A sound
understanding of our capabilities, our markets
and the dynamics of these markets is the
essential bedrock on which the Board can
make decisions – time taken in this work
pays dividends when important strategic
decisions need to be taken. 
Involvement in the development of strategy and
the prosecution of strategy through merger and
acquisition activity is the high tempo, and for
many the most interesting, part of a board’s
work. However, it is important that a balance
is maintained between this work and the
equally important role a board has in
overseeing the effectiveness of controls 
and ensuring that risks to the business are
understood and managed. This work has 
a lower tempo but a more regular beat. The
Board and its committees have an annual
programme of work dealing with supervisory
matters. I recognise that it is my job to ensure
we get the balance right between the various
elements that a board needs to cover. 
Last year Sir Christopher Hogg, in his capacity
as Chairman of the Financial Reporting
Council (the body charged with overseeing 
the UK’s Combined Code on Corporate
Governance), met with a large number of UK
company chairmen, myself included. He was
interested to hear our views on corporate
governance matters and the Combined Code
in particular. I welcomed this opportunity and
agreed with the overall findings as reported by
Sir Christopher, which included the following: 
“...Chairs were adamant that the Code had
not been too detrimental to their Boards’
focus on strategy. It had increased the
amount of time required from non-executive
directors, but it had simply raised the bar 
of their job specification...”
I agree wholeheartedly with this and
recognise the challenge in ensuring the
BAE Systems Board meets the demanding
performance requirements set by
shareholders and ourselves. I believe 
that the bar has been raised for all listed
company boards and that we must be
diligent in ensuring that we measure up to
the governance obligations and expectations
of our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Dick Olver
Chairman
21 February 2007
Board performance evaluation – changes for 2006 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 46
Corporate governance
Applying the Principles of the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance
The Board has structured its activities so 
as to incorporate the main and supporting
principles in the UK’s Combined Code,
recognising these to be a sound statement
on accepted good practice for a company
such as BAE Systems. The core activities 
of the Board and its committees are
documented and planned on an annual basis
forming the basic structure within which the
Board operates. The directors are required 
to provide entrepreneurial leadership for the
company relying on the business skills and
judgement that each director possesses. 
The governance structure recognises this
essential human element and the role of 
the Chairman in ensuring that decisions are
made by the directors within a framework 
of prudent and effective controls. 
The Board has adopted a document, 
the Board Charter, which states certain
principles to guide the activities of the 
Board and details of the roles of the
Chairman, Chief Executive and the Senior
Independent Director. The Charter also
contains a statement of the matters
reserved for the Board and the terms 
of reference of the Board’s committees. 
The governance principles reflect the main
and supporting principles contained in the
Combined Code and cover the following: 
– Strategy – reviewing and agreeing strategy.
– Performance – monitoring the performance
of the Group and evaluating the Board’s
performance.
– Standards and Values – setting values and
standards to guide the affairs of the Group. 
– Oversight – ensuring that an effective
system of internal controls is in place, 
that the Board receives timely and accurate
information on the performance of the
Group and that the Board’s authority is
properly delegated where necessary.
– People – ensuring that appointments to the
Board are managed effectively and that the
Group has the necessary depth and quality
of management resource. 
A copy of the Board Charter can be found on
the Company’s website, or alternatively, can
be obtained from the Company Secretary.  
Compliance with the Provisions of the
Combined Code
Compliance statement
The Board was compliant with the 
provisions of the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance throughout 2006 
and up to the date of this report. 
The Board
The Board comprises a non-executive
chairman, eight non-executive directors 
and six executive directors. In addition to 
his appointment as Chairman, Dick Olver 
is also a non-executive director of Reuters
Group plc. Up until 30 September 2006 
he was also a non-executive director and
deputy chairman of TNK-BP .
Two non-executive directors will be retiring 
in 2007. Ulrich Cartellieri will be retiring 
from the Board on 26 September and 
Sue Birley will be retiring immediately after
the Company’s Annual General Meeting on
9 May 2007. The Nominations Committee
has initiated a search for suitable candidates
with a view to ensuring that the composition
of the Board continues to comprise eight
non-executive directors.
The Board considers all of the non-executive
directors, with the exception of the Chairman,
to be independent for the purposes of the
Combined Code. Each of these directors 
have been identified on pages 42 to 43 
of this report.
Peter Weinberg was appointed to the Board
in 2005 and at the time was a senior director
of Goldman Sachs Inc., an investment bank
that provides services to BAE Systems. 
The Board addressed the issue of his
independence prior to his appointment in 
light of provision A.3.1 of the Combined 
Code concerning the possible existence of 
a ‘material business relationship’ between 
the director and the company or between the
company and a party with which the director is
a major shareholder, senior employee, partner
or director. The Nominations Committee and
the Board have reviewed Mr Weinberg’s
independence and continue to believe that 
he is independent for the purposes of the
Combined Code, notwithstanding the past
relationship with Goldman Sachs. The 
reasons for reaching this conclusion remain
as previously stated, that is:
– Goldman Sachs is a large organisation 
with many clients. BAE Systems is
therefore just one of many clients it has
worldwide and the fees earned from its
relationship with the Company represented
a very small part of its total revenues. 
As a consequence, the Board believes 
that the relationship between the Company
and Goldman Sachs does not represent 
‘a material business relationship’.
– Prior to his appointment to the Board
Mr Weinberg had had no involvement with
BAE Systems and none of the executive
directors or the Chairman had had any
business dealings with him. 
Mr Weinberg ceased to be associated with
Goldman Sachs in 2006.
In 2006 the Board was scheduled to meet
seven times and in addition spent one day
reviewing strategy. Additional Board meetings
The attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its committees in 2006
was as follows:
Corporate Non-Executive
Audit Responsibility Nominations Remuneration Directors’ Fees
Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee
Prof S Birley 8 (8) – 3 (3) – 7 (7) –
Mr P Carroll 8 (8) – 3 (3) 6 (6) – –
Dr U Cartellieri 8 (8) 5 (5) ––––
Mr M J Hartnall 8 (8) 5 (5) ––––
Mr C V Geoghegan 8 (8) –––––
Mr M Lester 8 (8) –––– 1 (1)
Sir Peter Mason 8 (8) 5 (5) – 6 (6) – –
Mr S L Mogford 8 (8) –––––
Mr R L Olver 8 (8) – – 6 (6) – 1 (1)
Rt Hon M Portillo
1
3 (3) 1 (1) ––––
Mr R Quarta 8 (8) 0 (1)
3
–– 7 (7) –
Mr M H Ronald 8 (8) –––– 1 (1)
Mr G W Rose 8 (8) –––––
Sir Nigel Rudd
2
1 (2) – 0 (1) – 0 (1) –
Mr M J Turner 8 (8) –––– 1 (1)
Mr P Weinberg 8 (8) – 3 (3) – 6 (7) –
Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
1 retired from the Board on 4 May 2006
2 appointed to the Board on 10 September 2006
3 in attendance at four additional meetings when not a member of the Committee
Corporate governance
Corporate governance (continued) www.baesystems.com 47
are called as required and in total the 
Board met eight times in 2006. For 2007
eight meetings have been scheduled.
The Board has appointed Sir Peter Mason 
as the Senior Independent Director.
The Company’s Articles of Association
require that all new directors seek re-election
to the Board at the following Annual General
Meeting (AGM). In addition, all directors are
required to stand down and seek re-election
to the Board at least once every three years. 
The Board has set out in the Notice of
Annual General Meeting (enclosed with 
this report) their reasons for supporting 
the re-election of those directors seeking
re-election at the forthcoming AGM. 
Internal Control
The Board has conducted a review of 
the effectiveness of the Group’s system 
of internal controls, including financial,
operational and compliance controls and
risk management systems, in accordance
with the Turnbull guidance.
BAE Systems has developed a system 
of internal control, which has been in 
place throughout 2006 and to the date of 
this report, that encompasses, amongst
other things, the policies, processes and
behaviours that, taken together, seek to:
– facilitate the effective and efficient
operation of the Company by enabling 
it to respond appropriately to significant
operational, financial, compliance and 
other risks that it faces in carrying out 
its business;
– assist in ensuring that internal and
external reporting is accurate and timely
and based on the maintenance of proper
records supported by robust information
gathering processes; and 
– assist in ensuring that the Company
complies with applicable laws and
regulations at all times and also internal
policies in respect of the standards 
of behaviour and conduct mandated 
by the Board.
Reporting within the Company is structured
so that key issues are escalated through the
management team ultimately to the Board 
if appropriate. The Operational Framework
provides a common framework across 
the Company for operational and financial
controls. The business processes detailed
within the Operational Framework draw on
global best practice and their application is
mandated across the organisation. Lifecycle
Management (LCM) is such a process and
promotes the application of best practice
programme execution and facilitates
continuous improvement across the Group. 
It considers the whole life of projects 
from inception to delivery into service 
and eventual disposal, and its application 
is critical to our capability to deliver these
projects to schedule and cost.
Further key processes are Integrated
Business Planning (IBP), Quarterly Business
Reviews (QBR) and Performance Centred
Leadership (PCL). The IBP , approved annually
by the Board, results in an agreed long-term
strategy for each business group, together
with detailed near-term budgets. The QBRs,
chaired by the Chief Operating Officers,
evaluate progress against the IBP and
business performance against objectives,
measures and milestones. PCL drives
business success by linking individual goals
with the wider goals of the organisation,
enabling employees to understand how their
own success contributes to the success 
of the whole business.
Whilst the quality of the control processes 
is fundamental to the overall control
environment, the consistent application 
of these processes is equally important. 
The consistent application of world-class
control processes will remain one of
management’s prime objectives and,
likewise, the monitoring of performance 
in this area will continue to be a key
responsibility for the Audit Committee 
and the Board. 
The Company is committed to the protection
of its assets, which include human, property
and financial resources, through an effective
risk management process, underpinned,
where appropriate, by insurance. 
The Internal Audit team independently reviews
the risk identification procedures and control
processes implemented by management. 
It provides objective assurance as to the
operation and validity of the systems of
internal control through a programme of
cyclical reviews, making recommendations 
for business and control improvements 
as required. 
The Board has delegated to the Audit
Committee responsibility for reviewing in
detail the effectiveness of the Company’s
system of internal controls. Having
undertaken such reviews, the Committee
reports to the Board on its findings so 
that the Board as a whole can take a view 
on this matter. In order to assist the Audit
Committee and the Board in this review, the
Company has developed the Operational
Assurance Statement (OAS) process. This
has been subject to regular review over 
a number of years, which has resulted in 
a number of refinements being made.
The OAS requires that each part of the
business completes a formal review of 
its compliance against the Operational
Framework, including operational and
financial controls and risk management
processes. The review is signed off by the
managing director of every line of business
and relevant functional directors. The OAS 
is completed every half year and includes 
a formal assessment of business risk.
Corporate governance
The overall responsibility for the system 
of internal control within BAE Systems 
rests with the directors of the Company.
Responsibility for establishing and operating
detailed control procedures lies with the
managing director of each operating business. 
In line with any system of internal 
control, the policies and processes that 
are mandated in the Operational Framework
are designed to manage rather than
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives, and can only provide
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
The responsibility for internal control
procedures with joint ventures and other
collaborations rests, on the whole, with the
senior management of those operations. The
Company monitors its investments and exerts
influence through Board representation.
Going Concern
After making due enquiries, the directors 
have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group has adequate resources to continue
operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the accounts.
Relations with shareholders
The Company has a well developed investor
relations programme managed by the Chief
Executive and Finance Director. In addition,
the Chairman is in regular contact with 
major shareholders and looks to keep 
them informed of progress on corporate
governance. In order to assist in developing
an understanding of the views of major
shareholders, the Company commissions
each year a survey of investors undertaken
by external consultants. The results of 
the survey are presented to the Board.
The Company maintains a comprehensive
Investor Relations website that provides,
amongst other things, information on
investing in BAE Systems and copies of 
the presentation materials used for key
shareholder presentations. This can be
accessed via the Company’s website,
www.baesystems.com.
The AGM provides all shareholders with the
opportunity to develop their understanding 
of the Company and ask questions on the
matters put to the meeting including this
report and accounts. All shareholders are
entitled to vote on the resolutions put 
to the AGM and, to ensure that all votes 
are counted, the Company’s Articles of
Association requires that a poll is taken on
all the resolutions in the Notice of Meeting.
The results of the votes on the resolutions
will be published on the Company’s website. BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 48
Corporate governance
Corporate governance
Corporate governance (continued)
Audit Committee Report
Roberto Quarta, a non-executive director,
attends all meetings of the Committee.
However, he is not a member of the
Committee as the provisions of the
Company’s Articles of Association require 
that a majority of the members of all Board
committees are British nationals. This
requirement would not be met if Mr Quarta
and Dr Cartellieri, both non-UK nationals,
were members. Michael Portillo was a
member of the Committee from the start 
of the year until his retirement from the 
Board on 4 May 2006.
The full terms of reference of the Audit
Committee can be found on the Company’s
website or can be obtained from the
Company Secretary.
Governance
The Board has established an Audit
Committee the terms of reference of 
which comply with the requirements of the
Combined Code. The Committee is chaired 
by Michael Hartnall who is a chartered
accountant and has recent experience of
serving as a finance director of a major UK
listed company. All members of the Audit
Committee are independent non-executive
directors. The Committee normally asks the
Company’s Chief Executive, Finance Director,
Internal Audit Director and Auditors to attend
its meetings. However, during the year 
the Committee did meet with no executive
directors present and has also met with
just the Audit Director present and just the
Auditors present.
The Committee met five times in 2006. The
Committee has agreed an annual programme
of matters to be covered and has asked that
at least one of the scheduled meetings be
hosted by one of the Company’s businesses
to allow the Committee to meet local
management and discuss audit risk and
control processes. 
Activities 
Since the beginning of 2006 the Audit
Committee has undertaken the following 
in order to discharge its responsibilities:
– reviewed the financial statements in the
2005 and 2006 report and accounts and
the interim report issued in September
2006. As part of this work the Committee
received a report from the Auditors on their
audit of the annual reports and accounts
and review of the interim report;
– reviewed the output from the Group-wide
process used to identify, evaluate and
mitigate risks;
– reviewed the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal controls and disclosures made 
in the annual report and accounts on 
this matter;
– reviewed and agreed the approach and
scope of the audit work to be undertaken
by the Auditors; 
– considered a report from the Auditors on
their review of the effectiveness of controls
across the Company and received a report
Michael Hartnall
Audit Committee 
Chairman 
Members: 
Michael Hartnall (Chairman)
Dr Ulrich Cartellieri
Sir Peter Mason
on management action taken in response
to work undertaken by the Auditors in 2006;
– agreed the fees to be paid to the Auditors
for their audit work in 2006;
– undertook an evaluation of the performance
of the Internal Audit function;
– undertook an evaluation of the performance
of the Auditors;
– agreed a programme of work for the
Company’s Internal Audit function;
– received a report from the Internal Audit
Director on the work undertaken by Internal
Audit and management responses to
proposals made in the audit reports issued
by the function during the year;
– received presentations on the Company’s
tax affairs;
– reviewed proposals concerning the contents
of the 2006 report and accounts;
– reviewed the circular sent to shareholders
concerning the proposed disposal of the
Company’s interest in Airbus;
– received a presentation on changes to the
law concerning the disclosure of information
to auditors and agreed processes aimed at
ensuring compliance with these regulations;
and
– reviewed the Committee’ s terms of reference.
The Committee recognises that one of its key
responsibilities is reviewing the risks to the
Company’s performance and the security of
its assets. Twice a year the Committee
reviews the output from the group process
that is used to identify and evaluate risk, this
process also reports on the elimination or
mitigation of risk and the relative level of risk
within the Group. This information is verified
by the Internal Audit function and made
available to the Auditors. 
The Committee has formally reviewed whether
there are any factors that may prejudice the
independence of the Auditors. Part of this
review involved the receipt of a letter from
KPMG Audit Plc confirming that they believed
they remained independent within the
meaning of the regulations on this matter and
their professional standards. The Committee
recognises that in addition to the statutory
audit work undertaken by the Company’s
Auditors there will be certain work of a non-
audit nature that is best undertaken by the
Auditors. It believes that, provided suitable
Responsibilities
– Reviewing the effectiveness of the
Company’s financial reporting, internal
control policies and procedures for the
identification, assessment and reporting
of risk.
– Monitoring the role and effectiveness 
of the Internal Audit function including
approving the appointment or removal 
of the Head of Internal Audit.
– Considering and making
recommendations to the Board on 
the appointment of the Auditors.
– Keeping the relationship with the
Auditors under review, including the
terms of their engagement and fees,
their independence and their expertise,
resources and qualifications.
– Monitoring the integrity of the
Company’s financial statements.
– Reviewing significant financial 
reporting issues and judgements. www.baesystems.com 49
Nominations Committee Report
The full terms of reference of the
Nominations Committee can be found 
on the Company’s website or can be
obtained from the Company Secretary.
Governance
The Board has established a Nominations
Committee that is chaired by the Chairman
of the Company, Dick Olver. Whilst he is not
deemed to be independent, the other two
members of the Committee are independent
non-executive directors. The Committee met
six times in 2006.
Activities
The Committee’s key objective is to ensure
that the Board comprises individuals with the
requisite skills, knowledge and experience 
to ensure that it is effective in discharging 
its responsibilities. 
Work was initiated in 2005 aimed at 
ensuring that the Committee had quality
information on which to draw conclusions
about the strength of the Company’s
management resource and to assist 
in agreeing succession plans for senior
managers. As reported on page 45, this 
work provided the Committee with good-
quality information on management
resources and enabled it to complete an 
in-depth review of succession plans for 
the most senior positions in the Company.
This comprehensive review of the Group’s
management resource was externally
facilitated and provided in-depth analysis
of over fifty senior executives and individual
competencies for key roles. 
Combined with other performance
management processes, this work was 
used to develop and validate the detailed
succession plans that have been developed
for the Group’s senior executive positions. 
In addition, the succession planning work
overseen by the Committee provided useful
information on the quality and depth of 
the Group’s management resources. The
Committee will continue to review succession
plans on a regular basis, informed by the
output from the rigorous processes that 
are in place.
Following the conclusion of the executive
management processes in September 2006,
the Board made two Chief Operating Officer
appointments, with Walt Havenstein being
appointed to lead the US businesses and 
Ian King to lead the rest of the business,
including the UK. 
Having agreed that the Board would benefit
from additional large UK company experience
the Committee engaged external search
consultants to assist in identifying suitable
candidates. As a result, Sir Nigel Rudd 
was identified as an excellent fit for the
agreed candidate profile and in due course
was nominated by the Committee to join 
the Board. 
Following Sir Nigel’s appointment, the
Committee nominated him to join the
Remuneration Committee. This was agreed
by the Board.
On behalf of the Nominations Committee
Dick Olver
Nominations Committee Chairman
21 February 2007
Dick Olver
Nominations
Committee 
Chairman 
Members: 
Dick Olver (Chairman)
Phil Carroll
Sir Peter Mason
controls are in place, doing this work does
not compromise the independence of the
Auditors. The Committee has agreed the
following rules to control the nature and
quantity of non-audit work undertaken by 
the Auditors: 
– any non-audit work to be undertaken by the
Auditors for fees in excess of £250,000
requires the authority of both the Group
Finance Director and the Chairman of the
Audit Committee;
– no partner/director of the Auditor’s
worldwide audit team is to be employed 
by the Company within two years of the
conclusion of a relevant audit;
– no qualified member of the worldwide 
audit team at manager level or below is to
be employed by the Company without the
approval of the Group Finance Director; and
– no partner/director of the Auditors not
associated with the audit is to be employed
by the Company without the approval of the
Group Finance Director and the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee. 
The Committee believes that it is not
appropriate to manage the level of non-audit
fees by reference to a specific ratio of audit
to non-audit fees but rather it looks to ensure
that any non-audit work is subject to robust
procurement processes and awarded subject
to the guidelines detailed above.
The Committee has adopted a programme of
undertaking a major review of the Company’s
Auditors every three years and in the years in
between undertaking a review to monitor their
performance. A major review was completed
at the beginning of 2006 and a review has
been undertaken recently to monitor ongoing
performance. On the basis of this work, the
Committee recommended to the Board that it
support the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc
as the Company’s Auditors. The Board agreed
with this recommendation and consequently 
a resolution to this effect will be put to
shareholders at the Company’s AGM. 
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the
Board on the proceedings of all Committee
meetings and the minutes of all meetings 
are made available to Board members.
On behalf of the Audit Committee
Michael Hartnall 
Audit Committee Chairman
21 February 2007
Corporate governance
Responsibilities
– Reviewing regularly the structure, 
size and composition of the Board 
and making recommendations to 
the Board on any changes desirable.
– Identifying and nominating for the
Board’s approval suitable candidates 
to fill vacancies for non-executive 
and, with the assistance of the 
Chief Executive, executive directors.
– Plan for the orderly succession 
of new directors to the Board by
regularly reviewing the Company’s
management resources and key
executive succession plans.
– Recommending to the Board the
membership and chairmanship of the
Audit and Remuneration committees. BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 50
Corporate governance
Corporate governance (continued)
Corporate governance
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report is chaired by Peter Weinberg, an independent
non-executive director. All of the members 
of the Committee are independent non-
executive directors. The Company’s Group
Legal Director, Group HR Director, Director 
of Corporate Responsibility and Audit
Director attend meetings at the request 
of the Committee. The Committee met 
three times in 2006.
Activities
The Committee undertook the following
activities in 2006:
– reviewed significant social, environmental
and ethical risks as identified by the
Company’s risk management processes and
actions being taken to mitigate those risks;
– received reports on corporate responsibility
matters including, amongst other things,
engagement with shareholders and safety,
health and environment performance;
– reviewed the effectiveness of the
Company’s Ethics Hotline and received a
summary of the nature of the issues raised
and details of action taken. The Company
established this hotline to provide
employees with a means by which they can
raise concerns about any matters that they
believe may be unlawful, dishonest, harmful
to others, against Company policy, improper
business conduct or unacceptable
behaviour. To help ensure that employees
have faith in this arrangement it is provided
by a third party who passes details of calls
or e-mails received to the Audit Director.
Details of matters reported to the Ethics
Hotline are monitored by a committee
chaired by the head of the Company’s
Internal Audit function;
– received reports from the Internal 
Audit function on audits undertaken 
on ethical and environmental matters; 
– provided input on appropriate non-financial
objectives for the Chief Executive and 
other executive directors; and
– commissioned a report on various
corporate responsibility matters and
looking at best practice in these areas.
On behalf of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee
Peter Weinberg
Corporate Responsibility 
Committee Chairman
21 February 2007
Peter Weinberg
Corporate 
Responsibility
Committee 
Chairman 
Members: 
Peter Weinberg (Chairman)
Professor Sue Birley
Phil Carroll
Sir Nigel Rudd
Responsibilities
– Assist the Board in overseeing the
development of strategy and policy on
social, environmental and ethical matters.
– Monitor and review the Company’s
performance in managing social,
environmental, ethical and reputational
risk. Specifically, the Committee shall
review whether appropriate policies,
systems and metrics are in place
relating to workplace, community,
environment and marketplace issues.
These shall include, but shall not
necessarily be restricted to, health and
safety, workplace policies, responsible
supply chain management,
environmental impact, business ethics
and compliance with law and regulation.
– Review the Company’s Corporate
Responsibility Report, prior to 
approval of the report by the Board.
– Oversee and support key stakeholder
engagement on social, environmental
and ethical issues.
– The Committee Chairman is required to
report to the Board on the proceedings
of the Committee on a regular basis.
The full terms of reference of the Corporate
Responsibility Committee can be found on
the Company’s website or can be obtained
from the Company Secretary.
Governance
The Board established the Corporate
Responsibility Committee in 2005 and it  Corporate governance
Remuneration report
The Board has delegated authority for
remuneration policy and determining the
specific packages for the Chairman and
executive directors to the Remuneration
Committee, and has delegated authority 
to agree fees payable to the non-executive
directors to the Non-Executive Directors’ 
Fees Committee. The reports from both 
these Committees are incorporated into 
this Remuneration report, together with a
report on the remuneration or fees paid to
directors and the policy underpinning this.
The Remuneration report is structured 
as follows:
– Remuneration Committee report
– Non-Executive Directors’ Fees 
Committee report
– Remuneration reporting
– Remuneration policy and service
contracts for executive directors
– Chairman’s appointment, term and fees
– Non-executive directors’ appointment,
term and fees
– Tabular information on directors’
shareholdings, emoluments, pensions 
and share-based incentives
Remuneration Committee Report
Responsibilities
The Board has delegated the following
responsibilities to the Remuneration
Committee:
– Agreeing a policy for the remuneration
of the Chairman and executive directors.
– Within the agreed policy, determining
individual remuneration packages for 
the Chairman and executive directors.
– Agreeing the terms and conditions to 
be included in service agreements for
executive directors.
– Approving any employee share-based
incentive schemes and any performance
conditions to be used for such schemes.
– Determining any share scheme
performance targets. 
The full terms of reference of the
Remuneration Committee, which conform
with the requirements of the Combined
Code, can be found on the Company’s
website or can be obtained from the
Company Secretary.
Governance
The Committee is chaired by Professor 
Sue Birley and all of its members are
independent non-executive directors. The
Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive
attend committee meetings by invitation only.
They do not attend where their individual
remuneration is discussed and no director 
is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
In 2006 the Committee met seven times and
details of attendance at these meetings are
provided in the Corporate Governance Report
on page 46.
During the year Dick Olver and Mike Turner, in
their respective capacities as Chairman and
Chief Executive, provided advice that was of
material assistance to the Committee. The
Committee also received material assistance
and advice on remuneration policy from the
Company’s Group Human Resources Director,
Alastair Imrie, and from the Human
Resources Director, Remuneration and
Benefits, Graham Middleton. In addition, the
Committee received advice and services
from PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) in
respect of the design and competitive
positioning of senior executive remuneration
(including a review of the share plan
performance conditions) and senior executive
pension arrangements; from New Bridge
Street Consultants (NBSC) in respect of the
operation of share plans and the new share
plans approved by shareholders in 2006;
and from Linklaters in respect of legal
advice. NBSC was appointed by the
Committee, whilst PwC and Linklaters were
appointed by the Company and, during the
year, provided consulting services (PwC) and
legal services (Linklaters) to the Company.
The Committee is satisfied that the services
provided to it by PwC and Linklaters were of
a technical nature and did not create any
conflict of interest. If a conflict of interest
were to arise in the future, the Committee
would appoint separate consultants or legal
advisers from those used by the Company. 
Activities
During the year the Committee has
discharged its responsibilities by reviewing
and agreeing:
– performance targets for the year and
progress against those targets;
– the operation of the long-term incentive
plans and policy for executive share scheme
grants including the level of individual grants
and performance conditions;
– policy for the operation of the all-employee
share schemes;
– the award of bonuses based on the prior
year’s performance;
– the basis for the annual review of executive
directors’ remuneration, including the
composition of the comparator groups 
and the positioning of the remuneration
packages for the two new incoming 
Chief Operating Officers;
Sue Birley
Remuneration
Committee 
Chairman 
Members:
Professor Sue Birley (Chairman)
Sir Nigel Rudd
Roberto Quarta
Peter Weinberg
Remuneration report
www.baesystems.com 51 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 52
Corporate governance
Remuneration report (continued)
Remuneration report
Remuneration policy and service contracts
for executive directors 
This section of the report explains the
ongoing remuneration policy for executive
directors, the individual components of their
remuneration and details of their service
contracts, as required by legislation.
The Remuneration Committee’s (the
Committee) executive remuneration policy
continues to be to set basic salaries at median
competitive levels whilst seeking to reward
upper quartile performance with potential
upper quartile remuneration through the use 
of bonus schemes and share-based incentives.
The Committee intends to continue with the
executive remuneration policy as detailed in
this report in 2007 and subsequent years, 
and will continue to consult on material
changes with principal shareholders.
Remuneration of executive directors consists
typically of basic salary, a bonus based 
on annual performance, participation in
employee share schemes and retirement
benefits. The Committee reviews the split
between basic salary and the performance-
related elements of remuneration each year
in order to incentivise properly executive
directors, and believes that a significant
proportion of remuneration should be 
based on schemes that encourage them 
to perform at the highest level. Through 
this arrangement, it is possible for those
individuals who contribute to sustained high
levels of company performance to receive at
least a similar level of reward from variable
compensation to that received from fixed
compensation. At median performance,
variable remuneration represents
approximately 50% of the remuneration
package as shown in the chart below:
The package of the Chief Executive is more highly
geared with almost 60% of the remuneration being
performance related.
At upper quartile performance variable
remuneration represents significantly more
than 50% of the total package.
The principles of the remuneration strategy
are applied consistently across the Group
taking account of seniority and local 
market practice. 
Target Performance (median)
Salary 34%
Pension 17%
Bonus 17%
Long-term
incentive rewards 32%
Non-Executive Directors’ Fees 
Committee Report
Responsibilities
– Reviewing the fees payable to non-
executive directors (excluding the
Chairman) and making changes to 
such fees as deemed appropriate.
Governance
The Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee
has delegated authority from the Board to
agree fees payable to non-executive directors
on its behalf. During the year Michael Lester
and Mark Ronald also served as members 
of this Committee until their retirement from
the Board on 31 December 2006. Walt
Havenstein and the Group Legal Director,
Philip Bramwell, joined the Committee in
January 2007.
Activities
The Board has approved the following
guidelines to be used by the Committee
when discharging its responsibilities:
– fees shall be sufficient to attract and 
retain individuals with the necessary skills,
experience and knowledge required to
ensure that the Board is able to discharge
its duties effectively;
– in setting fees the Committee shall have
regard to the amount of time individual non-
executive directors are required to devote 
to their duties and also the scale and
complexity and international nature of the
business and the responsibility involved;
– fees payable to non-executive directors
shall be paid in cash and shall not be
performance related; and
– non-executive directors shall not participate
in the Company’s share-based incentive
schemes or pension scheme.
In 2006 the Committee held one meeting,
attended by all members, at which it agreed
the structure of non-executive directors’ fees
detailed on page 64 of this report.
Dick Olver
Chairman of the Non-Executive Directors’
Fees Committee
21 February 2007
– the levels and structure of remuneration
payable to senior executives;
– the discretionary elements of the executive
share plans; and 
– pension arrangements for senior executives. 
In addition, the Committee has:
– reviewed the Remuneration Report; and
– consulted with major shareholders over
aspects of remuneration policy.
The Committee’s remuneration strategy 
is to provide a remuneration package that:  
– helps attract, retain and motivate the
highest calibre executives;
– is aligned to shareholders’ interests 
to create sustainable long-term 
shareholder value;
– is competitive against the appropriate
market, providing median reward for
median performance and upper quartile
reward for upper quartile performance;
– encourages and supports a high
performance culture whilst providing 
a balance between fixed and variable
reward; and
– is fair and transparent and can be applied
consistently throughout the Group. 
Details of executive remuneration are 
set out on pages 52 to 65 of this
Remuneration Report.
Professor Sue Birley
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
21 February 2007
Dick Olver
Non-Executive 
Directors’ Fees
Committee 
Chairman 
Members:
Dick Olver (Chairman)
Philip Bramwell
Walt Havenstein
Mike Turner www.baesystems.com 53
Base salary 
Executive directors’ base salaries are
reviewed each year by the Committee and
adjusted to reflect performance and the
competitiveness of salaries relative to 
the market. Information on the market 
for comparable management positions is
obtained from independent sources and 
is provided to the Committee so that it 
can form a view as to where to position
basic salaries and benefits relative to 
comparable companies.
The methodology used is to construct
appropriate comparator groups for the
individual positions taking account of
company size, scale of operations and
breadth of role. The median and upper
quartile positions are then analysed for 
base salary, total cash reward (base salary
plus annual bonus), total direct reward (total
cash reward plus long-term incentives) and
total reward including pension. This gives
the Committee a view on the competitiveness
of the individual elements of the package 
as well as the package as a whole. The
Committee also reviews the trends in the
elements of remuneration to ensure that the
structure of the package stays in line with
market practice, and also takes account 
of the performance of the individual, the
Company as a whole and the pay and
conditions of Group employees.
A number of changes were made to the
Company’s executive management structure
towards the end of 2006 to reflect the
evolving nature of the organisation and this
impacted on the way in which the base salary
structure for the executive directors has been
determined for 2007.
For the Chief Executive and Group Finance
Director a comparator group was constructed
consisting of the 19 FTSE 50 companies
(excluding financial institutions) with turnover
closest to BAE Systems (nine larger and ten
smaller), the turnover figure for BAE Systems
being £12bn which excludes turnover from
joint ventures. The Committee also reviewed
remuneration data for aerospace and
defence companies within the FTSE 100. 
For the incoming Chief Operating Officer, 
UK and RoW, as there were no similar 
sized roles in the comparator group, the
Committee benchmarked this new role using
regression analysis for main board directors
of UK companies with responsibility for an
international portfolio of businesses that
have a turnover of £6bn. 
Following the change in roles for the two
Group Executive Directors, the Committee
reviewed data relating to the expected salary
trends for FTSE 50 directors in 2007 and,
taking account of their performance and
contribution, awarded a salary increase 
in line with the expected trend.
For the incoming US Chief Operating Officer,
regression analysis was used on US
aerospace, defence and general industry
sector data to produce appropriate market
figures consistent with the size and scale of
the US business, adjusting where necessary
to reflect the extra responsibility for the plc
board role. The remuneration package of the
new appointee was positioned competitively,
but materially below that of the retiring US
Chief Operating Officer in recognition of the
fact that the incoming US Chief Operating
Officer is new to the role. In view of the
requirement for the role to be based in the
Washington DC area, the package includes
relocation expenses in line with the
Company’s standard US policy.
As a result of this review, the Committee
determined the base salaries of the executive
directors with effect from January 2007 to 
be as follows:
Mike Turner £945,000
Chief Executive
George Rose £560,000
Group Finance Director
Chris Geoghegan £490,000
Group Executive Director
Walt Havenstein
1
$750,000
Chief Operating Officer – US
Ian King
2
£530,000
Chief Operating Officer – UK and RoW
Steve Mogford £490,000
Group Executive Director
1 Appointed to the Board with effect from 2 January 2007
2 Appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2007
Annual Bonus Plan
The executive directors and other senior
executives participate in a cash bonus 
plan that rewards those individuals if pre-
determined targets are met. The targets 
are derived from the Integrated Business
Plan (IBP), which is agreed by the Board and
which implements corporate strategy on a
groupwide basis by ensuring that business
plans which support the strategy are
integrated across all businesses. The IBP 
is used to set the objectives for senior
management including the base and stretch
targets for the financial measures used 
for the executive directors in the Annual 
Bonus Plan.
The setting of non-financial targets is
initiated by the Chairman of the Board who,
after consultation with the Chief Executive,
discusses the matter with the Committee.
The Committee approves the Chief
Executive’s objectives and those for the
Executive Committee as a whole. The Chief
Executive then makes proposals to the
Committee regarding individual non-financial
objectives for each of the executive directors
and the other members of the Executive
Committee for approval by the Committee.
2006 was another very successful year,
building on the excellent performances in
2004 and 2005. All the major business
groupings achieved their stretch targets 
on profit and cash and, as a result, all the
financial targets within the 2006 Annual
Bonus Plan for executive directors were met
at the stretch level. In addition, excellent
progress was made against all the key non-
financial objectives and, accordingly, bonus
payments for 2006 which are set out in
Table E on page 64 range from 95% to 
100% of the maximum bonus.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed
and agreed bonus targets for 2007 for the
executive directors and believes that both
the financial and non-financial targets are
stretching but achievable and are aligned 
to the Group’s overall objectives.
As a result of its annual review of the
performance related part of the remuneration
The structure of the Annual Bonus Plan for executive directors in 2007 (expressed as
percentages of base salary) is as follows:
Corporate roles
Base Stretch Base Stretch
Bonus element target target target target
EPS targets 28.125% 56.25% 18.75% 37.5%
Group cash targets 28.125% 56.25% 18.75% 37.5%
Non-financial objectives up to 37.5% up to 25%
Operating roles
Base Stretch Base Stretch
Bonus element target target target target
EPS targets 9.375% 18.75% 14.0625% 28.125%
Group cash targets 9.375% 18.75% 14.0625% 28.125%
Business group EBITA
1
target 9.375% 18.75% 14.0625% 28.125%
Business group cash target 9.375% 18.75% 14.0625% 28.125%
Non-financial objectives up to 25% up to 37.5%
1 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense
Intermediate payments are payable for performance against these targets. 
The Chairman and non-executive directors do not participate in the Annual Bonus Plan.
Walt Havenstein
Chris Geoghegan
Ian King
Steve Mogford
George Rose Mike Turner
Remuneration report BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 54
Corporate governance
Remuneration report (continued)
Remuneration report
package, the Committee has determined that
the maximum bonus potential for 2007 will
remain unchanged from 2006 at 100% of
base salary (150% for the US-based executive
director and the Chief Executive, with at least
one-third of the Chief Executive’s bonus being
compulsorily deferred into the Share Matching
Plan in 2007).
In determining the performance measures for
the Annual Bonus Plan, the Committee took
the view that the Company’s major investors
believed earnings per share (EPS) and cash
targets (and, where appropriate, EBITA), 
to be key indicators of long-term financial
performance and value creation. These,
coupled with the non-financial measures,
align the executive directors’ objectives 
with corporate strategy and targeted
business performance.
The EPS figure used for the bonus plan (and
the Executive Share Option Plan) is based on
underlying EPS (as reported in the report and
accounts) but may be adjusted (up or down)
if necessary to ensure that the figures for
individual years are broadly comparable.
Share option plans and long-term 
incentive plans
Policy 
The Committee seeks to align the 
interests of executive directors (and 
other senior executives) with those of other
shareholders through the use of share-based
incentive schemes. The Company operates 
a combination of options and share awards 
for senior executives within the framework
detailed below. This is broadly in line 
with similar plans operated by other 
FTSE 50 companies.
In 2005, effective from 2006, the Committee
revised its policy in relation to the provision 
of share-based incentive plans by awarding
share-based long-term incentives which are
settled in shares rather than cash to those US
senior executives who qualify as “Accredited
Investors”, thus enhancing the alignment with
shareholders’ interests. In order to operate
within existing dilution limits, the remuneration
strategy for senior managers globally below
the senior executive population has been
reviewed with share-based rewards being
replaced by a cash-based long-term incentive
plan linked to earnings performance. The
Committee believes that this will promote 
a consistent global approach and will derive
enhanced value for money from the executive
reward programmes.
The Committee also decided to settle in
shares rather than cash unvested awards 
of share options and performance shares 
for those US executives who qualify as
accredited investors. This further enhances
their alignment with shareholders’ interests
and reduces the volatility of the income
statement charges arising on these awards.
In 2006 the Committee reviewed the
Company’s share-based long-term incentive
plans, taking account of continuing changes
in market practice and investors’ comments
following the shareholder consultation
exercise in early 2006 on changes to
executive remuneration policy. In considering
the variety of ways in which companies
reward performance in terms of plan design,
performance measures and different
weightings of short-term and long-term
rewards, the review concluded that there 
was no standard approach with companies
tailoring their corporate approach to suit 
their own sectoral or specific needs. The
Committee believes that the Company’s
approach provides a good balance of 
short-term and long-term reward, potentially
more weighted towards long-term rewards
than a number of other companies, but
consequently aligned to and consistent 
with the long-term nature of the Company’s
business. The Committee has therefore
retained the current long-term 
incentive arrangements. 
As part of the review, the Committee
considered the performance conditions for 
the various share-based incentive plans,
benchmarking the performance conditions
against market practice. The Committee’s
conclusions are as follows:
– Performance Share Plan The Committee
has concluded that the current comparator
group and vesting schedule remain
appropriate and suitably stretching.
– Share Option Plan Until last year, share
options awards had failed to meet the
associated performance condition for a
number of years. In addition, the awards
made in 2001 and 2002 have lapsed as 
a result of failing to meet the required
performance target. Furthermore, almost 
half of the executives receiving share awards
are US executives for whom a performance
condition on share options is still rare.
The Committee is also aware that the
anticipated dilutive effect of the sale of 
the Company’s stake in Airbus, which
shareholders approved last year, has 
made the existing performance conditions
potentially more stretching. The Committee
has decided that the existing EPS
performance conditions on share options 
will not be rebased but instead management
will be expected to generate sufficient growth
not only to meet the required targets but also
to recoup the anticipated dilutive effect of
the Airbus transaction.
The Committee accordingly concluded that 
to change the performance condition at this
time was unnecessary and would act as a
disincentive until executives had experience
of share options meeting required
performance conditions, and has therefore
decided to retain the existing EPS growth
condition for awards in 2007 of real EPS
growth of 5% per annum for full vesting.
This will be kept under review.
– Share Matching Plan The new Share
Matching Plan, which shareholders
approved last year, replaces the Restricted
Share Plan for awards in 2007 and
introduces an EPS performance condition
on the award of matching shares aligned to
that used for share options. The Committee
believes that this remains appropriate.
Plan provisions
Performance conditions for grants of options
or awards to be made under the Executive
Share Option Plan, the Performance Share
Plan and the Share Matching Plan in 2007
are detailed below. Performance conditions
for earlier grants under the Executive Share
Option Plan are shown as notes to Table C.
Performance conditions for grants of awards
under the Performance Share Plan made
between 2003 and 2006 are the same 
as for awards to be made in 2007 as
detailed below.
Executive Share Option Plan
Options granted under the Executive Share
Option Plan are normally exercisable between
the third and tenth anniversary of their grant.
Options may only be exercised during this
period as follows:
– 33.33% of each option grant is exercisable
if the Company achieves on average real
EPS growth per annum of 3% but less than
4% over the three-year performance period;
– 66.67% of each option grant is exercisable
if the Company achieves on average real
EPS growth per annum of 4% but less than
5% over the three-year performance period;
– 100% of each option grant is exercisable if
the Company achieves on average real EPS
growth per annum of 5% or more over the
three-year performance period.
In determining the performance measure 
for the Executive Share Option Plan (and for
the Matching Shares in the Share Matching
Plan described below), the Committee took
the view that the Company’s major investors
believed EPS to be a key indicator of long-
term financial performance and value creation.
Option grants under the Executive Share
Option Plan will continue to be set at a
maximum of 1.5 times base salary (2.25
times base salary for the Chief Executive) 
in 2007 and there will be no retesting after
the three-year performance period. 
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Conditional awards of shares are made 
under the Performance Share Plan which 
are contingent on meeting pre-determined
performance criteria. Under the PSP , awards
may be made up to 2 times base salary.
Awards in 2007 to executive directors will 
be granted at a value equal to 1 times base
salary (1.5 times base salary for the Chief
Executive). The proportion of the award which
is capable of exercise is determined by the
Company’s Total Shareholder Return (share
price growth plus dividends) ranking relative  www.baesystems.com 55
As a result of the Company’s performance in
2006, all eligible employees (including the UK
executive directors) will be entitled to receive
shares worth £420. A similar arrangement
operates for non-UK employees on a cash 
or shares basis depending on local tax and
security laws. 
The Company operates a share purchase
arrangement (Partnership Shares) under 
the Share Incentive Plan which replaced the
SAYE Share Option Scheme in 2005. Under
this arrangement, UK-based employees
(including executive directors) may purchase
ordinary shares in BAE Systems by either
monthly investments of between £10 and
£125 a month, or lump sum investments 
of between £10 and £1,500 in a tax year,
both limited to 10% of salary if less. 
Dividends paid in respect of the shares in the
Share Incentive Plan for UK-based employees
are reinvested as Dividend Shares.
With effect from December 2006 the
Committee agreed the introduction of
Matching Shares into the Share Incentive
Plan Partnership Shares arrangement on the
basis of one free Matching Share for every
two Partnership Shares purchased by the
employee up to a maximum monthly
Partnership Share investment of £30. 
The plan is an all-employee plan and 
in accordance with legislation the 
Matching Shares are not subject 
to performance conditions.
Dilution of share capital
The Committee has agreed that, in respect
of new issue or treasury shares, shares
representing no more than 1% of the
Company’s issued share capital will be used
in any one financial year for the grant of
share options under all-employee share
schemes. The table below sets out the
available dilution capacity for the Company’s
employee share schemes based on the
limits set out in the rules of those schemes.
2006
Total issued share capital as
at 31 December 2006 3,246m
All schemes:
10% in any consecutive 10 years 324.6m
Remaining headroom 193.5m
Executive schemes:
5% in any consecutive 10 years 162.3m
Remaining headroom 92.9m
The number of ordinary shares in issue at
31 December 2006 was 3,246,232,539 and
the number of shares granted under option
during 2006 totalled 6,082,429 (0.19% 
of the total shares in issue). In addition, a
decision was taken in 2006 to settle awards
over 8,641,212 executive share options
(granted as Stock Appreciation Rights) in
equity, rather than in cash, for US executives
satisfying the accredited investor rules.
These are included in the dilution figures.
to a comparator group of 18 other defence and
aerospace companies operating internationally,
and by a secondary financial measure. 
Performance for the 2007 awards will be
measured as follows:
(i) Total shareholder return (TSR)
100% of the conditional shares are awarded
to directors if the Company’s TSR over a
three-year period is in the top 20% of TSRs
achieved by the sectoral comparator group,
with 25% vesting if the TSR is in the top 50%.
Intermediate positions will be calculated on 
a straight-line pro-rata basis. No awards will
be made if the Company’s performance is
outside the top 50%. Awards will be made 
in three equal instalments at the end of
years three, four and five. 
(ii) Underlying financial performance
As a secondary measure the Committee 
will consider whether there has been a
sustained improvement in the Company’s
underlying financial performance and
whether it is appropriate to release some 
or all of the awards. In taking a view of 
a sustained improvement in underlying
financial performance, the Committee may
consider (but not exclusively) the following
financial metrics: net debt/cash; EBITA;
order book; turnover; risk and underlying
project performance.
A sectoral peer group will continue to be used
in 2007 as the principal performance measure
due to its importance to the Company’s
shareholders as an indication of both earnings
and capital growth relative to major global
defence and aerospace companies. A relative
measure is considered important as it rewards
management if they outperform against major
companies in the sector rather than success
possibly being determined solely by growth 
in stock markets. The second measure was
included to ensure that awards will only vest 
if there has been a clear improvement in the
Company’s underlying performance over the
relevant period.
The composition of the TSR sectoral peer
group for awards to be made in 2007 is 
the same as that in 2006 and comprises:
Boeing Cobham
Dassault Aviation EADS
Embraer PN Finmeccanica
General Dynamics GKN
Goodrich Honeywell International
Lockheed Martin Northrop Grumman
Raytheon Rockwell Collins
Rolls-Royce Smiths Group
Thales United Technologies
As agreed by shareholders at the 2006 AGM,
for PSP participants other than executive
directors, the Committee has the flexibility 
to agree that up to half of any award can be
based on appropriately stretching internal
measures (with the rest based on TSR) to
create improved incentive and alignment with
the individual’s own business performance.
Share Matching Plan (SMP)
Following shareholder approval at the 2006
AGM, the new Share Matching Plan replaces
the previous Restricted Share Plan in 2007.
The SMP is a stand-alone share investment
plan with the maximum investment linked to
the bonus awarded under the Annual Bonus
Plan. Participants will be invited to acquire
shares up to an amount not exceeding the
net amount of any discretionary annual
bonus the individual received for the previous
financial year (Investment Shares). As stated
above, the Chief Executive is required to
defer at least one-third of his bonus into the
SMP . The participant will be granted a
conditional award of Matching Shares under
the SMP against the gross bonus invested;
for executive directors the match will be in
the ratio of 1:1. 
The performance condition that will apply to
the Matching Shares under the SMP in
2007, and the rationale for its use, is the
same as that which has been applied to
options granted under the Company’s
executive share option plans as set out on
page 54.
The Matching Shares will attract dividends
during the three-year deferral period which
will be released at the same time as the
vesting of any Matching Shares.
Restricted Share Plan
The Restricted Share Plan (RSP), which
operated for the final time in 2006,
historically acted as a share-based
extension of the Annual Bonus Plan in that
executive directors who participated in the
Annual Bonus Plan could be given the option
of taking any net cash bonus paid partly or
wholly in shares through the RSP . If an
election was made to take shares through
the Plan, they were held in trust for a period
of three years after which the Company
awarded the individual an equal number of
shares (Matching Shares) provided the
individual normally remained in the
Company’s employment at the vesting date.
Where executive directors have elected to
use such bonuses through the RSP , details
of the shares held are set out in Table B on
page 60. None of the executive directors
who served during 2006 participated in the
2006 operation of the RSP. 
The matching award of shares was
historically not subject to any performance
criteria and has now been superseded by 
the Share Matching Plan which is subject 
to performance criteria.
Share Incentive Plan
During 2006 the UK executive directors were
eligible to participate in the all-employee free
shares element of the Share Incentive Plan.
Remuneration report This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2006, of £100 invested in
BAE Systems on 31 December 2001 compared with the value of £100 invested in
the FTSE 100 Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial
year ends.
The graph, which has been produced in accordance with the requirements of
Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985, shows the total shareholder return for 
a holding in the Company’s ordinary shares for the period 2001-2006 relative to 
a holding of shares representing the FTSE 100. The FTSE 100 is considered to be 
an appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is a broad equity market index.
As BAE Systems is a constituent member of the FTSE 100, it was deemed to be 
the most appropriate general UK equity index.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 56
Corporate governance
Remuneration report (continued)
Remuneration report
Personal shareholding policy
The Committee has agreed a policy 
whereby all executive directors are required
to establish and maintain a minimum
personal shareholding equal to 200% of
base salary. As a minimum, a holding equal
to 100% of base salary must be achieved 
as quickly as possible using shares vesting
or options exercised through the executive
share option schemes or long-term incentive
schemes, by using 50% of the shares 
that vest or 50% of the options which are
exercised on each occasion. Thereafter,
executive directors are required to increase
their personal shareholding gradually, on
each occasion using 25% of the shares 
that vest or 25% of the options exercised
each year, until a personal shareholding
equal to 200% of annual base salary is
achieved and maintained. These limits 
are reviewed periodically. 
Details of the directors’ personal
shareholdings are shown in Table A. 
Post-retirement benefits
UK pension benefits
As a result of the recently introduced age
discrimination legislation, UK executive
directors’ default retirement age will be 65
but they will retain any previous rights they
had to retire and draw their pensions without
actuarial reduction for early payment at 
an earlier age.
Following the consultations with employees
last year, a number of changes were made to
the pension schemes in respect of benefits
accruing from 6 April 2006 as a means 
and 2.5% per year in respect of service from
6 April 2006. Directors pay contributions 
at the same rate as all other employees
participating in schemes.
Michael Lester, who retired from the Board 
at the end of 2006, had a normal retirement
age of 62 and was already in receipt of 
his pension.
Ian King is a member of the BAE Systems
2000 Pension Plan (the 2000 Plan)
applicable to former employees of Marconi
Electronic Systems (MES) and a member of
the ExPS. The 2000 Plan provides a pension
of 1/50th of Final Pensionable Earnings
(FPE) for each year of pensionable service,
payable from a normal retirement age of 65.
FPE under the 2000 Plan is the best three-
year average of base salary and bonus in the
ten Plan Years prior to leaving, less an offset
for State pensions. The Company decided
last year to limit pensionable bonuses in the
2000 Plan in the 2006/07 Plan Year to 20%
of base salary and this will reduce to 10% of
base salary for the Plan Year commencing on
6 April 2007. However, there is a guarantee
that the FPE figure for benefits service prior
to 6 April 2007 will not be less than the 
FPE figure at 5 April 2007 to ensure that
employees do not lose the benefit of
contributions paid on past bonuses. Ian 
King joined the ExPS in 1999 following the
BAe/MES merger. The ExPS tops up the
2000 Plan benefits to provide a target
benefit payable from age 62 of 1/30th of
Final Pensionable Pay for each year of ExPS
pensionable service (subject to a maximum
of two-thirds). Final Pensionable Pay for the
The graph above shows the value shareholders have achieved by their investment 
in BAE Systems over recent years as compared to (i) the FTSE 100 Index; (ii) the
companies forming the sectoral peer group for the BAE Systems Performance Share
Plan; and (iii) the companies forming the comparator group for the 2006 executive
pay review. The graph depicts the value for BAE Systems and the comparators at the
end of 2006 of a single £100 investment made at the beginning of each of the last
five years.
Value at 31 December 2006 of £100 
investment at 31 December 2001
£40
£80
£120
£160
£200
FTSE 100 BAE Systems
31 Dec 06 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 01
Value at 31 December 2006 of £100 investment
FTSE 100
BAE Systems
UK Executive Pay Review Comparator Group
Aerospace & Defence Comparator Group
£90
£180
£270
£360
£450
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
of funding the deficits disclosed in the
schemes. These changes apply to executive
directors in the same way as to other
employees and include the introduction of the
Longevity Adjustment Factor, a reduction in
the maximum level of pension increases and
a change in the definition of Pensionable Pay.
The UK-based executive directors with 
the exception of Ian King (see below) are
members of the BAE Systems Pension
Scheme (the Main Scheme) and the
BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme 
(the ExPS). The ExPS tops up the benefits
from the Main Scheme and, for executive
directors, is designed to produce a target
pension payable from age 60 of two-thirds 
of Final Pensionable Pay (FPP) if potential
service is 20 or more years. FPP is defined
as basic salary averaged over the last
12 months prior to leaving service in respect
of service accrued to 5 April 2006 and
36 months prior to leaving in respect of
service from 6 April 2006. These schemes
also provide a lump sum death-in-service
benefit equal to four times basic salary 
at date of death, and a spouse’s death-in-
service pension equal to two-thirds of the
prospective pension at normal retirement
age. Children’s allowances are also payable,
usually up to the age of 18. Spouses’
pensions and children’s allowances are also
payable upon death in retirement and death
after leaving the Company’s employment with
a deferred pension. Pensions are increased
annually by the rise in the Retail Prices Index
subject to a maximum increase of 5% per
year in respect of pre 6 April 2006 service www.baesystems.com 57
of an unfunded promise from the Company. 
No further contributions will be paid into his
funded unapproved top up arrangement.
Further information on the amounts paid by
the Company in respect of these arrangements
is included in the notes to Table F.
US Executives
Mark Ronald retired from the Board at the
end of 2006 and was already in receipt of
his pension.
Walt Havenstein is a member of the
BAE Systems Employees’ Retirement Plan
which provides a pension from age 60 for
each year of pensionable service of 1.25%
on his Final Average Pay (FAP) up to Social
Security Covered Compensation (circa
$70,000) plus 1.5% on his FAP in excess of
Social Security Covered Compensation. FAP
is currently the highest three-year average 
of base salary plus bonus but the averaging
period will increase by one year each year
beginning in 2009 and reaching a ten-year
average in 2015. Directors pay contributions
at the same rates as other employees in 
the plan. The pension does not carry any
spouse’s pension or pension increases. Walt
Havenstein also receives a 50% match on
his contributions to his 401(k) plan up to 
a maximum contribution of 8% of earnings.
Details of post-retirement benefits for 
each of the executive directors who served
during 2006 are shown in Table F on
page 65 and are calculated in accordance
with the requirements of Schedule 7A 
of the Companies Act 1985.
Other benefits
Other benefits provided to the executive
directors include a car allowance, the taxable
benefit of any private use of a chauffeur, and
a cash allowance for medical examination.
purposes of this top up is calculated by
reference to base salary only, averaged over
12 months and 36 months as described
above. Therefore Ian King’s total pension is
the sum of his 2000 Plan benefits plus the
top up from the ExPS. 
Following the changes made last year to take
account of the Pensions Simplification tax
changes which came into effect from April
2006, UK executives reaching the Lifetime
Allowance (LTA) are given a number of
choices as set out in last year’s
remuneration report. These are: 
– remain in the pension scheme and pay any
additional tax charge; or
– opt out of the pension scheme (and 
so earn no further pension benefits in
respect of future service) and instead
receive a taxable salary supplement. This
supplement will be 30% of salary and 20%
of salary for those senior executives with 
a two-thirds salary target after at least 20
years and 30 years service respectively; or 
– restrict scheme benefits to the value of 
the LTA with the remainder being provided
directly from the Company as an unfunded
promise. At retirement, the unfunded
Company benefits can be either taken 
as pension or can be commuted in full 
for a taxable lump sum. 
The Committee reviewed these arrangements
at the beginning of 2007 in the light of
developing market practice and believes 
they remain appropriate as they provide
executives with choices which may better
suit their needs whilst being broadly cost
neutral to the Company, are in line with
market practice, and do not compensate
executives for changes in taxation.
UK executives, including the UK executive
directors, affected or likely to be affected 
by the Lifetime Allowance before April 2009
were provided with independent financial
advice paid for by the Company. Mike Turner
and Chris Geoghegan elected to opt out of
the pension schemes in April 2006 in return
for a cash supplement of 30% of base
salary. Steve Mogford and Ian King elected
to have their scheme benefits restricted in
return for a Company unfunded promise. 
George Rose was affected by the previously
applicable Inland Revenue earnings cap on
approved pensions and has an unapproved
(i.e. non-tax qualified) pension arrangement
to top up his benefits from the approved
schemes. This was designed so that the
total pension from all sources would be
broadly in line with the pension he would
have received from the group pension
schemes had he not been subject to the
earnings cap. The Pension Simplification tax
changes have allowed the flexibility to remove
the earnings cap for George Rose in respect of
service from April 2006, although some of his
benefits will remain to be provided by means
Executive directors’ service contracts
It is the Committee’s policy that executive directors should normally have service contracts
that provide for the company to give the individual 12 months’ notice of termination. This
policy has been chosen because it provides a reasonable balance between the need to retain
the services of key individuals and the need to limit the liabilities of the Company in the event
of the termination of a contract. The executive directors have service contracts with Group
companies; details of these contracts are as follows:
Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period
Chris Geoghegan 10 July 2002 12 months 12 months either party
(amended 15 January 2004 
and 13 October 2005)
Walt Havenstein 1 December 2006 3 months 3 months either party
Ian King 31 January 2007 12 months 12 months either party
Steve Mogford 6 April 2000 12 months 12 months either party
(amended 15 January 2004 
and 28 October 2005)
George Rose 16 November 1998 12 months 12 months from the
(amended 3 December 1999 Company, 6 months
15 January 2004 from the individual
and 17 October 2005)
Mike Turner 22 February 1994 12 months 12 months from the
(amended 30 May 1995 Company, 6 months
3 December 1999 from the individual
8 May 2002
15 January 2004 
and 14 October 2005)
Remuneration report
In the event of the termination of an
executive director’s contract it is the
Committee’s policy to seek to limit any
payment made in lieu of notice to a
payment equal to the amount of one year’s
basic salary. The service contracts for all 
of the executive directors contain specific
provisions to the effect that the Company
has the right, and in Walt Havenstein’s
case, generally has the obligation, to pay a
sum equivalent to 12 months’ salary (plus
the continuation of 18 months’ medical
benefits in Walt Havenstein’s case) in the
event of the Company terminating their
contracts for reasons other than gross
misconduct. No executive director has 
provisions in his service contract that 
relate to a change of control of the
Company (and neither does the Chairman
nor the non-executive directors in their
respective letters of appointment).
Michael Lester and Mark Ronald, who
retired as directors on 31 December 2006,
also had service contracts. The service
contract for Michael Lester was dated
26 November 1999 and had been renewed
on a rolling one year basis since 2002
when he reached his normal retirement 
age of 62. The service contract came to 
an end when he retired from the Board 
on 31 December 2006. Chairman’s appointment, term and fees
Dick Olver was appointed Chairman on
1 July 2004. His appointment is for an
initial fixed three year term with effect 
from 17 May 2004 (the date that he was
appointed to the Board as a non-executive
director) unless terminated earlier in
accordance with the Company’s Articles 
of Association, or by either party giving the
other not less than six months’ prior written
notice. His appointment is documented in a
letter of appointment which is not a contract
of employment and he is required to devote
no fewer than two days a week to his duties
as Chairman. The Nominations Committee
will review his appointment prior to the end
of the three-year term and will, if appropriate
(and subject to the agreement of Mr Olver),
recommend to the Board that he be invited
to serve for an additional period. His
appointment as Chairman will automatically
terminate if he ceases to be a director of
the Company. His fee, which has been set
by the Committee at £500,000 per annum,
will not be subject to review during the initial
three-year term.
Non-executive directors’ appointment, term
and fees
The non-executive directors do not have
service contracts but do have letters of
appointment detailing the basis of their
appointment. The dates of their original
appointment were as follows:
Non-executive Date of Expiry of
director appointment current term*
Sue Birley 22.11.2000 09.05.2007
Phil Carroll 07.09.2005 06.09.2008
Ulrich Cartellieri 01.12.1999 26.09.2007
Michael Hartnall 10.06.2003 09.06.2009
Sir Peter Mason 22.01.2003 21.01.2009
Roberto Quarta 07.09.2005 06.09.2008
Sir Nigel Rudd 10.09.2006 09.09.2009
Peter Weinberg 16.06.2005 15.06.2008
* subject to re-election at the AGM following their
appointment and subsequently at intervals of no more
than three years in accordance with the Company’s
Articles of Association
The non-executive directors are normally
appointed for two consecutive three-year
terms subject to review after the end of the
first three-year period and with any third term
of three years being subject to rigorous
review and taking into account the need
progressively to refresh the Board. They do
not have periods of notice and the Company
has no obligation to pay compensation when
their appointment terminates. They are
subject to re-election at the AGM following
their appointment and subsequently at
intervals of no more than three years.
Michael Portillo retired from the Board at 
the conclusion of the 2006 AGM on 4 May
2006, having originally been appointed 
to the Board on 11 September 2002. 
The letters of appointment for non-executive
directors detail the amount of time it is
anticipated that the individual will need to
devote to his or her duties as a director.
Non-executive directors are proposed by the
Nominations Committee and are appointed
by the Board on the basis of their experience
to provide independent judgement on issues
of strategy, performance, resources and
standards of conduct. The level of their 
fees is set after reviewing practice in 
other comparable companies. 
Details of the non-executive directors’ fees
in 2006 are shown in Table E on page 64.
Fees payable to the non-executive directors
are agreed by the Non-Executive Directors’
Fees Committee. Non-executive directors are
paid a fee reflecting the time commitment
required of the director. The fee level for 
the chairmen of the Audit, Corporate
Responsibility, and Remuneration Committees,
and for the Senior Independent Director,
reflects their additional responsibilities and
workload. In addition, a transatlantic meeting
allowance of £4,000 per board meeting is
payable to non-executive directors; this takes
into account the additional time commitment
required by the European-based non-executive
directors to attend board meetings in the US
and similarly the commitment of US-based
non-executive directors to attend board
meetings in Europe.
The fees payable to the non-executive
directors were reviewed in February 2007
and the following fee structure was 
agreed for 2007 to reflect the various
responsibilities of the individual directors: a
fee of £77,500 for the chairman of the Audit
Committee; a fee of £72,500 for each of the
chairman of the Remuneration Committee,
the chairman of the Corporate Responsibility
Committee, and the Senior Independent
Director; and a fee of £57,500 for each 
of the other non-executive directors.
By order of the Board
Dick Olver
Chairman
21 February 2007
BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 58
Corporate governance
Remuneration report (continued)
Remuneration report
The service contract for Mark Ronald was
dated 17 April 2002 and had been renewed
on a rolling one year basis since 2003 when
he reached his normal retirement age of 62.
The service contract came to an end when
Mark Ronald retired from the BAE Systems
plc Board and as President and Chief
Executive of BAE Systems, Inc. on
31 December 2006. As disclosed previously,
the terms of Mark Ronald’s contract
contained an entitlement to a lump sum
equal to 12 months’ salary and the
continuance of medical benefits for 18
months if his contract was terminated by
BAE Systems, Inc., his directorship of the
parent company ceased, or if his contract
was not renewed at the end of its one year
rolling term. Details of this contractual
payment are included in Table E on page 64.
In order for the Company to benefit from
his considerable experience of the US
defence market, Mark Ronald has been
appointed as non-executive Chairman 
of BAE Systems, Inc. with effect from
15 January 2007 and will also provide
advisory services. Fees payable to him in
his non-executive capacity are consistent
with those paid to other non-executive
directors of BAE Systems, Inc. These
arrangements will automatically cease 
on 31 December 2007 unless he and
BAE Systems, Inc. mutually agree to 
extend them for a further year.
Policy on external board appointments
The long-standing policy of allowing executive
directors to hold external non-BAE Systems
related non-executive directorships with the
prior approval of the Committee will continue.
The Committee considers that external
directorships provide the Company’s senior
executives with valuable experience that is of
benefit to BAE Systems. It is also considered
appropriate for BAE Systems to contribute to
the pool of non-executive expertise available
for the benefit of the wider business
community, thereby reciprocating the benefit
which it in turn has received from other
organisations which have permitted members
of their senior management teams to serve
on the BAE Systems Board. The Committee
believes that it is reasonable for the
individual executive director to retain any fees
received from such appointments given the
additional personal responsibility that this
entails. Such fees retained by the executive
directors who served in 2006 were as
follows: Michael Lester: £16,135; Steve
Mogford: £13,016; George Rose: £65,000;
and Mike Turner: £43,756 plus grants of
Deferred Stock Units to the value of £42,118. www.baesystems.com 59
Table A
As at 31 December 2006, the directors of the Company and their families had the following beneficial and non-beneficial interests in the
Company’s securities. There have been no changes in the interests of the current directors listed in the table below between 31 December
2006 and 21 February 2007 with the exception of: 
(i) the share interests of Steve Mogford who has acquired an additional 63 ordinary shares since 31 December 2006 under the partnership
and matching shares elements of the Share Incentive Plan so that his beneficial shareholding at the date of this report stood at 149,003;
and 
(ii) the option figures for Chris Geoghegan, Steve Mogford, George Rose and Mike Turner which have reduced on account of the lapse of share
options in February 2007 so that their option figures as at the date of this report were as follows: Chris Geoghegan: 1,201,873; 
Steve Mogford: 1,235,703; George Rose: 1,400,520; and Mike Turner: 2,169,697.
The interests of the two directors appointed since 31 December 2006, as at the date of approval of this report, are stated in a footnote to
the table below.
Directors’ interests
As at 1 January 2006* As at 31 December 2006**
Ordinary Restricted Performance Ordinary Restricted Performance
shares Options Share Plan Share Plan shares Options Share Plan Share Plan
Prof S Birley 2,925 – – – 2,925 – – –
P J Carroll ––––––––
Dr U Cartellieri ––––––––
C V Geoghegan 141,016 1,363,186 42,764 613,003 143,150 1,411,363 42,764 722,231
M J Hartnall 20,000 – – – 20,000 – – –
M Lester
1
616,553 1,931,908 87,937 753,691 618,702 1,843,973 87,937 886,284
Sir Peter Mason 25,000 – – – 25,283 – – –
S L Mogford 127,869 1,572,757 – 613,003 148,940 1,469,136 – 722,231
R L Olver 40,000 – – – 40,000 – – –
Rt Hon M Portillo
2
––––––––
R Quarta ––––––––
M H Ronald
1
255,587 1,618,677 81,928 659,808 255,587 1,262,461 81,928 708,308
G W Rose 354,831 1,728,860 33,971 679,986 354,950 1,660,221 33,971 803,817
Sir Nigel Rudd
3
––––––––
M J Turner 419,646 2,262,728 137,924 1,058,656 435,880 2,446,712 137,924 1,363,562
P A Weinberg ––––––––
* or upon appointment
** or upon ceasing to be a director of the Company
1 retired as a director on 31 December 2006
2 retired as a director on 4 May 2006
3 appointed on 10 September 2006
As at 31 December 2006 Michael Lester held a non-beneficial interest in 200,000 (2005 200,000) ordinary shares.
The executive directors, in common with all employees of the Company, have an interest in the unallocated shares held in employee share ownership trusts. As at 31 December 2006,
no (2005 702,481) such shares were held in the ESOP trust, 90,394 (2005 80,111) (91,250 as at the date of this report) shares in the Profit Sharing Scheme trust, and 152,742
(2005 103,158) (150,771) as at the date of this report) shares in the Share Incentive Plan trust.
It is the Company’s policy not to seek to exercise voting rights on shares held in the employee trusts other than on the direction of the underlying beneficiaries.
The interests of the two directors appointed since the year end, as at the date of approval of this report, were as follows:
W P Havenstein: Ordinary shares 57,984; Options 466,586; Restricted Share Plan 25,624; and Performance Share Plan 278,788.
I G King: Ordinary shares 164,066; Options 1,096,725; Restricted Share Plan 75,627; and Performance Share Plan 638,707.
Remuneration report BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 60
Corporate governance
Remuneration report (continued)
Remuneration report
Information subject to audit
The Auditors are required to report on the information contained in Tables B, C, D, E and F on pages 60 to 65.
The Company’s register of directors’ interests (which is open to inspection) contains full details of directors’ share interests. Details of
directors’ interests in the share option schemes and long-term incentive plans are shown in Tables B, C and D. The figures in the tables that
form part of this report have been calculated by reference to a mid-market price for the Company’s ordinary shares at 31 December 2006 
of 425.75p (2005 381.75p). The range during 2006 was 329p to 449.75p.
Table B
Long-term incentive plans
Restricted Share Plan 
1 January Awarded during Vested during 31 December
2006 the year the year 2006
C V Geoghegan 42,764 – – 42,764
M Lester
1
87,937 – – 87,937
S L Mogford ––––
M H Ronald
1
81,928 – – 81,928
G W Rose 33,971 – – 33,971
M J Turner 137,924 – – 137,924
1 retired as a director on 31 December 2006
No awards were granted to or vested in respect of directors who served during 2006.
Table C
Directors’ Share Options
Executive Share Option Plan
1 January Granted during Exercised during Lapsed during 31 December
2006 the year the year the year 2006
C V Geoghegan 1,360,721 163,843 – 113,636 1,410,928
M Lester
1
1,929,878 198,890 – 284,795 1,843,973
S L Mogford 1,571,545 163,843 54,556 211,696 1,469,136
M H Ronald
1
1,618,677 200,944 384,583 172,577 1,262,461
G W Rose 1,728,425 185,747 – 254,386 1,659,786
M J Turner 2,259,199 457,359 – 271,345 2,445,213
1 retired as a director on 31 December 2006
The BAE Systems Executive Share Option Plan has been used to grant options to the executive directors since 2001. The performance conditions applying to the grants of options made
in 2001-2004 are the same as for grants to be made in 2007, as set out on page 54 of this report, with the exception of the re-testing provision: for grants made between 2001-2003,
where the original three-year performance is not met, performance is re-tested at the end of years four and five against the full period from grant; for grants made in 2004, where the
original performance target is not met, performance is re-tested at the end of year five against the full period from grant. In all these cases the option will lapse in year five if the targets
have not been achieved. The performance conditions applying to the grants of options made in 2005 and 2006 are the same as for grants to be made in 2007, as set out on page 54
of this report; there is no re-testing of performance for grants made in 2005 and beyond.
On completion of the BAE/MES merger in 1999, options were granted to executive directors under the predecessor Executive Share Option Scheme. Options granted to Michael Lester
and Mark Ronald in 1999 could only be exercised if the pre-exceptional EPS for any three-year period exceeded the sum of inflation for that period and a real growth requirement of 9%
was achieved and these options vested in full in February 2006. Options granted to the other executive directors in 1999 (which partially vested in 2004) were conditional on the
satisfaction of a special performance condition based on the achievement of cost savings of the merger integration process over the three year performance period commencing on
1 January 2000.
In addition, Mark Ronald has a cash-settled Stock Appreciation Right (SAR) over 115,675 ordinary shares granted on 3 May 2000 at a SAR price of £3.98, exercisable from 3 May
2003. The potential payment on exercise is the difference between the SAR price and the share price on the date of exercise. The right is exercisable until 31 December 2007 and
was subject to the performance condition relating to options granted in 2000 (i.e. exercisable only if growth in pre-exceptional EPS for any three-year period over the ten-year life
exceeded the sum of inflation for that period and a real growth requirement of 9%) which has been met.
A breakdown of options held by executive directors under the Executive Share Option Plan is given overleaf. www.baesystems.com 61
The breakdown of the options held by executive directors under the Executive Share Option Plan is as follows:
GrantedExercisedLapsed Exercise Date ofDate
1 January during the during the during the 31 December price Date of exercise from which Expiry
2006 year year year 2006 £ grant or lapse exercisable date
C V Geoghegan 118,090 – – – 118,090 3.98 03.05.00 – 03.05.03
1
03.05.10
113,636 – – 113,636 – 3.30 23.05.01 23.02.06 23.05.04

23.05.11
89,552 – – – 89,552 3.35 03.04.02 – 03.04.05
2
03.04.12
119,938 – – – 119,938 3.26 22.10.02 – 22.10.05
2
22.10.12
351,218 – – – 351,218 1.72 30.09.03 – 30.09.06
1
30.09.13
315,447 – – – 315,447 2.01 30.03.04 – 30.03.07
1
30.03.14
252,840 – – – 252,840 2.64 24.03.05 – 24.03.08
3
24.03.15
– 163,843 – – 163,843 4.28 12.04.06 – 12.04.09
3
12.04.16
Total 1,360,721163,843 –113,6361,410,928
M Lester
4
223,800 – – – 223,800 4.21 20.12.99 – 20.12.02
1
20.12.09
284,795 – – 284,795 – 3.42 04.05.01 23.02.06 04.05.04

04.05.11
290,746 – – – 290,746 3.35 03.04.02 – 03.04.05
2
03.04.12
437,451 – – – 437,451 1.72 30.09.03 – 30.09.06
1
30.09.13
386,268 – – – 386,268 2.01 30.03.04 – 30.03.07
1
30.03.14
306,818 – – – 306,818 2.64 24.03.05 – 24.03.08
3
24.03.15
– 198,890 – – 198,890 4.28 12.04.06 – 12.04.09
3
12.04.16
Total 1,929,878198,890 –284,7951,843,973
S L Mogford 54,556 – 54,556 – – 2.75 02.10.96 28.02.06 02.10.99
1
02.10.06
64,415 – – – 64,415 4.21 20.12.99 – 20.12.02
1
20.12.09
87,940 – – – 87,940 3.98 03.05.00 – 03.05.03
1
03.05.10
211,696 – – 211,696 – 3.42 04.05.01 23.02.06 04.05.04

04.05.11
233,433 – – – 233,433 3.35 03.04.02 – 03.04.05
2
03.04.12
351,218 – – – 351,218 1.72 30.09.03 – 30.09.06
1
30.09.13
315,447 – – – 315,447 2.01 30.03.04 – 30.03.07
1
30.03.14
252,840 – – – 252,840 2.64 24.03.05 – 24.03.08
3
24.03.15
– 163,843 – – 163,843 4.28 12.04.06 – 12.04.09
3
12.04.16
Total 1,571,545 163,843 54,556 211,696 1,469,136
M H Ronald
4
159,952 – – – 159,952 4.21 20.12.99 – 20.12.02
1
20.12.09
172,577 – – 172,577 – 3.30 23.05.01 23.02.06 23.05.04

23.05.11
296,435 – – – 296,435 3.35 03.04.02 – 03.04.05
2
03.04.12
384,583 – 384,583 – – 1.72 30.09.03 21.12.06 30.09.06
1
30.09.13
325,632 – – – 325,632 2.01 30.03.04 – 30.03.07
1
30.03.14
255,531 – – – 255,531 2.64 24.03.05 – 24.03.08
3
24.03.15
23,967 – – – 23,967 3.56 22.12.05 – 22.12.08
3
22.12.15
– 200,944 – – 200,944 4.28 12.04.06 – 12.04.09
3
12.04.16
Total 1,618,677 200,944 384,583 172,577 1,262,461
G W Rose 79,233 – – – 79,233 3.29 06.10.98 – 06.10.01
1
06.10.08
115,125 – – – 115,125 4.21 20.12.99 – 20.12.02
1
20.12.09
254,386 – – 254,386 – 3.42 04.05.01 23.02.06 04.05.04

04.05.11
259,701 – – – 259,701 3.35 03.04.02 – 03.04.05
2
03.04.12
390,741 – – – 390,741 1.72 30.09.03 – 30.09.06
1
30.09.13
345,149 – – – 345,149 2.01 30.03.04 – 30.03.07
1
30.03.14
284,090 – – – 284,090 2.64 24.03.05 – 24.03.08
3
24.03.15
– 185,747 – – 185,747 4.28 12.04.06 – 12.04.09
3
12.04.16
Total 1,728,425 185,747 – 254,386 1,659,786
M J Turner 122,855 – – – 122,855 4.21 20.12.99 – 20.12.02
1
20.12.09
271,345 – – 271,345 – 3.42 04.05.01 23.02.06 04.05.04

04.05.11
277,015 – – – 277,015 3.35 03.04.02 – 03.04.05
2
03.04.12
588,663 – – – 588,663 1.72 30.09.03 – 30.09.06
1
30.09.13
544,776 – – – 544,776 2.01 30.03.04 – 30.03.07
1
30.03.14
454,545 – – – 454,545 2.64 24.03.05 – 24.03.08
3
24.03.15
– 457,359 – – 457,359 4.28 12.04.06 – 12.04.09
3
12.04.16
Total 2,259,199 457,359 – 271,345 2,445,213
1 subject to a performance condition which has been met 2 lapsed February 2007 (the information above is stated as at 31 December 2006)
3 subject to a performance condition that is yet to be tested 4 retired as a director on 31 December 2006
The maximum duration for the grant of an option under the Executive Share Option Plan is ten years.
Remuneration report BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 62
Corporate governance
Remuneration report (continued)
Remuneration report
SAYE Share Option Scheme
1 January Granted during Exercised during Lapsed during 31 December
2006 the year the year the year 2006
C V Geoghegan 2,465 – 2,030 – 435
M Lester
1
2,030 – 2,030 – –
S L Mogford 1,212 – 1,212 – –
G W Rose 435 – – – 435
M J Turner 3,529 – 2,030 – 1,499
1 retired as a director on 31 December 2006
The exercise of options under the SAYE Share Option Scheme is not subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
The breakdown of the options held by executive directors under the SAYE Share Option Scheme is as follows:
Granted Exercised Lapsed Exercise Date of Date
1 January during the during the during the 31 December price Date of exercise from which Expiry
2006 year year year 2006 £ grant or lapse exercisable date
C V Geoghegan 2,030 – 2,030 – – 2.56 18.04.01 01.06.06 01.06.06 01.12.06
435 – – – 435 1.56 20.04.04 – 01.06.07 01.12.07
Total 2,465 – 2,030 – 435
M Lester
1
2,030 – 2,030 – – 2.56 18.04.01 01.06.06 01.06.06 01.12.06
S L Mogford 1,212 – 1,212 – – 2.56 18.04.01 01.06.06 01.06.06 01.12.06
G W Rose 435 – – – 435 1.56 20.04.04 – 01.06.07 01.12.07
M J Turner 2,030 – 2,030 – – 2.56 18.04.01 01.06.06 01.06.06 01.12.06
1,499 – – – 1,499 2.56 09.04.02 – 01.06.07 01.12.07
Total 3,529 – 2,030 – 1,499
1 retired as a director on 31 December 2006
Performance Share Plan
1 January Granted during Exercised during 31 December
2006 the year the year 2006
C V Geoghegan 613,003 109,228 – 722,231
M Lester
1
753,691 132,593 – 886,284
S L Mogford 613,003 109,228 – 722,231
M H Ronald
1
659,808 133,962 85,462 708,308
G W Rose 679,986 123,831 – 803,817
M J Turner 1,058,656 304,906 – 1,363,562
1 retired as a director on 31 December 2006
Performance conditions for the awards made in 2003-2006 are the same as for awards to be made in 2007 as set out on pages 54 and 55 of this report.
A breakdown of options held by executive directors under the Performance Share Plan is given overleaf. www.baesystems.com 63
Remuneration report
The breakdown of the options held by executive directors under the Performance Share Plan is as follows:
Granted Exercised Lapsed Date Date 
1 January during during during 31 December Date of of exercise from which Expiry
2006 the year the year the year 2006 grant or lapse exercisable date
C V Geoghegan 234,145 – – – 234,145 30.09.03 – 30.09.06
1
30.09.10
210,298 – – – 210,298 30.03.04 – 30.03.07
1
30.03.11
168,560 – – – 168,560 24.03.05 – 24.03.08
2
24.03.12
– 109,228 – – 109,228 12.04.06 – 12.04.09
2
12.04.13
Total 613,003 109,228 – – 722,231
M Lester
3
291,634 – – – 291,634 30.09.03 – 30.09.06
1
30.09.10
257,512 – – – 257,512 30.03.04 – 30.03.07
1
30.03.11
204,545 – – – 204,545 24.03.05 – 24.03.08
2
24.03.12
– 132,593 – – 132,593 12.04.06 – 12.04.09
2
12.04.13
Total 753,691 132,593 – – 886,284
S L Mogford 234,145 – – – 234,145 30.09.03 – 30.09.06
1
30.09.10
210,298 – – – 210,298 30.03.04 – 30.03.07
1
30.03.11
168,560 – – – 168,560 24.03.05 – 24.03.08
2
24.03.12
– 109,228 – – 109,228 12.04.06 – 12.04.09
2
12.04.13
Total 613,003 109,228 – – 722,231
M H Ronald
3
256,388 – 85,462 – 170,926 30.09.03 02.10.06 30.09.06
1
30.09.10
217,088 – – – 217,088 30.03.04 – 30.03.07
1
30.03.11
170,354 – – – 170,354 24.03.05 – 24.03.08
2
24.03.12
15,978 – – – 15,978 22.12.05 – 22.12.08
2
22.12.12
– 133,962 – – 133,962 12.04.06 – 12.04.09
2
12.04.13
Total 659,808 133,962 85,462 – 708,308
G W Rose 260,494 – – – 260,494 30.09.03 – 30.09.06
1
30.09.10
230,099 – – – 230,099 30.03.04 – 30.03.07
1
30.03.11
189,393 – – – 189,393 24.03.05 – 24.03.08
2
24.03.12
– 123,831 – – 123,831 12.04.06 – 12.04.09
2
12.04.13
Total 679,986 123,831 – – 803,817
M J Turner 392,442 – – – 392,442 30.09.03 – 30.09.06
1
30.09.10
363,184 – – – 363,184 30.03.04 – 30.03.07
1
30.03.11
303,030 – – – 303,030 24.03.05 – 24.03.08
2
24.03.12
– 304,906 – – 304,906 12.04.06 – 12.04.09
2
12.04.13
Total 1,058,656 304,906 – – 1,363,562
1 subject to a performance condition which has been met
2 subject to a performance condition which is yet to be tested
3 retired as a director on 31 December 2006
The terms and conditions of the options detailed on pages 60 to 63 were not varied during the period 1 January 2006 to 31 December 2006.
The mid-market price for the Company’s ordinary shares at 31 December 2006 was 425.75p (2005 381.75p). The range during the year was 329p to 449.75p.
Table D
Options exercised during 2006
Realised Unrealised gain 
Number of Number of gain on sold on retained Price of Market price Market price Date option Date option
Date of options shares sold shares shares option on exercise at year end first would have
exercise exercised on exercise £ £ £ £ £ exercisable
1
lapsed
C V Geoghegan 01.06.06 2,030 – – 2,588 2.56 3.835 4.2575 01.06.06 01.12.06
M Lester
2
01.06.06 2,030 – – 2,588 2.56 3.835 4.2575 01.06.06 01.12.06
S L Mogford 28.02.06 54,556 35,190 53,137 29,243 2.75 4.26 4.2575 02.10.99 02.10.06
01.06.06 1,212 – – 1,545 2.56 3.835 4.2575 01.06.06 01.12.06
M H Ronald
2
02.10.06 85,462 36,283 144,878 196,372 nil 3.993 4.2575 30.09.06 30.09.10
21.12.06 384,583 384,583 962,227 – 1.72 4.222 4.2575 30.09.06 30.09.13
M J Turner 01.06.06 2,030 – – 2,588 2.56 3.835 4.2575 01.06.06 01.12.06
Total 1,160,242 234,924
1 subject to performance condition
2 retired as a director on 31 December 2006
The aggregate amount of gains made by directors from the exercise of share options in 2006, as calculated at the date of exercise, was £1,395,166 (2005 £85,110). Table E
Directors’ remuneration
2006 2005
Basic Basic
salary Fees Bonus Benefits Other pay Total salary Fees Bonus Benefits Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Chairman
R L Olver – 500 – 6 – 506 – 500 – 5 505
Executive directors
C V Geoghegan 468 – 444 31 105 1,048 445 – 423 25 893
M Lester
1
568 – 556 27 – 1,151 540 – 529 31 1,100
S L Mogford 468 – 463 25 – 956 445 – 441 24 910
M H Ronald
1
542 – 773 31 643 1,989 495 – 744 32 1,271
G W Rose 530 – 519 27 – 1,076 500 – 495 27 1,022
M J Turner 870 – 1,305 31 196 2,402 800 – 792 46 1,638
Non-executive directors
Prof S Birley – 73––– 73 – 63 – – 63 
P J Carroll – 70––– 70 – 18 – – 18 
Dr U Cartellieri – 58––– 58 – 53 – – 53 
M J Hartnall – 78––– 78 – 73 – – 73
Lord Hesketh
3
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a – 16 – – 16
Sir Peter Mason – 73––– 73 – 63 – – 63
Rt Hon M Portillo
1
– 17––– 17 – 53 – – 53
R Quarta – 58––– 58 – 18 – – 18
Sir Nigel Rudd
2
– 15––– 15 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 
P A Weinberg – 77––– 77 – 34 – – 34
3,446 1,019 4,060 178 944 9,647 3,225 891 3,424 190 7,730
1 retired during or at the end of 2006
2 appointed during 2006
3 retired in 2005
All emoluments and compensation paid to the directors during the year are shown above. Where the individual was appointed during the year the amount shown is for the period from
appointment. 
The other pay received by Mark Ronald, the US-based executive director, is in relation to salary in lieu of unused holiday ($185,000) and his contractual termination payment of $1m 
(as previously disclosed and detailed on page 57), which relates to the 2006 financial year but will be later paid in 2007 in accordance with US law. 
The other pay received by Chris Geoghegan and Mike Turner is in respect of a cash supplement payable from opting out of future accrual under the Company pension schemes.
The benefits received by the UK-based executive directors include, where applicable, the provision of a car and the taxable benefit of any private use of a chauffeur, attendance 
at corporate events, support in relation to relocation/second residence and independent financial planning for pension advice. The benefit received by Dick Olver was the taxable
benefit relating to the private use of a chauffeur. The benefits Mark Ronald received include a cash allowance for a car, medical examination, dental benefits, and insured life and
disability benefits.
The fees payable to the non-executive directors during 2006 comprised £70,000 for the chairman of the Audit Committee; a fee of £65,000 for the chairman of the Remuneration
Committee, the chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, and the Senior Independent Director; and a fee of £50,000 for each of the other non-executive directors. In
addition, a transatlantic meeting allowance of £4,000 per meeting was paid to European-based non-executive directors attending board meetings in the US and to US-based non-
executive directors attending board meetings in Europe. 
Sir Charles Masefield retired as a director on 28 February 2003 and remains employed by the Company on a part-time basis in an overseas representational role. In 2006 his
remuneration was £316,600 (2005 £302,500) and comprised a salary and a cash allowance for a car. Sir Richard Evans retired as a director and chairman on 30 June 2004 and
remains employed by the Company in a part-time customer relationship role. In 2006 his remuneration was £317,350 (2005 £303,000) and comprised salary and a cash allowance
for a car. 
There were no other payments to former directors during the year other than the payment to Richard Lapthorne referred to in the notes to Table F on page 65.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 64
Corporate governance
Remuneration report (continued)
Remuneration report www.baesystems.com 65
Table F
Post-retirement benefits
Change in 
Accrued accrued Transfer Transfer Increase in
pension at Increase pension value at value at transfer value
31 December in accrued after allowing 1 January 31 December Director’ s less director’ s
2006 benefits for inflation 2006
1
2006 contributions contributions
Age NRA* £ per annum £ per annum £ per annum £ £ £ £
C V Geoghegan
2
52 60 246,934 5,891 (517) 2,947,733 3,381,361 10,816 422,812
S L Mogford 50 60 235,563 19,282 13,533 2,374,257 2,813,722 43,263 396,202
G W Rose
3
54 60 262,985 29,651 23,448 3,243,501 3,944,663 40,762 660,400
M J Turner
2
58 60 574,406 51,070 37,159 8,723,438 10,546,221 20,164 1,802,619
* Normal Retirement Age
1 Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with GN11 issued by the actuarial profession. For UK-based directors the assumptions are the same as those used in the
calculation of cash equivalents from the Group’s UK pension schemes. The amount of the increase in transfer value arising from the change in assumptions is: 
Chris Geoghegan £61,658; Steve Mogford £39,874; George Rose £43,042; Mike Turner £53,331.
2 As a result of the changes to taxation of pensions introduced in April 2006, Mike Turner and Chris Geoghegan elected to opt out of their pension schemes and since April 2006
have been receiving a taxable salary supplement of 30% of their basic salaries. 
3 George Rose’s unapproved retirement arrangement is partly funded and partly unfunded. The Company’s pension contribution to the funded unapproved retirement arrangement 
for George Rose in 2006 was £336,657 (2005 £569,378). Of this amount, approximately £100,507 (2005 £377,328) relates to the cost of benefits accruing during the year 
and approximately £236,150 relates to fully funding the unapproved arrangement for pensionable service up to 6 April 2006. 
Actual pension 
in payment at 
31 December Increase/ Transfer Transfer Change in
2006 (decrease) value at value at Change in transfer value
(excluding in pension in 1 January 31 December transfer value less director’ s
AVC pension) payment 2006 2006 over the year contributions
Age £ per annum £ per annum £ £ £ £
M Lester
4
66 252,9405,9285,016,0715,100,98984,91884,918
M H Ronald
5
65 361,511(48,502)3,623,9813,016,352(607,629)(607,629)
4 Under the rules of the UK schemes, Michael Lester commenced his pension in 2002 having reached normal retirement age. There has been no further benefit accrual since retiring
other than pension increases awarded to all pensioner members of the relevant pension schemes. Michael Lester retired from the Board on 31 December 2006.
5 Under the rules of his pension arrangements, the majority of Mark Ronald’s pension commenced in January 2004 when he reached normal retirement age. The pension in payment
includes an accrued pension of $47,914 ($44,839 at 31 December 2005) from the BAE Systems North America Qualified Plan that commenced when he retired from the Board 
on 31 December 2006. The Qualified Plan is a contributory arrangement. Of the pension in payment, $406,322 is payable up to when he reaches age 72 and $253,242 has 
a contingent 50% spouse’s pension. Mark Ronald participated in a Section 401(k) defined contribution arrangement set up for US employees in which the Company matched
employee contributions up to a limit. In 2006 the Company paid contributions of $5,293 (2005 $5,465) into Mark Ronald’s 401(k) arrangement. Mark Ronald’s pension is paid 
in US dollars. Of the change in pension £(50,292) is due to currency movements and £1,790 is due to increases in his accrued pension. In accordance with the plan’s standard
terms the Company will match any contributions made by Mark Ronald in 2007 into his 401(k) arrangement relating to eligible earnings earned in respect of service up to
31 December 2006 up to the federal limit in each year (currently $15,000).
Richard Lapthorne, a former director, has an unfunded pension arrangement. In 2006 the Company paid Richard Lapthorne £90,078 (2005 £87,605) in respect of this arrangement.
Remuneration report BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 66
Corporate Governance
Directors’ report
Directors’ report
The directors of BAE Systems plc present their
report, together with the financial statements,
for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Principal activities
BAE Systems is a group delivering, through
its wholly owned subsidiaries and equity
accounted investments, a full range of
products and services for air, land and naval
forces, as well as advanced electronics,
information technology solutions and
customer support services. Further details
of the principal activities of the Group and
likely future developments in the business
are set out in the operating and financial
review on pages 2 to 40.
Prior to the sale of its equity accounted
investment in Airbus on 13 October 2006
the Group was involved in the design and
manufacture of commercial aircraft.
Business Review
The information provided in the operating and
financial review on pages 2 to 40 reports on
the activities during the year, post balance
sheet events and likely future developments.
The information in this review constitutes
the business review required under the
Companies Act and forms part of this
Directors' Report.
Research and development
The Group is engaged in a significant
programme of research and development 
in support of the platforms, systems and
services that it provides to its customers.
The programme covers a wide range of 
work and includes performance innovations,
improvements to manufacturing techniques,
and technology to improve the through-life
support of products. A particular priority is
research and development into systems
integrating both platforms and other systems
and also the horizontal integration of
systems. The development and demonstration
of capabilities in networked systems, and
enabling interoperability, is an important area
of focus in both the UK and US. Long-term
research is undertaken through partnerships
with the academic sector and in the Company’s
Advanced Technology Centre and Systems
Engineering Innovation Centre. Application 
of this research is managed by the Group’s
business units through business focused
research and development programmes.
Customers fund directly much of the near-
term product development work undertaken
by the Company. Note 4 to the Group
accounts details the amounts spent on
research and development in 2006.
Office of Fair Trading undertakings
As a consequence of the merger between
British Aerospace and the former GEC-
Marconi Electronics Systems businesses 
in 1999, the Company is required to comply
with undertakings given to the Secretary of
State for Trade and Industry. Compliance 
with the undertakings is monitored by an
independent compliance officer. Further
information regarding the undertakings
and the contact details of the compliance
officer may be obtained through the Company
Secretary at the Company’s registered office.
Corporate governance
Disclosures on the application of the principles
and compliance with the provisions of the
UK’s Combined Code can be found on
pages 44 to 47.
Treasury policy
The Group’s treasury activities are overseen
by the Treasury Review Management
Committee (TRMC). Two executive directors are
members of the TRMC, including the Group
Finance Director who chairs the committee.
The TRMC also has representatives with
legal and taxation expertise.
The Group operates a centralised treasury
department that is accountable to the TRMC
for managing treasury activities in accordance
with the framework of treasury policies and
guidelines approved by the Board. An
overriding policy is that trading in financial
instruments for the purpose of profit
generation is prohibited, with all financial
instruments being used solely for risk
management purposes.
Other key policies are:
– to maintain a balance between continuity 
of funding and flexibility through the use 
of borrowings with a range of maturities,
currencies and fixed/floating rates of
interest reflecting the Group risk profile;
– to maintain adequate undrawn committed
borrowing facilities;
– to mitigate the exposure to interest rate
fluctuations on borrowings and deposits by
utilising interest rate swaps, interest rate
options and forward rate agreements; and
– to hedge all material firm transactional
exposures as well as to manage anticipated
economic cash flows over the medium term.
Within this policy framework the treasury
department’s principal responsibilities are:
– to manage the Group’s core funding 
and liquidity;
– to manage exposure to interest rate
movements;
– to manage exposure to foreign currency
movements;
– to control and monitor bank credit risk 
and credit capacity utilisation; and
– to manage the Group’s relationship with
debt capital market investors, banks and
rating agencies.
The treasury department transacts with an
extensive range of counterparty banks and
financial institutions, and adopts a systematic
approach to the control and monitoring of
counterparty credit risk. A credit limit is
allocated to each counterparty with reference
to its relevant credit rating. For internal credit
risk purposes, all transactions are marked-to-
market and the resultant exposure is
allocated against the credit limit.
The Company, through its internal audit
department, monitors compliance against
the principal policies and guidelines
(including the utilisation of credit) and any
exceptions found are reported to the TRMC.
Further disclosure on financial instruments
is set out in note 32 to the Group accounts.
Supplier payment policy
It is Group policy that each business unit is 
in compliance with local best practice in the
country of operation in respect of supplier
payment policies. Agreed payment schedules
are maintained provided that the supplier
complies with all relevant terms and conditions.
It is Group policy that changes to the agreed
payment schedule are only made with the
prior agreement of the supplier.
The average number of days credit provided
in 2006 by suppliers was 37 days (2005
38 days). www.baesystems.com 67
Directors’ report 
Employment
The Group has a programme in place to assist
employees to achieve their full potential and
to develop the skills necessary to meet the
current and future expectations of our
customers. The programme focuses on both
personal and technological development. All
employment policies include a commitment to
equal opportunities regardless of sex, race,
colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, age
or disability, subject only to considerations 
of national security. The Group’s policy is 
to provide, wherever possible, employment
opportunities for disabled people and to
ensure that disabled people joining the Group
and employees who become disabled whilst
in our employment benefit from training and
career development opportunities. The Group
has put into place a number of ways of
consulting with employees and providing
them with information on the performance 
of the Group and other matters that affect
them. The effectiveness of the communication
process is assessed regularly with the aim 
of ensuring continual improvement so as to
provide employees with the information they
want by the most effective means. 
Employees are actively encouraged to
become shareholders in the Company by 
way of employee share schemes.
Honours
In the UK, the following individuals were
honoured in Her Majesty the Queen’s 2006
Birthday Honours and 2007 New Year
Honours lists:
MBE: David Armstrong
Philip Jones
Alan Smith
Dr Trevor Taylor
Bernard Waldron
Share capital
As at 21 February 2007, the Company had
been advised of the following significant
interests in the issued ordinary share capital
of the Company:
Barclays PLC: 3.98%
Capital Group Companies, Inc.: 5.9462%
FMR Corp and 
Fidelity International Limited: 3.96%
Franklin Resources, Inc.
and affiliates: 4.9246%
Legal and General Group Plc: 3.45%
The Company’s Articles of Association contain
provisions to the effect that no foreign
person, or foreign persons acting in concert,
can have an interest in more than 15% of 
the Company’s issued ordinary share capital.
At the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held
on 4 May 2006 the Company was given
authority to purchase up to 321,987,720 of
its ordinary shares. The authority will expire
at the AGM held in 2007. In connection with
the disposal of its interest in Airbus, the
Company had stated its intention to return
up to £500m to ordinary shareholders by way
of on-market purchases of ordinary shares
using authorities granted at the 2006 AGM
and to hold the repurchased shares initially
in Treasury. The Company commenced this
buyback programme on 26 October 2006
and, as at the date of this report, had
repurchased 41,695,000 of its ordinary
shares. A special resolution will be put to
shareholders at this year’s AGM to renew
the authority to make market purchases of
the Company's shares up to a maximum of
10% of the share capital of the Company.
Results and dividends
Profit for the year was £1,639m (2005
£555m). The directors propose a final dividend
of 6.9p per ordinary share, amounting to
£224m (2005 £203m), which together with
the interim dividend, amounts to a total
annual dividend of 11.3p per ordinary 
share (2005 10.3p). 
Charitable donations
During 2006, the amount donated for
charitable purposes in the UK was £1m
(2005 £1.2m). Further details of the
Company’s charitable activities are set 
out on page 40.
Political donations
No political donations were made in 2006.
Directors
The names of the current directors appear
on pages 42 to 43. 
All of the current directors served as
directors of the Company throughout the year
ended 31 December 2006 with the exception
of Sir Nigel Rudd who was appointed as a
non-executive director of the Company on
10 September 2006, Ian King who was
appointed as a director on 1 January 2007
and Walt Havenstein who was appointed as a
director on 2 January 2007. Michael Portillo
served as a director during the period up to
his retirement at the conclusion of the AGM
held on 4 May 2006. In addition, Michael
Lester and Mark Ronald served as directors
throughout the year, and both retired as
directors on 31 December 2006.
The remuneration report is set out on
pages 51 to 65.
Beneficial and non-beneficial interests,
including family interests, in the share capital
of the Company for those persons who were
directors at the end of the financial year are
detailed on page 59. There have been no
changes in such interests in the period from
the year end to 21 February 2007 except 
as declared on page 59.
The Board is not aware of any contract of
significance (other than service contracts or
as disclosed in the remuneration report) in
relation to the Company or its subsidiaries 
in which any director has, or has had, any
material interest.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has entered into deeds of
indemnity with all its current directors, which
are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions
for the purpose of the Companies Act 1985.
A similar indemnity has been provided to
Sir Richard Evans, a former director who
retired from the Board on 30 June 2004 
but remains an employee of the Company 
in a part-time customer relationship role.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting 
will be held on 9 May 2007. The Notice of
Annual General Meeting is enclosed with this
annual report and details the resolutions to
be proposed at the meeting. These include
special resolutions for the disapplication of
pre-emption rights pursuant to section 89 of
the Companies Act 1985 and for amendments
to the Articles of Association to incorporate
provisions concerning electronic
communications with shareholders.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc, the auditors for the
Company, have indicated their willingness to
continue in office and a resolution proposing
their re-appointment will be put to the Annual
General Meeting.
The directors who held office at the date 
of approval of this Directors’ Report confirm
that, so far as they are each aware, there is
no relevant audit information of which the
Company’s auditors are unaware; and each
director has taken all the steps that he/she
ought to have taken to make himself/herself
aware of any relevant audit information and
to establish that the Company’s auditors 
are aware of that information.
By order of the Board
David Parkes
Company Secretary
21 February 2007 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 68
Corporate Governance
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect 
of the annual report and the financial statements 
Statement of directors’
responsibilities 
The directors are responsible for preparing
the Annual Report and the group and parent
company financial statements, in accordance
with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to
prepare group and parent company financial
statements for each financial year. Under
that law the directors are required to prepare
the group financial statements in accordance
with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and
have elected to prepare the parent company
financial statements in accordance with UK
Accounting Standards. 
The group financial statements are required
by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU 
to present fairly the financial position and
performance of the group; the Companies Act
1985 provides in relation to such financial
statements that references in the relevant
part of that Act to financial statements giving
a true and fair view are references to their
achieving a fair presentation. 
The parent company financial statements are
required by law to give a true and fair view of
the state of affairs of the parent company. 
In preparing each of the group and parent
company financial statements, the directors
are required to: 
– select suitable accounting policies and
then apply them consistently; 
– make judgements and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent; 
– for the group financial statements, 
state whether they have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU; 
– for the parent company financial statements,
state whether applicable UK Accounting
Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the parent company financial
statements; and 
– prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the group
and the parent company will continue 
in business. 
The directors are responsible for keeping
proper accounting records that disclose with
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the parent company and enable
them to ensure that its financial statements
comply with the Companies Act 1985. 
They have general responsibility for taking
such steps as are reasonably open to 
them to safeguard the assets of the 
group and to prevent and detect fraud 
and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, 
the directors are also responsible for
preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’
Remuneration Report and Corporate
Governance Statement that comply 
with that law and those regulations.  www.baesystems.com 69
Financial statements
Contents
71 Independent auditors’ report
72 Consolidated financial statements
76 Notes to the Group accounts
115 Company balance sheet
116 Notes to the Company accounts
124 Five year summary
Financial statements Financial statements
Financial statements 
Index to the accounts 
70 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
Index to the Group accounts Note Page Index to the Company accounts Note Page
Independent auditors’ report 71 Accounting policies 1 116
Accounting policies 1 76 Company balance sheet 115
Acquisition of subsidiaries 31 111 Contingent liabilities and commitments 11 121
Changes in accounting policies 2 80Creditors 9 121
Consolidated balance sheet 73 Current asset investments 6 119
Consolidated cash flow statement 74Debtors 5 119
Consolidated income statement 72 Fixed asset investments 3 119
Loans and overdrafts 8 120 Consolidated statement of recognised income and 
expense 
75 Other financial assets and liabilities 7 120
Contingent liabilities and commitments 24 104 Other information 15 123
Disposals 9 88 Provisions for liabilities and charges 10 121
Disposal groups 19 96Reserves 13 122
Dividends 30 111 Share capital 12 121
Earnings per share 10 89 Statutory reserve 14 123
Employees and directors 7 85Stocks 4 119
Equity accounted investments 14 93 Tangible fixed assets 2 118
Events after the balance sheet date 35 114 
Finance costs 6 84 
Financial risk management 32 111 
Five year summary 124 
Group entities 34 114 
Intangible assets 11 90 
Inventories 18 96 
Investment property 13 92 
Loans and overdrafts 20 97 
Net cash/(debt) as defined by the Group 29 110 
Operating costs 4 83 
Other financial assets and liabilities 17 96 
Other income 5 84 
Other investments 15 94 
Property, plant and equipment 12 91 
Provisions 23 103 
Reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves 27 109 
Reconciliation of operating business cash flow 28 110 
Related party transactions 33 113 
Retirement benefit obligations 22 99 
Segmental analysis 3 81 
Share-based payments 26 106 
Share capital 25 105 
Tax 8 85 
Trade and other payables 21 98 
Trade and other receivables 16 95 
   Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report to the members of BAE Systems plc 
  www.baesystems.com 71 
We have audited the group and parent company financial statements 
(the ‘financial statements’) of BAE Systems plc for the year ended 
31 December 2006 which comprise the Consolidated Income 
Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, 
the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement 
of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes. These 
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting 
policies set out therein. We have also audited the information  
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having 
been audited. 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body,  
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company’s members those matters we are required to state to  
them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the company and the company’s members  
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions  
we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and 
the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law  
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the EU, and for preparing the parent company financial 
statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report in accordance 
with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of 
Directors’ Responsibilities on page 68.  
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part  
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance 
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements 
give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and 
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 
and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the  
IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the 
information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the 
financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ Report 
includes that specific information presented in the Operating and 
Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review 
section of the Directors’ Report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has  
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all  
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration  
and other transactions is not disclosed.  
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects  
the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not 
required to consider whether the board’s statements on internal 
control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the group’s corporate governance procedures  
or its risk and control procedures. 
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report  
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial 
statements. We consider the implications for our report if we 
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material 
inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our responsibilities  
do not extend to any other information. 
Basis of audit opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. 
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant 
to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and  
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It  
also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and 
judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial 
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to the group’s and company’s circumstances, consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed. 
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 
information and explanations which we considered necessary in 
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. 
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the 
presentation of information in the financial statements and the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. 
Opinion 
In our opinion: 
– the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of  
the group’s affairs as at 31 December 2006 and of its profit  
for the year then ended; 
– the group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the  
IAS Regulation; 
– the parent company financial statements give a true and fair 
view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice, of the state of the parent company’s affairs as at  
31 December 2006; 
– the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and 
– the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with 
the financial statements.  
KPMG Audit Plc 
Chartered Accountants  
Registered Auditor  
London 
21 February 2007  Financial statements
Consolidated income statement 
for the year ended 31 December 
72 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
Notes
2006
£m
Total 
2006 
£m  
Restated
1
2005 
£m 
Restated
1
Total 
2005 
£m 
Continuing operations   
Combined sales of Group and equity accounted investments 3 13,765  12,581
Less: share of equity accounted investments 3 (1,432)  (1,562)
Revenue 3 12,333  11,019
Operating costs 4 (11,763)  (10,579)
Other income 5 371  247
Group operating profit excluding amortisation and impairment  
of intangible assets 1,080  809
Amortisation 11 (105)   (77)
Impairment 11 (34)   (45)
Group operating profit 941  687
Share of results of equity accounted investments excluding finance costs  
and taxation expense 127  100
Financial income of equity accounted investments 21  8
Taxation expense of equity accounted investments (35)   (34)
Share of results of equity accounted investments 14 113  74
Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,  
finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) 1,207  909
Amortisation (105)   (77)
Impairment (34)   (45)
Financial income of equity accounted investments 21  8
Taxation expense of equity accounted investments (35)   (34)
Operating profit 3 1,054  761
Finance costs 6  
Financial income 1,330  1,224
Financial expense (1,525)   (1,428)
 (195)  (204)
Profit before taxation 859  557
Taxation expense 8  
UK taxation (97)   (37)
Overseas taxation (116)   (76)
 (213)  (113)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 646  444
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 9 993  111
Profit for the year 1,639  555
Attributable to:   
 BAE Systems shareholders 1,636  553
 Minority interests 3  2
 1,639  555
   
Earnings per share 10  
Continuing operations:   
 Basic earnings per share 19.9p  13.9p
 Diluted earnings per share 19.8p  14.1p
Discontinued operations:   
 Basic earnings per share 30.8p  3.5p
 Diluted earnings per share 29.4p  3.3p
Total:   
 Basic earnings per share 50.7p  17.4p
 Diluted earnings per share 49.2p  17.4p
1  restated following the sale of Airbus SAS (note 9) 
  Financial statements
Consolidated balance sheet 
as at 31 December 
  www.baesystems.com 73 
Notes  
2006 
£m 
2005
£m
Non-current assets    
Intangible assets 11  7,595 8,217
Property, plant and equipment 12  1,746 1,704
Investment property 13  123 218
Equity accounted investments 14  671 1,721
Other investments 15  11 9
Other receivables 16  569 912
Other financial assets 17  51 65
Deferred tax assets 8  1,077 1,331
   11,843 14,177
Current assets    
Inventories 18  395 485
Trade and other receivables including amounts due from customers for contract work 16  2,253 1,877
Current tax   3 20
Other investments 15  503 634
Other financial assets 17  50 54
Cash and cash equivalents   3,100 2,581
   6,304 5,651
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 19  – 407
   6,304 6,058
Total assets 3  18,147 20,235
Non-current liabilities    
Loans 20  (2,776) (3,534)
Trade and other payables 21  (465) (432)
Retirement benefit obligations 22  (2,499) (4,101)
Other financial liabilities 17  (45) (45)
Deferred tax liabilities 8  (15) (23)
Provisions 23  (271) (375)
   (6,071) (8,510)
Current liabilities    
Loans and overdrafts 20  (334) (905)
Trade and other payables 21  (6,717) (7,006)
Other financial liabilities 17  (50) (81)
Current tax   (417) (316)
Provisions 23  (424) (343)
   (7,942) (8,651)
Liabilities directly associated with non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 19  – (270)
   (7,942) (8,921)
Total liabilities 3  (14,013) (17,431)
Net assets   4,134 2,804
Capital and reserves    
Issued share capital 25, 27  81 80
Share premium 27  841 782
Equity option of convertible preference shares 27  76 78
Other reserves 27  4,330 4,720
Retained earnings 27  (1,211) (2,872)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent   4,117 2,788
Minority interests 27  17 16
Total equity   4,134 2,804
Approved by the Board on 21 February 2007 and signed on its behalf by: 
M J Turner G W Rose 
Chief Executive Group Finance Director  Financial statements
Consolidated cash flow statement 
for the year ended 31 December 
74 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
Notes  
2006 
£m 
Restated
1
2005 
£m 
Profit for the year    
 Continuing operations   646 444
 Discontinued operations   993 111
   1,639 555
Taxation expense (includes £4m (2005 £1m) from discontinued operations)   217 114
Share of results of equity accounted investments (includes £70m (2005 £139m) from 
discontinued operations)   (183) (213)
Net finance costs (includes income £2m (2005 expense £3m) from discontinued operations)   193 207
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment   422 524
(Gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4,5  (60) 2
Gain on disposal of investment property 5  (84) (43)
(Gain)/loss on disposal of business – continuing operations 4,5  (13) 4
(Gain)/loss on disposal of business – discontinued operations 9  (925) 8
Impairment of other investments 15  2 2
Cost of equity-settled employee share schemes   21 16
Movements in provisions   47 99
Decrease in liabilities for retirement benefit obligations   (834) (98)
Decrease/(increase) in working capital:    
 Inventories   28 54
 Trade and other receivables   (187) (4)
 Trade and other payables   495 872
Cash inflow from operating activities   778 2,099
Interest paid   (315) (213)
Interest element of finance lease rental payments   (11) (17)
Taxation paid   (85) (27)
Net cash inflow from operating activities   367 1,842
Dividends received from equity accounted investments (including £88m (2005 £64m) from 
discontinued operations)   145 88
Interest received   139 99
Purchases of property, plant and equipment   (419) (318)
Capital expenditure on investment property   – (12)
Purchases of intangible assets   (27) (17)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment   135 30
Proceeds from sale of investment property   174 54
Proceeds from sale of non-current other investments   1 30
Purchase of non-current other investments 15  (5) (17)
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings 31  (12) (2,262)
Net cash acquired with subsidiary undertakings   – 128
Purchase of equity accounted investments   (4) –
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary undertakings   174 460
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of with subsidiary undertakings   (40) 1
Proceeds from sale of equity accounted investments 9  1,212 125
Proceeds from sale of Exchange Property 15  557 –
Net proceeds from (purchase)/sale of other deposits/securities   (468) 45
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities   1,562 (1,566)
Capital element of finance lease rental payments   (45) (89)
Proceeds from issue of share capital 27  53 373
Purchase of treasury shares 27  (112) –
Purchase of own shares by ESOP 27  (12) –
Equity dividends paid 30  (346) (315)
Dividends paid on preference shares   (20) (21)
Cash inflow from loans   66 1,005
Cash outflow from repayment of loans   (921) (357)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities   (1,337) 596
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents   592 872
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January   2,491 1,650
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents   (9) (31)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December   3,074 2,491
Comprising:  Cash and cash equivalents   3,100 2,581
 Overdrafts   (26) (90)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December   3,074 2,491
1  restated following the sale of Airbus SAS (note 9) Financial statements
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 
for the year ended 31 December 
  www.baesystems.com 75 
Notes  
2006 
£m 
2005
£m
Currency translation on foreign currency net investments:    
 Subsidiaries   (162) 53
 Equity accounted investments 14  (26) (23)
Amounts credited/(charged) to hedging reserve   221 (688)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension schemes:    
 Subsidiaries   692 (652)
 Equity accounted investments   72 (72)
Current tax on items taken directly to equity 8  21 (3)
Deferred tax on items taken directly to equity:    
 Subsidiaries 8  (227) 193
 Equity accounted investments   (92) 276
Recycling of cumulative currency translation on disposal:    
 Continuing operations   3 –
 Discontinued operations 9  11 –
Recycling of cumulative net hedging reserve on disposal – discontinued operations 9  (448) –
Net income/(expense) recognised directly in equity   65 (916)
Profit for the year   1,639 555
Total recognised income and expense   1,704 (361)
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39   – 422
   1,704 61
Attributable to:    
 Equity shareholders   1,701 (363)
 Minority interests   3 2
   1,704 (361)
  Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts 
76 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
1. Accounting policies  
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these 
consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless 
otherwise stated.  
Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements of BAE Systems plc have  
been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International  
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), International Financial  
Reporting Interpretations Committee interpretations (IFRICs)  
and the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting 
under IFRS. 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds 
sterling and, unless stated otherwise, rounded to the nearest million. 
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as 
modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets  
and financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative 
instruments) at fair value through profit or loss. 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS 
requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and 
judgements. An analysis and explanation of the critical accounting 
estimates and judgements used in producing this set of financial 
statements is made in the Operating and Financial Review on 
pages 29 and 30. 
Basis of consolidation 
The financial statements of the Group consolidate the results of the 
Company and its subsidiary entities, and include its share of its joint 
ventures’ and associates’ results accounted for under the equity 
method, all of which are prepared to 31 December. 
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group. Control is the power 
to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to 
obtain benefits from its activities. Subsidiaries include the special 
purpose entities that the Group transacted through for the provision 
of guarantees in respect of residual values and head lease and 
finance payments on certain regional aircraft sold. 
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the 
acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of the acquisition 
is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments 
issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, 
plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a 
business combination are measured initially at their fair values at 
the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the 
fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired 
is recorded as goodwill. The results of such subsidiaries are included 
in the consolidated income statement from the date of acquisition, 
up to the date of disposal. 
An entity is regarded as a joint venture if the Group has joint control 
over its operating and financial policies. An entity is regarded as an 
associate if the Group has significant influence, but not control, over 
its operating and financial policies. Joint ventures and associates 
are accounted for under the equity method where the Group’s 
income statement includes its share of their profit and losses and 
the Group’s balance sheet includes its share of their net assets. 
Where the Group contributes a business, or other non-monetary 
assets for an interest in a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, 
such transactions are recorded so that the reduction in ownership  
of the business being contributed is accounted for as a disposal 
while the increased interest in the enlarged Group or new interest 
in the business contributed by other parties to the transaction are 
accounted for as an acquisition. Fair values are applied to those 
operations which are subject to the exchange and which have not 
previously been held within the Group. Any loss or realised gain 
resulting from the transaction is recorded in the income statement 
while any unrealised gain is eliminated against the investment. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible 
assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates  
is included in the carrying value of equity accounted investments. 
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less 
accumulated impairment losses. Gains and losses on the disposal 
of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the 
entity sold. 
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of 
impairment testing. 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to  
IFRS (1 January 2004) has been retained at the previous UK GAAP 
amounts, as any amounts related to intangible assets that would 
have been recorded in the acquired entity if it had applied IAS 38 
Intangible Assets at the date it was acquired by the Group were 
considered immaterial, after being tested for impairment at that 
date. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 
has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any 
subsequent profit or loss on disposal. 
Impairment 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets are reviewed at each 
balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of 
impairment as required by IAS 36 Impairment of Assets (IAS 36).  
If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is 
estimated. For intangible assets that are not yet available for use, 
and goodwill, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance 
sheet date. 
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of 
an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. 
The recoverable amount of assets carried at amortised cost is 
calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows, 
discounted at appropriate pre-tax discount rates. Receivables with  
a short-term duration are not discounted. 
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair 
value less cost to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, 
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present  
value using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate. 
These calculations use cash flow projections based on the Group’s 
Integrated Business Plan and include a terminal value based on  
the projections for the final year of that plan. This is considered 
appropriate due to the long-term nature of the defence industry.  
A pre-tax discount rate of 8.11% has been used in discounting the 
projected pre-tax cash flows. 
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash 
inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-
generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
An impairment loss in respect of assets, other than goodwill,  
carried at amortised cost is reversed if the subsequent increase  
in recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event 
occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. An impairment 
loss in respect of an equity investment classified as available for 
sale is not reversed through profit or loss. An impairment loss in 
respect of goodwill is not reversed. An impairment loss in respect of 
other assets is reversed if there has been a change in the estimate 
used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is 
reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does  
not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, 
net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had  
been recognised.  Financial statements
 
  www.baesystems.com 77 
1. Accounting policies (continued) 
Revenue and profit recognition 
Sales include the Group’s net share of sales of joint ventures and 
associates. Revenue represents sales made by the Company and its 
subsidiary undertakings, excluding the Group’s share of sales of joint 
ventures and associates. 
Long-term contracts 
Sales are recognised as soon as the Group can reliably estimate  
the outcome of a long-term contract and has obtained the right to 
consideration in exchange for its performance. This is usually when 
title passes or a separately identifiable phase (milestone) of a 
contract or development has been completed and accepted by  
the customer. 
No profit is recognised on contracts until the outcome of the  
contract can be reliably estimated. Profit is calculated by reference 
to reliable estimates of contract revenue and forecast costs after 
making suitable allowances for technical and other risks related to 
performance milestones yet to be achieved. The amount of profit 
attributable to the stage of completion of a long-term contract is 
arrived at by reference to the estimated overall profitability of the 
contract. When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed 
total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately 
as an expense. 
Goods sold and services rendered 
Sales of goods and the provision of services not under a long-term 
contract are recognised in the income statement when the significant 
risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer 
and revenue and costs can be reliably measured. 
Profit is recognised at the time of sale. Sales and profits on 
intercompany trading are generally determined on an arm’s  
length basis. 
Lease income 
Rental income from aircraft operating leases is recognised  
in revenue on a straight-line basis. 
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange 
rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the 
exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. These exchange 
differences are recognised in the consolidated income statement 
unless they qualify for hedge accounting treatment, in which case 
the effective portion is recognised directly in a separate component 
of equity. 
For consolidation purposes the assets and liabilities of overseas 
subsidiary entities, joint ventures and associates are translated  
at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. Income 
statements of such entities are translated at average rates 
of exchange during the year. All resulting exchange differences 
including exchange differences arising from the translation of 
borrowings and other financial instruments designated as hedges  
of such investments are recognised directly in a separate component 
of equity. 
Translation differences that arose before the transition date to  
IFRS (1 January 2004) are presented in equity but not as a separate 
component. When a foreign operation is sold, the cumulative 
exchange differences recognised since 1 January 2004 are 
recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss  
on sale. 
Research and development 
The Group undertakes research and development activities either 
 on its own behalf or on behalf of customers. 
Group funded expenditure on research activities is written off as 
incurred and charged to the income statement. 
Group funded expenditure on development activities applied to a 
plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved 
products and processes, is capitalised as an internally generated 
intangible asset if certain conditions are met. The expenditure 
capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and related 
overheads. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Capitalised 
development expenditure is amortised over the expected life of  
the product.  
Where the research and development activity is performed for 
customers, the revenue arising is recognised in accordance with  
the Group’s revenue recognition policy above. 
Other intangible assets 
Acquired computer software licences for use within the Group are 
capitalised as an intangible asset on the basis of the costs incurred 
to acquire and bring to use the specific software. 
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable 
and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will 
probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one 
year, are recognised as intangible assets. Capitalised software 
development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment losses. Group funded expenditure 
associated with enhancing or maintaining computer software 
programmes for sale is recognised as an expense as incurred. 
Trademarks and licences are stated at historical cost. Trademarks 
and licences have definite useful lives and are carried at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Intangible assets arising from a business combination are amortised 
over their estimated useful lives. 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets. 
The estimated useful lives are as follows: 
Acquired computer software licences  2 to 5 years 
Capitalised software development 2 to 5 years 
Trademarks and licences  up to 20 years 
Other intangibles  up to 10 years 
Property, plant and equipment 
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of self-
constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and 
an appropriate proportion of production overheads. 
Depreciation is provided, normally on a straight-line basis, to  
write off the cost of property, plant and equipment over their 
estimated useful lives to any estimated residual value, using the 
following rates: 
Buildings  up to 50 years, or the lease 
term if shorter 
Research equipment  8 years 
Computing equipment,  
motor vehicles and short life  
works equipment  
3 to 5 years 
Aircraft  up to 15 years, or the lease 
term if shorter 
Other equipment  10 to 15 years, or the project 
life if shorter 
In the Group’s North American businesses, depreciation is normally 
provided on a basis consistent with cost reimbursement profiles under 
US government contracts. Typically this provides for a faster rate  
of depreciation than would otherwise arise on a straight-line basis.  Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
78 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2006 
1. Accounting policies (continued) 
No depreciation is provided on freehold land and assets in the 
course of construction. 
The assets’ residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods 
are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet 
date. Where applicable, useful lives reflect the component 
accounting principle. 
Assets obtained under finance leases are included in property, plant 
and equipment and stated at an amount equal to the lower of the 
fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments  
at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses. 
Investment property 
Land and buildings that are leased to non-group entities are 
classified as investment property. The Group measures investment 
property at its cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated 
impairment losses. 
Depreciation is provided, normally on a straight-line basis, to write 
off the cost of investment property over its estimated useful life  
of up to 50 years. 
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and 
adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. 
Other investments 
The Group determines the classification of its other investments 
at initial recognition depending on the purpose for which the 
investments were acquired. The Group classifies its other 
investments as follows: 
(a) loans and receivables: term deposits, principally comprising funds 
held with banks and other financial institutions are carried at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method;  
(b) at fair value through profit or loss: financial instruments held for 
trading or designated by management on initial recognition. They 
are held at fair value and included in non-current assets unless 
management intends to dispose of the investment within 
12 months of the balance sheet date;  
(c) held to maturity: non-derivative financial assets with fixed or 
determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Group’s 
management has the positive intention and ability to hold to 
maturity. During the year, the Group did not hold any investments 
in this category; 
(d) available-for-sale: investments other than interests in joint 
ventures and associates and term deposits. They are held at fair 
value and included in non-current assets unless management 
intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the 
balance sheet date. 
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised at the date on 
which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Investments 
are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all 
financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss. 
Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash  
flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred 
and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards  
of ownership. 
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in 
the fair value of the investments classified as at fair value through 
profit or loss are included in finance costs in the income statement 
in the period in which they arise. Unrealised gains or losses arising 
from changes in the fair value of investments classified as available-
for-sale are recognised in equity. When investments classified as 
available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value 
adjustments are included in the income statement as gains and 
losses from investment securities within finance costs. 
The fair values of quoted investments are based on bid prices at the 
balance sheet date. 
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost less 
impairment losses. 
Amounts due from customers for contract work include long-term 
contract balances less attributable progress payments. 
Long-term contract balances are stated at cost less provision for any 
anticipated losses. Appropriate provisions for any losses are made  
in the year in which they are first foreseen.  
Progress payments are amounts received from customers in 
accordance with the terms of contracts which specify payments in 
advance of delivery and are credited, as progress payments, against 
any expenditure incurred for the particular contract. Any unexpended 
balance in respect of progress payments is held in trade and other 
payables as customer stage payments or, if the amounts are subject 
to advance payment guarantees unrelated to company performance, 
as cash received on customers’ account. 
Cash received on customers’ account is excluded from net debt as 
defined by the Group. 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, including all relevant 
overhead expenditure, and net realisable value.  
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, call deposits  
and other short-term liquid investments with original maturities of 
three months or less and which are subject to an insignificant risk  
of change in value. For the purpose of the cash flow statement,  
cash and cash equivalents also includes bank overdrafts that are 
repayable on demand. 
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as assets held 
for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less 
costs to sell if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally 
through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. 
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly 
probable and expected to be completed within a year from the 
classification. In addition, the asset (or disposal group) is to be 
available for immediate sale in its present condition and is actively 
being marketed at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current 
fair value. 
Loans and overdrafts 
Loans and overdrafts are recognised initially at fair value, less 
attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
loans and overdrafts are stated at amortised cost or fair value where 
hedge accounting has been adopted, with any difference between 
cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement 
over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis. 
Borrowing costs 
Borrowing costs in connection with the acquisition or construction  
of items of property, plant and equipment, investment property and 
inventories are not capitalised. 
  Financial statements
 
  www.baesystems.com 79 
1. Accounting policies (continued) 
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are stated at their cost. 
Leases 
Assets obtained under finance leases are included in property, plant 
and equipment at cost and are depreciated over their useful lives, or 
the lease term, whichever is the shorter. Future instalments under 
such leases, net of financing costs, are included within loans. Rental 
payments are apportioned between the finance element, which is 
included in finance costs, and the capital element, which reduces 
the outstanding obligation for future instalments, so as to give a 
constant charge on the outstanding obligation. 
Payments, including any incentives, made under operating leases are 
recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term. 
Assets held for leasing out under operating leases are included in 
property, plant and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and accumulated impairment losses. Rental income is recognised in 
revenue on a straight-line basis. 
Assets leased out under finance leases cease to be recognised in 
the balance sheet after the inception of the lease. Instead, a finance 
lease receivable, representing the discounted future lease payments 
to be received from the lessee plus any discounted unguaranteed 
residual value, is recorded as long-term financial assets. Interest 
income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, taking 
into account the effective yield on the asset. 
Financial instruments 
The global nature of the Group’s business means it is exposed to 
volatility in currency exchange rates. In order to protect itself against 
currency fluctuations, the Group’s policy is to hedge all material firm 
transactional exposures as well as to manage anticipated economic 
cash flow exposures over the medium term. The Group also uses 
interest rate derivative instruments to manage the Group’s exposure 
to interest rate fluctuations on its borrowings and deposits by varying 
the proportion of fixed rate debt relative to floating rate debt over the 
forward time horizon. The Group aims to achieve hedge accounting 
treatment for all derivatives that hedge material foreign currency 
exposures and those interest rate exposures where hedge 
accounting can be achieved. 
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold 
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, 
derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for 
as trading instruments. 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at cost. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, such instruments are stated at fair 
value at the balance sheet date. Where a derivative financial 
instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows 
associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable 
forecast transaction (income or expense), the effective portion of any 
change in the fair value of the instrument is recognised directly in 
reserves. Amounts recognised in reserves are recycled from reserves 
and recognised in the income statement when the underlying 
transaction affects profit or loss. The ineffective portion of any 
change in the fair value of the instrument is recognised in the 
income statement immediately. Where a derivative financial 
instrument is designated as a fair value hedge, changes in the fair 
value of the underlying asset or liability, and gains and losses on the 
derivative instrument, are recognised in the income statement for 
the period. Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments that 
do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income 
statement for the period.  
Tax 
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and 
deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly  
in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the 
year, using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet 
date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on 
temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used  
for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not 
provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial 
recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor 
taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries 
to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable 
future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the 
expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount 
of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will  
be realised. 
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of  
dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to  
pay the related dividend. 
Provisions 
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has  
a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, 
it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to 
settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated. If 
the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the 
expected future cash flows at an appropriate pre-tax discount rate. 
A provision for warranties is recognised when the underlying products 
and services are sold. The provision is based on historical warranty 
data and a weighting of all possible outcomes against their 
associated probabilities. 
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group  
has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and  
the restructuring has either commenced or has been publicly 
announced. Future operating costs are not provided for. 
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected 
benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than 
the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract. 
Provisions for losses on contracts are recorded when it becomes 
probable that total estimated contract costs will exceed total 
contract revenues. Such provisions are recorded as write downs  
of work in progress for that portion of the work which has already 
been completed, and as liability provisions for the remainder. Losses 
are determined on the basis of estimated results on completion of 
contracts and are updated regularly. 
Employee benefits: 
Pension obligations 
Group companies operate various pension plans. The Group has 
both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.  
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans 
are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.  Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
80 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2006 
1. Accounting policies (continued) 
For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing benefits is 
determined periodically by independent actuaries and charged to the 
income statement in the period in which those benefits are earned 
by the employees. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in 
the period in which they occur, and are recognised in the statement 
of recognised income and expense. Past service cost is recognised 
immediately to the extent the benefits are already vested, or 
otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average 
period until the benefits become vested. 
The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet 
represents the present value of the defined benefit obligations as 
adjusted for unrecognised past service cost and as reduced by the 
fair value of scheme assets. 
Long-term service benefits: 
Equity and equity-related compensation benefits 
The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share options to 
employees. In accordance with the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-
based Payments (IFRS 2), the Group has applied IFRS 2 to all equity-
settled share options granted after 7 November 2002 that were 
unvested as of 1 January 2005 and all cash-settled options 
outstanding at the balance sheet date. 
As explained in note 26, equity-settled share options are measured 
at fair value at the date of grant using an option pricing model.  
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period, based on the Group’s estimate of the number of shares that 
will actually vest. 
Cash-settled share options are measured at fair value at the balance 
sheet date using an option pricing model. The Group recognises  
a liability at the balance sheet date based on these fair values,  
and taking into account the estimated number of the options that 
will actually vest and the relative completion of the vesting period. 
Changes in the value of this liability are recognised in the income 
statement for the year. 
Preference share capital 
The Group has in issue 7.75p (net) cumulative redeemable 
preference shares of 25p each that are convertible into the Group’s 
ordinary shares of 2.5p each at the option of the holder on 31 May 
in any of the years up to 2007, on the basis of 0.47904 ordinary 
shares for every preference share. As a result of the share 
repurchases during 2006, the conversion rate has decreased to 
0.47554 ordinary shares for every preference share at 31 December 
2006. In accordance with the Articles of Association the preference 
share conversion rate will be adjusted further as a result of share 
repurchases made after 31 December 2006. From 1 July 2007 to 
1 January 2010, the Group may redeem any outstanding shares at 
100p per share, together with any arrears and accruals of dividends. 
In accordance with IAS 32 the preference shares are considered  
a compound financial instrument and accordingly, have been split 
into an underlying debt instrument, classified within loans and 
overdrafts, and an equity conversion option, classified within equity. 
The underlying debt instrument is presented on an amortised  
cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the 
preference shares. 
The equity conversion option is presented at its historic fair  
value, based on the date of original issue of the preference shares. 
On conversion of a preference share into ordinary shares, the 
attributable amount of the equity component is reclassified to share 
capital and share premium. From 1 July 2007, the option to convert 
into ordinary shares is extinguished, and accordingly the remaining 
balance on the equity conversion option will be transferred to the 
retained earnings reserve. 
Dividends thereon are recognised in the income statement as 
finance costs. 
Dividends 
Equity dividends on ordinary share capital are recognised as  
a liability in the period in which they are declared.  
 
2. Changes in accounting policies 
With effect from 1 January 2006 the Group has adopted IFRIC 4, 
Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease. However  
the interpretation does not have a significant impact on the Group.  
Amendments to published standards effective in 2006 
The Group early adopted the following amendments (effective for 
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006) in the 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005: 
– Amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benefits – Actuarial gains and 
losses, group plans and disclosure; 
– Amendment to IAS 21, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange 
Rates; 
– Amendment to IAS 39, Cash flow hedge accounting for forecast 
intra-group transactions; and 
– Amendment to IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement – the fair value option. 
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2006  
The following standards, amendments and interpretations to 
published standards are effective for accounting periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2006: 
– IFRS 6, Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources; 
– IFRIC 5, Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, 
Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds; and 
– IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from participating in a specific market – 
Waste electrical and electronic equipment. 
None of these have any significant impact on the Group’s accounts.  
New standards and interpretations to existing standards that are not 
yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group  
The following standards, amendments and interpretations to  
existing standards have been published, are relevant to the Group’s 
operations and are mandatory for the Group’s accounting period 
beginning on 1 January 2007 or later periods but have not been  
early adopted by the Group: 
– Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements – 
capital disclosures (effective for 2007). This introduces new 
requirements for capital disclosures and as such will have no 
impact on the consolidated income statement or balance sheet.  
– IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures (effective for 2007). This 
introduces new disclosures for financial instruments and as such 
will have no impact on the income statement or balance sheet.  
– IFRS 8, Operating Segments (effective for 2009). This requires 
that entities adopt the ‘management approach’ to reporting the 
financial performance of its operating segments. The impact  
on the Group’s accounts is under review in light of the recent 
announcements about the revised group structure from 1 January 
2007, but the standard is concerned with disclosure only and  
as such will have no impact on the income statement or balance 
sheet. 
– IFRIC 7, Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29, IFRIC 8, 
Scope of IFRS 2, IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives 
and IFRIC 10, Interim financial reporting and impairment, are all 
effective for 2007. They are not expected to have any significant 
impact on the Group’s accounts.  
– IFRIC 11, IFRS 2, Group and treasury share transactions and 
IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements, are both effective  
for 2008. They are not expected to have any significant impact  
on the Group’s accounts.   Financial statements
 
 
  www.baesystems.com 81 
3. Segmental analysis 
Analysis by business group 
Combined sales of 
Group and equity 
accounted 
investments 
Less:  
sales by equity 
accounted 
investments  
Add:  
sales to equity 
accounted 
investments Revenue 
 
2006
£m
Restated 
2005
£m
2006
£m
Restated 
2005 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Restated 
2005 
£m 
2006
£m
Restated 
2005
£m
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 4,007 3,697 (10) (16) – – 3,997 3,681
Land & Armaments 2,115 1,270 (4) (5) 1 1 2,112 1,266
Programmes 2,927 2,819 (1,202) (1,241) 1,202 1,242 2,927 2,820
Customer Solutions & Support 3,180 2,923 (416) (420) 53 18 2,817 2,521
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 1,748 1,834 (1,225) (1,271) 97 71 620 634
HQ and other businesses 295 471 (8) (7) – – 287 464
 14,272 13,014 (2,865) (2,960) 1,353 1,332 12,760 11,386
Intra-business group sales/revenue (507) (433) – – 80 66 (427) (367)
 13,765 12,581 (2,865) (2,960) 1,433 1,398 12,333 11,019
 
 
Intra-business  
group revenue 
Revenue from  
external customers
 
2006 
£m 
Restated 
2005 
£m 
2006
£m
Restated 
2005
£m
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 92 103 3,905 3,578
Land & Armaments 14 19 2,098 1,247
Programmes 151 84 2,776 2,736
Customer Solutions & Support 108 97 2,709 2,424
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 41 40 579 594
HQ and other businesses 21 24 266 440
 427 367 12,333 11,019
 
EBITA
1
 
Amortisation of 
intangible assets  
Impairment of 
intangible assets 
Business  
group result
2
 
2006
£m
Restated 
2005
£m
2006
£m
Restated 
2005 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Restated 
2005 
£m 
2006
£m
Restated 
2005
£m
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 429 324 (14) (10) (2) (12) 413 302
Land & Armaments 168 42 (66) (43) – – 102 (1)
Programmes 167 133 (6) (5) – – 161 128
Customer Solutions & Support 477 419 (6) (9) – (7) 471 403
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 113 109 (12) (9) – – 101 100
HQ and other businesses (147) (118) (1) (1) (32) (26) (180) (145)
 1,207 909 (105) (77) (34) (45) 1,068 787
Financial income of equity accounted investments    21 8
Taxation expense of equity accounted investments    (35) (34)
Operating profit    1,054 761
Finance costs    (195) (204)
Profit before taxation    859 557
Taxation expense     (213) (113)
Profit for the year from continuing operations    646 444
1 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 
2 the analysis by business group of the share of results of equity accounted investments is provided in note 14  Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
82 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
3. Segmental analysis (continued) 
  
Assets excluding 
intangible assets 
and equity 
accounted 
investments Intangible assets 
Equity accounted 
investments  Total assets Total liabilities 
 
2006
£m
Restated 
2005
£m
2006
£m
Restated 
2005
£m
2006
£m
Restated 
2005 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Restated 
2005 
£m 
2006
£m
Restated 
2005
£m
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 1,360 1,449 4,591 4,797 13 14 5,964 6,260 (1,117) (1,141)
Land & Armaments 697 611 2,208 2,543 1 (3) 2,906 3,151 (787) (733)
Programmes 887 684 202 138 3 3 1,092 825 (2,577) (2,274)
Customer Solutions & Support 848 661 71 177 89 53 1,008 891 (1,741) (1,694)
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 120 151 489 497 565 481 1,174 1,129 (272) (308)
HQ and other businesses 1,211 1,748 34 65 – – 1,245 1,813 (1,416) (2,079)
Discontinued operations
1
 – – – – – 1,173 – 1,173 – –
 5,123 5,304 7,595 8,217 671 1,721 13,389 15,242 (7,910) (8,229)
Disposal groups held for sale  – 407 – (270)
Tax   1,080 1,351 (432) (339)
Retirement benefit obligations  71 20 (2,499) (4,101)
Cash/(debt) as defined by the Group (note 29)  3,607 3,215 (3,172) (4,492)
Consolidated total assets/(liabilities)  18,147 20,235 (14,013) (17,431)
 
 Capital expenditure
2
 
Depreciation  
and amortisation
2
 
 
2006 
£m 
Restated 
2005 
£m 
2006
£m
Restated 
2005
£m
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 107 88 89 80
Land & Armaments 47 33 94 64
Programmes 63 42 59 69
Customer Solutions & Support 181 36 17 24
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 16 15 27 26
HQ and other businesses 124 128 49 64
Discontinued operations
4
 – 5 – 6
 538 347 335 333
Analysis by geographical location 
Customer location  Asset location 
Sales
3
 Revenue  
Carrying value of 
segment assets  Capital expenditure
2
2006
£m
Restated 
2005
£m
2006
£m
Restated 
2005 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2005 
£m 
2006
£m
2005
£m
United Kingdom 2,802 2,849 2,580 2,545 3,544 4,022 165 190
Rest of Europe 2,704 2,892 1,806 1,973 1,197 2,725 66 32
Middle East 1,993 1,658 1,827 1,526 470 145 169 15
United States and Canada 5,402 4,339 5,372 4,301 7,987 8,238 131 102
Asia and Pacific 595 632 532 481 104 68 4 7
Africa, Central and South America 269 211 216 193 87 44 3 1
 13,765 12,581 12,333 11,019 13,389 15,242 538 347
1 discontinued operations represents Airbus, sold during the year (note 9) 
2 includes intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and investment property 
3 combined sales of Group and equity accounted investments 
4 discontinued operations represents the Avionics business sold in 2005 
Analysis of revenue by category 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Sale of goods 3,775 3,466
Construction contracts 6,558 6,173
Services 1,921 1,288
Lease income 66 75
Royalty income 13 17
 12,333 11,019 Financial statements
 
 
  www.baesystems.com 83 
4. Operating costs 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Raw materials and other bought in items 4,169 3,894
Change in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress 153 264
Cost of inventories expensed 4,322 4,158
Staff costs (note 7) 3,868 3,554
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 422 518
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 2
Loss on disposal of businesses 1 12
Other operating charges 3,149 2,335
 11,763 10,579
Included within the analysis of operating costs are the following expenses: 
Lease and sublease payments: 
 Minimum lease payments 84 82
 Contingent rents 1 1
 85 83
Research and development expense including amounts funded under contract 1,248 1,449
Impairment losses recognised in the period on receivables – 19
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates included in operating costs 
2006  2005 
UK
£’000
Overseas 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
UK 
£’000 
Overseas
£’000
Total
£’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts* 1,023 – 1,023 1,110 –1,110
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services    
 The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation* 2,000 2,430 4,430 1,894 2,445 4,339
 Other services pursuant to legislation:     
 Interim Review 500 – 500 355 – 355
 Other including shareholder circular related work 563 22 585 893 2 895
 Further assurance services    
 Advice on accounting matters 52 – 52 813 58 871
 Internal controls 125 – 125 81 – 81
 Due diligence 116 354 470 1,355 168 1,523
 Tax services    
 Compliance 301 773 1,074 150 855 1,005
 Advisory 687 349 1,036 674 595 1,269
 Other services 46 62 108 – 70 70
Total fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates 5,413 3,990 9,403 7,325 4,193 11,518
    
* Total fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for audit services  5,453  5,449
Tax services include tax compliance support and services in relation to the Group’s expatriate employees based around the world.  
The majority of services provided outside the UK were provided in the US. 
Significant one-off costs included in operating costs 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Rationalisation programmes 51 89
 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 14 27
Land & Armaments 17 24
Programmes – –
Customer Solutions & Support 3 21
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 15 14
HQ and other businesses 2 3
 51 89 Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
84 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
5. Other income 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Rental income from operating leases 43 43
Profit on disposal of investment property 84 43
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 61 –
Profit on disposal of businesses 14 8
Management recharges to equity accounted investments 13 22
Amounts recoverable from third parties for items of property, plant and equipment that were impaired – 99
Pension curtailment gains (note 22) 99 –
Other 57 32
 371 247
6. Finance costs 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Interest income 143 123
Net present value adjustments 39 23
Expected return on pension scheme assets 739 632
Net gain on remeasurement of financial instruments 259 159
Net gain on remeasurement of embedded derivatives 3 59
Foreign exchange gains 147 228
Financial income 1,330 1,224
Interest expense: 
 On bank loans and overdrafts (9) (13)
 On finance leases (11) (17)
 On bonds and other financial instruments (277) (253)
 On preference debt (28) (27)
 (325) (310)
Facility fees (4) (10)
Net present value adjustments (31) (25)
Interest charge on pension scheme liabilities (694) (633)
Net loss on remeasurement of investments at fair value through profit or loss (42) (75)
Net loss on remeasurement of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (172) (217)
Foreign exchange losses (257) (158)
Financial expense (1,525) (1,428)
Net finance costs (195) (204)
Additional analysis of finance costs 
 
2006
£m
Restated 
2005
£m
Finance costs – Group (195) (204)
Finance costs – share of equity accounted investments 21 8
 (174) (196)
Analysed as: 
 Net interest: 
 Interest income 143 123
 Interest expense (325) (310)
 Facility fees (4) (10)
 Net present value adjustments 8 (2)
 Share of equity accounted investments 21 8
 (157) (191)
Other finance costs – Group (17) (5)
 (174) (196) Financial statements
 
 
  www.baesystems.com 85 
7. Employees and directors 
The weekly average and year end numbers of employees, excluding those in equity accounted investments, were as follows: 
  Weekly average At year end 
 
2006 
Number 
‘000 
Restated 
2005 
Number 
‘000 
2006
Number
‘000
Restated 
2005
Number
‘000
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 32 30 32 33
Land & Armaments 11 8 12 11
Programmes 17 16 17 16
Customer Solutions & Support 12 12 12 12
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 5 4 4 6
HQ and other businesses 2 3 2 2
Discontinued operations – 1 – –
 79 74 79 80
The aggregate staff costs of Group employees, excluding employees of equity accounted investments, were: 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Wages and salaries 3,274 2,989
Social security costs 271 253
Share options granted to directors and employees – equity-settled 21 16
Share options granted to directors and employees – cash-settled 47 61
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 57 41
Pension costs – defined benefit plans  196 192
US healthcare plans  2 2
 3,868 3,554
The Group considers key management personnel as defined under IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to be the members of the Group’s 
Executive Committee and the Company’s non-executive directors. Fuller disclosures on directors’ remuneration are set out in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 65. Total emoluments for directors and other key management personnel are £23,095,000  
(2005 £16,354,000).  
8. Tax 
Taxation expense 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Current taxation expense 
UK corporation tax 
 Current tax (91) (105)
 Double tax relief 35 14
 Adjustment in respect of prior years (93) 33
 (149) (58)
Overseas tax charges 
 Current year (91) (91)
 Adjustment in respect of prior years 15 18
 (76) (73)
 (225) (131)
Deferred taxation expense 
UK 
 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 25 (22)
 Adjustment in respect of prior years 27 43
Overseas 
 Origination and reversal of temporary differences (49) 4
 Adjustment in respect of prior years 5 (28)
 Attributable to recoverable deferred tax assets
1
 4 21
 12 18
Taxation expense (213) (113)
1 The recoverable deferred tax asset of £4m (2005 £21m) arises in Australia primarily in respect of tax losses previously unrecognised, but which have now been recognised to the 
extent it is probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.  Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
86 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
8. Tax (continued) 
The following table shows a reconciliation from the theoretical income tax expense, using the UK corporation tax rate, to the reported tax 
expense. The reconciling items represent, besides the impact of tax rate differentials and changes, non-taxable benefits or non-deductible 
expenses arising from differences between the local tax base and the reported financial statements. 
 
2006
£m 
Restated
2005
£m 
Profit before tax 859 557 
   
UK corporation tax rate 30.0% 30.0%
Expected income tax expense (258) (167)
Expenses not tax effected (50) (73)
Income not subject to tax 69 49 
Research and development tax credits 34 39 
Goodwill (9) (15) 
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions (20) (7) 
Chargeable gains – (96) 
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses – 101 
Recoverable deferred tax asset previously unrecognised 4 21 
Current year losses not tax effected (9) (13)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (46) 66 
Adjustments in respect of equity accounted investments 34 22 
Other 38 (40)
Taxation expense (213) (113)
Current tax taken in equity 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Relating to financial instruments (1) (3)
Relating to pensions 22 –
 21 (3)
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 
 
Deferred  
tax assets  
Deferred  
tax liabilities 
Net balance  
at 31 December 
2006
£m
2005 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2005 
£m 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Property, plant and equipment 1 8 (68) (74) (67) (66)
Intangible assets – – (143) (180) (143) (180)
Provisions 261 239 (1) – 260 239
Goodwill – 11 (17) – (17) 11
Pension/retirement plans:    
– deficits 793 1,313 (15) – 778 1,313
– additional contributions 158 – – – 158 –
Share-based payments 82 59 – – 82 59
Financial instruments 25 – – – 25 –
Other items 19 7 (47) (64) (28) (57)
Rolled over capital gains – – (19) (24) (19) (24)
Capital losses carried forward 19 24 – – 19 24
Unremitted overseas earnings – – (1) (27) (1) (27)
Trading losses carried forward 15 16 – – 15 16
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 1,373 1,677 (311) (369) 1,062 1,308
Set off of tax (296) (346) 296 346 – –
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 1,077 1,331 (15) (23) 1,062 1,308 Financial statements
 
 
  www.baesystems.com 87 
8. Tax (continued) 
Movement in temporary differences during the year 
At 
1 January 
2006
£m
Exchange 
movements
£m
Other 
movements 
£m 
Recognised 
in income 
£m 
Recognised
in equity
£m
At 31 
December 
2006
£m
Property, plant and equipment (66) 3 1 (5) – (67)
Intangible assets (180) 15 (8) 30 – (143)
Provisions 239(21)4 38 – 260
Goodwill 11 – – (28) – (17)
Pension/retirement plans:   
– deficits 1,313 (29) 6 (130) (382) 778
– additional contributions – – – 18 140 158
Share-based payments 59 (3) (3) 21 8 82
Financial instruments – – – 18 7 25
Other items (57) (1) 7 23 – (28)
Rolled over capital gains (24) – – 5 – (19)
Capital losses carried forward 24 – – (5) – 19
Unremitted overseas dividends (27) – – 26 – (1)
Trading losses carried forward 16 (1) (1) 1 – 15
 1,308 (37) 6 12 (227) 1,062
 
At 
1 January 
2005
£m
Exchange 
movements
£m
Other 
movements 
£m 
Recognised 
in income 
£m 
Recognised 
in equity
£m
At 31
December
2005
£m
Property, plant and equipment (49) (1) (28) 12 – (66)
Intangible assets (44) (8) (146) 18 – (180)
Provisions 1721816 33 –239
Goodwill 16 2 28 (35) – 11
Pension/retirement plans 1,01027118 (24) 1821,313
Share-based payments 6 – – 30 23 59
Other items (35) 2 (17) 5 (12) (57)
Rolled over capital gains (29) – (1) 6 – (24)
Capital losses carried forward 29 – 1 (6) – 24
Unremitted overseas dividends – – – (27) – (27)
Trading losses carried forward – – 10 6 – 16
 1,076 40 (19) 18 193 1,308
Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Deductible temporary differences 28 13
Capital losses carried forward 60 29
Trading and other losses carried forward 130 148
 218 190
These assets have not been recognised as the precise incidence of future profits in the relevant countries and legal entities cannot be 
sufficiently accurately predicted at this time. 
The aggregate temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and joint ventures for which deferred 
tax liabilities have not been recognised is £500m (2005 £414m).  Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
88 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
9. Disposals 
Discontinued operations 
On 4 October 2006, the Group’s shareholders approved the resolution to dispose of the Group’s shareholding in Airbus SAS to EADS for 
€2.75bn (£1.8bn) in cash. The sale was completed on 13 October 2006. The results of Airbus SAS have been classified as a discontinued 
operation and the 2005 consolidated income statement has been restated accordingly. 
The results from discontinued operations, which have been included in the consolidated income statement, are derived as below. The results 
for the year ended 31 December 2005 include the results of the Avionics business which was disposed of on 29 April 2005. 
 
2006
£m
Restated 
2005
£m
Revenue – 111
Expenses – (127)
EBITA
1
 – (16)
Share of results of equity accounted investments excluding finance costs and taxation expense 144 273
Finance costs of equity accounted investments (25) (19)
Taxation expense of equity accounted investments (49) (115)
Share of results of equity accounted investments 70 139
Financial income/(expense), net 2 (3)
Profit before taxation 72 120
Taxation expense (4) (1)
Profit for the year 68 119
Profit/(loss) on disposal of discontinued operations 925 (8)
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 993 111
The Group’s share of the assets and liabilities of Airbus SAS at the date of disposal were as follows: 
£m
Non-current assets 1,650
Current assets 2,896
Non-current liabilities (2,388)
Current liabilities (1,919)
Share of net assets 239
Goodwill 1,063
Net assets disposed of 1,302
 
Total consideration 1,846
Transaction costs – paid (9)
Transaction costs – accrued (4)
Net assets disposed of (1,302)
Liabilities retained (43)
Cumulative net hedging gain 448
Cumulative currency translation loss (11)
Profit on disposal 925
Proceeds from the sale of equity accounted investments in the consolidated cash flow statement of £1,212m comprise total consideration 
(£1,846m), less transaction costs paid (£9m) and cash deposits from Airbus SAS held by the Group (£625m). 
Continuing operations 
In March 2006 the Group sold its UK Aerostructures business for £80m in cash. The disposal generated a profit of £11m arising from the 
resultant reduction of pension liabilities. 
The sale of the previously wholly-owned Atlas Elektronik GmbH to EADS and ThyssenKrupp for €149m (£103m) was completed on 3 August 2006. 
The disposal generated a profit of £3m. 
Proceeds from the sale of subsidiary undertakings in the consolidated cash flow statement of £174m comprise the disposals of Aerostructures 
(£80m), Atlas Elektronik (£103m) and Atlanta Purchasing Group (£2m), less transaction costs (£11m). 
1 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense  Financial statements
 
 
  www.baesystems.com 89 
10. Earnings per share 
2006 
Restated 
2005 
£m
Basic 
pence per 
share £m
Diluted 
pence per 
share £m 
Basic 
pence per  
share £m
Diluted 
pence per 
 share
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 1,636 1,636 553  553
Interest on the debt instrument of the convertible preference 
shares –28 –  27
Profit for the year after adjusting for interest on the debt 
instrument of the convertible preference shares 1,636 50.7 1,664 49.2 553 17.4 580 17.4
Represented by:   
Continuing operations 643 19.9 671 19.8 442 13.9 469 14.1
Discontinued operations 993 30.8 993 29.4 111 3.5 111 3.3
Add back/(deduct):   
 Net financing (credit)/charge on pensions, post tax (33) (33) 1  1
 Uplift on acquired inventories, post tax –– 34  34
 Market value movements on derivatives, post tax 55 55 3  3
 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, post tax 79 79 60  60
 Impairment of goodwill 32 32 45  45
Underlying earnings 1,769 54.9 1,797 53.1 696 21.9 723 21.7
Represented by:   
 Continuing operations 767 23.8 795 23.5 585 18.4 612 18.4
 Discontinued operations 1,002 31.1 1,002 29.6 111 3.5 111 3.3
 1,769 54.9 1,797 53.1 696 21.9 723 21.7
   
Underlying earnings excluding profit on disposal of  
Airbus SAS (£925m) 844 26.2 872 25.8 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Represented by:   
 Continuing operations 767 23.8 795 23.5 n/a n/a n/a n/a
 Discontinued operations 77 2.4 77 2.3 n/a n/a n/a n/a
 844 26.2 872 25.8 n/a n/a n/a n/a
 
Millions Millions Millions Millions
Weighted average number of shares used in calculating basic  
earnings per share 3,225 3,225 3,183 3,183
Add:   
 Incremental shares in respect of employee share schemes 32  21
 Incremental shares in respect of convertible preference shares 125  128
Weighted average number of shares used in calculating diluted  
earnings per share 3,382  3,332
Underlying earnings per share is presented in addition to that required by IAS 33 Earnings per share as the directors consider that this gives 
a more appropriate indication of underlying performance.  Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
90 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
11. Intangible assets 
 
Goodwill 
£m 
Other
1
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation  
At 1 January 2005 8,059 206 8,265
Additions:  
 Acquired separately – 10 10
 Internally generated – 7 7
 Acquisition of subsidiaries 2,263 443 2,706
Adjustments to provisional fair values (5) – (5)
Disposals (810) – (810)
Reclassified as non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale (52) (14) (66)
Exchange adjustments 267 26 293
At 31 December 2005 9,722 67810,400
Additions:  
 Acquired separately – 25 25
 Internally generated – 2 2
 Acquisition of subsidiaries 4 – 4
Adjustments to provisional fair values (8) 3 (5)
Disposals (6) (2) (8)
Reclassified to equity accounted investments (28) – (28)
Exchange adjustments (480) (49) (529)
At 31 December 2006 9,204 657 9,861
Amortisation and impairment  
At 1 January 2005 2,132 182,150
Disposals (79) – (79)
Amortisation charge
2
 – 77 77
Impairment charge 45 – 45
Reclassified as non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale (8) (2) (10)
At 31 December 2005 2,090 932,183
Disposals (5) (2) (7)
Amortisation charge
2
 – 105 105
Impairment charge 32 2 34
Exchange adjustments (46) (3) (49)
At 31 December 2006 2,071 195 2,266
Net book value  
At 31 December 2006 7,133 462 7,595
At 31 December 2005 7,632 585 8,217
At 1 January 2005 5,927 188 6,115
1 other intangibles includes internally funded development costs and intangible assets recognised on acquisition of subsidiary companies, of which the most significant are in respect 
of the acquired order book and of on-going programme relationships 
2 amortisation is included in operating costs in the income statement 
The Group has no indefinite life intangible asset other than goodwill. The Group has allocated its goodwill across approximately 20 cash-
generating units. Other than the goodwill allocated to the US operations within the Land & Armaments business group acquired as part of the 
acquisition of United Defense Industries, Inc. in 2005 of £1,984m, none of the cash-generating units has allocated goodwill exceeding 10% 
of the Group’s total goodwill balance.  
The Group’s approach to goodwill impairment testing is set out in the accounting policies on page 76. 
The key assumption underpinning the Integrated Business Plan projections for the US operations within the Land & Armaments business 
group is that US government defence spending will remain stable in the foreseeable future and that there will be no material reduction in the 
businesses’ share of programmes in which it currently participates. The directors have not identified any reasonable possible changes in key 
assumptions for this business that would cause the carrying value of recognised goodwill to exceed its recoverable amount. 
Beyond the assumptions that US and UK government defence spending remains stable there are no individually significant assumptions 
made in relation to the other cash-generating units where reasonably possible changes to key assumptions would cause the carrying value  
of recognised goodwill to exceed its recoverable amount. 
The result of the review of the carrying value of goodwill across the Group is an impairment charge of £32m.  Financial statements
 
 
  www.baesystems.com 91 
12. Property, plant and equipment 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Plant and 
machinery 
£m 
Aircraft
£m
Total
£m
Cost   
At 1 January 2005 1,216 2,253 418 3,887
Additions 50 168 100 318
Acquisition of subsidiaries 63 138 – 201
Transfers from inventories – 6 – 6
Transfers from investment property 32 – – 32
Transfers to investment property (89) – – (89)
Reclassified as non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale (55) (32) – (87)
Reclassification between categories 12 (12) – –
Disposals (33) (181) (4) (218)
Disposals as a result of disposal of businesses (10) (251) – (261)
Exchange adjustments 47 31 34 112
At 31 December 2005 1,233 2,120 548 3,901
Additions 214 184 113 511
Transfers from inventories – 1 – 1
Transfers to inventories – (3) – (3)
Transfers from investment property 2 – – 2
Reclassification between categories 9 (9) – –
Disposals (80) (147) (1) (228)
Exchange adjustments (65) (68) (54) (187)
At 31 December 2006 1,313 2,078 606 3,997
Depreciation and impairment   
At 1 January 2005 360 1,682 99 2,141
Depreciation charge for the year (includes £6m related to discontinued operations) 54 158 39251
Impairment loss for the year – 5 141 146
Transfers from investment property 20 – – 20
Transfers to investment property (9) – – (9)
Reclassified as non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale (13) (17) – (30)
Reclassification between categories 5 (5) – –
Disposals (17) (167) (2) (186)
Disposals as a result of disposal of businesses (6) (159) – (165)
Exchange adjustments 14 10 5 29
At 31 December 2005 408 1,507 282 2,197
Depreciation charge for the year 49 149 28 226
Impairment loss for the year – – 53 53
Transfers to inventories – (1) – (1)
Transfers from investment property 1 – – 1
Reclassification between categories 2 (2) – –
Disposals (18) (132) (1) (151)
Exchange adjustments (9) (41) (24) (74)
At 31 December 2006 433 1,480 338 2,251
Net book value   
At 31 December 2006 880 598 268 1,746
At 31 December 2005 825 613 266 1,704
At 1 January 2005 856 571 319 1,746
The amounts above include: 
The net book value of assets held as capitalised finance leases (including investment  
property (note 13))   
At 31 December 2006 1 17 15 33
At 31 December 2005 – 38 21 59
 
Assets in the course of construction (including investment property (note 13))   
At 31 December 2006 148 68 – 216
At 31 December 2005 148 50 – 198 Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
92 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
12. Property, plant and equipment (continued) 
Net book value of: 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Plant and 
machinery 
£m 
Aircraft
£m
Total
£m
Freehold property 800 – – 800
Long leasehold property 51 – – 51
Short leasehold property 29 – – 29
Plant and machinery – 519 – 519
Fixtures, fittings and equipment – 79 – 79
Aircraft – – 268 268
 880 598 268 1,746
The aircraft fleet that is held under capitalised finance lease arrangements is leased to airline companies under operating leases. The leases 
have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. 
The future aggregate minimum lease income from the non-cancellable elements of operating leases for assets capitalised (including 
investment property (note 13)) are as follows: 
Receipts due: 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Not later than one year 72 81
Later than one year and not later than five years 185 204
Later than five years 63 161
 320 446
Under the terms of the lease agreements, no contingent rents are payable. Within the above is £25m (2005 £13m) where the Group is also 
the lessee of the asset. 
13. Investment property 
£m
Cost 
At 1 January 2005 216
Capitalised subsequent expenditure 12
Transfers from property, plant and equipment 89
Transfers to property, plant and equipment (32)
Transfers from inventories 2
Disposals (15)
At 31 December 2005 272
Transfers to property, plant and equipment (2)
Disposals (103)
At 31 December 2006 167
Depreciation and impairment 
At 1 January 2005 61
Transfers from property, plant and equipment 9
Transfers to property, plant and equipment (20)
Depreciation charge for the year 5
Disposals (1)
At 31 December 2005 54
Transfers to property, plant and equipment (1)
Depreciation charge for the year 4
Disposals (13)
At 31 December 2006 44
Net book value of investment property 
At 31 December 2006 123
At 31 December 2005 218
At 1 January 2005 155
Fair value of investment property 
At 31 December 2006 218
At 31 December 2005 378 Financial statements
 
 
  www.baesystems.com 93 
13. Investment property (continued) 
The fair values above, which are based on market values, were prepared by in-house professionals and are predominantly supported by  
the external independent valuations from Attis Real Weatherall and CB Richard Ellis prepared within the last two years. These valuations  
are considered to reflect current values. Other valuations were prepared by in-house professionals. All valuations were prepared by those 
having an appropriate professional qualification with recent experience in the relevant location of the property being valued. 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Rental income from investment property 19 32
14. Equity accounted investments 
Carrying value of equity accounted investments 
 
Share  
of net 
assets 
£m 
Purchased 
goodwill
£m
Carrying 
value
£m
At 1 January 2005 616 1,623 2,239
Share of results after tax – continuing operations 74 – 74
Share of results after tax – discontinued operations (note 9) 139 – 139
Acquired through acquisition 23 – 23
Disposal 140 (136) 4
Reduction in shareholding (62) (68) (130)
Dividends (88) – (88)
Market value adjustments in respect of derivative financial instruments, net of tax (470) – (470)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes, net of tax (47) – (47)
Foreign exchange adjustment (8) (15) (23)
At 31 December 2005 317 1,404 1,721
Share of results after tax – continuing operations 113 – 113
Share of results after tax – discontinued operations (note 9) 70 – 70
Acquired through acquisition (62) 66 4
Reclassified from intangible assets – 28 28
Disposal (239) (1,063) (1,302)
Dividends (145) – (145)
Market value adjustments in respect of derivative financial instruments, net of tax 144 – 144
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes, net of tax 59 – 59
Revaluation of net assets acquired by equity accounted investments
1
 5 –5
Foreign exchange adjustment (24) (2) (26)
At 31 December 2006 238 433 671
1 The revaluation gain has arisen as a result of MBDA SAS acquiring control of LFK GmbH, which was previously accounted for as a trade investment. The £5m gain reflects a fair 
value uplift in respect of the carrying value of the original investment. The gain has been reflected as a credit to equity (note 27). 
On 13 October 2006 the sale of the Group’s shareholding in Airbus SAS to EADS was completed. In accordance with IAS 1 Presentation  
of Financial Statements and IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, the results of Airbus are reclassified  
as arising from discontinuing operations, rather than continuing operations in the consolidated income statement, consolidated cash flow 
statement and notes to the Group accounts. 
Included within purchased goodwill is £113m (2005 £47m) relating to the goodwill arising on acquisitions made by the Group’s equity 
accounted investments subsequent to their acquisition by the Group. 
The market value of the Group’s shareholding in Saab AB at 31 December 2006 was £350m (2005 £278m). 
Share of results of equity accounted investments by continuing business group 
 
2006
£m
Restated 
2005
£m
Share of results excluding finance costs and taxation expense: 
 Electronics, Intelligence & Support 1 5
 Land & Armaments – (1)
 Programmes 1 1
 Customer Solutions & Support 28 18
 Integrated Systems & Partnerships 90 68
 HQ and other businesses 7 9
 127 100
Financial income 21 8
Taxation expense (35) (34)
 113 74 Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
94 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
14. Equity accounted investments (continued) 
Share of the assets and liabilities of equity accounted investments 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Assets: 
 Non-current assets 856 3,453
 Current assets 2,633 5,764
 3,489 9,217
Liabilities: 
 Non-current liabilities (582) (3,550)
 Current liabilities (2,236) (3,946)
 (2,818) (7,496)
Carrying value 671 1,721
Principal equity accounted investments 
Joint ventures Principal activities 
Principally 
operates in
Country of 
incorporation
Air Astana JSC (49%) 
(Held by BAE Systems (Kazakhstan) Limited) 
Commercial aerospace activities Kazakhstan Kazakhstan
Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH (33%) 
(Held by BAE Systems plc) 
Management and control of Eurofighter Typhoon programme Germany Germany
Flagship Training Limited (50%) 
(Held via BAE Systems Electronics Limited) 
Supply of naval training and support services UK England and 
Wales
Fleet Support Limited (50%) 
(Held via BAE Systems Marine (Holdings) Limited) 
Engineering and facilities management support to the  
Royal Navy 
UK England and 
Wales
Gripen International KB (50%) 
(Held via BAE Systems (Operations) Limited) 
Marketing and selling of Gripen fighter aircraft SwedenSweden
MBDA SAS (37.5%) 
(Held via BAE Systems Electronics Limited and 
BAE Systems (Overseas Holdings) Limited) 
Development and manufacture of guided weapons Europe France
Panavia Aircraft GmbH (42.5%) 
(Held via BAE Systems plc) 
Management and control of Tornado programme Germany Germany
Saab AB (20.5%) 
(Held via BAE Systems (Sweden) AB) 
Defence and commercial aerospace activities Sweden Sweden
15. Other investments 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Non-current 
Available for sale financial assets 
 Equity securities 7 9
 Term deposits 4 –
 11 9
Current 
Loans and receivables 
 Term deposits 503 35
 
Assets at fair value through profit or loss 
Designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition 
 Exchange Property – 599
 503 634 Financial statements
 
 
  www.baesystems.com 95 
15. Other investments (continued) 
Reconciliation of movements 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Non-current 
At 1 January 9 66
Additions 5 17
Acquisitions of subsidiaries – 2
Disposals (1) (30)
Transfer to subsidiary undertakings – (48)
Creation of impairment provision (2) (2)
Fair value movements – 4
At 31 December 11 9
Current 
At 1 January 634 763
Additions 499 31
Disposals (588) (85)
Fair value movements recognised in finance costs (42) (75)
At 31 December 503 634
Exchange Property 
The Group’s shareholding in Vodafone Group Plc (Exchange Property) was disposed of during the year. 
The Group had designated the Exchange Property as at fair value through profit or loss. Accordingly, movements in the fair value of the 
Exchange Property to disposal of £42m are recognised in finance costs in the income statement (2005 £75m). 
16. Trade and other receivables 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Non-current 
Amounts owed by equity accounted investments – 10
Other receivables 496 869
Pension prepayment (note 22) 66 20
Prepayments and accrued income 7 13
 569 912
Current 
Long-term contract balances 4,440 4,315
Less: attributable progress payments (4,027) (3,914)
Amounts due from contract customers 580 440
Amounts due from customers for contract work 993 841
Trade receivables 631 608
Amounts owed by equity accounted investments 218 52
Other receivables 225 242
Pension prepayment (note 22) 5 –
Prepayments and accrued income 181 134
 2,253 1,877
 
Included within amounts due from customers for contract work: 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Retentions outstanding against long-term contracts 1 10 Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
96 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
17. Other financial assets and liabilities 
 
2006 
Assets 
£m 
2006
Liabilities
£m
2005
Assets
£m
2005
Liabilities
£m
Non-current  
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts 30 (43) 31 (41)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts 21 (2) 34 (4)
 51 (45) 65 (45)
Current  
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts 36 (36) 39 (72)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts 14 (14) 15 (6)
Embedded derivatives – – –(3)
 50 (50) 54 (81)
Debt-related financial instruments  
Other foreign exchange/interest rate derivatives 6 (243) 12 (147)
The debt-related financial instruments are presented as a component of loans and overdrafts (note 20). 
18. Inventories 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Short-term work-in-progress 205 222
Raw materials and consumables 100 146
Finished goods and goods for resale 90 117
 395 485
The Group recognised £20m (2005 £26m) as a write down of inventories to their net realisable value in 2006. 
19. Disposal groups 
The balances in 2005 represented the assets and liabilities related to the Atlas Elektronik GmbH and UK Aerostructures businesses 
disposed of in 2006 (note 9). 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Non-current assets 
Intangible assets – 56
Property, plant and equipment – 57
Other receivables – 5
 – 118
Current assets 
Inventories – 78
Trade and other receivables – 211
 – 289
Assets of disposal groups – 407
 
Non-current liabilities 
Trade and other payables – (2)
Retirement benefit obligations – (67)
Deferred tax liabilities – (5)
Provisions – (1)
 – (75)
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables – (177)
Provisions – (18)
 – (195)
Liabilities of disposal groups  – (270)
  Financial statements
 
 
  www.baesystems.com 97 
20. Loans and overdrafts 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Non-current 
US$200m 7% bond, repayable 2007 – 116
US$500m floating rate note, repayable 2008 – 290
Euro-Sterling £150m 11 ⅞% bond, repayable 2008 150 150
European Investment Bank loan, final instalment 2009 11 18
Alvis loan notes, redeemable 2009 1 2
Debt instrument of the convertible preference shares, redeemable 2010 242 240
US$500m 4.75% bond, repayable 2010 249 284
US$1bn 6.4% bond, repayable 2011 515 590
Class B and Class G certificates, final instalments 2011/2013 599 784
Euro-Sterling £100m 10¾% bond, repayable 2014 99 99
US$750m 5.2% bond, repayable 2015 382 434
US$500m 7.5% bond, repayable 2027 253 288
Bank loans 28 34
Obligations under finance leases 31 70
Debt-related financial instruments 216 135
 2,776 3,534
Current 
Bank loans and overdrafts 33 92
Exchangeable £676m 3.75% Bond – 667
US$200m 7% bond, repayable 2007 102 –
European Investment Bank loans, final instalment 2009 7 26
Class B and Class G certificates, final instalment 2011/2013 82 82
Obligations under finance leases 23 38
Debt-related financial instruments 21 –
Eurofighter GmbH loan 66 –
 334 905
The maturity of the Group’s borrowings is as follows: 
Less  
than  
1 year 
£m 
Between  
1 and 
5 years 
£m 
More 
than 
5 years
£m
Total
£m
At 31 December 2006 334 1,578 1,198 3,110
At 31 December 2005 905 1,610 1,924 4,439
The US$200m 7% bond, repayable 2007 was converted at issue to a sterling fixed rate bond by utilising a cross-currency swap and has an 
effective interest rate of 7.62%. 
The Group exercised its option to redeem the US$500m floating rate note during September 2006. 
The European Investment Bank borrowing consists of three sterling denominated loans, two of which matured during 2006 whilst the third 
matures in 2009. The coupon rate on the outstanding loan is fixed with an interest rate of 6.86%. 
For more information on the debt instrument of the convertible preference shares refer to note 1.  
The US$500m 4.75% bond, repayable 2010 was converted on issue to a floating rate bond by utilising an interest rate swap giving an 
effective rate during 2006 of 5.71%. 
The US$1bn 6.4% bond, repayable 2011 has been partially converted to a floating rate bond by utilising a series of interest rate swaps with 
different tenors; US$500m has been swapped until maturity of the bond in 2011 and US$250m has been swapped until December 2007. 
This has been overlayed by US$300m of floating to fixed interest rate swaps that fix the interest payments at a lower rate than the original 
coupon. The effective interest rate during 2006 was 6.35% with an interest rate split on the bond at 31 December 2006 being US$550m 
fixed and US$450m floating. 
The Class B and Class G certificates are repayable in 2011 and 2013 respectively with fixed US$ coupon rates of 7.156% and 6.664%, 
giving a weighted average interest rate of 6.879%. At 31 December 2006, the gross outstanding principal due is US$1,306m. Of this 
balance, US$414m has been converted to a sterling floating rate bond by utilising a cross-currency swap which resulted in an effective 
interest rate during 2006 of 5.59% on this element. 
The US$500m 7.5% bond, repayable 2027 was converted at issue to a sterling fixed rate bond by utilising a cross-currency swap and has  
an effective interest rate of 7.73%.  Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
98 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
20. Loans and overdrafts (continued) 
The debt-related financial instruments represent the market value of certain interest rate and cross-currency derivatives which are specifically 
hedging loans disclosed within the above note. These derivatives have been entered into specifically to manage the Group’s exposure to 
foreign exchange or interest rate risk.  
Exchangeable £676m 3.75% Bond 
The bond was redeemed at par on maturity during July 2006 following some minor conversions into the Exchange Property. 
Eurofighter GmbH loan 
The loan represents surplus cash lent by Eurofighter GmbH to its shareholders. The loan incurred interest at LIBOR minus 10bp and was 
repaid in January 2007. 
Finance lease obligations 
The Group has a number of non-cancellable finance lease arrangements predominantly in respect of aircraft. The maturity of these lease 
liabilities from the balance sheet date is shown below. 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Finance lease liabilities – minimum lease payments due: 
 Not later than one year 24 46
 Later than one year and not later than five years 37 77
 Later than five years – 1
 61 124
Future finance charges on finance leases (7) (16)
Present value of finance lease liabilities 54 108
 
Present value of finance lease liabilities – payments due: 
 Not later than one year 23 38
 Later than one year and not later than five years 31 69
 Later than five years – 1
 54 108
Under the terms of the lease agreements, no contingent rents are payable. 
The interest rate inherent in these finance leases is fixed at the contract date for all of the lease term. The average interest rate on finance 
lease payables at 31 December 2006 was 7% (2005 7%). 
21. Trade and other payables 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Non-current 
Amounts due to long-term contract customers 113 120
Cash received on customers’ account for long-term contracts 43 46
Amounts owed to equity accounted investments 10 10
Other payables 287 241
Accruals and deferred income 12 15
 465 432
Current 
Amounts due to long-term contract customers 3,836 3,452
Amounts due to other customers 153 155
Cash received on customers’ account: 
 Long-term contracts 16 2
 Others 3 5
Trade payables 638 606
Amounts owed to equity accounted investments 616 1,256
Other taxes and social security costs 34 26
Other payables 343 357
Accruals and deferred income 1,078 1,147
 6,717 7,006
 
Included above: 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Amounts due to long-term contract customers 4,008 3,620
  Financial statements
 
 
  www.baesystems.com 99 
22. Retirement benefit obligations 
Pension plans 
BAE Systems plc operates pension plans for the Group’s qualifying employees in the UK, US and other countries. The principal plans in the 
UK and US are funded defined benefit plans and the assets are held in separate trustee administered funds. The plans in other countries are 
unfunded. Pension plan valuations are regularly carried out by independent actuaries to determine pension costs for pension funding and to 
calculate the IAS 19 deficit. 
The disclosures below relate to post-retirement benefit plans in the UK, US and other countries which are accounted for as defined benefit 
plans in accordance with IAS 19. The valuations used for the IAS 19 disclosures are based on the most recent actuarial valuation undertaken 
by independent qualified actuaries and updated to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 in order to assess the deficit of the plans at 
31 December each year. Plan assets are shown at the bid value at 31 December each year. 
Post-retirement benefits other than pensions 
The Group also operates a number of non-pension post-retirement benefit plans, under which certain employees are eligible to receive 
benefits after retirement, the majority of which relate to the provision of medical benefits to retired employees of the Group’s subsidiaries  
in the US. The latest valuations of the principal plans, covering retiree medical and life insurance plans in certain US subsidiaries, were 
performed by independent actuaries as at 1 January 2006. The method of accounting for these is similar to that used for defined benefit 
pension plans. 
The financial assumptions used to calculate liabilities for the principal plans were: 
 UK  US 
2006
%
2005 
% 
2004 
% 
2006 
% 
2005
%
2004
%
Inflation rate 3.0 2.8 2.7 3.0 3.0 3.0
Rate of increase in salaries 4.0 3.8 3.7 5.8 5.8 5.8
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2.9-3.0 2.6-2.8 2.5-3.0 – ––
Rate of increase for deferred pensions 3.0 2.8 2.7 n/a n/a n/a
Discount rate 5.2 4.8 5.3 5.9 5.8 5.9
Long-term healthcare cost increases n/a n/a n/a 5.7 5.7 5.7
The assumptions used are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale covered, may not 
necessarily occur in practice. The bid value of plan assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short term and may be subject to 
significant change before they are realised, and the present value of plan liabilities, which are derived from cash flow projections over long 
periods and thus inherently uncertain, as at 31 December are shown in the tables below. 
For its UK pension arrangements the Group has, for the purpose of calculating its liabilities as at 31 December 2006, used PA 92 medium 
cohort tables based on year of birth (as published by the Institute of Actuaries) for both pensioner and non-pensioner members in conjunction 
with the results of an investigation into the actual mortality experience of plan members. For its US pension arrangements the mortality 
tables used for pensioners and non-pensioners are RP 2000 projected to 2010 (2005 RP 2000 projected to 2006). For the pension and 
healthcare arrangements the post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected increases in longevity. The current life expectancies 
underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for the main UK and US plans range from 18 to 22 years for current male pensioners at age 65 
and 21 to 25 years for current female pensioners at age 65. 
The Group has a number of healthcare arrangements in the US. The long-term healthcare cost increases shown in the table above are based 
on the assumptions that the increases are 10% in 2006 reducing to 5% by 2015 for pre-retirement and 10% in 2006 reducing to 5% for  
post-retirement. 
A summary of the movements in the retirement benefit obligations is shown below. The full disclosures, as required by IAS 19, are provided 
in the subsequent information. 
Additional disclosure – summary of movements of the retirement benefit obligations 
 
UK 
£m 
US and
other
£m
Total
£m
Deficit in defined benefit pension plans at 1 January 2006 (4,659) (647) (5,306)
Acquisitions and disposals – 66 66
Actual return on assets above expected return 421 100 521
Decrease/(increase) in liabilities due to changes in assumptions 499 (26) 473
One-off contributions 679 54 733
Recurring contributions over service cost 108 23 131
Curtailment gains 52 61 113
Other movements 34 68 102
Deficit in defined benefit pension plans at 31 December 2006 (2,866) (301) (3,167)
US healthcare plans – (35) (35)
Total IAS 19 deficit (2,866) (336) (3,202)
Allocated to equity accounted investments and other participating employers 774 – 774
Group’s share of IAS 19 deficit excluding Group’s share of amounts allocated to equity accounted investments 
and other participating employers (2,092) (336) (2,428) Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
100 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
22. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
Amounts recognised on the balance sheet 
2006 2005 
UK defined
benefit
pension
plans
£m
US and
other
pension
plans
£m
US
healthcare
plans
£m
Total
£m
UK defined 
benefit 
pension 
plans 
£m 
US and 
other 
pension 
plans 
£m 
US
healthcare
plans
£m
Total
£m
Present value of unfunded obligations – (80) (15) (95) – (145) – (145)
Present value of funded obligations (15,445) (1,931) (111) (17,487) (15,492) (2,130) (144)(17,766)
Fair value of plan assets 12,579 1,710 91 14,380 10,833 1,628 92 12,553
Total IAS 19 deficit, net (2,866) (301) (35) (3,202) (4,659) (647) (52) (5,358)
Allocated to equity accounted investments and other 
participating employers
1
 774 – – 774 1,210 – –1,210
Group’s share of IAS 19 deficit, net (2,092) (301) (35) (2,428) (3,449) (647) (52) (4,148)
   
Group’s share of IAS 19 deficit of equity accounted 
investments (83) – – (83) (303) – – (303)
Represented by:   
Pension prepayments (within trade and other receivables) 35 25 11 71 – 20 – 20
Retirement benefit obligations (2,127) (326) (46) (2,499) (3,449) (600) (52) (4,101)
Liabilities directly associated with non-current assets and 
disposal groups held for sale ––– – – (67) – (67)
 (2,127) (326) (46) (2,499) (3,449) (667) (52) (4,168)
Group’s share of IAS 19 deficit, net (2,092) (301) (35) (2,428) (3,449) (647) (52) (4,148)
1 Certain of the Group’s equity accounted investments participate in the Group’s defined benefit plans as well as Airbus SAS, the Group’s share of which was disposed of during the 
year. As these plans are multi-employer plans the Group has allocated an appropriate share of the IAS 19 pension deficit to the equity accounted investments and to Airbus SAS 
based upon a reasonable and consistent allocation method intended to reflect a reasonable approximation of their share of the deficit. The Group’s share of the IAS 19 pension 
deficit allocated to the equity accounted investments is included in the balance sheet within equity accounted investments. 
Amounts for the current and previous four years are as follows: 
Defined benefit pension plans 
2006
£m
2005 
£m 
2004 
£m 
2003
£m
2002
£m
Defined benefit obligations (17,456) (17,767) (14,482) (12,386) (11,252)
Plan assets
2
 14,289 12,461 10,143 9,305 8,127
Total deficit before tax and allocation to equity accounted investments and other 
participating employers (3,167) (5,306) (4,339) (3,081) (3,125)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on plan liabilities  473 (2,100) (1,221) (788) (408)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on plan assets 521 1,138 265 827 (2,048)
2 at bid value from 2003 and at mid-value for prior years 
Assets of defined benefit pension plans 
2006 
UK US  Total 
£m %
Expected
return % £m % 
Expected 
return %  £m %
Equities 8,232 65 8.0 1,324 77 8.75  9,556 67
Bonds 2,735 22 4.8 260 15 5.5  2,995 21
Property 1,255 10 6.25 – – n/a  1,255 9
Other  357 3 5.0 126 8 7.0  483 3
Total 12,579 100 7.0 1,710 100 8.5  14,289 100
 
2005 
UK US  Total 
£m %
Expected
return % £m % 
Expected 
return %  £m %
Equities 7,489698.01,27078 8.75   8,75970
Bonds 2,276214.323114 5.5   2,50720
Other (mainly property) 1,068 10 6.0 127 8 7.0   1,195 10
Total 10,8331007.01,628 100 8.5   12,461 100 Financial statements
 
 
  www.baesystems.com 101 
22. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
When setting the overall expected rate of return on plan assets, historical markets are studied and long-term historical relationships  
between equities and bonds are preserved. This is consistent with the widely accepted capital market principle that assets with higher 
volatility generate a greater return over time. Current market factors such as inflation and interest rates are evaluated before expected  
return assumptions are determined for each asset class. The overall expected return is established with proper consideration of 
diversification and rebalancing. Peer data and historical returns are reviewed to check for reasonableness and appropriateness. 
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 
UK defined 
benefit 
pension 
plans 
£m 
US and 
other 
pension 
plans 
£m 
US 
healthcare
plans
£m
Total
£m
Value of plan assets at 1 January 2005 9,199 944 3910,182
Assets acquired on acquisitions – 433 43 476
Expected return on assets 667 104 5 776
Actuarial gain/(loss) 1,151 (13) (5) 1,133
Actual return on assets 1,818 91 – 1,909
Contributions by employer 252 71 10 333
Members’ contributions (including DWP
3
 rebates) 129 10 – 139
Currency gain – 152 7 159
Benefits paid (565) (73) (7) (645)
Value of plan assets at 31 December 2005 10,833 1,628 92 12,553
Assets acquired on acquisitions – 4 – 4
Expected return on assets 779 132 6 917
Actuarial gain 421 100 3 524
Actual return on assets 1,200 232 9 1,441
Contributions by employer 960 137 10 1,107
Contributions by employer in respect of salary sacrifice arrangements 86 – – 86
Members’ contributions (including DWP
3
 rebates) 42 11 – 53
Currency loss – (214) (12) (226)
Benefits paid (542) (88) (8) (638)
Value of plan assets at 31 December 2006 12,579 1,710 91 14,380
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations before allocation to equity accounted investments and other participating 
employers are as follows: 
UK defined 
benefit 
pension 
plans 
£m 
US and 
other 
pension 
plans 
£m 
US 
healthcare
plans
£m
Total
£m
Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 2005 (13,074) (1,408) (108) (14,590)
Liabilities assumed on acquisitions – (522) (40) (562)
Current service cost (160) (56) (2) (218)
Members’ contributions (including DWP
3
 rebates) (129) (10) – (139)
Past service cost (17) (1) 9 (9)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on liabilities (2,054) (46) 11(2,089)
Curtailment gains 62 – – 62
Interest expense (685) (98) (8) (791)
Currency loss – (207) (13) (220)
Benefits paid 565 73 7 645
Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2005 (15,492) (2,275) (144) (17,911)
Net liabilities (assumed)/transferred on acquisitions/disposals
4
 – 62 –62
Current service cost (173) (60) (2) (235)
Contributions by employer in respect of salary sacrifice arrangements (86) – – (86)
Members’ contributions (including DWP
3
 rebates) (42) (11) – (53)
Past service cost (7) (2) – (9)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on liabilities 499 (26) 2 475
Curtailment gains 52 61 – 113
Interest expense (738) (118) (8) (864)
Currency gain – 270 18 288
Benefits paid 542 88 8 638
Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2006 (15,445) (2,011) (126) (17,582)
3 Department for Work and Pensions 
4 this includes liabilities of £67m transferred on the disposal of Atlas Elektronik GmbH  Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
102 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
22. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
Contributions 
The Group contributions made to the defined benefit plans in the year ended 31 December 2006 were £1,020m (2005 £260m). Of this 
amount, £733m were special contributions towards funding the deficit and £287m were regular contributions. In 2007, the Group expects  
to make regular contributions at a similar level to those made in 2006. The Group also incurred a charge in respect of the cash contributions 
of £57m (2005 £41m) paid to defined contribution plans for employees. It expects to make a contribution of £56m to these plans in 2007. 
The amounts recognised in the income statement after allocation to equity accounted investments and other participating employers are  
as follows: 
2006 2005 
UK
defined
benefit
pension
plans
£m
US and
other
pension
plans
£m
US
healthcare
plans
£m
Total
£m
UK 
defined 
benefit 
pension 
plans 
£m 
US and 
other 
pension 
plans 
£m 
US
healthcare
plans
£m
Total
£m
Included in operating costs:   
Current service cost (129) (60) (2) (191) (123) (56) (2) (181)
Past service cost (5) (2) – (7) (12) (1) 9 (4)
 (134) (62) (2) (198) (135) (57) 7 (185)
Included in other income:   
Curtailments and settlements
6
 49 61 – 110 – – – –
Included in finance costs:   
Expected return on plan assets 601 132 6 739 523 104 5 632
Interest on obligations (568) (118) (8) (694) (527) (98) (8) (633)
 33 14 (2) 45 (4) 6 (3) (1)
Included in share of results of equity accounted investments:   
Group’s share of equity accounted investments’ 
operating costs (7) – – (7) (11) – – (11)
Group’s share of equity accounted investments’ finance costs –––– (4) – – (4)
6 includes a curtailment gain of £11m in respect of the UK Aerostructures business disposed of in 2006  
A one percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects: 
One percentage 
point increase 
£m 
One percentage
point decrease
£m
Effect on the aggregate of service cost and interest cost 0.2 0.2
Effect on defined benefit obligations 3 2
In June 2006, the Group announced it had agreed a programme of measures to address the funding deficit in its principal UK pension plans. 
The measures included one-off contributions of £679m and agreed changes to the members’ benefits to reduce future liabilities. 
The one-off contributions of £679m included certain properties valued at £242m, the right to receive a share of the deferred consideration 
under the put/call option arrangement arising from the Eurosystems transaction in 2005 and valued at £238m, and £199m in cash. The 
properties were sold to the scheme at market value, generating a profit on disposal of £100m. Within EBITA, this profit on disposal was 
offset by an operating charge of £103m relating to various funding arrangements with the Group’s equity accounted investments. In addition, 
there was a one-off cash contribution to US pension schemes of $100m (£54m). 
The curtailment gains arising in the period were a result of certain benefit changes made. The Group’s share of the £113m curtailment gains 
shown above is £110m after allocation to equity accounted investments and other participating employers. Of this £110m gain, £61m 
related to the reduction in the net pension liability arising from the changes to the calculation of the final US pensionable salaries and £11m 
arose as a result of the disposal of the UK Aerostructures business in March 2006. The remainder is partly offset by an increase in UK 
current service costs in the period due to the movement in discount rates. 
The following analysis summarises how these items have been reflected in the consolidated income statement and the consolidated cash 
flow statement: 
Income statement items 
  £m
Included within operating costs of £11,763m (103)
Included within other income of £371m: 
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment, and investment property 100
Pension curtailment gains 99
Profit on disposal of businesses 11
Curtailment gains within share of results of equity accounted investments excluding finance costs and taxation expense 1
EBITA 108 Financial statements
 
 
  www.baesystems.com 103 
22. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
Cash flow statement items: 
  £m
Profit for the year 108
Share of results of equity accounted investments (1)
Gain on disposal of property (35)
Gain on disposal of investment property (65)
Gain on disposal of business – continuing operations (11)
Decrease in liabilities for retirement benefit obligations (706)
Decrease in working capital: 
Trade and other receivables 215
Cash outflow from operating activities (495)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 242
Operating business cash outflow (253)
23. Provisions 
 
Aircraft
financing
£m
Warranties and
after-sales service
£m
Reorganisations –
ongoing operations
£m
Legal costs,  
environmental  
and other 
£m 
Total
£m
Non-current 559013217 375
Current 536450176 343
At 1 January 2006 108 154 63 393 718
Created 357233199 339
Released (9)(37)(17)(61) (124)
Utilised (75)(34)(26)(72) (207)
Provisions and fair values arising on acquisitions – – – (2) (2)
Discounting ––17 8
Exchange adjustments (7) (7) (1) (22) (37)
Other provision movements – (1) (1) 2 –
At 31 December 2006 52 147 52 444 695
Represented by:  
 Non-current – 82 14 175 271
 Current 52 65 38 269 424
 52 147 52 444 695
Aircraft financing 
The provision includes probable exposures under residual value guarantees issued by the Group on previous sales transactions. Further 
information is provided in note 24. Such costs are generally incurred within five years. 
Warranties and after-sales service 
Warranties and after-sales service are provided in the normal course of business with provisions for associated costs being made based  
on an assessment of future claims with reference to past experience. Such costs are generally incurred within three years post-delivery. 
Reorganisations – ongoing operations 
The costs associated with the reorganisation programmes are supported by detailed plans and based on previous experience as well as 
other known factors. Such costs are generally incurred within one to three years. 
Legal costs, environmental and other provisions 
The Group holds provisions for expected legal, environmental and other costs that it expects to incur over an extended period. These costs 
are based on past experience of similar items and other known factors and represent management’s best estimate of the likely outcome. 
Included within legal costs, environmental and other is £82m (2005 £80m) in respect of the cash-settled elements of certain of the Group’s 
share option schemes (note 26). The costs in respect of this liability are expected to occur over the next five years.  Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
104 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
24. Contingent liabilities and commitments 
Aircraft financing contingent liabilities 
Included within the aircraft financing provision of £52m (note 23) is an exposure of £27m as discussed below: 
31 December 2006 
£m 
31 December 2005
£m
Potential future cash flow payments in respect of aircraft financing obligations 191 460
Anticipated aircraft values (159) (391)
Adjustments to net present values (5) (4)
Net exposure provided 27 65
The Group has provided residual value guarantees (RVGs) in respect of certain commercial aircraft sold. At 31 December 2006 the Group’s 
exposure to make future payments in respect of these arrangements was £191m (2005 £460m). Certain of these arrangements are covered 
by a Financial Risk Insurance Programme (FRIP) under which the Group would place reliance on insurance cover for the anticipated aircraft 
values if the guarantees were called. 
After taking account of the FRIP and independent appraisal valuations the directors consider that the Group’s net exposure to these 
guarantees is covered by the provisions held and the residual values of the related aircraft. 
The Group is also exposed to actual and contingent liabilities arising from commercial aircraft financing and RVGs given by Saab AB. 
Provision is made against the expected net exposures on a net present value basis within the accounts of Saab. The Group’s share of such 
exposure is limited to its percentage shareholding in Saab. 
The reduction in the net exposure reflects the settlement of the commitment in respect of 47 RVGs in the period. 
Guarantees and performance bonds 
The Group has entered into a number of guarantee and performance bond arrangements in the normal course of business. Provision is made 
for any amounts that the directors consider may become payable under such arrangements. 
Operating lease commitments – where the Group is the lessee 
The Group leases various offices, factories, shipyards and aircraft under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have 
varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. 
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases and associated future minimum sublease income  
are as follows: 
Payments due: 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Not later than one year 121 66
Later than one year and not later than five years 393 273
Later than five years 731 552
 1,245 891
 
Total of future minimum sublease income under non-cancellable subleases  212 118
Capital commitments 
Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided for in the accounts is as follows: 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Property, plant and equipment 133 93
Intangible assets 5 8
 138 101
Treasury contingent liabilities 
Treasury contingent liabilities are set out in note 32.  Financial statements
 
 
  www.baesystems.com 105 
25. Share capital 
 Equity  Non-equity Total 
 
Ordinary shares 
of 2.5p each  
Special Share 
of £1  
 
Number of
shares
m
Nominal 
value 
£m  
Number of 
shares 
 
Nominal
value
£
Nominal
value
£m
Authorised    
At 1 January 2005 3,850 96  1 1 96
Authorised in the year 600 15  – – 15
At 1 January 2006 and 31 December 2006 4,450 111  1 1 111
 
Issued and fully paid    
At 1 January 2005 3,060 77  1 1 77
Placing of shares 150 3  – – 3
Exercise of options 9–  – – –
At 1 January 2006 3,219 80  1 1 80
Exercise of options 24 1  – – 1
Conversion of preference shares  3 –  – – –
At 31 December 2006 3,246 81  1 1 81
Treasury shares 
In connection with the disposal of its interest in Airbus, the Company stated its intention to return up to £500m to ordinary shareholders by 
way of on-market purchases of ordinary shares using authorities granted at the 2006 AGM and to hold the repurchased shares initially in 
treasury. The Company commenced this buyback programme on 26 October 2006 and, as at 31 December 2006, 28,675,000 2.5p ordinary 
shares with an aggregate nominal value of £1m were held in treasury. 
Special Share 
One Special Share of £1 in the Company is held on behalf of the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry (the Special Shareholder). Certain 
parts of the Company’s Articles of Association cannot be amended without the consent of the Special Shareholder. These articles include the 
requirement that no foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, can have an interest in more than 15% of the Company, the 
requirement that the majority of the directors are British, and the requirement that the Chief Executive and any executive chairman are British 
citizens. The effect of these requirements can also be amended by regulations made by the directors and approved by the Special 
Shareholder. 
The Special Shareholder may require the Company at any time to redeem the Special Share at par or to convert the Special Share into one 
ordinary voting share. The Special Shareholder is entitled to receive notice of and to attend general meetings and class meetings of the 
Company’s shareholders but has no voting right, nor other rights, other than to speak in relation to any business in respect of the Special Share. 
Preference shares 
The Company also has in issue 260 million (2005 266 million) 7.75p (net) cumulative redeemable preference shares of 25p each which 
have been convertible into ordinary shares of 2.5p each at the option of the holder on 31 May in any of the years since issue up to 2007, on 
the basis of 0.47904 ordinary shares for every preference share. During the year 6,116,123 shares were converted for 2,929,867 ordinary 
shares. 2007 will be the final year in which shareholders can elect to convert their shares. As a result of the share repurchases during 2006, 
the conversion rate has decreased to 0.47554 ordinary shares for every preference share at 31 December 2006. In accordance with the 
Articles of Association the preference share conversion rate will be adjusted further as a result of share repurchases made after 
31 December 2006. The Company may redeem all of the remaining preference shares at any time after 1 July 2007 and, in any case, will 
redeem any remaining shares on 1 January 2010, in each case at 100p per share together with any arrears and accruals of dividend. The 
maximum redemption value of the preference shares, ignoring any arrears or accruals of dividend, is therefore £260m (2005 £266m). 
In accordance with IAS 32 the convertible preference shares are considered to be a compound financial instrument consisting of both a debt 
element and an equity component which require separate accounting treatment. Under IAS 32, the equity option component of preference 
shares of £76m (2005 £78m) is included as a separate reserve within equity (note 27). The debt element is recognised within loans and 
overdrafts (note 20). 
The preference shares carry voting rights at a general meeting of the Company only where the preferential dividend is six months or more  
in arrears, or where a motion is to be proposed which abrogates, varies or modifies the rights of the preference shareholders, or where a 
motion is to be proposed for the winding up of the Company. On a winding up, holders of the preference shares are entitled, after repayment 
of the capital paid up on the Special Share and in priority to any payment to any other class of shareholder, to the return of amounts paid  
up or credited as paid up on the preference shares together with a premium of 75p per share, and all arrears of preferential dividends.  Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
106 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
26. Share-based payments 
Details of the terms and conditions of each share option scheme are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 65. 
Executive Share Option Scheme (ExSOS) 
Equity-settled options 
2006  2005 
Number of 
shares 
‘000 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
£  
Number of
shares
‘000
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 71,399 2.78  63,475 2.76
Granted during the year 6,082 4.28  10,569 2.89
Converted during the year 8,641 2.15  ––
Exercised during the year (13,353) 2.40  (992) 1.65
Expired during the year (16,567) 3.23  (1,653) 3.35
Outstanding at the end of the year 56,202 2.80  71,399 2.78
Exercisable at the end of the year 16,269 2.86  2,350 3.18
Cash-settled share appreciation rights 
2006  2005 
Number of 
shares 
‘000 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
£  
Number of
shares
‘000
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 69,129 2.88  61,957 2.90
Granted during the year – –  8,946 2.71
Converted during the year (8,641) 2.15  ––
Exercised during the year (4,843) 2.29  (5) 2.40
Expired during the year (19,840) 3.45  (1,769) 2.68
Outstanding at the end of the year 35,805 2.82  69,129 2.88
Exercisable at the end of the year 11,736 3.01  ––
In 2006 the terms of settlement for unvested ExSOS Share Appreciation Rights (SARs) were modified and a determination made that 8.6m 
SARs should be settled on exercise by way of shares (equity-settled) rather than cash (cash-settled). The fair value of these modified options 
was calculated based on the value of the equivalent equity options issued at the same time. 
 2006 2005 
 Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled
Range of exercise price of outstanding options (£) 1.72 – 4.87 1.72 – 4.21 1.72 – 4.87 1.72 – 4.21
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 76 7 7
Weighted average fair value of options granted (£) 1.30 – 1.00 1.62
Expense recognised for the year (£m) 918 6 27
Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
Equity-settled awards 
 
2006
Number of
shares
‘000
2005
Number of
shares
‘000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 18,917 14,462
Granted during the year 4,055 5,261
Converted during the year 5,669 –
Exercised during the year (2,495) –
Expired during the year (538) (806)
Outstanding at the end of the year 25,608 18,917
Exercisable at the end of the year – –
  Financial statements
 
 
  www.baesystems.com 107 
26. Share-based payments (continued) 
Cash-settled awards 
 
2006
Number of
shares
‘000
2005
Number of
shares
‘000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 21,389 16,076
Granted during the year – 5,822
Converted during the year (5,669) –
Exercised during the year (2,188) –
Expired during the year (831) (509)
Outstanding at the end of the year 12,701 21,389
Exercisable at the end of the year 3,071 –
In 2006 the terms of settlement for unvested PSP Share Appreciation Rights (SARs) were modified and a determination made that 5.7m 
SARs should be settled on vesting by way of shares (equity-settled) rather than cash (cash-settled). The fair value of these modified options 
was calculated based on the value of the equivalent equity options issued at the same time. 
 2006 2005 
 Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 54 5 5
Weighted average fair value of options granted (£) 1.88 – 1.48 2.77
Expense recognised for the year (£m) 822 6 25
The exercise price for the PSP is £nil (2005 £nil). 
Restricted Share Plan (RSP) 
All awards are equity-settled. 
 
2006
Number of
shares
‘000
2005
Number of
shares
‘000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,047 799
Granted during the year 303 481
Exercised during the year (9) –
Expired during the year (3) (20)
Released during the year – (213)
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,338 1,047
Exercisable at the end of the year – –
 
 2006 2005
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 1 2
Weighted average fair value of options granted (£) 3.89 2.38
Expense recognised for the year (£m) 1 1
The exercise price for the RSP is £nil (2005 £nil). 
Save-As-You-Earn (SAYE) 
Equity-settled options 
 2006  2005 
 
Number of 
shares 
‘000 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
£  
Number of 
shares
‘000
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 33,651 1.80  54,214 2.10
Exercised during the year (11,215) 1.96  (7,372) 2.51
Expired during the year (1,262) 1.74  (13,191) 2.62
Outstanding at the end of the year 21,174 1.71  33,651 1.80
Exercisable at the end of the year 128 1.74  –– Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
108 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
26. Share-based payments (continued) 
Cash-settled share appreciation rights 
2006  2005 
Number of 
shares 
‘000 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
£  
Number of
shares
‘000
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 14,388 2.70  16,924 2.46
Granted during the year – –  4,424 3.56
Exercised during the year (4,361) 2.48  (557) 2.56
Expired during the year (1,104) 2.91  (6,403) 2.66
Outstanding at the end of the year 8,923 2.76  14,388 2.70
Exercisable at the end of the year 1,592 1.74  3,093 2.71
 
 2006  2005 
 Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled
Range of exercise price of outstanding options (£) 0.93 – 3.21 1.72 – 3.56 0.93 – 3.21 1.72 – 3.56
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 22 2 2
Weighted average fair value of options granted (£) –– – 1.15
Expense recognised for the year (£m) 37 3 9
Details of options granted in the year 
The fair value of equity-settled awards granted in the year has been measured using the weighted average inputs below and the following 
valuation models: 
PSP – Monte Carlo 
RSP – Dividend valuation model 
ExSOS & SAYE – Binomial model 
 2006 2005
Range of share price at date of grant (£) 4.18 2.62 – 3.85
Exercise price (£) 0 – 4.28 0 – 3.56
Expected option life (years) 3 – 5 3 – 5
Volatility 27 – 38% 27 – 42%
Spot dividend yield 2.5% 2.6%
Risk free interest rate 4.4% 4.1 – 4.2%
Volatility was calculated with reference to the Group’s weekly share price volatility, after allowing for dividends and stock splits, for the 
greater of 30 weeks or for the period until vest date. 
The average share price in the year was £3.96 (2005 £2.94). 
The liability in respect of the cash-settled elements of the schemes shown above and reported within provisions at 31 December 2006 is 
£82m (2005 £80m). 
The intrinsic value of cash-settled options that have vested at 31 December 2006 is £14m (2005 £3m).  Financial statements
 
 
  www.baesystems.com 109 
27. Reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves 
Attributable to equity holders of the parent 
Issued
share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Equity
option of
preference 
shares
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Minority
interests
£m
Total
equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2005 77 412 78 6,014 (3,504) 3,077 10 3,087
Reclassification
1
 –––(636)636 – ––
Total recognised income and expense – – – (658) 295 (363) 2 (361)
Share-based payments – – – – 16 16 – 16
Shares issued 3 370 – – – 373 – 373
Other ––––– – 44
Ordinary share dividends – – – – (315) (315) – (315)
At 31 December 2005 80 782 78 4,720 (2,872) 2,788 16 2,804
Total recognised income and expense –––(476)2,177 1,701 31,704
Share-based payments
2
 ––––46 46 –46
Share options:   
 Proceeds from shares issued 1 52 – – – 53 – 53
 Purchase of own shares by ESOP – – – – (12) (12) – (12)
Conversion of preference shares – 7 (2) 6 (6) 5 – 5
Purchase of treasury shares ––––(112) (112) –(112)
Release of unrealised gain on the sale of Atlas Elektronik – – – (11) – (11) – (11)
Revaluation of net assets acquired by equity accounted  
investments (note 14)  – – – – 5 5 – 5
Reclassification –––91(91) – ––
Other ––––– – (2)(2)
Ordinary share dividends – – – – (346) (346) – (346)
At 31 December 2006 81 841 76 4,330 (1,211) 4,117 17 4,134
Other reserves includes a merger reserve of £4,589m (2005 £4,589m), a statutory reserve
3
 of £202m (2005 £202m), a translation reserve 
of £259m debit (2005 £85m debit) and a hedging reserve of £27m (2005 £225m). 
1 At 31 December 2004, the fair value reserve of £636m represented the unrealised gain on the Group’s holdings in the shares of Vodafone Group Plc that arose on uplifting the 
shares from historical cost to market value at that date. On adoption of IAS 32, and in accordance with IFRS 1, the Group’s holding in these shares was designated as a financial 
asset at fair value through profit or loss. As a result, from 1 January 2005 movements in the market value of these shares are recorded through the income statement. Accordingly, 
this was reclassified into retained earnings. 
2 The credit in respect of share-based payments for the year ended 31 December 2006 comprises £21m in respect of equity-settled share-based payment schemes, £21m relating  
to a change in the terms of certain share-based payment schemes from cash-settled to equity-settled and £4m relating to discontinued operations. 
3 Under section 4 of the British Aerospace Act 1980 the statutory reserve may only be applied in paying up unissued shares of the Group to be allotted to members of the Group as 
fully paid bonus shares. 
Own shares held 
Own shares held, including treasury shares and shares held by the ESOP Trust, are recognised as a deduction from retained earnings. 
BAE Systems ESOP Trust Limited 
Own shares with a weighted average cost of £8m (2005 £5m) comprise a holding of 2,382,835 (2005 1,748,945) ordinary shares of 2.5p 
each in BAE Systems plc, listed on the London Stock Exchange, and are held by BAE Systems ESOP Trust of which IFG Trust (Jersey) Limited 
are the trustees. Information on the market value and allocation of these shares to the Group’s various share option schemes is as follows: 
Market value 
2006 
£m 
2005
£m
Under option 10 4
Not yet allocated to share option schemes – 3
 10 7
  
Allocation 
2006 
Number of 
shares 
2005
Number of
shares
Held under Restricted Share Plan  
 Executive directors: under option 199,573 384,524
 Other employees: under option 1,138,671 661,940
Held under Performance Share Plan  
 Executive directors: under option 470,952 –
 Other employees: under option 573,639 –
Not yet allocated to share option schemes – 702,481
 2,382,835 1,748,945
Dividends on the shares held in the ESOP Trust have not been waived. Finance costs and other administrative charges are included in the 
income statement on an accruals basis.  Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
110 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
28. Reconciliation of operating business cash flow 
 
2006
£m
Restated 
2005
£m
Cash inflow from operating activities 778 2,099
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (419) (318)
Capital expenditure on investment property – (12)
Additions to intangible assets (27) (17)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 135 30
Proceeds from the sale of investment property 174 54
Proceeds from the sale of non-current other investments 1 30
Purchase of non-current other investments (5) (17)
Dividends received from equity accounted investments 145 88
Operating business cash flow 782 1,937
 
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 273 323
Land & Armaments 137 168
Programmes 173 285
Customer Solutions & Support 289 850
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 158 17
HQ and other businesses (225) (79)
Discontinued operations (23) 373
Operating business cash flow 782 1,937
29. Net cash/(debt) as defined by the Group 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Term deposits – non-current 4 –
Other investments – current 503 634
Cash and cash equivalents 3,100 2,581
 3,607 3,215
Loans – non-current (2,776) (3,534)
Loans – current (308) (815)
Overdrafts – current (26) (90)
Loans and overdrafts – current (334) (905)
Cash received on customers’ account
1
 (included within payables) (62) (53)
 (3,172) (4,492)
Closing net cash/(debt) as defined by the Group 435 (1,277)
Movement in net cash/(debt) as defined by the Group 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Opening net debt as defined by the Group (1,277) (668)
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 – (283)
Restated opening net debt as defined by the Group (1,277) (951)
Operating business cash flow 782 1,937
Interest and preference dividends (207) (152)
Taxation (85) (27)
Free cash inflow 490 1,758
Acquisitions and disposals 1,330 (1,548)
Debt acquired on acquisition of subsidiary undertaking – (288)
Proceeds from issue of share capital 53 373
Equity dividends paid (346) (315)
Other non-cash movements (5) (52)
Purchase of treasury shares (112) –
Purchase of own shares by ESOP (12) –
Foreign exchange 323 (219)
Movement in cash received on customers’ account
1
 (9) (35)
Closing net cash/(debt) as defined by the Group 435 (1,277)
1 cash on customers’ account is the unexpended cash received from customers in advance of delivery which is subject to advance payments guarantees unrelated to  
company performance  Financial statements
 
 
  www.baesystems.com 111 
30. Dividends 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Equity dividends 
Prior year final 6.3p dividend per ordinary share paid in the year (2005 5.8p) 203 186
Interim 4.4p dividend per ordinary share paid in the year (2005 4.0p) 143 129
 346 315
After the balance sheet date, the directors proposed a final dividend of 6.9p (2005 6.3p). The dividend, which is subject to shareholder 
approval, will be paid on 1 June 2007 to shareholders registered on 20 April 2007. The ex-dividend date is 18 April 2007. 
Shareholders who do not at present participate in the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan and wish to receive the final dividend in shares 
rather than cash should complete a mandate form for the Dividend Reinvestment Plan and return it to the registrars no later than 10 May 2007. 
31. Acquisition of subsidiaries 
On 16 October 2006 the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of the shares of National Sensor Systems, LLC. for $8.7m (£5m) in cash. 
The company specialises in the development of electro-optical sensor systems for aerospace and defence applications. In addition, the 
Group paid deferred consideration of £7m in respect of its acquisition, in May 2005, of OMC Group. 
32. Financial risk management 
A discussion of the Group’s treasury objectives and policies and the use of financial instruments can be found in the operating and financial 
review and the directors’ report. Financial instruments comprise net debt (note 29) together with other financial assets and other financial 
liabilities and other instruments deemed to be financial instruments under IAS 32 including non-current receivables, non-current payables and 
non-current provisions. 
Hedging instruments 
The notional, or contracted, amounts of derivative financial instruments are shown below, analysed between foreign exchange contracts and 
interest rate contracts, classified by year of maturity. 
 31 December 2006  31 December 2005 
Foreign exchange contracts 
Not
exceeding
1 year
£m
Between
1 year 
and
5 years
£m
More 
than
5 years
£m
Total
£m 
Not 
exceeding 
1 year 
£m 
Between 
1 year 
and 
5 years 
£m 
More 
than
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Net forward (sales)/purchase contracts    
 US dollar (1,498) 25 (38) (1,511)  (1,406) 93 (35) (1,348)
 Euro 643 10 3 656 1,240 (59) 2 1,183
 Other 36 2 – 38 20 136 – 156
 (819) 37 (35) (817)  (146) 170 (33) (9)
 
 31 December 2006  31 December 2005 
Interest rate contracts 
Not
exceeding
1 year
£m
Between
1 year 
and
5 years
£m
More 
than
5 years
£m
Total
£m 
Not 
exceeding 
1 year 
£m 
Between 
1 year 
and 
5 years 
£m 
More 
than
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Interest rate swap contracts    
 US dollar 128 664 – 792 – 437 466 903
 Sterling 26 99 53 178 12 73 31 116
 154 763 53 970 12 510 497 1,019
 
 31 December 2006  31 December 2005 
Cross currency swap contracts 
Not
exceeding
1 year
£m
Between
1 year 
and
5 years
£m
More 
than
5 years
£m
Total
£m 
Not 
exceeding 
1 year 
£m 
Between 
1 year 
and 
5 years 
£m 
More 
than
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Net forward (sales)/purchase contracts      
 US dollar 143 252 301 696 21 277 460 758
 Euro ––– – – (95) – (95)
 Other – (137) – (137)  – (135) – (135)
 143 115 301 559 21 47 460 528
  Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
112 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
32. Financial risk management (continued) 
Fair value of financial instruments 
The fair value of a financial instrument is the price at which one party would assume the rights and/or duties of another party. 
The fair values of financial instruments have been determined based on available market information at the balance sheet date, and the 
valuation methodologies listed below: 
– the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts are calculated by discounting the contracted forward values and translating at the 
appropriate balance sheet rates; 
– the fair value of both interest rate and cross-currency swaps are calculated by discounting expected future principal and interest cash flows 
and translating at the appropriate balance sheet rates; 
– the fair value of loans and overdrafts has been estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate 
market-based interest rates prevailing at 31 December.  
Due to the variability of the valuation factors, the fair values presented at the balance sheet date may not be indicative of the amounts the 
Group would expect to realise in a current market environment. 
The following table compares the estimated fair values of certain financial assets and liabilities to their carrying values at the balance  
sheet date
1
. 
Net 
carrying 
amount 
2006 
£m 
Estimated 
fair value 
2006 
£m 
Net 
carrying
amount
2005
£m
Estimated
fair value
2005
£m
Assets   
Non-current   
 Other investments 4 4 ––
 Other receivables
2
 569 569 912 912
 Other financial assets 51 51 65 65
   
Current   
 Other investments 503 503 634 634
 Other financial assets 50 50 54 54
 Cash and cash equivalents 3,100 3,100 2,581 2,581
   
Liabilities   
Non-current   
 Loans (2,776) (2,964) (3,534) (3,825)
 Other financial liabilities (45) (45) (45) (45)
   
Current   
 Loans and overdrafts (334) (339) (905) (905)
 Other financial liabilities (50) (50) (81) (81)
 1,072 879 (319) (610)
1 the estimated fair values of the remaining financial assets and liabilities are consistent with their carrying values at the balance sheet date 
2 net carrying amount approximates to estimated fair value as there is no active market  
Interest rate risk 
Based on contracted maturities and/or repricing dates, the following amounts are exposed to interest rate risk over the future as shown below: 
2007
£m
2008 
£m 
2009 
£m 
2010 
£m 
2011
£m
Beyond
2011
£m
Assets    
Non-current    
 Trade and other receivables 115 – – – – –
    
Current    
 Other investments 503 – – – – –
 Cash and cash equivalents 3,100 – – – – –
    
Liabilities    
Non-current    
 Loans (764) (636) (608) (573) (281) (141)
    
Current    
 Loans and overdrafts (112) – – – – – Financial statements
 
 
  www.baesystems.com 113 
32. Financial risk management (continued) 
Collateral 
As shown above, the Group has entered into a number of financial derivative contracts to hedge certain long-term foreign currency and 
interest rate exposures. Cash collateral payments can be required to be made periodically to the counterparty dependent on the market value 
of these financial derivatives. Cash deposited in this way is treated as a non-current receivable and at 31 December 2006 totalled £115m 
(2005 £80m). 
Committed undrawn borrowing facilities 
At 31 December 2006 the Group had a revolving credit facility (RCF) of £1.5bn, which expires in more than two years but less than five years 
(2005 £1.5bn which expires in more than two years but less than five years). The RCF was originally contracted for five years until 2010. 
However, it has been extended by the agreement of two one-year extensions until 2012, although the available amount for the final year has 
been reduced from £1.5bn to £1.3bn. The RCF remained undrawn throughout the year. 
Interest rate fluctuations 
The objective of interest rate risk management is to reduce the exposure to interest rate fluctuations on borrowings and deposits. This is 
achieved through varying the proportion of fixed rate debt relative to floating rate debt over the forward time horizon by utilising derivative 
instruments, mainly interest rate swaps. The Group’s current interest rate management policy is that a minimum of 25% (2005 25%) and a 
maximum of 75% (2005 75%) of debt is maintained at fixed interest rates. At 31 December 2006, the Group had 72% (2005 70%) of fixed 
rate debt and 28% (2005 30%) of floating rate debt based on a gross debt of £3.1bn (2005 £4.4bn). 
The floating rate debt has been predominantly achieved by entering into interest rate swaps which swap the fixed rate US dollar interest 
payable on debt into either floating rate sterling or US dollars. At the end of 2006, the Group had a total of $1.6bn (2005 $1.7bn) of this 
type of swap outstanding with an average duration of 3.6 years (2005 4.5 years). In respect of the fixed rate debt the weighted average 
period in respect of which interest is fixed was six years (2005 six years). 
Given the level of short-term interest rates during the year, the average cost of the floating rate debt was 5.8% on both US dollars and 
sterling (2005 5.3% – 5% on US dollars and 6.1% on sterling); the cost of the fixed rate debt was 7.0% (2005 6.8%). A 1% change in short-
term rates applied to the year end fixed/floating mix and level of borrowings would vary the interest cost to the Group by £9m (2005 £13m). 
In respect of cash deposits, given the fluctuation in the Group’s working capital requirements, cash is generally invested for short-term 
periods based at floating interest rates.  
Credit risk on cash and cash equivalents 
The Group is exposed to credit risk on its cash and cash equivalents to the extent of non-performance by its counterparties in respect of 
financial instruments. However, the Group has policies in place to ensure credit risk is limited by placing concentration limits. BAE Systems 
has a credit limit system to manage actively its exposure to treasury counterparties. The system assigns a maximum exposure based on the 
counterparty’s FT composite rating. These limits are regularly monitored and updated. 
The cash and cash equivalents of the Group are invested in non-speculative financial instruments which are usually highly liquid such as 
overnight deposits and money market funds. The Group, therefore, believes it has negligible exposure to price risk. 
33. Related party transactions 
The Group has a related party relationship with its directors and key management (as disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 
65 and in note 7), its equity accounted investments (note 14) and the pension plans (note 22). 
Transactions occur with the equity accounted investments in the normal course of business and are priced on an arm’s-length basis and 
settled on normal trade terms. The more significant transactions are disclosed below:  
For the year ended 31 December 2006 
Related party 
Sales to 
related
party
£m
Purchases 
from
related
 party
£m
Amounts 
owed by 
related 
party 
£m 
Amounts 
owed to 
related party 
 £m 
Lease 
income/ 
(expense) 
with related 
party
£m
Other
£m
Airbus SAS
1
 50 – – – 15 –
Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH 1,212 – 97 66 – –
Flagship Training Limited – 2 – 16 – –
Fleet Support Limited 18 – 2 – –
Gripen International KB – – 103 115 – –
MBDA SAS 124 12 14 482 2 –
Panavia Aircraft GmbH 75 53 2 – – –
Saab AB 4 2 – – – 1
CTA International 1 – – – – –
Silicon Sensing Systems ––– 7 ––
Xchanging Procurement Services 16 101 2 2 – –
Xchanging HR Services –26 – 2 – – Financial statements
Notes to the Group accounts (continued) 
 
114 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
33. Related party transactions (continued) 
For the year ended 31 December 2005 
Related party 
Sales to 
related
party
£m
Purchases 
from
related
 party
£m
Amounts 
owed by 
related 
party 
£m 
Amounts 
owed to 
related  
party 
 £m 
Lease 
income/ 
(expense) 
with related 
party
£m
Other
£m
Airbus SAS 177 – – 745 17 –
AMS NV 2 – – – 1 –
Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH 1,242 – 18 – – –
Flagship Training Limited – 2 – 13 – –
Fleet Support Limited – 9 – – – –
Gripen International KB – – 4 24 – –
MBDA SAS 106 14 27 478 2 –
Panavia Aircraft GmbH 24 79 2 3 – 3
Saab AB 431 – – –
Xchanging Procurement Services 14 22 1 – – –
Xchanging HR Services – 6 2 – – –
1 transactions with Airbus SAS up to the date of disposal in October 2006 
34. Group entities 
Principal subsidiary entities Principal activities 
Principally 
operates in 
Country of
incorporation
BAE Systems (Operations) Limited 
(Held via BAE Systems Enterprises Limited and  
BAE Systems (Holdings) Limited) 
Defence and commercial aerospace 
activities 
UK England and 
Wales
BAE Systems Australia Limited 
(Held via BAE Systems Australia Holdings Limited) 
Defence support and avionics Australia Australia
BAE Systems Electronics Limited 
(Held via Meslink Limited) 
Naval prime contracting UK England and 
Wales
BAE Systems Marine Limited*  
(Held via BAE Systems Marine (Holdings) Limited) 
Shipbuilding UK England and 
Wales
BAE Systems Integrated System Technologies Limited  
(Held via BAE Systems Electronics Limited) 
Defence systems UK England and 
Wales
BAE Systems Inc. 
(Held via BAE Systems Holdings Inc.) 
Defence systems US US
BAE Systems Land & Armaments Inc. 
(Held via BAE Systems Inc.) 
Manufacture and support of military 
vehicles and ship repair 
US & Sweden US
BAE Systems Land Systems (Munitions & Ordnance) Limited  
(Held via BAE Systems (Holdings) Limited) 
Manufacture of ammunition and 
weapon systems 
UK England and 
Wales
BAE Systems Land Systems (Weapons & Vehicles) Limited 
(Held via BAE Systems Land Systems (Finance) Limited and  
Alvis Limited) 
Design, manufacture, supply and 
support of armoured vehicles 
UK England and 
Wales
Alvis Limited 
(Held via BAE Systems (Holdings) Limited) 
Manufacture and support of military 
vehicles 
UK England and 
Wales
The above list sets out the principal subsidiaries within the Group accounts. It does not represent a full list of subsidiaries. All holdings 
represent 100% of ordinary share capital. 
* Company subject to specific Office of Fair Trading undertakings. Copies of its accounts may be obtained from the Company Secretary, BAE Systems plc. 
35. Events after the balance sheet date 
On 17 January 2007, the Group completed the sale of its 50% interest in HR Enterprise Limited to Xchanging HR Services for a cash 
consideration of £10m. 
  Financial statements
Company balance sheet 
as at 31 December 
  www.baesystems.com 115 
Notes 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Fixed assets  
Tangible assets 2 9 19
Investments  
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 3 4,979 4,978
  4,988 4,997
Current assets  
Stocks 4 2 2
Debtors due within one year 5 4,599 6,115
Debtors due after one year 5 144 121
Investments 6 491 599
Other financial assets due within one year 7 82 152
Other financial assets due after one year 7 85 57
Cash at bank and in hand  2,714 1,332
  8,117 8,378
Liabilities falling due within one year  
Loans and overdrafts 8 (123) (748)
Creditors 9 (8,903) (9,707)
Other financial liabilities 7 (87) (167)
  (9,113) (10,622)
Net current liabilities  (996) (2,244)
Total assets less current liabilities  3,992 2,753
  
Liabilities falling due after one year  
Loans 8 (913) (936)
Creditors 9 (1) (1)
Other financial liabilities 7 (76) (42)
  (990) (979)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 10 (12) (3)
  2,990 1,771
  
Capital and reserves  
Issued share capital 12 81 80
Equity option of convertible preferences shares 12 76 78
Share premium account 13 841 782
Statutory reserve 14 202 202
Other reserves 13 101 49
Profit and loss account 13 1,689 580
Equity shareholders’ funds  2,990 1,771
Approved by the Board on 21 February 2007 and signed on its behalf by: 
M J Turner G W Rose 
Chief Executive Group Finance Director Financial statements
Notes to the Company accounts 
116 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
1. Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical 
cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale 
financial assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities 
(including derivative instruments) at fair value through profit or  
loss, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in  
the United Kingdom (UK GAAP). The going concern basis has been 
applied in these accounts. 
In the Company’s accounts, all fixed asset investments (including 
subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures) are stated at cost (or 
valuation in respect of certain listed investments) less provisions  
for impairments. Dividends received and receivable are credited to 
the Company’s profit and loss account. In accordance with section 
230(4) of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the 
requirement to present its own profit and loss account. The amount 
of profit for the financial year of the Company is disclosed in note 13 
to these accounts. 
Relief under sections 131 and 133 of the Companies Act 1985 is 
taken wherever possible. Accordingly, where such relief is available, 
the difference between the fair value and aggregate nominal value  
of shares is not recognised in either shareholders’ funds or cost  
of investment. 
Cash flow statement 
The Company is exempt under the terms of Financial Reporting 
Standard 1, paragraph 5a, from the requirement to publish its  
own cash flow statement, as its cash flows are included within  
the consolidated cash flow statement of the Group. 
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange 
rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the 
exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. These exchange 
differences are recognised in the profit and loss account unless they 
qualify for hedge accounting treatment, in which case the effective 
portion is recognised directly in a separate component of equity. 
Tangible fixed assets 
Depreciation is provided, normally on a straight-line basis, to write 
off the cost or valuation of tangible fixed assets over their estimated 
useful economic lives to any estimated residual value using the 
following rates: 
Buildings up to 50 years, or the lease 
term if shorter 
Computing equipment, motor 
vehicles and short life works 
equipment 
3 to 5 years 
No depreciation is provided on freehold land and assets in the 
course of construction. 
Impairment reviews are undertaken if there are indications that the 
carrying values may not be recoverable. 
Leases 
Assets obtained under finance leases are included in tangible fixed 
assets at cost and are depreciated over their useful economic lives, 
or the term of their lease, whichever is shorter. Future instalments 
under such leases, net of finance charges, are included within loans. 
Rental payments are apportioned between the finance element, 
which is charged as interest to the profit and loss account, and the 
capital element, which reduces the outstanding obligation for future 
instalments, so as to give a constant rate of charge on the 
outstanding obligation. 
Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the profit 
and loss account on a straight-line basis in arriving at operating profit. 
Investments 
The Company’s investment in shares in group companies are stated 
at cost less provision for impairment. 
Stocks 
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost, including all relevant 
overhead expenditure, and net realisable value. 
Tax 
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes 
account of taxation deferred because of timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. 
Deferred tax is recognised on an undiscounted basis in respect of  
all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for 
taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not 
reversed by the balance sheet date where there is an obligation  
to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, in the future. 
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
The Company contributes to Group pension plans operated in the 
UK. Details of the principal plans and the financial assumptions 
used are contained in the consolidated accounts of BAE Systems 
plc. As permitted by Financial Reporting Standard 17 Retirement 
Benefits (FRS 17), the plans are accounted for as defined 
contribution plans, as the employer cannot identify its share of  
the underlying assets and liabilities of the plans. The employer’s 
contributions are set in relation to the current service period and 
also to fund a series of measures which were agreed during the  
year to address the pension scheme deficits. 
Share options and own shares held  
The Company issues equity-settled share options to employees. In 
accordance with the requirements of FRS 20 Share-based payment 
(FRS 20), the Company has applied FRS 20 to all equity-share 
options granted after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 
1 January 2005. Equity-settled share options are measured at fair 
value at the date of grant using an option pricing model. The fair 
value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, 
based on the Company’s estimate of the number of shares that will 
actually vest. 
In accordance with Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 25 – National 
insurance contributions on share option gains (UITF 25) the Company 
provides in full for the employer’s national insurance liability 
estimated to arise on the future exercise of share options granted, 
except where the employee has agreed to settle the employer’s 
national insurance liability as a condition of the grant of the options. 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption offered in 
Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 17 – Employee share schemes 
(UITF 17) from charging to the profit and loss account the 20% 
discount offered to employees partaking in such Company operated 
SAYE schemes.  Financial statements
 
  www.baesystems.com 117 
1. Accounting policies (continued) 
As required under Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 38 – 
Accounting for ESOP trusts (UITF 38) the cost to the Company of own 
shares held is shown as a deduction from shareholders’ funds within 
the profit and loss account. Consideration paid or received for the 
purchase or sale of the Company’s own shares in the ESOP trust is 
shown separately in the reconciliation of movements in 
shareholders’ funds. 
Preference share capital 
The Company has in issue 7.75p (net) cumulative preference shares 
of 25p each that are convertible into the Company’s ordinary shares 
of 2.5p each at the option of the holder on 31 May in any of the 
years up to 2007, on the basis of 0.47904 ordinary shares for every 
preference share. As a result of the share repurchases during 2006, 
the conversion rate has decreased to 0.47554 ordinary shares for 
every preference share at 31 December 2006. In accordance with 
the Articles of Association the preference share conversion rate will 
be adjusted further as a result of share repurchases made after 
31 December 2006. From 1 July 2007 to 1 January 2010, the 
Company may redeem any outstanding shares at 100p per share, 
together with any arrears and accruals of dividends. 
 
In accordance with FRS 25 the preference shares are considered a 
compound financial instrument and accordingly, have been split into 
an underlying debt instrument, classified within loans and overdrafts, 
and an equity conversion option, classified within equity. 
The underlying debt instrument is presented on an amortised cost 
basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the preference 
shares. 
The equity conversion option is presented at its historic fair value, 
based on the date of original issue of the preference shares. On 
conversion of a preference share into ordinary shares, the 
attributable amount of the equity component is reclassified to share 
capital and share premium. From 1 July 2007, the option to convert 
into ordinary shares is extinguished, and accordingly the remaining 
balance on the equity conversion option will be transferred to the 
profit and loss reserve. 
Dividends thereon are recognised in the income statement as 
finance costs. 
Dividends 
Equity dividends on ordinary share capital are recognised as a 
liability in the period in which they are declared. 
  Financial statements
Notes to the Company accounts (continued) 
118 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2006 
2. Tangible fixed assets 
 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Plant and
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost   
At 1 January 2006 26 40 66
Additions 50 – 50
Disposals (62) – (62)
At 31 December 2006 14 40 54
  
Depreciation and impairment  
At 1 January 2006 13 34 47
Depreciation – 1 1
Disposals (3) -– (3)
At 31 December 2006 10 35 45
  
Net book value  
At 31 December 2006 4 5 9
At 31 December 2005 13 6 19
The amounts above at 31 December 2006 include: 
 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Plant and
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Capitalised finance leases  
Cost – 24 24
Accumulated depreciation – 24 24
  
Assets let under operating leases  
Cost – – –
Accumulated depreciation – – –
  
Net book value of:  
Freehold property – – –
Long leasehold property 4 – 4
Short leasehold property – – –
Fixtures, fittings and equipment – 5 5
 4 5 9
Land and buildings comprise: 
– freehold and long leasehold land and buildings owned by the Company as at 30 June 1996, excluding certain overseas properties, 
revalued at that date. The majority of the Group’s operational properties at that time were valued on a depreciated replacement basis, 
owing to their specialisation, with the remainder on an existing use value basis. Other non-operational properties were valued on the basis 
of open market value; 
– short leaseholds at cost; 
– additions subsequent to 30 June 1996 at cost; and 
– land and buildings owned by subsidiary undertakings acquired since 30 June 1996 at fair value at the date of acquisition.  Financial statements
 
  www.baesystems.com 119 
3. Fixed asset investments 
 
Subsidiary 
undertakings 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost  
At 1 January 2006 and 31 December 2006 5,042 – 5,042
  
Impairment provisions  
At 1 January 2006 64 – 64
Released – (1) (1)
At 31 December 2006 64 (1) 63
  
Net carrying value  
At 31 December 2006 4,978 14,979
At 31 December 2005 4,978 –4,978
4. Stocks 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Development properties 2 2
5. Debtors 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Due within one year 
Corporation tax recoverable 32 32
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 4,500 5,988
Amounts owed by Group joint ventures 1 7
Other debtors 33 72
Prepayments and accrued income 33 16
 4,599 6,115
Due after one year 
Amounts owed by Group joint ventures – 7
Other debtors 143 113
Prepayments and accrued income 1 1
 144 121
Other debtors includes cash collateral of £115m (2005 £80m). 
6. Current asset investments 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Exchange Property  – 599
Other securities 491 –
 491 599
Exchange Property represented the Company’s shareholding in Vodafone Group Plc which was sold during the year.  Financial statements
Notes to the Company accounts (continued) 
120 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
7. Other financial assets and liabilities 
2006 
Assets 
£m 
2006 
Liabilities 
£m 
2005
Assets
£m
2005
Liabilities
£m
Due within one year   
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts 31 (36) 35 (70)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts 51 (51) 117 (94)
Embedded derivatives – – –(3)
 82 (87) 152 (167)
Due after one year   
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts 30 (42) 28 (38)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts 55 (34) 29 (4)
 85 (76) 57 (42)
Full disclosures relating to the Group’s other financial assets and liabilities and financial risk management strategies are given in the 
financial review and note 32 to the Group accounts. 
8. Loans and overdrafts 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Due within one year 
Bank loans and overdrafts 85 44
European Investment Bank loans, final instalment 2009 7 26
Debt-related financial instruments 19 –
SYSTEMS 2001 Asset Trust: 
Option Aircraft bond 12 11
Exchangeable £676m 3.75% Bond – 667
 123 748
Due after one year 
Euro-Sterling £150m 11 ⅞% bond, repayable 2008 150 150
European Investment Bank loan, final instalment 2009 11 18
Euro-Sterling £100m 10¾% bond, repayable 2014 99 99
SYSTEMS 2001 Asset Trust:  
Option Aircraft bond, final instalment 2013 192 287
Permitted Investment bond, repayable 2010 – 1
Debt instrument of the convertible preference shares, redeemable 2010 242 240
Debt-related financial instruments 217 139
Alvis loan notes, redeemable 2009 2 2
 913 936
Bank loans and overdrafts are at a floating rate of interest. 
The European Investment Bank borrowing consists of three sterling-denominated loans, two of which matured during 2006 and the third 
matures in 2009. The coupon rate on the outstanding loan is fixed with an interest rate of 6.86%. 
The SYSTEMS 2001 Asset Trust bonds are at a floating rate of interest, having been converted to a sterling floating rate bond by utilising a 
cross-currency swap which resulted in an effective interest rate during 2006 of 5.59%. 
Exchangeable £676m 3.75% Bond 
The bond was redeemed at par on maturity during July 2006 following some minor conversions into the Exchange Property. 
Loans and overdrafts are repayable as follows: 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
In one year or less 123 748
Between one and two years 180 91
Between two and five years 317 484
In later years 416 361
 1,036 1,684
The total amount of loans repayable by instalments, where any instalment is due after five years, is £203m (2005 £299m).  Financial statements
 
  www.baesystems.com 121 
9. Creditors 
 
2006
£m
2005
£m
Due within one year 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 8,125 8,268
Amounts owed to Group joint ventures 605 1,246
Other creditors 134 162
Accruals and deferred income 39 31
 8,903 9,707
Due after one year 
Other creditors 1 1
 1 1
10. Provisions for liabilities and charges 
 
Contracts and other
£m
At 1 January 2006 3
Created 13
Utilised (4)
At 31 December 2006 12
Provisions created relate to onerous property leases. 
11. Contingent liabilities and commitments 
Company guaranteed borrowings 
Borrowings by subsidiary undertakings totalling £2,182m (2005 £2,868m) which are included in the Group’s borrowings have been 
guaranteed by the Company.  
12. Share capital 
 Equity  Non-equity Total 
 
Ordinary shares 
of 2.5p each  
Special Share 
of £1  
 
Number of
shares
m
Nominal 
value 
£m  
Number of 
shares 
 
Nominal
value
£
Nominal
value
£m
Authorised    
At 1 January 2005 3,850 96  1 1 96
Authorised in the year 600 15  – – 15
At 1 January 2006 and 31 December 2006 4,450 111  1 1 111
    
Issued and fully paid    
At 1 January 2005 3,060 77  1 1 77
Placing of shares 150 3  – – 3
Exercise of options 9–  – – –
At 1 January 2006 3,219 80  1 1 80
Exercise of options 24 1  – – 1
Conversion of preference shares  3 –  – – –
At 31 December 2006 3,246 81  1 1 81
  Financial statements
Notes to the Company accounts (continued) 
122 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
12. Share capital (continued) 
Treasury shares 
In connection with the disposal of its interest in Airbus, the Company stated its intention to return up to £500m to ordinary shareholders  
by way of on-market purchases of ordinary shares using authorities granted at the 2006 AGM and to hold the repurchased shares initially in 
treasury. The Company commenced this buyback programme on 26 October 2006 and, as at 31 December 2006, 28,675,000 2.5p ordinary 
shares with an aggregate nominal value of £1m were held in treasury. 
Special Share 
One Special Share of £1 in the Company is held on behalf of the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry (the Special Shareholder). Certain 
parts of the Company’s Articles of Association cannot be amended without the consent of the Special Shareholder. These articles include  
the requirement that no foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, can have an interest in more than 15% of the Company, the 
requirement that the majority of the directors are British, and the requirement that the Chief Executive and any executive chairman are  
British citizens. The effect of these requirements can also be amended by regulations made by the directors and approved by the Special 
Shareholder. 
The Special Shareholder may require the Company at any time to redeem the Special Share at par or to convert the Special Share into one 
ordinary voting share. The Special Shareholder is entitled to receive notice of and to attend general meetings and class meetings of the 
Company’s shareholders but has no voting right, nor other rights, other than to speak in relation to any business in respect of the Special 
Share. 
Preference shares 
The Company also has in issue 260 million (2005 266 million) 7.75p (net) cumulative redeemable preference shares of 25p each which 
have been convertible into ordinary shares of 2.5p each at the option of the holder on 31 May in any of the years since issue up to 2007, on 
the basis of 0.47904 ordinary shares for every preference share. During the year 6,116,123 shares were converted for 2,929,867 ordinary 
shares. 2007 will be the final year in which shareholders can elect to convert their shares. As a result of the share repurchases during 2006, 
the conversion rate has decreased to 0.47554 ordinary shares for every preference share at 31 December 2006. In accordance with the 
Articles of Association the preference share conversion rate will be adjusted further as a result of share repurchases made after 31 
December 2006. The Company may redeem all of the remaining preference shares at any time after 1 July 2007 and, in any case, will 
redeem any remaining shares on 1 January 2010, in each case at 100p per share together with any arrears and accruals of dividend. The 
maximum redemption value of the preference shares, ignoring any arrears or accruals of dividend, is therefore £260m (2005 £266m). 
In accordance with FRS 25 the convertible preference shares are considered to be a compound financial instrument consisting of both a debt 
element and an equity component which require separate accounting treatment. Under FRS 25, the equity option component of preference 
shares of £76m (2005 £78m) is included as a separate reserve within equity. The debt element is recognised within loans and overdrafts 
(note 8). 
The preference shares carry voting rights at a general meeting of the Company only where the preferential dividend is six months or more  
in arrears, or where a motion is to be proposed which abrogates, varies or modifies the rights of the preference shareholders, or where a 
motion is to be proposed for the winding up of the Company. On a winding up, holders of the preference shares are entitled, after repayment 
of the capital paid up on the Special Share and in priority to any payment to any other class of shareholder, to the return of amounts paid up 
or credited as paid up on the preference shares together with a premium of 75p per share, and all arrears of preferential dividends. 
13. Reserves 
Share premium 
account
£m
Other  
reserves 
£m 
Profit and 
loss account
£m
At 31 December 2005  782 49 580
Retained profit – – 1,617
Dividends paid – – (346)
Share-based payments –– 25
Exercise of options 52 – –
Conversion of preference shares  7 – –
Purchase of own shares by ESOP – – (12)
Purchase of treasury shares – – (112)
Reclassification – 80 (80)
Other movements – (18) 17
Movements in hedging reserve – (10) –
At 31 December 2006 841 101 1,689
Other reserves 
Other reserves for the Company comprise: capital reserve £24m (2005 £24m); hedging reserve £9m debit (2005 £79m debit); and non-
distributable reserve arising from property disposals to other Group undertakings £86m (2005 £104m). The non-distributable reserve arising 
from property disposals to other Group undertakings relates to the revaluation surplus realised by the Company on properties which were 
sold to other Group companies as part of operational reorganisations in prior years. Amounts within this reserve will be transferred to the 
profit and loss account as distributable when the related properties are disposed of outside the Group, or written down following impairment.  Financial statements
 
  www.baesystems.com 123 
13. Reserves (continued) 
Own shares held  
Within the profit and loss account of the Company there are deductions for the value of own shares held of £8m (2005 £5m) which comprise 
a holding of 2,382,835 (2005 1,748,945) ordinary shares of 2.5p each in the Company, listed on the London Stock Exchange and are held 
by the BAE Systems ESOP Trust of which IFG Trust (Jersey) Limited are the trustees.  
Information on the market value and allocation of these shares to the Company’s various share option schemes is as follows: 
2006 
£m 
2005
£m
Market value  
Under option 10 4
Not yet allocated to share option schemes – 3
 10 7
 
2006 
Number of 
shares 
2005
Number of
shares
Allocation   
Held under Restricted Share Plan  
Executive directors: under option 199,573 384,524
Other employees: under option 1,138,671 661,940
Held under Performance Share Plan  
Executive directors: under option 470,952 –
Other employees: under option 573,639 –
Not yet allocated to share option schemes – 702,481
 2,382,835 1,748,945
Dividends on the shares held in the ESOP Trust have not been waived. Finance costs and other administrative charges are included in the 
profit and loss account on an accruals basis. 
Company profit 
The Company’s profit for the financial year was £1,617m (2005 £728m). 
14. Statutory reserve 
Under section 4 of the British Aerospace Act 1980 this reserve may only be applied in paying up unissued shares of the Company to be 
allotted to members of the Company as fully paid bonus shares. 
15. Other information 
Employees 
The total number of employees of the Company at 31 December 2006 was 596 (2005 478). Total staff costs, excluding charges for share 
options, were £67m (2005 £59m). 
Total directors’ emoluments, excluding company pension contributions, were £9,647,000 (2005 £7,730,000). These emoluments were paid 
for their services on behalf of the BAE Systems Group. No emoluments related specifically to their work for the Company. 
Company audit fee 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts totalled £1,023,000 (2005 £1,110,000). 
  Financial statements
Five year summary 
124 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
2006 
IFRS 
£m 
2005 
IFRS 
£m 
2004 
IFRS 
£m 
2003
UK
GAAP
1
£m
2002
UK
GAAP
1
£m
Income statement
2,3
    
Sales including Group’s share of equity accounted investments    
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 4,007 3,697 3,063 – –
Land & Armaments 2,115 1,270 482 – –
Programmes 2,927 2,819 2,219 2,374 2,060
Customer Solutions & Support 3,180 2,923 2,856 2,042 2,133
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 1,748 1,834 2,022 – –
Commercial Aerospace
3
 – – – 2,9042,716
HQ and other businesses 295 471 464 281 300
Avionics
4
 – – – 650 727
North America – – – 2,6362,561
International Partnerships – – – 1,6851,648
Intra-business group sales (507) (433) (417) – –
 13,765 12,581 10,689 12,572 12,145
    
EBITA
5
    
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 429 324 256 – –
Land & Armaments 168 42 (8) – –
Programmes 167 133 10 56 69
Customer Solutions & Support 477 419 497 411 454
Integrated Systems & Partnerships 113 109 95 – –
Commercial Aerospace
3
 – – – 204 195
HQ and other businesses (147) (118) (50) – (18)
Avionics
4
 – – – 12 66
North America – – – 232 247
International Partnerships – – – 65 (11)
 1,207 909 800 980 1,002
Amortisation and impairment (139) (122) (110) (518) (615)
Exceptional items (UK GAAP only)    (9)(797)
Finance costs including share of equity accounted investments (174) (196) (132) (220) (206)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 894 591 558 233 (616)
Taxation expense including share of equity accounted investments (248) (147) (219) (225) (70)
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 646 444 339 8 (686)
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations 993 111 (336) – –
Profit/(loss) for the year 1,639 555 3 8 (686)
    
Balance sheet    
Intangible assets 7,595 8,217 6,115 6,000 6,417
Property, plant and equipment, and investment property 1,869 1,922 1,901 1,699 1,709
Non-current investments 678 1,730 1,535 1,710 1,515
Inventories 395 485 498 775 768
Payables (excluding cash on customers’ account) less receivables (4,298) (4,596) (3,891) (3,126) (2,887)
Other financial assets and liabilities 6 (7) – – –
Retirement benefit obligations (2,499) (4,101) (3,210) 362 315
Provisions  (695) (718) (491) (749) (858)
Net tax 648 1,012 876 (195) 4
Net cash/(debt) 435 (1,277) (668) (870)(1,298)
Disposal groups held for sale – 137 – – –
Minority interests (17) (16) (10) (15) (20)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 4,117 2,788 2,655 5,591 5,665 Financial statements
 
  www.baesystems.com 125 
 
Movement in net cash/(debt) as defined by the Group 
2006
IFRS
£m
2005 
IFRS 
£m 
2004 
IFRS 
£m 
2003
UK
GAAP
1
£m
2002
UK
GAAP
1
£m
Cash flow from operating activities 778 2,099 2,350 836 136
Net capital expenditure
6
 (141) (250) (285) (248) (183)
Dividends from equity accounted investments 145 88 69 37 78
Operating business cash flow 782 1,937 2,134 625 31
Acquisitions and disposals 1,330 (1,836) (630) (62) 41
Finance costs (207) (152) (179) (117) (150)
Tax and dividends (431) (342) (312) (227) (391)
Other non-cash movements (5) (52) 9 121 (136)
(Purchase)/issue of equity shares (71) 373 – – 32
Exchange movements 323 (219) 129 72 97
Net increase/(decrease) in net funds 1,721 (291) 1,151 412 (476)
Movement in cash on customers’ account (9) (35) (13) 16 9
Movement in net cash/(debt) 1,712 (326) 1,138 428 (467)
Opening net debt (1,277) (668) (870) (1,298) (831)
Impact of IFRS adoption – (283) (936) – –
Closing net cash/(debt) 435 (1,277) (668) (870) (1,298)
 
Other information 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
Basic earnings/(loss) per share – total 50.7p 17.4p (0.6)p (0.5)p (23.2)p
Basic earnings per share – underlying
7
 23.8p 18.4p 13.6p 16.6p 17.3p
Dividend per ordinary share 11.3p 10.3p 9.5p 9.2p 9.2p
Number of employees, excluding share of employees of equity accounted investments,  
at year end 79,000 80,000 73,300 68,400 68,100
Capital expenditure including leased assets £538m £347m £359m £243m £274m
Order book including the Group’s share of equity accounted investments £31.7bn £30.8bn £29.5bn £46.0bn £42.5bn
To aid comparison, certain presentational changes have been made to the IFRS amounts in 2004 and 2005. 
1 for the years ended 31 December 2002 and 2003, the information is presented on a UK GAAP basis 
2 for the years ended 31 December 2002 and 2003, the business group information presented under UK GAAP has not been restated to reflect the changes made to the business 
groups in 2005 and 2006 
3 for the years ended 31 December 2004 to 2006, Airbus SAS is presented as a discontinued operation under IFRS and the remaining Commercial Aerospace business group 
is reported within HQ and other businesses 
4 for the years ended 31 December 2004 and 2005, the Avionics business group is presented as discontinued operations under IFRS 
5 for the years ended 31 December 2004 to 2006 this is defined as earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense.  
For the years ended 31 December 2002 and 2003, this is defined as profit before interest and tax, excluding goodwill amortisation and impairment, and exceptional items 
6 includes expenditure on property, plant and equipment, investment property, intangible assets and other investments 
7 for IFRS, underlying earnings is presented for continuing operations after adjusting for amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on 
pensions and financial derivatives, and uplift on acquired inventories. For UK GAAP, underlying earnings is presented after adjusting for goodwill amortisation and impairment, 
and exceptional items.  Shareholder information
Shareholder information 
126 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
Registered office 
6 Carlton Gardens 
London 
SW1Y 5AD 
United Kingdom 
Telephone: +44 (0)1252 373232 
Company website: www.baesystems.com 
Registered in England and Wales,  
No. 1470151 
Registrars 
Lloyds TSB Registrars (0140) 
The Causeway, Worthing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
United Kingdom 
Telephone: 0870 600 3982 
(+44 121 415 7058 from outside the UK) 
If you have any queries regarding your 
shareholding, please contact the registrars. 
Shareview service 
The Shareview service from our registrar, 
Lloyds TSB Registrars, gives shareholders: 
– direct access to data held on their behalf 
on the share register including recent 
share movements and dividend details; 
and 
– the ability to change their address or 
dividend payment instructions on-line. 
To sign up for Shareview you need the 
‘shareholder reference’ printed on your proxy 
form or dividend stationery. There is no 
charge to register. 
When you register with the site, you can 
register your preferred format (post or e-mail) 
for shareholder communications. If you 
select ‘e-mail’ as your mailing preference, 
you will be sent shareholder 
communications, such as proxy forms and 
annual/interim results by e-mail instead of 
post, as long as this option is available.  
If you have your dividends paid straight to 
your bank account, and you have selected  
‘e-mail’ as your mailing preference, you can 
also collect your tax voucher electronically. 
Instead of receiving the paper tax voucher, 
you will be notified by e-mail with details of 
how to download your electronic version. 
However, if you choose ‘post’ as your 
preference, you will be sent paper 
documents as usual. 
Visit the website for more details: 
www.shareview.co.uk  
Details of software and equipment 
requirements are given on the website. 
Shareholder dealing service 
Hoare Govett Limited offers a low cost  
postal dealing service enabling UK resident 
shareholders to buy or sell BAE Systems plc 
shares. Basic commission is 1%, subject to 
a minimum charge of £15.00. If you require 
further information please contact:  
Hoare Govett Limited on  
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7678 8300 
This notice has been approved by Hoare 
Govett Limited which is authorised and 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority. 
ShareGift 
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a 
charity donation scheme for shareholders 
with small parcels of shares which may 
be uneconomic to sell. Details of the  
scheme are available from ShareGift at 
www.sharegift.org or by telephone on 
020 7828 1151. 
Share price information 
The middle market price of the Company’s 
ordinary shares on 31 December 2006 was 
425.75p and the range during the year was 
329p to 449.75p. 
Daily share prices are available in the UK on 
the FT Cityline service on 0906 843 0000.  
At the menu following the FTSE 100 index, 
select option 2 for share prices and the 
relevant four-digit code shown below: 
BAE Systems plc ordinary shares – 
enter the four-digit code 1890 
BAE Systems plc preference shares – 
enter the four-digit code 5174 
Calls are charged at 60p per minute at  
all times. 
Alternatively you can view teletext or a  
similar service. 
Dividend reinvestment plan 
The Company offers holders of its ordinary 
shares the option to elect to have their 
dividend reinvested in shares purchased  
in the market instead of cash. If you would 
like to make this election, please request a 
dividend reinvestment plan mandate from 
our registrars: 
Lloyds TSB Registrars 
The Causeway, Worthing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA  
Telephone: 0870 241 3018  
Telephone number from outside the UK:  
+44 121 415 7058  
American Depositary Receipts 
The BAE Systems plc American Depositary 
Receipts (ADRs) are traded on the Over The 
Counter market (OTC) under the symbol 
BAESY. One ADR represents four 
BAE Systems plc ordinary shares. 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the 
depositary.  
If you should have any queries, please 
contact: 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. 
JPMorgan Service Center 
PO Box 3408 
South Hackensack NJ 07606-3408 
USA 
Toll free telephone number:  
800 990 1135 
Telephone number from outside the US:  
+1 201 680 6630 
Website: www.adr.com 
Email: jpmorganadr@mellon.com  Shareholder information
 
  www.baesystems.com 127 
Financial calendar 
 
Financial year end 31 December
Annual General Meeting 9 May 2007
Preference shares conversion date (final opportunity) 31 May 2007
2006 final ordinary dividend payable 1 June 2007
2007 half yearly preference dividend payable 2 July 2007
2007 interim results announcement 9 August 2007
2007 interim ordinary dividend payable 30 November 2007
2007 full year results – preliminary announcement February 2008
 – report and accounts April 2008
2007 final ordinary dividend payable June 2008
 
Analysis of share register at 31 December 2006 
 Ordinary shares of 2.5p  Preference shares of 25p 
 Accounts Shares  Accounts Shares 
Number
‘000 %
Number
million % 
Number 
‘000 % 
Number 
million %
By category of shareholder    
Individuals 117.393.0116.23.6 2.1 63.3 8.93.4
Nominee companies 7.7 6.1 2,997.1 92.3 1.1 34.9 236.1 90.8
Banks ––25.50.8 – – 9.73.8
Insurance and pension funds – – 0.1 – – – – –
Other 1.10.9107.33.3 0.1 1.8 5.32.0
 126.1100.03,246.2100.0 3.3 100.0 260.0 100.0
    
By size of holding    
1 – 99 25.7 20.4 1.3 – – – – –
100 – 499 35.4 28.1 9.6 0.3 0.1 2.8 – –
500 – 999 26.6 21.0 18.9 0.6 0.2 5.1 0.1 0.1
1,000 – 9,999 35.8 28.3 84.9 2.6 2.5 78.0 9.0 3.5
10,000 – 99,999 1.6 1.3 40.7 1.2 0.4 11.0 7.9 3.0
100,000 – 999,999 0.7 0.6 249.3 7.7 0.1 2.1 19.3 7.4
1,000,000 and over 0.3 0.32,841.5 87.6 – 1.0 223.7 86.0
 126.1100.03,246.2100.0 3.3 100.0 260.0 100.0 Shareholder information
Glossary 
128 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 
AGS 
Advanced Gun System: a 155mm gun 
system being developed under the  
DD(X) programme. 
ASTRAEA 
Autonomous Systems Technology Related 
Airborne Evaluation & Assessment: a 
programme that focuses on the 
technologies, systems, facilities and 
procedures that will allow autonomous 
vehicles to operate safely and routinely  
in the UK. 
ATAM 
Air-To-Air Mistral (a very short-range air 
defence missile system). 
ATTAC 
Availability Transformation:  
Tornado Aircraft Contract. 
Bv206 
Armoured all-terrain vehicle. 
BONUS 
A sensor fused 155mm munition. 
Bradley 
Tracked armoured fighting vehicles, which 
fulfil critical infantry, cavalry, fire support, 
battle command and engineer roles for the 
US Army. 
C4ISR 
Command, Control, Communications and 
Computing (C4), Intelligence, Surveillance 
and Reconnaissance (ISR): systems that 
provide a precise picture of the battlefield in 
‘real-time’, optimising the information 
available for decision making. 
CfPE 
Centre for Performance Excellence.  
CV90 
An armoured infantry fighting vehicle 
developed by BAE Systems Land Systems 
Hagglunds to meet international demand. 
CVF 
The UK’s future aircraft carrier. 
DDG-1000 
A next-generation destroyer for the US Navy. 
DIS 
The Defence Industrial Strategy, published  
by the UK government in December 2005 
following consultation with industry, 
recognises the skills and capabilities that 
will be needed to equip and support the UK 
armed forces and ensure the UK defence 
industry remains world-leading. 
DoD 
United States Department of Defense. 
EW 
Electronic Warfare. 
F-22A Raptor 
An advanced tactical fighter aircraft in 
service with the USAF. 
FALCON 
An information infrastructure system for the 
British Army. 
FCS 
Future Combat System. 
FRES  
Future Rapid Effect System: The UK  
Ministry of Defence (MoD) programme  
to provide the British Army with a family  
of medium-weight, network-enabled,  
air-deployable armoured vehicles. 
FV430 Bulldog 
An armoured personnel carrier. 
ALH  
Advanced Light Helicopter: a multi-role, 
multi-mission helicopter. 
IDIQ 
Indefinite-Delivery/Indefinite-Quantity: a  
US government contract allowing flexibility  
for orders.  
ISO14001 
The standard for environmental management 
published by the International Standards 
Organisation, which specifies the actual 
requirements for an environmental 
management system. 
IT  
Information Technology. 
LCM 
Lifecycle Management: a process and control 
environment within which the Company’s 
projects are executed. 
LRLAP  
Long Range Land Attack Projectile:  
a system being developed under the  
DD(X) programme. 
M88 Hercules 
A fully-tracked, armoured recovery vehicle. 
M113 
Armoured personnel carriers, medical, 
command and control, and engineering 
mortar launching vehicles. 
M777 
A lightweight 155mm field howitzer. 
Milan ER 
An extended range anti-armour missile. 
MoD 
UK’s Ministry of Defence. 
NEC 
Networked Enabled Capability. 
Nimrod MRA4 
The replacement Maritime and Patrol Attack 
aircraft for the UK’s Royal Air Force. 
PAAMS 
Principal Anti-Air Missile System. Aster 
PAAMS: a medium-range anti-aircraft vertical 
launching missile system based on the 
Aster 15 and Aster 30 anti-missile missiles. 
PCL 
Performance Centred Leadership: a 
leadership and performance management 
system used throughout the Company. 
RAF 
The UK’s Royal Air Force. 
RSAF 
The Royal Saudi Air Force. 
RG-31, RG-32 and RG-33 
Mine protected armoured personnel carriers. 
SAMP/T 
A land-based air defence system 
incorporating the Aster 30 missile, 
developed by MBDA. 
SEP 
A modular multi-role vehicle system. 
SETAC 
System Engineering and Technical 
Assistance Contract. 
SHE 
Safety, Health and Environment. 
SUAV(E) 
Strategic Unmanned Air Vehicle (Experiment). 
Stingray Mod 1 
A lightweight torpedo.  
T93 radar 
Type 93 Air Defence Radar. 
UAV 
Unmanned Air Vehicle. 
UCAV 
Unmanned Combat Air Vehicle. 
USAF 
United States Air Force. 
UUV 
Unmanned Underwater Vehicle. 
VLS 
Vertical Launching System.  Shareholder feedback
If you would like to give us any feedback on this year’s Annual Report,
please send your written comments to our investor relations team at: 
BAE Systems plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
or by email to andy.mann@baesystems.com
For more information visit: www.baesystems.com
Shareholder information
The paper used in this document contains 
a minimum of 50 per cent post consumer
waste. It also has FSC certification and is
sourced from well managed forests certified
in accordance with the rules of the Forest
Stewardship Council. BAE Systems plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)1252 373232
Registered in England and Wales No. 1470151
www.baesystems.com
Shaping our business
Annual Report 2006
REAL PERFORMANCE. REAL ADVANTAGE.
BAE Systems plc Annual Report 2006
See overleaf for an overview
of our business today
Cover image: BAE Systems,
with its partners, is delivering the
Type 45 anti-air warfare destroyer.
The Group has responsibility
for the design, development
and delivery for the class. The
through-life support arrangements
are now under discussion, with
initial packages on contract.
Cautionary statement
All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this document, including, without limitation,
those regarding the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of BAE Systems and its strategy,
plans and objectives and the markets and economies in which it operates, are forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements which reflect management's assumptions made on the basis of information
available to it at this time, involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors which
could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of BAE Systems or the markets and economies
in which BAE Systems operates to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements
expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Nothing in this document shall be regarded as a
profit forecast. BAE Systems plc and its directors accept no liability to third parties in respect of this report
save as would arise under English law. In particular, section 463 Companies Act 2006 limits the liability of
the directors of BAE Systems plc so that their liability is solely to BAE Systems plc.
Information key
Cross reference
within report
67
For more information visit
www.baesystems.com
