 REAL PERFORMANCE. REAL ADVANTAGE.
Leveraging global capability
Annual Report 2008 Contents
Cautionary statement: All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this document, including, without limitation, those regarding the financial condition, results, operations
and businesses of BAE Systems and its strategy, plans and objectives and the markets and economies in which it operates, are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements
which reflect management’s assumptions made on the basis of information available to it at this time, involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors which could
cause the actual results, performance or achievements of BAE Systems or the markets and economies in which BAE Systems operates to be materially different from future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Nothing in this document shall be regarded as a profit forecast. BAE Systems plc and its directors accept no liability to third
parties in respect of this report save as would arise under English law. Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission shall
be determined in accordance with section 90A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. It should be noted that section 90A and section 463 Companies Act 2006 contain limits on the
liability of the directors of BAE Systems plc so that their liability is solely to BAE Systems plc.
See overleaf for an overview
of our business today
33,900 21,300 30,200 19,200
BAESystemsataglance
Whatwedo… BAESystems,with106,400employees 1
worldwide,deliversafullrangeofsystems
andservicesforair,landandnavalforces,
aswellasadvancedelectronics,information
technologysolutionsandcustomer
supportservices.
International Programmes & Support Land & Armaments Electronics,Intelligence
& Support
Group
HQ & Other Businesses
The Electronics,Intelligence & Support operating group designs,develops, produces and services systems and subsystems for a wide range of military and commercial applications. It comprises four lines of business: Electronic Solutions, Information Solutions, Platform Solutions and Support Solutions.
Land & Armaments provides design, development,production, through-life support and upgrade of armoured combat vehicles, tactical wheeled vehicles,naval guns, missile launchers,artillery systems and munitions.
The International operating group comprises the Group’s businesses in Saudi Arabia and Australia,together with a 37.5% interest in the pan-European MBDA joint venture, a 20.5% shareholding in Saab of Sweden and a 49% shareholding in Air Astana.
Programmes & Support comprises the Group’s UK-based air and naval activities, the activities of the acquired Detica security business and the Integrated System Technologies business.
– Maintained leadership in electronic warfare systems – Won key IT, situational awareness and aviation sustainment contracts – Addressing market for vehicle power management systems – Sustained leadership in US non-nuclear ship repair – Increased research and development investment
– High volume of vehicle reset and upgrade activity
– Successfully addressed US mine protected vehicle requirements
– 15-year UK munitions partnering agreement secured
– Wheeled armoured vehicle successes
– Joint Light Tactical Vehicle down select
– Saudi Typhoon programme (Salam) progressing to schedule
– Tenix Defence acquisition completed; price adjustments in negotiation
– Impairment taken of £120m on Saab carrying value
– SuccessfultransitiontostartofTyphoon Tranche2deliveries
– BVTSurfaceFleetnavaljointventureformed
– ManufacturingcontractforFutureCarriers secured
– Deticaacquisitioncompleted
– FirstType45successfullydeliveredoff contract
FORMOREINFORMATION SEEPAGE42 p42 FORMOREINFORMATION SEEPAGE40 p40 FORMOREINFORMATION SEEPAGE38 p38 FORMOREINFORMATION SEEPAGE36 p36 FORMOREINFORMATION SEEPAGE44 p44
Principaloperations
Mainoperating locations
Numberof employees 1,3
Keypoints from2008
– Strong financial performance
– Further progress in delivery of strategy
– Accelerated development of security business
– Exceptional year for Land & Armaments
HQ & Other Businesses comprises the regional aircraft asset management and support activities, head office and UK shared services activity,including research centres and property management.
£18,543m
Sales 1 for 2008
1 Includingshareofequityaccountedinvestments. 2 Beforeeliminationofintra-groupsales. 3 ExcludingHQ&OtherBusinesses. 4 Earningsbeforeamortisationandimpairmentofintangibleassets,financecostsandtaxation expense(EBITA)excludingprofit/(loss)ondisposalofbusinessesandupliftonacquired inventories.Restatedtoexcludeprofit/(loss)ondisposalofbusinesses.Seepage29.
Sales 1,2 byoperatinggroup 3 (%)
UnderlyingEBITA 4 byoperatinggroup 3 (%)
Electronics, Intelligence& Support
Land& Armaments
International
Programmes &Support
£1,897m
Underlying EBITA 4 for 2008
Electronics, Intelligence& Support
International
Programmes &Support Land& Armaments
25% 22%
28% 25%
24% 18%
34%
24%
About this report…
Governance
Board of directors 64
Corporate governance 66
Remuneration report 75
Other statutory and regulatory information,
including statement of directors’ responsibilities 94
5
Performance
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 24
Financial review 28
Operating group reviews 35
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 36
Land & Armaments 38
Programmes & Support 40
International 42
HQ & Other Businesses 44
Operating group performance summary 45
3
Overview
Results in brief, highlights and outlook 1
Chairman’s letter 2
1
Financial statements
and shareholder information
Independent auditors’ report 105
Consolidated financial statements 106
Notes to the Group accounts 110
Company balance sheet 159
Notes to the Company accounts 160
Five-year summary 168
Shareholder information 170
Financial calendar 171
Glossary 172
Annual Report online 173
Shareholder feedback 173
6
Responsibility
Corporate responsibility review 48
Risk management 56
Principal risks 58
4
Strategy
Chief Executive’s review 6
Strategic overview 10
Strategy in action 12
Market review – global 15
Market review – home markets 16
Operational Framework 18
Executive leadership 19
Resources 20
2
Directors’ report: Business review
Directors’ report
Directors’ report: Business review
Directors’ report: Business review Directors’ report: Business review 33,900
BAESystemsataglance
Whatwedo…
BAESystems,with106,400employees
1
worldwide,deliversafullrangeofsystems
andservicesforair,landandnavalforces,
aswellasadvancedelectronics,information
technologysolutionsandcustomer
supportservices.
Electronics,Intelligence
& Support
Group
HQ & Other Businesses
The Electronics,Intelligence & Support
operating group designs,develops,
produces and services systems and
subsystems for a wide range of military and
commercial applications. It comprises four
lines of business: Electronic Solutions,
Information Solutions,Platform Solutions
and Support Solutions.
– Maintained leadership in electronic
warfare systems
– Won key IT,situational awareness and
aviation sustainment contracts
– Addressing market for vehicle power
management systems
– Sustained leadership in US non-nuclear
ship repair
– Increased research and development
investment
FORMOREINFORMATION
SEEPAGE36 p36
FORMOREINFORMATION
SEEPAGE44 p44
Principaloperations
Mainoperating
locations
Numberof
employees
1,3
Keypoints
from2008
– Strong financial performance
– Further progress in delivery of strategy
– Accelerated development of security business
– Exceptional year for Land & Armaments
HQ & Other Businesses comprises the regional aircraft
asset management and support activities,head office
and UK shared services activity,including research centres
and property management.
£18,543m
Sales
1
for 2008
1 Includingshareofequityaccountedinvestments.
2 Beforeeliminationofintra-groupsales.
3 ExcludingHQ&OtherBusinesses.
4 Earningsbeforeamortisationandimpairmentofintangibleassets,financecostsandtaxation
expense(EBITA)excludingprofit/(loss)ondisposalofbusinessesandupliftonacquired
inventories.Restatedtoexcludeprofit/(loss)ondisposalofbusinesses.Seepage29.
Sales
1,2
byoperatinggroup
3
(%)
UnderlyingEBITA
4
byoperatinggroup
3
(%)
Electronics,
Intelligence&
Support
Land&
Armaments
International
Programmes
&Support
£1,897m
Underlying EBITA
4
for 2008
Electronics,
Intelligence&
Support
International
Programmes
&Support
Land&
Armaments
25%
22%
28%
25%
24%
18%
34%
24% 21,300 30,200 19,200
International Programmes & Support Land & Armaments
Land & Armaments provides design,
development, production,through-life
support and upgrade of armoured combat
vehicles,tactical wheeled vehicles,naval
guns,missile launchers,artillery systems
and munitions.
The International operating group comprises
the Group’s businesses in Saudi Arabia and
Australia,together with a 37.5% interest
in the pan-European MBDA joint venture,
a 20.5% shareholding in Saab of Sweden
and a 49% shareholding in Air Astana.
Programmes & Support comprises the
Group’s UK-based air and naval activities,
the activities of the acquired Detica security
business and the Integrated System
Technologies business.
– High volume of vehicle reset and
upgrade activity
– Successfully addressed US mine
protected vehicle requirements
– 15-year UK munitions partnering
agreement secured
– Wheeled armoured vehicle successes
– Joint Light Tactical Vehicle down select
– Saudi Typhoon programme (Salam)
progressing to schedule
– Tenix Defence acquisition completed;
price adjustments in negotiation
– Impairment taken of £120m on Saab
carrying value
– SuccessfultransitiontostartofTyphoon
Tranche2deliveries
– BVTSurfaceFleetnavaljointventureformed
– ManufacturingcontractforFutureCarriers
secured
– Deticaacquisitioncompleted
– FirstType45successfullydeliveredoff
contract
FORMOREINFORMATION
SEEPAGE42 p42
FORMOREINFORMATION
SEEPAGE40 p40
FORMOREINFORMATION
SEEPAGE38 p38 Outlook
A feature of our business is the good visibility provided by our strong order book.
A further year of good growth is anticipated in 2009,despite a lower level of land vehicle sales
than in 2008.
In addition,the Group’s trading results would be expected to benefit from a continued weakness
of sterling against the US dollar.
Results in brief
Results from continuing operations 2008 2007
Sales
1
£18,543m £15,710m
Underlying EBITA
2
(restated) £1,897m £1,449m
Operating profit £1,718m £1,177m
Underlying earnings
3
per share (restated) 37.1p 30.1p
Basic earnings per share
4
49.6p 26.0p
Order book
5
£46.5bn £38.6bn
Other results including discontinued operations
Dividend per share 14.5p 12.8p
Cash inflow from operating activities £2,009m £2,162m
Net cash as defined by the Group
6
£39m £700m
Highlights
– Strong financial performance
– Further progress in delivery of strategy
– Accelerated development of security business
– Exceptional year for Land & Armaments
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 1
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses and
uplift on acquired inventories. Restated to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses. See page 29.
3 Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives,profit/(loss) on disposal
of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories (see note 10 to the Group accounts). Restated to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses. See page 29.
4 Basic earnings per share in accordance with International Accounting Standard 33.
5 Including share of equity accounted investments’ order books and after the elimination of intra-group orders of £1.4bn (2007 £1.4bn).
6 See the Financial review on page 31 and note 29 to the Group accounts.
£18,543m +18%
Sales
1
Our 2008 performance
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW
Results in brief,highlights and outlook
37.1p +23%
Underlying earnings
3
per share DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW
Chairman’s letter
2 www.baesystems.com
“BAE Systems
has delivered
a further
year of good
performance”
Dick Olver Chairman
BAE Systems has delivered a further year of good
performance against its objectives,delivering on our
strategy,financial performance and other non-financial
metrics that are becoming an increasingly important
component of a successful business operating in
global markets.
The more difficult economic climate may restrict many
governments’ spending,but we believe defence and security will
continue to be amongst the priorities for a number of our main
government customers. The long-term nature of much of our
business,underpinned by a record order book,provides a good
level of forward visibility. BAE Systems has been successful in
addressing growth opportunities in a strong US defence market,
whilst continuing to improve operating performance in the more
difficult UK market environment,and winning new business and
expanding our presence in other markets around the world. The
Group’s continued focus on delivering performance and value
for money will be increasingly important in its drive to deliver
our aspirations for sustainable growth in shareholder value.
– Good performance against objectives
– Further progress in delivery of strategy
– Greater focus on the Corporate
Responsibility agenda
– Transition to a new Chief Executive
Dividend per share (pence)
04 05 08 07 06
9.5
10.3
14.5
12.8
11.3
14.5p
2008 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 3
A key objective for the Board in 2008 was to appoint and achieve
a seamless transition to a new Chief Executive. On 1 September
2008,the Board was pleased to announce the appointment of
Ian King as Chief Executive on the retirement of Mike Turner after
42 years’ service with the Company. Mike had been Chief Executive
since 2002 and led the turnaround of the business to today’s high
performing global enterprise. I am sure our shareholders and other
stakeholders join those of us from the Group in thanking Mike for
his outstanding contribution to the success of BAE Systems.
Key to that success has been the development and execution
of a clear strategy. The Group continues to benefit from delivery
against our strategic framework
1
. Prior to his appointment as
Chief Executive,Ian King was a key part of the executive team
that developed that strategy and contributed to its successful
implementation over a number of years. Ian now leads the
team and we look forward to supporting him in the continued
development of the business.
I was also pleased to welcome two new non-executive directors to
the Board during 2008. Ravi Uppal joined in April and Carl Symon
in June. Peter Weinberg retired from the Board in May and I would
like to extend our thanks to Peter for his contribution to the Group.
Following Peter’s retirement from the Board,Andy Inglis has assumed
responsibility for the Board’s Corporate Responsibility Committee.
The Group is determined that it should be recognised as a leader
in responsible business worldwide and we continue to strive
for ways to improve our business and its reputation. That is why
we asked the Woolf Committee,led by Lord Woolf,to carry out a
comprehensive independent review to identify not only the high
ethical business standards to which a global company such as
BAE Systems should adhere,but also the extent to which the
Group currently meets these standards and to recommend the
actions to be taken to achieve such standards,and publicly
report on its findings.
Appointing the Woolf Committee to undertake this review was a bold
move,but we also went one step further and gave a commitment to
act on all the Committee’s recommendations before even seeing the
report. The report was published in May last year,and we are moving
fast to implement all recommendations and are already rolling out
a new Global Code of Conduct.
We have put in place a comprehensive three-year implementation
programme with a dedicated resource drawn from across our
business. In order for us to deliver this programme successfully,
the outputs must quickly become part of how the Company
conducts its day-to-day business as a key part of its total
performance culture,one that fully embraces ethics,safety,
programme and financial performance.
Recognising the importance of our employees to the success
of the Group,I am pleased to report that two were honoured by
Her Majesty the Queen in the 2008 Birthday Honours and 2009
New Year’s Honours lists: Guy Griffiths,Group Managing Director,
International,was appointed a CBE and John Harris,a shipwright
with Submarine Solutions,was appointed an MBE.
The Chairman’s Award scheme recognises employees and
industry partners for outstanding,new and innovative ways
in which they shape BAE Systems and contribute to its global
success. We celebrated another very successful awards
programme in December,reminding all of us of the strong
innovation and technological capability of our 106,400 people.
With our belief in the good outlook for the Group the Board has
recommended an increased final dividend of 8.7p making a total
of 14.5p for the year,an increase of 13.3% over 2007. At this
level,the annual dividend is covered 2.6 times by underlying
earnings (2007 2.4 times). Subject to shareholder approval at the
2009 Annual General Meeting,the dividend will be paid on 1 June
2009 to holders of ordinary shares registered on 24 April 2009.
Dick Olver Chairman
p10
1 FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR
STRATEGY SEE PAGE 10 DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY
4 www.baesystems.com
Strategy
“Pursuing our strategy to
leverage global capability”
Strategy contents
Chief Executive’s review 6
Strategic overview 10
Strategy in action 12
Market review – global 15
Market review – home markets 16
Operational Framework 18
Executive leadership 19
Resources 20
2 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 5
BAE Systems’ range of global
capabilities in sensors and systems,
such as the Long-Range Radar from our
Integrated System Technologies (Insyte)
business,provides our customers with
the power to see,the information to
decide,and the knowledge to command. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY
Chief Executive’s review
6 www.baesystems.com
BAE Systems continued to make good progress during
2008 in addressing its strategy to deliver sustainable
growth in shareholder value by being the premier global
defence and aerospace company.
The Group performed well with organic growth in our US
businesses benefiting from strong demand in their respective
market sectors. The Group has also delivered growth from recent
acquisitions. Increased profitability is being achieved across this
higher volume of business from good programme execution.
The Group continues to benefit from delivery against its strategic
framework. The Group’s progression has been achieved through
the focus on existing defence capabilities,the broadening to other
domains such as the land systems sector,and the substantial
expansion of the business footprint across its markets. Activity
is starting to increase in India as resources are committed to
developing that market.
In 2008,the Group has further developed the business with
targeted value-adding acquisitions.
In June,the acquisition of US-based MTC Technologies was
completed. The acquisition focuses on the substantial readiness
and sustainment opportunities seen in the US defence market and
builds on the Group’s established through-life support capabilities.
Also in June,the acquisition of the Australia-based defence
business Tenix Defence was completed,positioning the Group
as the industry leader in the Australian defence market with air,
land and naval capabilities. The acquisition is another step in
progressing the Group’s strategy to grow through the provision
of through-life capability in partnership with the armed forces
in its home markets.
The acquisition of Detica in September addressed the Group’s
strategy of targeting national security markets. Opportunities
are being identified to leverage the Group’s system integration
capabilities to meet adjacent,non-military,security requirements
for government customers.
“The Group
performed well
with organic
growth from
well-positioned
businesses”
Ian King Chief Executive BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 7
Performance against 2008 Executive Committee top ten objectives
The Board reviews and updates the Group’s strategy annually (see page 10). The Chief Executive and Executive
Committee agree the Group’s strategic objectives,business portfolio actions and integrated business plans.
The strategy is also supported by ten short-term objectives agreed annually by the Chief Executive and Executive
Committee which address the key challenges in delivering the strategy in the year ahead. Performance against
these objectives is measured using a number of key performance indicators which are regularly reported to the
Board (see pages 24 to 27). Achievements against the 2008 objectives are summarised below.
2008 performance
Another year of strong performance,with 2008 financial targets for earnings per share
and net cash/debt exceeded.
Further good progress in partnering with customers in the Group’s home markets.
The acquisition of Tenix Defence in June addresses opportunities to develop through-life
business in partnership with the Australian armed forces.
Key business policies and processes are mandated across the Group,and are an
important part of the integration of newly acquired businesses. These policies and
processes continued to be refined and enhanced with a focus on achieving good,
consistent application across all businesses.
Good programme execution has again been reflected in the performance of the
Group. The Group exceeded its 2008 targets for programme margin improvement
and schedule adherence.
The acquisition of Detica in September built on the Group’s established position
addressing Homeland Security markets in the US and accelerated the implementation
of the Group’s strategy to address growth opportunities in national security business
across its home markets.
The Group continued to grow its US businesses,with the prior year acquisition of Armor
Holdings and strong organic growth from its US land systems business. The acquisition
of MTC Technologies in June addresses further growth opportunities in readiness and
sustainment activity in the US.
The Group continued to develop its presence in Saudi Arabia and remains committed to
its strategy of developing a greater indigenous capability in the Kingdom. Good progress
was made in establishing industrial capabilities to support the modernisation of the Saudi
armed forces as part of the Saudi-British Defence Co-operation Agreement.
BAE Systems continued to make progress in supporting the UK armed forces through
long-term partnering agreements. The formation of the BVT joint venture in July was a key
step in the consolidation of the UK naval sector consistent with the objectives of the DIS.
Export opportunities continued to be addressed. The Group’s increasing emphasis
is on deriving growth in its business by the establishment of industrial capability in
defined markets.
Good progress was made in embedding the Group’s commitment to safety,ethics
and diversity. The publication of the Woolf Committee report in May was followed
by the establishment of a programme of actions to implement its recommendations.
A Group-wide Code of Conduct was developed for roll-out at the start of 2009.
Objective
1. Meet 2008 financial targets
2. Develop our partnering approach
3. Ensure continued application of
business policies and processes
4. Further enhance programme
execution through schedule
and cost performance
5. Progress development of
security business
6. Grow our US business,including
through investments
7. Progress the business in the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
8. Continue to implement the UK
Defence Industrial Strategy (DIS)
9. Progress export opportunities
10. Continue to drive performance
in safety,ethics and diversity
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR
KPIs SEE PAGES 24 TO 27 p24 DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY
Chief Executive’s review continued
8 www.baesystems.com
was launched in January 2009 to codify the required standards
of personal and business conduct.
The Group has been reorganised and the Executive Committee
restructured
1
. The operating group heads and functional leaders
are all now represented on the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee’s top ten objectives for 2009 are
summarised opposite. Many of these objectives are consistent with
those from 2008. In particular,the team will remain focused on
delivering financial performance,consistent programme execution
and developing business in its defined home markets. In addition,
further emphasis is being placed on safety performance and the
Corporate Responsibility agenda is made a key objective for the
executive team in 2009.
A well implemented strategy and good programme execution
are only two of the elements of high performance. BAE Systems
comprises well over 100,000 talented people working in numerous
locations around the globe. The challenge and the opportunity is
to further develop the Group as a cohesive,inclusive organisation.
The move to embrace a single,Group-wide,high performance culture
is creating an environment in which all employees can make a real
contribution and be recognised for their part in BAE Systems’ drive
for continuing success.
BAE Systems has consistently delivered progressive performance
over recent years. BAE Systems is not insulated from the difficult
wider economic environment. The Group recognises that defence
budgets are likely at some stage in the future to come under
further pressure and it will continue to apply conservatism to
its planning assumptions. The Group is well positioned,having
a large forward order book,a good balance of market positions
around the globe,a well spread portfolio of programmes and
a strategy to address anticipated priority areas of spend for
its customers.
The following pages describe the Group’s strategy,its markets
and the way the business is managed.
Ian King Chief Executive
The Group will continue to increase emphasis on maximising
defence and security capabilities across the home markets in
the US, UK,Saudi Arabia,Australia,Sweden and South Africa. In
addition,the Group will look to expand where it sees opportunities
to establish an industrial presence in new markets,such as India.
Export performance has remained solid with awards including
RG-series vehicles to a number of countries,including Spain and
Sweden,M777 guns to Canada,CV90 infantry fighting vehicles,
and a number of orders for Electronics,Intelligence & Support
products,including those in support of US platforms.
In July,BAE Systems completed an agreement with VT Group plc (VT)
to consolidate the UK naval shipbuilding industry supported by the
signing of the manufacturing contract for the Future Aircraft Carrier
programme and by an agreement for the future domestic warship
workload with the UK government. The merger of the warship build
and support businesses of VT and BAE Systems into the BVT joint
venture was achieved in 2008. The joint venture is subject to put
and call options and,in January 2009,VT announced that it had
decided to exercise its put option to sell its interest in BVT to
BAE Systems and that VT expects to be in a position to exercise
that option by 1 July 2009.
Even after the active programme of acquisitions over recent years,
good cash generation has enabled BAE Systems to maintain a
strong balance sheet. Diligent treasury management enabled the
Group,during 2008,to avoid the effects of the extreme dislocation
in capital markets. Bank counterparty risk has been and continues
to be monitored closely on a systematic and ongoing basis,taking
account of the size of the institution,its credit rating and its credit
default swap price.
The difficult economic environment,and in particular the falls
in equity markets in 2008,has affected the Group’s pension
schemes. Pension scheme funding is regularly reviewed with
the Trustees of the schemes. The agreed funding plans have
been considered over the longer term and are deemed to continue
to be reasonable. An agreement with the Trustees of the Main
UK Pension Scheme has recently been concluded following the
actuarial valuation carried out as at April 2008. The recovery plan
to clear the deficit has been accepted by the Pensions Regulator.
In May 2008,the Woolf Committee,an independent body
appointed by the Board under the chairmanship of Lord Woolf
to review the Group’s ethical standards,published its report.
A steering group and associated working groups have been
established to address all 23 recommendations and a plan has
been developed for implementation of recommendations within
three years. The aim is to establish the Group as a leader in
business conduct,not just within our sector but within the global
business community.
Consistent with the importance attached to Corporate Responsibility
and the drive towards leadership in business ethics,the Group has
taken steps to embed such issues more directly in its day-to-day
operations. An important part of this drive is the establishment
of a Global Code of Conduct in which all employees have a clear
understanding of what is expected of them. The Code of Conduct
1 FOR MORE INFORMATION ON THE
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE SEE PAGE 19
p19 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 9
2009 Executive Committee top ten objectives
The Executive Committee has set the following objectives for 2009. A review of performance against these
objectives will be contained in the Annual Report 2009. The aim of these objectives is to provide focus for
the leadership and engagement of people at all levels in the Group.
Description
Meet 2009 financial targets and set challenging and realistic longer-term plans.
Further enhance programme execution through schedule and cost performance.
Progress towards a recognised leadership position on the Corporate Responsibility agenda.
Drive safety performance to a level comparable with leading performers over a
three-year period.
Make progress on the four global initiatives – Land,Security,Readiness & Sustainment,
and Unmanned Aircraft Systems.
Grow our US business including execution of planned investments.
Progress delivery of the Saudi Industrialisation Plan and further develop business
in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Continue to implement the UK Defence Industrial Strategy including execution
of our transformation and investment plans.
Progress export opportunities from each of our home markets.
Ensure continued quality application of our mandated business policies and processes.
Objective
1. Financial targets
2. Programme execution
3. Business conduct
4. Safety
5. Global initiatives
6. US business
7. Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
8. UK businesses
9. Business development
10. Business policies and processes
Global Code of Conduct
We have already made good progress implementing
the recommendations of the Woolf Committee.
At the beginning of 2009,we introduced a Global
Code of Conduct which provides guidance on the
principles,standards and personal behaviour that
our people should bring to their business conduct.
These build on our existing policies which have been
collated into a single document with guidance to
explain what they mean to us.
We have appointed a senior Corporate Responsibility
executive,reporting directly to the Chief Executive,to
ensure that the Group’s policies and processes meet
with high standards of ethical business conduct.
We have appointed Deloitte to provide external
assurance on an annual basis as to the progress
of the Woolf implementation programme and this
will be reported through our Corporate Responsibility
Report which is due to be published in April 2009.
Our global strategy sets out our aspiration to be
world-class in total performance. BAESystems has
many business imperatives,but to succeed with
them we must develop our business conduct with
the same rigour that we apply to our financial and
programme execution skills. This includes creating
an inclusive culture where the great diversity of
talent and capability of our 106,400 employees
is fully harnessed. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY
Strategic overview
10 www.baesystems.com
Performing
against our
strategy
Our Group strategy is ‘To deliver sustainable
growth in shareholder value by being the
premier global defence,security and
aerospace company’.
Our Group strategy
We deliver our strategy through our Group Strategic Objectives,Business Portfolio Actions and Integrated
Business Plans. The Group Strategic Objectives are championed by the Executive Committee and apply across
all our businesses. The Business Portfolio Actions are championed by the relevant Executive Committee
member and are delivered by the businesses either separately or jointly. Both are underpinned by our
Integrated Business Plans.
To deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value by being the
premier global defence,security and aerospace company
Continue to embed a high performance culture including delivery of our Corporate Responsibility agenda
Further enhance our programme execution capabilities
Increase sharing of expertise,technology and best practice between our global businesses
Develop a partnering approach to meet our customer requirements
Develop our capabilities in existing and new home markets
Establish in the UK
sustainably profitable
through life businesses
in Air,Land and Sea
Grow our EI&S
business both
organically and
via acquisitions
Implement a home
market strategy to
grow in the Kingdom
of Saudi Arabia
Implement our
global land
systems strategy
Implement our
global initiatives in
Security,Readiness
& Sustainment (R&S)
and Unmanned Aircraft
Systems (UAS)
Continue to develop
our global markets
Integrated Business Plans
Business Portfolio Actions
Group Strategic Objectives
Group Strategy Our Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
The Group delivers its strategy through the Group
Strategic Objectives, Business Portfolio Actions
and Integrated Business Plans. The strategy is
also supported by ten short-term objectives agreed
annually by the Executive Committee and the Board
(see page 9) which address the key challenges
in delivering the strategy in the year ahead. The
objectives are directly underpinned by a set of
financial and non-financial performance indicators
that are regularly reported to the Board. Certain of
these are linked to executive remuneration. These
KPIs are detailed on pages 24 to 27,and provide
a succinct and meaningful measurement system
to assess enterprise performance and continuous
improvement in line with our strategy.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 11
Our Operational Framework
The Operational Framework defines the mandated
policies and core business processes that provide
a common framework for how we do business. These
mandated policies and core business processes,
together with our key resources,help us to achieve
the Group’s strategic objectives.
Our risks
Effective management of risk and opportunity is
essential to the delivery of the Group’s objectives and
achievement of sustainable shareholder value. The
Group’s approach to risk management is aimed at the
early identification of key risks and then removing or
reducing the likelihood and effect of risks before they
occur,and dealing effectively with them if they do.
Strategy
Our consistent strategy
The Group’s strategy has been successful in laying
the foundation for our long-term sustainable growth
and has provided the framework for the continued
development of the business. The strategy has
evolved as the Group has progressed and,for 2009,
there are again further developments within that
consistent framework.
Evolution of our strategy
This year,we continued the evolution of our Group
Strategic Framework through our strategy review
process. With the acquisition of Detica,the Group
Strategy statement has been updated to read
‘…premier global defence, security and aerospace
company’,reflecting the importance of this growing
market opportunity. As part of our commitment to
be recognised as a leader in responsible business
worldwide,we expanded the first Group Strategic
Objective to include ‘delivery of our Corporate
Responsibility agenda’.
Building on past progress,new and revised actions to
support the strategy in 2009 have been developed. A
new Business Portfolio Action – ‘Implement our global
initiatives in Security,Readiness & Sustainment (R&S)
and Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS)’ – has been
added to highlight the importance of these global
initiatives. We also added the Business Portfolio
Action ‘Continue to develop our global markets’ as
we continue to develop our existing home markets,
broaden our home market base and seek to export
to selected markets.
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR
STRATEGY IN ACTION SEE PAGES 12 TO 14 p12
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR
OPERATIONAL FRAMEWORK SEE PAGE 18 p18
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR
RISKS SEE PAGES56 TO 61
p56
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR
KPIs SEE PAGES 24 TO 27 p24 DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY
Strategy in action
12 www.baesystems.com
Leveraging global
capability in
readiness and
sustainment
Readiness and sustainment describes the provision of through-life
operational capability for the armed forces,embracing a wide
range of activities to support and sustain equipment and systems.
Set within the context of both a demanding operational tempo
and a challenging financial environment,effective readiness
and sustainment programmes can deliver increased operational
availability of systems and equipment at reduced cost. In
response to customer demands,the Group has developed a
partnered support approach which is providing cost savings
and efficiencies while also providing a substantial business
stream for the Group. Recognising the growth potential in the
through-life support market,the Group has established the
readiness and sustainment global initiative to accelerate the
deployment of our capabilities in this area across our businesses.
In the UK,the Group’s involvement in the support of Royal Air
Force (RAF) aircraft has been expanded into contracts to manage
the maintenance and support of whole aircraft fleets. These
include Availability Transformation: Tornado Aircraft Contract
(ATTAC),Harrier Joint Upgrade and Maintenance Programme
(JUMP),Nimrod MR2 and the VC-10 Joint Approach to VC-10
Engineering and Logistics Integration (JAVELIN).
The ATTAC partnership provides the RAF with whole-platform
availability support. In a partnered arrangement with the RAF
and the UK MoD,the Group currently has some 430 staff
(including contractors) at RAF Marham and manages a large
element of deep support which has resulted in a significant
reduction in Tornado flying hour costs.
At RAF Cottesmore,JUMP encompasses a number of Harrier-
related partnered support programmes. Essential maintenance
is combined with the upgrade of aircraft from Harrier GR7 to the
Harrier GR9 standard. JUMP has extended the operational life
of the Harrier fleet,reduced customer costs and significantly
improved aircraft availability to the front line.
For Nimrod MR2,the Group is responsible for on-aircraft depth
maintenance,spares management and fleet maintenance
management. This includes maintenance of aircraft under the
Nimrod Integrated Support Contract which has delivered a 40%
increase in aircraft availability and reduced costs.
Although the VC-10 aircraft is approaching the end of its service life,
it continues to provide an essential operational capability for the UK.
Through JAVELIN,and in partnership with the UK MoD,the Group is
responsible for fleet maintenance management and maintenance
policy with performance incentivised against aircraft availability.
On Typhoon,the UK MoD has already awarded the Group a
contract to provide a guaranteed repair service for key Typhoon
aircraft components. This represents a significant step towards
establishing a partnered through-life support availability service
and supports the underlying principles behind the UK government’s
Australian Hawk Lead-In Fighter
The Hawk Lead-In Fighter project is viewed as the role model for future
through-life support contracting in Australia. Under a performance-based
contract,BAESystems ensures the aircraft are delivered in line with customer
requirements by continuously improving ways of working with our customer.
This partnership approach helps to reduce cost while maintaining the availability
of the aircraft to meet the needs of the Royal Australian Air Force.
Establish in the UK
sustainably profitable
through life businesses
in Air,Land and Sea
Grow our EI&S
business both
organically and
via acquisitions
Implement a home
market strategy to
grow in the Kingdom
of Saudi Arabia
Implement our
global land
systems strategy
Continue to develop
our global markets
Business Portfolio Actions addressed: BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 13
Defence Industrial Strategy. The Typhoon Availability Service
(TAS) is expected to be progressively contracted for from 2009.
Within the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,the Group has developed
extensive support capabilities over several decades. The
Group continues to provide significant support to both Royal
Saudi Air Force (RSAF) and Royal Saudi Naval Forces operations.
In particular,steps are being taken with the RSAF to maintain
the capability of its Tornado aircraft while extending their
operational life.
In Australia,in addition to supporting the Hawk Lead-In Fighter
aircraft,the acquisition of Tenix Defence,a diversified provider of
engineering and technical maintenance services to the Australian
Defence Force,has provided us with the opportunity to enhance
our through-life support services and capabilities to the land and
naval forces.
In the US,through-life support is often referred to as readiness
and sustainment,and the Group has capabilities throughout its
businesses. These range from the Group’s ship repair facilities
which provide complete marine repair,modernisation and
conversion services,to the upgrade,reset and support of
armoured fighting vehicles. The Group’s FastTrack contract
provides the US Navy with an affordable,performance-based
solution to the challenging issue of providing continuing spare
parts availability for ageing US military aircraft.
The acquisition of MTC Technologies,a provider of technical
and professional services and equipment integration,was an
important step in addressing growth in the US readiness and
sustainment markets and has added to our existing capabilities.
The Group’s UK Tornado support programme is a key
example of how BAE Systems is meeting customer
demands for through-life capability and support. The
Tornado Availability Transformation: Tornado Aircraft
Contract (ATTAC) programme includes on-aircraft
maintenance of the Tornado GR4 aircraft fleet,
spares support,technical support and training.
Under the ATTAC agreement,BAE Systems has taken
responsibility for deep support at RAF Marham,and
combines this with a capability development and
sustainment service as a structured and cost-effective
approach to inserting new capability into the aircraft,
so as to maintain its war-fighting effectiveness
throughout its service life.
ATTAC is an availability contract where BAE Systems
is responsible for ensuring the required aircraft,at
an agreed capability,are provided to the front line,
while saving the UK MoD some £500m over an
initial ten-year period.
Tornado – ATTAC DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY
Strategy in action continued
14 www.baesystems.com
BAE Systems has identified the security market as an evolving
and growing business opportunity that continues to benefit from
increasing government attention. While the security market
covers a broad range of sectors, the Group’s focus is on
information and intelligence. The Group established a strategic
objective for 2008 of ‘establishing security businesses in its home
markets’. In parallel with organic investment,the acquisition of
Detica in 2008 accelerated implementation of its strategy to
address these opportunities.
The digital revolution – the widespread diffusion of
telecommunications and computer technology – has driven
exceptional economic and social development. A decade ago
very little was digital,now the vast majority of information is
digitised and volumes are growing at an exponential rate. The
growth of the internet,which has stimulated this explosion,now
makes it impossible to conceive of a modern economy operating
without it. However,the digital revolution is both exploited by,and
vulnerable to,terrorists and criminals who have increased their
threat potential through this new environment.
The Group expects the historically fragmented security sector to
consolidate and grow as customers’ requirements evolve around
more integrated information intelligence solutions. The combination
of Detica’s well-established customer relationships and technical
capabilities and BAE Systems’ system integration capabilities will
result in a depth of financial and technical capability to address
growth opportunities and better serve customers in this area.
Governments,the military,financial institutions and private
businesses amass a great deal of information about their
customers,products,research and financial status,and protection
of this confidential information is key to their sustainability. The
Group provides innovative thinking and solutions in the area of
information exploitation to create actionable intelligence.
Detica works with the UK government in areas such as counter-
terrorism,serious and organised crime,identity management,and
immigration and border control. Clients include agencies within
intelligence and defence sectors as well as the Department for
Transport,the Metropolitan Police and HM Revenue and Customs.
Much of our work in this market is at the heart of our clients’
mission,and focuses on large scale data integration and the
application of advanced analytical techniques. With larger and
longer-term delivery contracts becoming increasingly important,
the Group expects to benefit from the UK government’s increasing
focus on intelligence,security and resilience.
The Group’s broad geographic footprint provides substantial
opportunities to grow its security business across its other home
markets. In particular,existing activities and structures in the US
provide a platform to apply Detica’s capabilities into the US
homeland security market.
With terrorism remaining a mainstream political issue which
continues to affect governments and the public,it is anticipated
that there will be a requirement for protection strategies in counter-
terrorism,border controls and critical national infrastructure
which will need collaboration across agencies and government
departments. The growth of identity theft has accelerated the
development of new approaches to identifying and combating
increasingly complex forms of internal and external fraud.
With relationships at the heart of the security community in both
the UK and the US,BAE Systems is now in a position to utilise its
capabilities in the security sector across the Atlantic and in our other
home markets. Detica has previously benefited from contracts such
as the UK/US collaborative Joint Narcotics Analysis Centre and from
the award of a contract for the Detica NetReveal®software from the
US Internal Revenue Service.
Leveraging a
global capability
in security
Detica
Demonstrating BAE Systems’ strategic objective of growth into adjacent markets
is the acquisition of the information intelligence capability provider,Detica.
In the UK,Detica has established itself as a leading consultancy servicing
the counter-threat agenda and its acquisition will help BAE Systems establish
security businesses in its home markets,accelerating planned organic growth
in the national security sector.
Establish in the UK
sustainably profitable
through life businesses
in Air,Land and Sea
Grow our EI&S
business both
organically and
via acquisitions
Implement a home
market strategy to
grow in the Kingdom
of Saudi Arabia
Implement our
global land
systems strategy
Continue to develop
our global markets
Business Portfolio Actions addressed: BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 15
Market review – global
The global
defence market
Whilst the more difficult economic climate
will undoubtedly restrict many governments’
spending,at the macro level,global defence
expenditure is expected to remain robust
in the near term. The US defence market
is estimated to account for approximately
44% of the global total in 2007.
Spending has been rising in a number of Asian economies,such
as India,while there has also been increased defence spending in
the Gulf. Global market growth is expected to continue in the near
term but then flatten from 2010 as US deployments are expected
to be scaled back leading to lower supplemental budgets.
Most of the Group’s businesses are focused on the defence
industry and are subject both to competition from national
and multi-national firms and to government regulation.
Accessible defence markets (US$bn)
Top ten markets accessible for business by the Group
(based on 2007 total defence spending)
US
France
Germany
Japan
Saudi Arabia
Republic of Korea
India
Australia
Brazil
Source: BAE Systems internal analysis
622
72
60
41 41
33 27
20 20 23
UK
General Dynamics
Raytheon
EADS
L-3 Communications
Finmeccanica
United Technologies
BAE Systems’ global market position (US$bn)
Top ten defence companies
(based on 2007 defence revenues)
Source: Defense News
Lockheed Martin
Boeing
BAE Systems
Northrop Grumman
38.5
32.1
29.8
24.6
21.5
19.8
12.2
8.8
10.6
11.2
BAE Systems’ US market position (US$bn)
Top ten US defence companies
(based on 2007 Department of Defense revenues)
Source: GovernmentExecutive.com
Lockheed Martin
Boeing
Northrop Grumman
General Dynamics
Raytheon
BAE Systems
L-3 Communications
United Technologies
KBR
Textron
28.7
24.1
18.1
13.6
11.6
8.5
5.9
3.9
4.8
5.3
0
150
300
450
600
750
900
Forecast defence budgets for BAE Systems’ home markets
(US$bn in constant 2007 prices)
Source: BAE Systems internal analysis
US Supplemental US Other home markets UK
10 09 08 07
BAE Systems’ position in each home market
Position in home Total defence
market defence spend 2007
industrial base Actual
Home market 2007 US$bn
US 6 622
UK 1 72
Saudi Arabia 1 33
Australia
1
1 20
Sweden 2 7
South Africa 2 4
1 Assuming Tenix Defence included.
Source: BAE Systems internal analysis DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY
Market review – home markets
16 www.baesystems.com
Our home
markets
Our global business is based around six
home markets in Australia,Saudi Arabia,
South Africa,Sweden,the UK and US.
These are markets identified as having
a significant and sustained commitment
to defence and security and an openness
to foreign investment. They are also markets
where we have a good existing position
in their defence industrial base along with
strong customer relationships. We intend
to invest and grow in these markets.
The United States is the world’s largest single
defence market,estimated to account for
approximately 44% of total global expenditure
in 2007.
Within this market,BAE Systems is a large and
high-performing part of the defence industrial base
and ranked number six among the leading US defence
contractors in 2007. The Electronics,Intelligence &
Support (EI&S) and Land & Armaments (L&A) operating
groups employ almost 47,000 people across 38 states.
Market environment
The near-term outlook for US defence spending
remains relatively strong with estimated 2008 total
spending levels of US$672bn,the highest in real
terms since World War II. Supplemental spending
continues but is expected to decline as it is
anticipated that the US will scale back its operations
in Iraq. Uncertainty increases beyond 2010 pending
decisions to be made by the new US administration
although support for defence spending is expected
to remain robust.
The US is one of BAE Systems’ key markets and is
expected to continue offering programme scale and
high levels of investment in research and development.
The Group has continued to grow in the US,leveraging
its market leadership positions in areas such as land
vehicles and electronic warfare,and is also introducing
new capabilities to meet customer needs.
Opportunities
Demand continued through 2008 for our wide range
of high technology systems and sensors,and for the
reset and upgrade of tracked vehicles. We also saw
a peak in demand for Mine Resistant Ambush
Protected (MRAP) vehicles.
Our Business Portfolio Actions include growing our
EI&S business both organically and via acquisitions,
as well as implementing our global land systems
strategy
1
. Future growth opportunities exist in areas
such as cyber-space activity,through-life product
support,services,mission support and sustainment.
We will continue to pursue opportunities globally
leveraging leadership positions in Tracked Combat
Systems,Medium Tactical Vehicles,Mine Resistant
Vehicles,Armour and Survivability Technologies and
Artillery Systems. Additionally,the acquisition of MTC
Technologies in June further strengthened our position
in the US readiness and sustainment market.
United States
United Kingdom
Other home markets
Note: Employee numbers exclude the Group’s
share of equity accounted investments.
US
employees:
46,900
Sweden
employees:
1,600
UK
employees:
32,800
1 FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR
STRATEGY SEE PAGE 10 p10 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 17
Other home markets
Australia
Australia maintains its commitment to defence and the new
government has restated a commitment to 3% real growth
in defence spending out to 2017. This commitment has been
demonstrated by a number of high profile procurements over
the last few years including Abrams main battle tanks,new
helicopters and C-17 transport aircraft.
The acquisition of Tenix Defence in June,with its capabilities
in the naval and land sectors,means that BAE Systems is now
the industry leader in the Australian defence market.
Saudi Arabia
Saudi Arabia is expected to remain one of the heaviest defence
spenders in the world,having dedicated around 10% of GDP over
the last few years,with a significant part of this spent on external
procurement. All branches of the military are currently considering
the upgrade or replacement of existing equipment.
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is an important market for
BAE Systems and we continue to implement our home market
strategy
1
. The Group continues to work to substantially increase
the number of Saudi nationals employed in the business.
Significant investments have been made both in new facilities
and in companies through which aerospace work is performed.
South Africa
One of the best trained militaries in sub-Saharan Africa,the
South African Defence Force,is currently undergoing a major
re-equipment programme as a result of procurements approved
by the government in 1999.
BAE Systems’ domestic presence is through Land Systems South
Africa,which has benefited from the US MRAP programme and
the growing international requirement for mine protected vehicles.
In 2008,we further improved our position in the South African
market by acquiring IST Dynamics.
Sweden
The Swedish Armed Forces are in the midst of a transformation
programme started in 1998 to refocus the military into a smaller,
more mobile and flexible force able to both defend the homeland
and contribute to international operations.
The Group’s Swedish business has undergone restructuring
to better meet the demands of the global defence market. The
business has a strong focus on exports with products such as the
CV90 infantry fighting vehicle and a family of all-terrain vehicles.
Potential home markets
We continue to look at opportunities to establish a home market
presence in other countries such as India which has a strong
and sustained commitment to defence and is developing its
own domestic industrial capabilities. We are actively exploring
possible co-operation with potential partners.
Advisory boards
An advisory board has been established to advise on the
development of business in Saudi Arabia,and the Group is
proposing to establish similar advisory boards in relation to
India and other territories where the Group intends to establish
operations. The advisory board for each territory will typically
consist of experts in the particular region who are external
to the Group.
United Kingdom Overall defence spending in the UK
is at a low level of real growth despite commitments
to operations in Afghanistan and Iraq which have
resulted in high levels of activity due to Urgent
Operational Requirements.
The Group’s UK-based businesses have a key role in supporting
the UK armed forces as well as developing security and resilience
capabilities for the UK. Some 32,800 people are employed in
the UK.
Market environment
The defence market in the UK is expected to become more
challenging in the coming years and a strategic defence review is
expected following the next general election. Defence expenditure
was 2.4% of GDP for 2007/08.
The Group’s UK businesses have a secure backlog of
contracted business across large air systems and naval
platform programmes. The businesses are seeing the benefits
of the transition from development to production activity,and,
as these platforms enter service,are expected to benefit from
through-life support contracts.
Opportunities
Our strategy is to establish in the UK sustainably profitable
through-life businesses in air,land and sea
1
. We continue to
make progress in supporting the UK armed forces through
partnering agreements in response to the UK Defence Industrial
Strategy (DIS). In 2008,we announced the formation of the
naval shipbuilding joint venture BVT Surface Fleet,signed a
15-year partnering agreement with the UK MoD on munitions
supply and continued to make progress in supporting
in-service equipment.
The acquisition of Detica in September was a major step in
the implementation of our strategy to develop a security and
resilience business across our home markets.
South Africa
employees:
800
Australia
employees:
6,100
Saudi Arabia
employees:
4,400 DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY
Operational Framework
18 www.baesystems.com
How we manage
our business to
deliver on our
strategy
The Board promotes a common culture and
identity through the Operational Framework.
It sets out the way we do business and what
it means to be part of the Group. It is the
Group’s framework for a sound system of
internal controls. All employees are required
to comply with the Operational Framework
in their business conduct.
Objectives and implementation
BAE Systems is a large global business with responsibilities
to its shareholders,customers,partners,employees and the
communities in which it operates. Its strategy is to deliver
sustainable growth in shareholder value.
In support of the Group’s strategy,the Board promotes a common
corporate culture and identity as set out in the Operational
Framework. This is based on principles of good governance,a
set of definitions,values,policies and processes that guide our
work and behaviour,and a clear system of delegated authority.
The Operational Framework is mandatory across all wholly and
majority-owned businesses and describes the Group’s approach
to its organisation,culture (including its vision,values and ethical
principles of business conduct),governance framework,core
business processes and delegated authorities.
Operational line leaders ensure that detailed controls (both
operational and financial) are defined and implemented within their
businesses in accordance with the Operational Framework. They are
required to confirm twice-yearly through the Operational Assurance
Statement process that their businesses are in compliance with
the Operational Framework. This is a mandated policy under the
Operational Framework and a key performance indicator relating to
mandated policies and processes. See page 27 for more details.
Organisation
The Board is responsible for the management of the Group. Its
principal aim is to enhance the Group’s long-term value for the
benefit of shareholders. The members of the Board are shown on
pages 64 and 65. The ways in which the Board and its committees
discharge their duties are described on pages 66 to 76.
The Chief Executive has established a line leadership organisational
structure with accountability for business delivery and performance.
To support line leaders,Functional Councils have been established
to promote consistent best practice policies and processes
throughout the Group.
The Executive Committee provides the executive forum in which
the operating group and functional leaders come together to
communicate,review issues and agree on actions of Group-wide
significance. See opposite for the organisation chart of the
executive leadership.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the leadership and
operational management of the Group to achieve the strategy
and business plan agreed by the Board. This is managed through
clearly defined levels of delegated authorities to the line leaders.
Responsibility for establishing and operating the detailed control
procedures lies with the line leader for each operating business.
For joint ventures and other collaborative organisations,similar
processes and controls are promoted and influence exerted
through Board representation.
Culture
The Group’s vision,values and ethical principles of business
conduct form the basis of the culture we wish to achieve –
a high-performance culture. Ethical business conduct is
fundamental to the Group’s reputation and success. The
Group will not compromise on its ethical principles and
policies. Further information on ethics,the Group’s Corporate
Responsibility agenda and the Global Code of Conduct is set
out on pages 48 to 55.
Governance and core business processes
The Group and its employees are required to comply at all times
with the laws and regulations of the countries in which it conducts
business. The internal controls that line leaders apply to their
businesses reflect the different activities and risk environment
in which their businesses operate and are based on a common
framework of five core business processes and 32 policies
mandated by the Operational Framework.
Corporate governance,including the five core business processes,
is discussed in more detail on pages 66 to 69 and risk management
within BAE Systems is discussed in more detail on pages 56 to 61.
The Operational Framework is reviewed and revised on a
six-monthly basis.
Our Operational Framework
Organisation Culture Governance
Core Business
Processes
Delegated Authorities
Mandated Policies
and Processes
BAE Systems’ Businesses
Definitions
Objectives
Implementation BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 19
Executive leadership
How our
executive
leadership
is organised
The Executive Committee,as set out by
the Operational Framework,is the forum
chaired by the Chief Executive in which the
operating group and functional leaders
come together to communicate,review
and agree on issues and actions of
Group-wide significance. It also drives
the Group Corporate Responsibility agenda
and takes responsibility for Group-wide
strategic initiatives.
Board member
Executive Committee member
Ian King
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Office Functional leadership Line leadership
Charlotte Lambkin
Group Communications Director
Nigel Whitehead
Group Managing Director,
Programmes & Support
Linda Hudson
President,
Land & Armaments
Walt Havenstein
Chief Operating Officer,
President and CEO,
BAE Systems,Inc.
Mike Heffron
President,
Electronics,Intelligence & Support
Guy Griffiths
Group Managing Director,
International
Andrew Davies
Group Strategy Director
Alan Garwood
Group Business
Development Director
Alastair Imrie
Group HR Director
Phillip Bramwell
Group General Counsel
George Rose
Group Finance Director
Peter Fielder
Managing Director,
Performance Excellence
Fiona Davies
Chief of Staff
Raj Rajagopal
Managing Director,
Corporate Responsibility
Grenville Hodge
Director,Audit DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY
Resources
20 www.baesystems.com
Our key resources
are fundamental
to the success
of the Group
People
The contribution made by the Group’s employees is fundamental
to its success. Through global implementation of its People Policy
the Group obliges each employee to contribute to the creation of
an inclusive work environment where individuals are respected,
the value of having a diverse workforce is recognised and the
recruitment,employment and development of people is based
on qualifications,skills and competencies to do the job. This helps
the Group attract and retain highly talented people who can deliver
the systems and services that its customers need.
The Group’s workforce encompasses the broad spectrum of
skills and experience needed to deliver a full range of systems
and services for air,land and naval forces as well as advanced
electronics,information technology solutions and customer
support services. The Group works in partnership with education
providers in its home markets to ensure that there continues to
be a supply of talented and qualified people to fill its early career
programmes for university graduates and apprentices. We invest
in education schemes with a particular emphasis on promoting
the teaching and study of science,technology,engineering and
mathematics subjects.
The Group drives high performance through its Performance
Centred Leadership (PCL) process. PCL is a mandated core
process under the Operational Framework and addresses the
setting of objectives and performance assessment together with
the determination of reward,development needs and potential. It
drives business success by linking individuals’ goals with the wider
goals of the organisation,enabling employees to understand how
their own success contributes to the success of the Group. The
Group’s 2008 target to increase the roll-out of PCL by a further
500,to a total of 6,700 executives worldwide,was achieved.
The Group is committed to equal opportunities regardless of sex,
race,colour,nationality,ethnic origin,religion,age,sexual orientation
or disability,subject to considerations of national security and the
territories in which it operates. The Group operates a policy that
discrimination against any person on the grounds of disability shall
not be tolerated.
The Group has put into place a number of ways of consulting
with employees,and providing them with information on the
performance of the Group and other matters that affect them.
These include regular employee surveys,global,regional and
departmental newsletters,and a global intranet site. We also
engage with our people through employee representative bodies
and trade unions. The effectiveness of the communication
process is assessed regularly.
Employees are actively encouraged to become shareholders
in the Company by way of all-employee share schemes.
This year,the Group’s biennial employee opinion survey was
completed by more than 58,000 employees. See page 53 for
more details.
The Group’s key resources and
arrangements include the people
it employs, its relationships with
customers, subcontractors and other
suppliers, research and development,
and intellectual property. These resources,
together with the application of the
mandated policies and processes in
the Operational Framework, help the
Group to achieve its strategy.
Partnering with customers
An example of the UK Defence Industrial Strategy in action is a new partnering
arrangement known as Munitions Acquisition – the Supply Solution (MASS).
BAESystems and the UK Ministry of Defence entered into a 15-year agreement
for supplies of ammunition to UK troops which includes opportunities to share
savings achieved through improved performance,innovation,overseas sales and
the expansion of scope. Under the agreement,we will invest over £120m in new,
highly automated facilities.
Crown copyright. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 21
In 2007,the Group declared its aspiration and commitment
to achieving a level of safety comparable with the best in class.
The Board actively monitors days lost to work-related injuries,
a key performance indicator relating to corporate responsibility.
See page 27 for more details.
Relationships with customers
The Group regards the relationship with its customers as a key
discriminator in a competitive industry. Its core businesses are
mostly defence related,selling products and services primarily
in our home markets and to other national governments,both
directly and indirectly through other defence and aerospace
companies. In many cases these relationships extend over
decades and span the full product and service lifecycle from
initial concept definition,through the system development phase,
into production and then on to support for the system in service.
This lifecycle approach is used as the basis for Lifecycle
Management (LCM),which is a mandated core process under the
Operational Framework. LCM provides a structured approach to
managing the Group’s commitments and investments throughout
product and project lifecycles,promoting the application of best
practice management and facilitating continuous improvement.
Under LCM,programme margin variation and schedule adherence
are regularly reviewed to monitor the Group’s performance in relation
to contract profitability and milestone achievement. These are key
performance indicators relating to programme execution. See page
26 for more information.
Throughout this lifecycle,the Group engages extensively with its
customers and undertakes customer satisfaction surveys as part
of its drive for continuous performance improvement. The Group
targets year-on-year improvement in customer satisfaction. This
is a key performance indicator relating to programme execution.
See page 26 for more information.
Increasingly contracts are being awarded for the delivery of a
capability,rather than just a product. Reflecting this new approach,
traditional customer relationships are evolving into long-term
partnerships with governments and their armed forces.
Subcontractors and other suppliers
Managing major subcontracts is a key strategic capability.
Expenditure on subcontractors often represents a significant
portion of project cost and effective management of this
expenditure is a key value driver for our Group. The benefits
of capability-based contracting,combined with ongoing budget
pressures,are leading many customers to demand a more
integrated partnering approach to meeting their requirements.
Transforming relationships with suppliers is an essential part
of developing systems integration and through-life management
capabilities. The Group is committed to improving supply chain
relationships and working together with other companies,large
and small,in each of the Group’s home markets to deliver better
value and innovation for its customers.
The Group’s Centre for Performance Excellence has identified
best practices in managing major subcontracts from across
BAE Systems and industry. Best practice in managing major
subcontracts is embedded in the Group’s processes,guidance
and training to help deliver on commitments to customers. This
directly aligns with the Group’s strategic objectives of enhancing
programme execution capabilities,sharing of best practice
between the Group’s global businesses and embedding a
high-performance culture.
Innovation and technology
Developing new technology is vital to the future of BAE Systems. The Group’s
HybriDrive® propulsion system powers New York’s hybrid electric bus fleet,the
world’s largest,and growing hybrid fleets in Toronto,San Francisco,Houston,
Ottawa and London.
Research and Development (R&D)
The Group is engaged in significant R&D programmes in support
of the platforms,systems,services and capabilities that it
provides to its customers. These cover a wide range of work and
include performance innovations,improvements to manufacturing
techniques and technology to improve the through-life support of
products. Long-term research is undertaken through partnerships
with the academic sector and in the Group’s Advanced Technology
Centre and Systems Engineering Innovation Centre.
Application of this research is managed through business-focused
R&D programmes. Customers fund directly much of the near-term
product development work undertaken by the Group. Total R&D
expenditure for the Group amounted to £1,044m (2007 £1,460m),
of which £211m (2007 £176m) was funded by the Group.
Intellectual property
Intellectual property is created every day,taking many forms,
both in tangible products and ‘know how’ developed over the
years. The Operational Framework mandates a policy to protect
the Group’s intellectual property through appropriate use and
observance of intellectual property law,so that returns made
from the investment in R&D and technological innovation are
protected,and valuable commercial and business innovations,
all of which contribute to the Group’s competitive advantage,
are adequately safeguarded.
The Group filed patent applications covering over 200 new
inventions in 2008 in support of its global businesses,and
has a total portfolio of patents and patent applications covering
more than 1,700 inventions worldwide. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE
22 www.baesystems.com
Performance
“Delivering global
performance”
Performance contents
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 24
Financial review 28
Operating group reviews 35
Electronics,Intelligence & Support 36
Land & Armaments 38
Programmes & Support 40
International 42
HQ & Other Businesses 44
Operating group performance summary 45
3 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 23
BAE Systems drives a culture of service
excellence,working in partnership with
the Royal Air Force to provide through-
life support for Typhoon. We will meet
our customers’ needs by delivering a
comprehensive and flexible capability
throughout the life of the aircraft. 1. Meet 2008 financial targets 5. Progress development of security business 6. Grow our US business,including
through investments 7. Progress the business in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 8. Continue to implement the UK
Defence Industrial Strategy 9. Progress export opportunities
Financial KPIs are used to measure financial performance which underpins the Group’s Strategic Objectives,
Business Portfolio Actions and Integrated Business Plans.
Financial
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
24 www.baesystems.com
Monitoring our
performance
The Board uses a range of financial and
non-financial performance indicators,
reported on a periodic basis,to monitor
the Group’s performance over time.
Directors’ remuneration is linked to
certain of these measures.
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding profit/(loss)
on disposal of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories. Restated to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses. See page 29.
2 Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives,
profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories. Restated to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses.
See page 29.
Order intake (£bn)
Order intake represents the
value of funded orders received
from customers in the year. It is
a measure of in-year performance
and supports future years’
sales performance.
The year’s intake has benefited from
high demand for armoured wheeled
vehicles in the US,awards for the
new 15-year UK munitions capability
contract and Saudi Tornado
Sustainment Programme,and the
Group’s share of the Future Carrier
award. Prior year intake included
the Saudi Typhoon contract.
Underlying EBITA
1
(restated)
(£m)
Underlying EBITA
1
is used by the
Group for internal performance
analysis as a measure of operating
profitability that is comparable
over time.
2008: £21.3bn +0.5%
2007: £21.2bn
2008: £1,897m +31%
2007: £1,449m
Underlying EBITA
1
increased
in line with the improved 2008
sales performance and a 1.0
percentage point improvement
in return on sales.
Further explanation of these Group financial KPIs for the years ended 31 December 2008 and 2007 are included
within the Financial review on pages 28 to 32.
Individual operating group financial KPIs are included within the Operating group reviews on pages 36 to 44,
and a reconciliation to the Group KPIs is presented on page 45.
Directors’ remuneration is linked to certain of these measures. Further information is given within the Remuneration
report on pages 75 to 93.
Link to strategy
Links to further information
Comment
Performance
Description
Measure
Link to 2008 Executive
Committee top ten objectives
Sales (£bn)
Sales represents the amounts
derived from the provision of
goods and services,and includes
the Group’s share of sales of its
equity accounted investments.
The significant increase in sales
this year has primarily been driven
by the Land & Armaments operating
group due to high armoured wheeled
vehicle volumes in the US and full-
year impact of the Armor acquisition.
2008: £18.5bn +18%
2007: £15.7bn
08 07 06 05
21.3
21.2
15.9
12.1
08 07 06 05
18.5
15.7
13.8
12.6
08 07 06 05
1,897
1,449
1,194
957 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 25
Underlying earnings
2
per
share (EPS) (restated) (p)
2008: 37.1p +23%
2007: 30.1p
Underlying earnings
2
represent
profit for the year attributable to
equity shareholders from continuing
operations excluding amortisation
and impairment of intangible assets,
non-cash finance movements on
pensions and financial derivatives,
profit/(loss) on disposal of
businesses and uplift on acquired
inventories (see note 10 to the
Group accounts). Underlying EPS
provides a measure of shareholder
return that is comparable over time.
Underlying EPS has again
increased mainly reflecting
higher underlying EBITA
1
.
Operating business
cash flow (£m)
Operating business cash flow
represents net cash flow from
operating activities after capital
expenditure (net) and financial
investments,and dividends from
equity accounted investments.
2008: £1,595m -19%
2007: £1,978m
The 2008 reduction in operating
business cash flow largely reflects
utilisation of Saudi Typhoon
advances received in 2007 and
an agreed repayment to the UK
Ministry of Defence in respect of
the Astute programme.
Comment
Performance
Description
Measure
08 07 06 05
37.1
30.1
23.5
18.5
08 07 06 05
1,595
1,978
782
1,937 DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) continued
26 www.baesystems.com
2. Develop our partnering approach 4. Further enhance programme execution through schedule and
cost performance
Excellence in programme execution is at the core of the successful delivery of the Group’s strategy.
Partnering relationships with our customers are increasingly important to the long-term future and sustainability
of the Group.
Programme execution
Programme margin variation
Contract management metrics are
consistently used by the Board
to provide oversight of contract
performance. These metrics can only
be fully interpreted and understood
on a contract-by-contract basis
and,therefore,aggregated data
is not presented.
Schedule adherence Customer satisfaction
The Group targets an aggregated
year-on-year improvement in
programme margin across its
major contracts. The targeted
improvement was achieved.
The Group targets an aggregated
improvement in schedule adherence
metrics relating to milestones
across its major contracts. This
targeted improvement was achieved.
The Group targets an aggregated
year-on-year improvement in
customer satisfaction across
its major contracts. This targeted
improvement was not achieved.
Contract management metrics are
consistently used by the Board
to provide oversight of contract
performance. These metrics can only
be fully interpreted and understood
on a contract-by-contract basis
and,therefore,aggregated data
is not presented.
Plans to improve the performance
on those contracts reporting a
deterioration in customer satisfaction
are being implemented on a
contract-by-contract basis.
Programme margin variation,schedule adherence and customer satisfaction are regularly reviewed under Lifecycle
Management (LCM),which is a mandated core business process under the Operational Framework. It provides
a structured approach to managing commitments and investments throughout project and product lifecycles.
Further information on LCM is given on pages 21 and 67.
Link to strategy
Links to further information
Comment
Performance
Description
Measure
Link to 2008 Executive
Committee top ten objectives
Programme margin variation
measures outturn projections
of and movements in margin
of key customer-funded projects.
It provides an indicator of our
ability to effectively manage
major programmes.
Schedule adherence measures
the timing of achievement of key
milestones. It shows how well we
are performing against our stated
key contract commitments.
Customer satisfaction surveys are
used to collect customer opinions on
key customer-funded projects. This
provides an opportunity for customers
to share information on perceived
performance levels,and identify
areas of strength and weakness. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 27
3. Ensure continued application of business policies and processes
Having a high-performance culture underpins the Group’s ability
to achieve its strategy.
Mandated policies
and processes
Corporate
responsibility
Operational Assurance
Statement (OAS)
The Tenix,Detica and ex-VT Group
businesses acquired during
the year have been excluded
from the analysis. The 2008
OAS submissions for these
businesses will be used to
measure achievement of this
objective in 2009.
Performance Centred
Leadership (PCL)
The Group targeted an improvement
in scores below the minimum by 20%
during 2008. The actual improvement
in scores during 2008 was 47%. Newly
acquired businesses are targeted to
reach minimum standard in 75% of
mandated policies within 12 months
of acquisition. The ex-Armor Holdings
business achieved 88% compliance.
The Group target was to increase
the roll-out of PCL from 6,200 to
6,700 executives across the Group.
PCL was deployed to 6,762
employees across the Group.
Safety
47%
Improvement
562
Additional employees
The 2008 target was exceeded.
Roll-out of PCL to the newly
acquired businesses will continue
in 2009.
The Group targeted a 10%
reduction in the gap between
Group performance and the
external benchmark of 2,000
days lost per 100,000 employees.
The target was not met as the
actual reduction was just over
9% during 2008.
OAS is a mandated policy under the
Operational Framework. Further
information on the Operational
Framework is given on page 18.
PCL is a mandated core process
under the Operational Framework.
Further information on PCL is given
on page 20 and in the Corporate
governance section on page 67.
Further information on the Group’s
performance is given within the
Corporate responsibility review
on pages 48 to 55.
Directors’ remuneration is linked
to certain of these measures.
Further information is given within
the Remuneration report on pages
75 to 93.
08
Link to strategy
Links to further information
Comment
Performance
Measure
Link to 2008 Executive
Committee top ten objectives
High standards of corporate
responsibility are essential to
the Group’s strategy of delivering
sustainable growth.
10. Continue to drive performance
in safety,ethics and diversity
1 Restated.
The OAS requires that each part
of the business completes a formal
review of its compliance against the
Operational Framework,including
operational and financial controls,
and risk management processes,
every six months.
The level of application of mandated
policies is assessed against defined
scoring criteria. Where scores are
below the minimum standard,action
plans to achieve the minimum
standard are implemented.
PCL addresses the setting of
objectives and performance
assessment, together with
the determination of reward,
development needs and potential,
of the Group’s employees.
Days lost to work-related injuries
is monitored to minimise the risk
to our employees and our
operations,and drive continual
performance improvement.
Description
Days lost to work-related injuries
(per 100,000 employees)
08 07 06 05
9,336
10,084
1
10,204
8,774 DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE
Financial review
28 www.baesystems.com
“Another good
year,with strong
earnings growth
and good cash
flow generation”
George Rose Finance Director
– The £46.5bn (2007 £38.6bn) order
book
1
continues to provide excellent
forward visibility.
– Underlying earnings
3
per share has
increased by 23% to 37.1p per share
(2007 30.1p).
– The total dividend is 14.5p per share
(2007 12.8p),an increase of 13.3%.
Order book
1
Order book
1
increased by 20% to £46.5bn (2007 £38.6bn).
Exchange translation,primarily due to the weakening of sterling
against the US dollar,accounted for £5.9bn of the increase.
Awards for the new 15-year UK munitions capability contract,
the UK Future Aircraft Carrier and US land vehicles,together
with a net increase from acquisitions and disposals,delivered
underlying order book growth.
Income statement
Summary income statement – continuing operations
2008 2007
£m £m
Sales
1
18,543 15,710
Underlying EBITA
2
(restated) 1,897 1,449
Return on sales 10.2% 9.2%
Profit on disposal of businesses 238 40
Uplift on acquired inventories – (12)
Amortisation of intangible assets (247) (149)
Impairment of intangible assets (177) (148)
Net financial income
1
697 93
Taxation expense
1
(640) (373)
Proﬁt for the year 1,768 900
Exchange rates
£/$ – average 1.853 2.002
£/€ – average 1.258 1.461
Order book
1
(£bn)
08 07 06
46.5
38.6
31.7
£46.5bn
2008 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 29
Sales
1
increased by 18% to £18.5bn (2007 £15.7bn). This
includes contributions from the MTC,Tenix Defence and Detica
businesses acquired during the year (£0.3bn) and a full year of
sales from the Armor Holdings business,acquired in July 2007,of
£2.3bn (2007 £0.7bn). Like-for-like growth,after adjusting for the
impact of exchange translation,and acquisitions and disposals,
was 3% primarily driven by high demand for armoured wheeled
vehicles in the US, partially offset by a reduction in the UK
businesses as the Typhoon programme transitions from Tranche 1
to Tranche 2 deliveries. US-led businesses accounted for 59%
(2007 47%) of sales
1
. Sales
1
generated from the Group’s six
home markets represented 88% (2007 85%) of sales. The Group’s
sales
1
performance is illustrated in the bridge chart opposite.
Underlying EBITA
2
(restated) Management uses an underlying
profit measure to monitor the year-on-year profitability of the
Group,which is defined as earnings before amortisation and
impairment of intangible assets,finance costs and taxation
expense (EBITA) excluding profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses
and uplift on acquired inventories. This definition,which is referred
to as underlying EBITA,has been amended to exclude profit/(loss)
on disposal of businesses,which unlike in previous years,is
material this year. It is also consistent with the profit measure
disclosed in note 3 to the Group accounts on a segmental basis.
Underlying EBITA
2
increased by 31% to £1,897m (2007 £1,449m)
giving a return on sales of 10.2%,up from last year’s 9.2%. The
contributions from the businesses acquired in the year totalled
a £4m loss and a full year of trading from the ex-Armor Holdings
business contributed a profit of £236m (2007 £89m). In the prior
year,the Group’s Regional Aircraft business recognised net charges
of £76m against asset carrying values,although this was largely
offset by a one-off gain of £52m on completion of the Brunei
Offshore Patrol Vessel arbitration process. Exchange translation,
primarily relating to US dollar-denominated businesses,generated
£61m of the increase. US-led businesses delivered 57% (2007
53%) of the Group’s underlying EBITA
2
. The increase in underlying
EBITA
2
is illustrated in the bridge chart opposite.
Proﬁt on disposal of businesses was £238m (2007 £40m).
This includes the accounting gain on the disposal of the Group’s
interests in the businesses contributed to the BVT Surface
Fleet joint venture (£121m),and profit on the disposal of the
Surveillance & Attack business (£61m) and the Group’s interest
in Flagship Training (£56m).
Amortisation of intangible assets is £98m higher at £247m
reflecting a full year charge in respect of the ex-Armor Holdings
business and £35m relating to the businesses acquired during
the year.
Impairment of intangible assets totalled £177m (2007 £148m)
largely reflecting a reduction in the market value of the Group’s
interest in Saab of Sweden (£120m) and lower sales volumes
in the US-based Products Group business (£40m),which was
acquired with Armor Holdings in 2007. The prior year charge
included £145m in respect of the Insyte business.
Net ﬁnancial income
1
was £697m (2007 £93m). The underlying
net interest charge was £102m (2007 £38m). A net credit of
£799m (2007 £131m) arose from pension accounting,marked-to-
market revaluation of financial instruments and foreign currency
movements. The underlying net interest charge has increased
primarily as a result of the cash cost of business acquisitions.
The net credit of £799m has increased mainly on the weakening
of sterling against the US dollar during the second half of the
year. Underlying interest cover was 19 times (2007 38 times).
Taxation expense reflects an effective tax rate of 26% (2007 26%),
which is expected to increase to 28% in 2009.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses and
uplift on acquired inventories. Restated to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses.
3 Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives,profit/(loss) on disposal
of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories. Restated to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses.
0
5
10
15
20
2008 Acquisitions
and disposals
Organic
growth
Currency
translation
2007
Sales
1
bridge (£bn)
Underlying EBITA
2
(restated) (£m)
08 07 06
1,897
1,449
1,194
£1,897m
2008
Sales
1
(£bn)
08 07 06
18.5
15.7
13.8
£18.5bn
2008
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2008 Acquisitions
and disposals
Performance Currency
translation
2007
Underlying EBITA
2
(restated) bridge (£m) DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE
Financial review continued
30 www.baesystems.com
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share,in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per
Share,from continuing operations,increased by 91% to 49.6p
(2007 26.0p).
Reconciliation from underlying EBITA
2
to underlying earnings
3
–
continuing operations
2008 2007
£m £m
Underlying EBITA
2
1,897 1,449
Net financial expense excluding non-cash
finance movements on pensions and
financial derivatives,and interest on the
debt instrument of the convertible
preference shares (102) (25)
1,795 1,424
Taxation (467) (371)
Interest on the debt instrument of the
convertible preference shares – (13)
Minority interests (23) (21)
Underlying earnings
3
1,305 1,019
Weighted average number of shares 3,519m 3,386m
Underlying earnings
3
per share 37.1p 30.1p
Underlying earnings
3
per share from continuing operations
was 37.1p (2007 30.1p),an increase of 23%. The increase
in underlying earnings
3
per share is illustrated in the bridge
chart opposite.
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 8.7p per share
(2007 7.8p),bringing the total dividend for the year to 14.5p per
share (2007 12.8p),an increase of 13.3%.
The proposed dividend is covered 2.6 times by underlying earnings
3
from continuing operations (2007 2.4 times),which is consistent
with the Group’s policy of growing the dividend whilst maintaining
a long-term sustainable earnings cover of approximately two times.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses and
uplift on acquired inventories. Restated to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses.
3 Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives,profit/(loss) on disposal
of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories. Restated to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses.
0
10
20
30
40
2008 Acquisitions
and disposals
Performance Currency
translation
2007
Underlying earnings
3
per share (restated) bridge (pence)
Dividend (pence per share)
08 07 06
14.5
12.8
11.3
14.5p
2008
Underlying earnings
3
per share (restated) (pence)
08 07 06
37.1
30.1
23.5
37.1p
2008 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 31
Balance sheet
Summary balance sheet
2008 2007
£m £m
Intangible assets 12,306 9,559
Property,plant and equipment,
and investment property 2,558 1,887
Equity accounted investments and
other investments 1,040 787
Other financial assets and liabilities (net) 240 52
Tax assets and liabilities (net) 256 63
Assets held for resale – 64
Retirement benefit obligations (3,325) (1,570)
Working capital (5,825) (5,540)
Net cash as defined by the Group
4
39 700
Net assets 7,289 6,002
Exchange rates
£/$ – year end 1.451 1.988
£/€ – year end 1.042 1.361
Favourable exchange translation,principally in respect of the
Group’s US-dollar denominated businesses,increased net assets
by £1,004m (2007 £42m).
The £2.7bn increase in intangible assets to £12.3bn (2007
£9.6bn) mainly reflects goodwill on the acquisition of MTC
(£0.1bn),Tenix Defence (£0.3bn) and Detica (£0.4bn),plus
US dollar exchange translation of £2.1bn.
The movement in retirement beneﬁt obligations during the year
was as follows:
£m
Deficit in defined benefit pension plans at 1 January 2008 (1,999)
Decrease in liabilities due to changes in assumptions 1,433
Actual return on assets below expected returns (3,724)
Contributions over service cost 321
Transfers arising on acquisitions (8)
Exchange translation (240)
Other movements 62
Deficit in defined benefit pension plans at
31 December 2008 (4,155)
US healthcare plans (61)
Total IAS 19 deficit (4,216)
Allocated to equity accounted investments
and other participating employers 891
Group’s share of IAS 19 deﬁcit at 31 December 2008 (3,325)
The net effect of worse than expected investment returns,an
increase in real discount rates and the inclusion of an allowance
for a minimum rate of future annual improvements in the mortality
assumption has resulted in the Group’s share of the pre-tax
pension deficit increasing to £3,325m from £1,570m at 31
December 2007.
Further disclosure on the above is provided in note 22 to the
Group accounts.
4 See note 29 to the Group accounts.
5 Cash on customers’ account is the unexpended cash received from customers in advance of delivery which is subject to advance payment guarantees unrelated to Group performance.
A net deferred tax asset of £1,115m (2007 £522m) relating to
the deficit above is included within net tax assets and liabilities
and disclosed in note 8 to the Group accounts.
Cash ﬂow
Reconciliation of cash inflow from operating activities to net cash
2008 2007
£m £m
Cash inflow from operating activities 2,009 2,162
Capital expenditure (net) and financial
investment (503) (262)
Dividends received from equity accounted
investments 89 78
Operating business cash flow 1,595 1,978
Interest and preference dividends (98) (65)
Taxation (261) (112)
Free cash flow 1,236 1,801
Acquisitions and disposals (1,001) (1,574)
Debt acquired on acquisition of subsidiary (37) (538)
(Purchase)/issue of equity shares (27) 603
Equity dividends paid (478) (396)
Dividends paid to minority interests (11) (1)
Preference share conversion – 245
Cash outflow from matured derivative
financial instruments (440) (14)
Movement in cash collateral 106 9
Other non-cash movements 339 62
Foreign exchange (374) 36
Movement in cash on customers’ account
5
26 32
(661) 265
Opening net cash as defined by the Group
4
700 435
Closing net cash as deﬁned by the Group
4
39 700
ThecomponentsofnetcashasdefinedbytheGroup
4
areasfollows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Debt-related derivative financial assets 203 –
Term deposits – current – 164
Cash and cash equivalents 2,624 3,062
Loans – non-current (2,608) (2,197)
Loans – current (154) (283)
Overdrafts – current (19) (16)
Loans and overdrafts – current (173) (299)
Cash on customers’ account
5
(included within trade and other payables) (7) (30)
Closing net cash as deﬁned by the Group
4
39 700
There was an outflow fromnet capital expenditure and ﬁnancial
investment of £503m (2007 £262m),which included £183m
(2007 £52m) in respect of new residential and office facilities
in Saudi Arabia.
Dividends received from equity accounted investments,primarily
BVT, MBDA,Saab and Eurofighter,totalled £89m (2007 £78m). DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE
Financial review continued
32 www.baesystems.com
Interest and preference dividends increased to £98m (2007
£65m) largely reflecting the cash cost of business acquisitions.
Taxation payments increased by £149m to £261m (2007 £112m)
mainly as a result of the higher profits generated by the Group.
During the year,the Group acquired MTC,Tenix Defence and Detica
for cash consideration totalling £1.1bn. The cash outflow for
acquisitions and disposals of £1.0bn is shown net of the proceeds
from the disposal of the Group’s Surveillance & Attack business and
its 50% interest in Flagship Training,which amounted to £134m. Net
cash outflow relating to other acquisitions and disposals was £74m.
In 2007,the Group acquired Armor Holdings for $4.5bn (£2.2bn).
The Group has financed part of its investment in the US through
anintercompanyloan.As at31December2008,$2.1bnofatotal
of $6.6bn was hedged using a rolling programme of short-term
foreign exchange hedges. As a consequence of the strengthening
of the US dollar,there has been a cash outﬂow from matured
derivative ﬁnancial instruments of £440m in the second half
of 2008 from rolling these hedges into 2009.
Foreignexchangetranslationduringtheyear,primarilyinrespectof
the Group’s US dollar-denominated borrowing,decreased reported
cash by £374m (2007 increased reported cash by £36m).
Treasury policy
The Group’s treasury activities are overseen by the Treasury
Review Management Committee (TRMC). Two executive directors
are members of the TRMC,including the Group Finance Director
who chairs the Committee. The TRMC also has representatives
with legal and taxation expertise.
The Group operates a centralised treasury department that
is accountable to the TRMC for managing treasury activities
in accordance with the framework of treasury policies and
guidelines approved by the Board. It is an overriding policy
that trading in financial instruments for the purpose of profit
generation is prohibited,with all financial instruments being
used solely for risk management purposes.
Other key policies are:
– to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and
flexibility through the use of borrowings with a range of
maturities,currencies and fixed/floating rates of interest
reflecting the Group risk profile;
– to maintain adequate undrawn committed borrowing facilities;
– to mitigate the exposure to interest rate fluctuations on
borrowings and deposits by utilising interest rate hedging
products; and
– to hedge all material firm transactional exposures,unless
otherwise approved as an exception by the TRMC,as well
as to manage anticipated economic cash flows over the
medium term.
Within this policy framework the treasury department’s principal
responsibilities are:
– to manage the Group’s core funding and liquidity;
– to manage exposure to interest rate movements;
– to manage exposure to foreign currency movements;
– to control and monitor bank credit risk and credit capacity
utilisation; and
– to manage the Group’s relationship with debt capital market
investors,banks and rating agencies.
All treasury policies are being kept under close review given the
volatility in the financial markets.
The treasury department transacts with a number of counterparty
banks and financial institutions,and adopts a systematic
approach to the control and monitoring of counterparty credit risk.
A credit limit is allocated to each counterparty,with reference
to its relevant credit rating. For internal credit risk purposes,all
transactions are marked-to-market and the resultant exposure
is allocated against the credit limit.
The Group,through its internal audit department,monitors
compliance against the principal policies and guidelines
(including the utilisation of credit) and any exceptions found
are reported to the TRMC.
Further disclosure on financial instruments is set out in note 32
to the Group accounts.
Capital structure
The Group funds its operations through a mixture of shareholders’
funds and borrowing facilities,including bank and capital market
borrowings. All the Group’s material borrowings are arranged by
the central treasury function and funds raised are lent onward
to operating subsidiaries as required. The Group’s objective is to
ensure the continuity of competitively priced funding by borrowing
from a range of markets and spreading the maturity dates of the
various facilities.
Details of the Group’s debt are included in note 20 to the Group
accounts. During 2008,the £150m Euro-Sterling bond was repaid.
No new long-term or medium-term debt was raised during the year.
It remains the Group’s intention to ensure the business is funded
conservatively and to be pro-active in accessing the bank and
capital markets in achieving this aim.
Liquidity
Strong cash generation in recent years and a prudent financing
strategy have resulted in the Group currently being adequately
positioned to withstand the credit crisis in the bank and capital
markets. The Group had cash and short-term investments
at 31 December 2008 of £2,624m (2007 £3,226m). This,
together with an undrawn committed Revolving Credit Facility
(RCF) of £1.5bn (which is syndicated amongst the Group’s
core relationship banks),is available to meet expected general
corporate funding requirements. Of the £1.5bn undrawn facility, BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 33
£45m is with Lehman Brothers Commercial Paper Inc. The RCF
provides standby funding for the Group’s US Commercial Paper
programme. The RCF was contracted originally for five years until
2010. However,it has been extended by two one-year extension
agreements until 2012,although the available amount for the final
year has been reduced from £1.5bn to £1.3bn. The RCF remained
undrawn throughout the year.
Since the start of the credit crisis in the summer of 2007,
the Group has adopted a more conservative approach to the
investment of its surplus cash,with money market deposits
being placed with relatively stronger financial institutions for
shorter periods. Bank counterparty credit risk has been,and
continues to be,monitored closely on a systematic and ongoing
basis,taking account of the size of the institution,its credit
rating and its credit default swap price.
Generally,excluding the impact of acquisition or disposal
financing,the net cash/debt of the Group is driven by operational
performance,the level of receipts on the major contracts and
the performance of the equity accounted investments. Historically,
the net cash/debt position of the Group is usually at its best at
the year end.
The maturity of the Group’s borrowings is as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Less than one year 173 299
Between one and five years 1,557 1,157
More than five years 848 1,040
Loans and overdrafts – current and non-current
6
2,578 2,496
A more detailed analysis of the Group’s loans and overdrafts
is provided in note 20 to the Group accounts.
Insurance
The Group operates a policy of partial self-insurance, with
the majority of cover placed in the external market. The Group
continues to monitor its insurance arrangements to ensure the
quality and adequacy of cover.
Credit rating
Three credit rating agencies,Moody’s Investors Service,Standard
and Poor’s Ratings Services and Fitch’s Investors Service,publish
credit ratings for the Group. During the year,all three maintained
the outlook for their ratings as stable.
As at 31 December 2008,the Group’s long-term credit ratings
provided by these agencies were as follows:
Rating agency Rating Outlook Category
Moody’s Baa2 Stable Investment grade
Standard & Poor’s BBB+ Stable Investment grade
Fitch’s BBB Stable Investment grade
The Board continues to view the maintenance of an investment
grade credit rating as important to the efficient operation of the
Group’s activities.
Critical accounting policies
The Group’s significant accounting policies are outlined in note 1
to the Group accounts (page 110). Not all of these significant
accounting policies require management to make difficult,
subjective or complex judgements or estimates.
The following is intended to provide an understanding of those
policies that management considers critical because of the level
of complexity,judgement or estimation involved in their application
and their impact on the consolidated financial statements. These
judgements involve assumptions or estimates in respect of future
events,which can vary from what is anticipated. However,the
directors believe that the consolidated financial statements reflect
appropriate judgements and estimations and provide a true and
fair view of our financial performance and position over the
relevant period.
Contract revenue and profit recognition
The majority of the Group’s defence activities are conducted
under long-term contract arrangements and are accounted for
in accordance with IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
Revenue is recognised on such contracts when performance
milestones have been completed and accepted by the customer.
No profit is recognised on contracts until the outcome of the
contract can be reliably estimated. Profit is calculated by reference
to reliable estimates of contract revenue and forecast costs after
making suitable allowances for technical and other risks related
to performance milestones yet to be achieved.
Owing to the complexity of many of the contracts undertaken
by the Group,the cost estimation process requires significant
judgement. It is based upon the knowledge and experience of
the Group’s project managers,engineers,finance and commercial
professionals,and uses the Group’s contract management
processes. Factors that are considered in estimating the cost
of work to be completed and ultimate profitability of the contract
include the nature and complexity of the work to be performed,
availability and productivity of labour,the effect of change orders,
the availability of materials,performance of subcontractors,and
availability of and access to government-furnished equipment.
Cost and revenue estimates and judgements are reviewed and
updated at least quarterly,and more frequently as determined
by events or circumstances. When it is probable that total
contract costs will exceed total contract revenue,the expected
loss is recognised immediately as an expense. Contract costs
comprise directly attributable costs,including an allocation of
direct overheads. Indirect overheads are only regarded as contract
costs when their recovery is explicitly allowed for under the terms
of the contract. Indirect costs are otherwise treated as a period
cost and are expensed as incurred. Material changes in one or
more of these estimates,whilst not anticipated,would affect the
profitability of individual contracts.
Where goods are supplied under arrangements not considered to
represent construction contracts,as defined by IAS 11,sales are
recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have
been transferred to the buyer,recovery of consideration is probable,
there is no continuing management involvement with the goods and
the amount of revenue and costs can be measured reliably.
6 Includes £203m (2007 £nil) of debt-related derivative financial assets presented within other financial assets in the Group’s balance sheet. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE
Financial review continued
34 www.baesystems.com
Where services are rendered,sales are recognised in proportion
to the stage of completion when the stage of completion of
the services,and the related revenue and costs,can be
measured reliably.
Additional details concerning the Group’s revenue recognition
policy are in note 1 to the Group accounts.
Retirement benefit plans
The Group accounts for post-retirement pension and healthcare
plans in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts.
For defined benefit retirement plans,the cost of providing benefits
is determined periodically by independent actuaries and charged
to the income statement in the period in which those benefits are
earned by the employees. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised
in full in the period in which they occur,and are recognised in the
statement of recognised income and expense. Past service cost
is recognised immediately to the extent the benefits are already
vested,or otherwise is recognised on a straight-line basis over
the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet
represent the present value of the defined benefit obligations as
adjusted for unrecognised past service cost and as reduced by
the fair value of scheme assets.
The main assumptions made in accounting for the Group’s post-
retirement plans relate to the expected return on investments within
the Group’s plans,the rate of increase in pensionable salaries,the
rate of increase in the retail price index,the mortality rate of plan
members and the discount rate applied in discounting liabilities.
For each of these assumptions there is a range of possible values
and,in consultation with our actuaries,management decides the
point within that range that most appropriately reflects the Group’s
circumstances. Small changes in these assumptions can have a
significant impact on the size of the deficit calculated under IAS 19.
The Group has allocated an appropriate share of the pension
deficit to its equity accounted investments and other participating
employers using a consistent and reasonable method of allocation
which represents,based on current circumstances,the directors’
best estimate of the proportion of the deficit anticipated to
be funded by these entities. The Group’s share of the pension
deficit allocated to equity accounted investments is included
on the balance sheet within equity accounted investments.
The valuing of assets and liabilities at a point in time rather
than matching expectations of assets and liabilities over time
has no impact on short-term cash contributions to the pension
plans. These funding requirements are derived from separate
independent actuarial valuations.
Additional details concerning the Group’s retirement benefit
plans are given in note 1 and note 22 to the Group accounts.
Intangible assets
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations,goodwill arising
on acquisition of subsidiaries is capitalised and included in
intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisition of joint ventures and
associates is included in equity accounted investments. IFRS 3
also requires the identification of other acquired intangible assets.
The techniques used to value these intangible assets are in
line with internationally used models,but do require the use of
estimates which may differ from actual outcomes. Future results
are impacted by the amortisation period adopted for these items
and,potentially,any differences between estimated and actual
circumstances related to individual intangible assets.
Goodwill is not amortised,but is tested annually for impairment
and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. The
impairment review calculations require the use of estimates
related to the future profitability and cash-generating ability of
the acquired business. Additional details concerning the Group’s
treatment of intangible assets and impairment reviews are given
in note 1 to the Group accounts. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 35
Operating group reviews
The Group has four principal operating
groups organised around a combination
of the different products and services
they provide,and the geographical area
in which they operate.
Ouroperating
structure
Ian King
Chief Executive,
BAE Systems plc
Electronics,Intelligence
& Support
Land & Armaments Programmes & Support
p36 p38 p40 p42
FOR MORE INFORMATION
SEE PAGE 36
FOR MORE INFORMATION
SEE PAGE 38
FOR MORE INFORMATION
SEE PAGE 40
FOR MORE INFORMATION
SEE PAGE 42
International
Linda Hudson
President,
Land & Armaments
Nigel Whitehead
Group Managing Director,
Programmes & Support
Guy Griffiths
Group Managing Director,
International
Mike Heffron
President, Electronics,
Intelligence & Support
Walt Havenstein
Chief Operating Officer,
President and CEO,
BAE Systems,Inc.
Sales
1,3
by operating group
4
(%) Underlying EBITA
2
(restated) by operating group
4
(%)
24%
18%
34%
24%
Electronics,
Intelligence &
Support
Land &
Armaments
International
Programmes
& Support
25%
22%
28%
25%
Electronics,
Intelligence &
Support
Land &
Armaments
International
Programmes
& Support
2008 operatinggroupperformance
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding profit/(loss) on disposal
of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories. Restated to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses. See page 29.
3 Before elimination of intra-group sales.
4 Excluding HQ & Other Businesses.
The charts below illustrate the contribution of each of the four operating groups to the Group’s sales
1,3
and underlying EBITA
2
in
the year:
A reconciliation of the performance of the individual operating groups to the Group’s results,discussed in the Financial review on
pages 28 to 32,is given on page 45. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE
Operating group reviews continued
36 www.baesystems.com
The Electronics,Intelligence & Support
operating group,with 33,900 employees
1
and headquartered in the US,designs,
develops,produces and services systems
and subsystems for a wide range of military
and commercial applications. The operating
group comprises four lines of business:
Electronic Solutions,Information Solutions,
Platform Solutions and Support Solutions.
Electronics,
Intelligence
& Support
Financial highlights
– Like-for-like organic sales
1
growth of 6% over 2007
– Underlying EBITA
2
includes a credit of £23m from
share scheme mark-to-market accounting
– Order book
1
increased
Performance
2008 2007 2006
Sales
1
£4,459m £3,916m £4,007m
Underlying EBITA
2
(restated) £506m £437m £429m
Return on sales 11.3% 11.2% 10.7%
Cash inflow
3
£380m £302m £273m
Order intake
1
£4,904m £4,178m £4,311m
Order book
1
£5.2bn £3.5bn £3.4bn
Key points
– Maintained leadership in electronic warfare systems
– Won key IT,situational awareness and aviation
sustainment contracts
– Addressing market for vehicle power management
systems
– Sustained leadership in US non-nuclear ship repair
– Increased research and development investment
Looking forward
BAE Systems projects further growth as it delivers on
its record order book and builds on existing enterprise
capabilities,and continued research and development
expenditure,to meet expected customer demand in
cyber-space activity,and through-life product support
of defence and aerospace electronics programmes.
Growth in services,mission support and sustainment
markets is expected to continue.
In 2008,Electronics,Intelligence & Support (EI&S) achieved
underlying EBITA
2
of £506m (2007 £437m) on sales
1
of
£4,459m (2007 £3,916m) and generated operating cash
inflow
3
of £380m (2007 £302m).
On a like-for-like basis,sales
1
growth was 6% over 2007.
In June,BAE Systems completed the acquisition of MTC
Technologies which contributed post-acquisition sales
1
of $181m (£98m) and underlying EBITA
2
of $2m (£1m).
Electronic Solutions
The low-rate initial production contract for the US Navy’s decoy
system on the F/A-18 E/F Super Hornet was received. The
system provides aircraft defence against radar-guided missiles.
The F-35 Lightning II low-rate initial production (LRIP) of two
electronic warfare suites continues,with existing funding
providing deliveries through to 2012.
BAE Systems was selected as a partner in developing and
producingtheAirborneMaritimeFixedStationJointTacticalRadio
Systems(JTRS),whichwillconsistofsoftware-definedradiosthat
enablecommanderstoshareinformationacrossships,enhance
decision-making,andincreasemissioncapability.Withthisaward,
BAE Systems is now a partner on all five programmes that
comprise JTRS,the family of software-programmable tactical
radios that will permit combat personnel to communicate at
every level of command.
Deliveries commenced under a five-year contract to provide thermal
imaging modules for the US Army’s Common Remotely Operated
Weapon System that allows soldiers to detect and identify targets
while remaining protected in their vehicles. To date,orders received
under this contract total $110m (£76m). A $169m (£116m)
extension from the US Army for continued production of thermal
weapon sights was received. This programme has a production
rate of 1,500 units per month,with more than 37,000 delivered
by the end of 2008.
In support of homeland security and safety,JETEYE® ,the infrared
aircraft missile defence system,began its nine-month evaluation
aboard civilian passenger aircraft in July and First InterComm™,
an interoperable communications and data solution system for
first responders,has been deployed in seven US states.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding profit/(loss) on disposal
of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories. Restated to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses. See page 29.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment,and dividends from equity accounted investments. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 37
US defence research and development programmes launched in
2008 included bio-inspired,miniature,intelligence-gathering robots,
tactical ultra-low visibility communications,advanced night vision
technology,and all-weather advanced persistent surveillance
systems. These programmes represent the strengthening of
core business areas as well as advances into new market areas.
Information Solutions
Our Information Technology business continues to be ranked in the
top 25 by Computer World Magazine as a Best Place to Work in IT.
Five multiple and one single-award indefinite delivery/indefinite
quantity contracts were received in the year,including a position
on the Defense Information Systems Agency’s Encore II contract.
Platform Solutions
Following the launch of its improved HybriDrive®propulsion
system,BAE Systems’ partner,Alexander Dennis, delivered its
first double-deck hybrid electric bus to Transport for London with
the buses scheduled to enter revenue-service testing in 2009.
BAE Systems also expanded the global reach of the HybriDrive®
programme by entering into agreements with Japan’s ISUZU and
North America’s New Flyer Industries.
Collaborating with Land & Armaments,the business will
provide power management components on board the Warrior
demonstration vehicle supporting the UK Ministry of Defence
programme to create an architecture that allows vehicles to
power systems such as communications and electronic warfare
suites. The same architecture will allow future upgrades to add
more accessories and convert hydraulic systems to electrically
powered systems.
Support Solutions
The US Air Force named BAE Systems one of 12 prime contractors
on the Future Flexible Acquisition and Sustainment Tool contract.
This indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contract,under which
prime contractors compete for task orders,has a total potential
value of $6.9bn (£4.8bn). The contract will address future US
Air Force requirements for modifications,development,and
maintenance of weapon systems managed by the US Air Force
and Air Force Special Operations Command.
BAE Systems received a US Air Force contract to support
the Tactical Air Control Party (TACP) Modernisation Vehicular
Communications System programme. With an initial value
of $120m (£83m) and a maximum potential value of
$233m (£161m),BAE Systems will design,produce and install
state-of-the-art communications for up to 400 TACP ground vehicles.
In the ship repair business,work continues at the San Diego
shipyard to maintain,repair,and modernise the guided missile
cruiser USS Bunker Hill,and efforts are progressing on a five-year
multi-ship,multi-option contract to maintain and repair all Arleigh
Burke-class destroyers. The US Navy awarded BAE Systems a
post-shakedown availability contract for destroyers and a multi-ship
multi-option award for repairs to mine countermeasures ships.
In June,the acquisition of MTC Technologies provided the
business with increased technical and professional service
capabilities,and equipment integration and modernisation
capabilities for the US military and intelligence customers.
In 2008,the Technology Solutions and Services business won
all of its major recompetes.
Capability
EI&S’s UK site became an Authorised Economic Operator and the first
multinational organisation to attain this industry standard for supply chain
security. The European Union certification gives priority customs clearance
and increased security for shipments entering or leaving the European Union,
helping drive integration of the EI&S global supply base.
Innovation
BAE Systems is leading a team of scientists to develop miniature robots to
improve military situational awareness. The business signed a $38m (£26m)
contract with the US Army Research Laboratory to develop autonomous,
multi-functional intelligence-gathering robots that can operate in places
too inaccessible or dangerous for humans. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE
Operating group reviews continued
38 www.baesystems.com
The Land & Armaments operating group,
with 21,300 employees
1
and headquartered
in the US,is a global leader in the design,
development,production,through-life
support and upgrade of armoured combat
vehicles,tactical wheeled vehicles,naval
guns,missile launchers,artillery systems
and munitions.
Land& Armaments
Financial highlights
– Like-for-like organic sales
1
growth of 38% over 2007
– UK business secured a 15-year munitions partnering
agreement with growth potential to £3bn
– Ex-Armor Holdings business performing ahead
of expectations
Performance
2008 2007 2006
Sales
1
£6,407m £3,538m £2,115m
Underlying EBITA
2
(restated) £566m £324m £168m
Return on sales 8.8% 9.2% 7.9%
Cash inflow
3
£467m £10m £137m
Order intake
1
£8,568m £4,535m £2,964m
Order book
1
£11.5bn £7.3bn £4.9bn
Key points
– High volume of vehicle reset and upgrade activity
– Successfully addressed US mine protected vehicle
requirements
– 15-year UK munitions partnering agreement secured
– Wheeled armoured vehicle successes
– Joint Light Tactical Vehicle down select
Looking forward
After a period of significant growth primarily driven by
deliveries on the short-term Mine Resistant Ambush
Protected programme, demand in the medium term is
expected to be influenced by the tempo of operations
in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Land & Armaments will continue to pursue opportunities
globally leveraging leadership positions in Tracked
Combat Systems, Medium Tactical Vehicles,Mine
Resistant Vehicles,Armour and Survivability
Technologies and Artillery Systems.
In 2008,Land & Armaments achieved underlying EBITA
2
of
£566m (2007 £324m) on sales
1
of £6,407m (2007 £3,538m)
and generated operating cash inflow
3
of £467m (2007 £10m).
The 2008 results included sales
1
of $3.1bn (£1.7bn) from the
largely completed Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP)
programme. The results include a full year of operations from
the former Armor Holdings,Inc. business acquired in July 2007.
United States
The MRAP vehicle programme was largely completed in 2008,
with global production of 4,714 mine protected vehicles.
In addition to the MRAP programmes,continued growth was
secured in the area of vehicle armour protection,most notably
for the High Mobility Multi-purpose Wheeled Vehicles (HMMWV)
and individual soldier protection. The business was also awarded
a $3.7bn (£2.6bn) contract for the production of 20,000 Family
of Medium Tactical Vehicles (FMTVs).
The sole-sourced Medium Mine Protected Vehicle (MMPV)
programme was awarded with orders in 2008 totalling
$110m (£76m). The MMPV contract envisions production of
up to 2,500 vehicles at a potential value of $2.2bn (£1.5bn)
through to 2015.
BAE Systems continued to serve as the premier support
agency for the US Army Heavy Brigade Combat Team,providing
remanufacturing and reset for key brigade components,including
the Bradley Fighting Vehicle,as well as unveiling mortar and
ambulance variants of the Bradley.
BAE Systems secured two technology development contracts for
the US multi-service Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV). These
27-month contracts are the next step in selecting a new
generation of tactical vehicles.
In the year,BAE Systems unveiled the first Non-Line-of-Sight Cannon
(NLOS-C) for the US Army’s Future Combat Systems Manned Ground
Vehicles programme. Two vehicles are undergoing firing and mobility
tests at Army testing facilities,with four additional vehicles
undergoing integration. Along with the NLOS-C deliveries,
successful test firing continued for the NLOS-C mortar platform.
BAE Systems’ 57mm Mk 110 Naval Gun System was selected
for the National Security Cutter and Littoral Combat Ship
programmes,the gun systems entering into service in August
and November,respectively.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding profit/(loss) on disposal
of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories. Restated to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses. See page 29.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment,and dividends from equity accounted investments. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 39
United Kingdom
The munitions business secured a 15-year partnering agreement
with growth potential to £3bn from the UK Ministry of Defence
(MoD) in August covering the supply of approximately 80% of
general munitions consumed by UK Armed Forces, including
small arms and medium-calibre ammunition,mortar bombs,tank
ammunition and artillery shells. Under the contract,BAE Systems
will invest over £120m in new,highly-automated facilities.
The Weapons & Vehicles business secured significant work
supporting operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, particularly in
carrying out urgent upgrades to vehicles such as Bulldog,CVR(T),
Warrior and Panther to protect against rapidly-evolving threats.
The commitment and support given by the business to finding
innovative solutions for Urgent Operational Requirements (UORs)
in very tight timescales has been recognised by the customer
on several occasions and 15 employees were awarded campaign
medals by the MoD for their support in theatre.
Production of the M777 155mm lightweight howitzer programme
continues,with 168 guns delivered in 2008 and a total of 737
guns ordered to date,to the US and Canadian armed forces.
The M777 system has been deployed in operations in both Iraq
and Afghanistan.
Requirements and schedule changes on the challenging Terrier
armoured tractor programme have now been agreed with the
customer. The programme has been rebaselined,and includes
further improvements to protection levels and the robustness
of the vehicle. Pre-production and proving of the Terrier will
commence in 2009.
Sweden
The Swedish business underwent two restructuring measures in
the year in order to better position the business to match future
strategic demands.
A contract for 20 BvS10 VIKING amphibious armoured all-terrain
vehicles was received from the UK MoD,bringing the total number
of vehicles ordered by the MoD to 149.
BAE Systems is partnered with Raytheon on the Excalibur artillery
programme,the next generation family of guided projectiles for
the US Army and Marine Corps artillery.
The 155mm Archer self-propelled Artillery System has been
selected by Sweden and Norway with contracts to be awarded
for up to 48 systems.
South Africa
The South African business benefited significantly in the year
from support to the US MRAP programme as well as the growing
international requirement for mine-protected wheeled vehicles.
A total of 475 RG31s were delivered to customers worldwide
in 2008 bringing the total of RG31s sold to over 2,200. The
business acquired IST Dynamics in August 2008, building
on its systems integration capability,particularly in the areas
of Turret Systems and Fire-Control Systems.
Non-Line-of-Sight Cannon (NLOS-C)
The NLOS-C is an indirect fire support component of the Manned Ground
Vehicle family. It is a self-propelled howitzer with a two-man crew. It will
provide networked,extended-range,responsive and sustained precision attack
of point and area targets in support of the Future Combat System programme.
The first NLOS-C prototype debuted on Capitol Hill during the summer of 2008.
Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles (FMTV)
FMTV provides the US Army’s backbone for tactical unit mobility and logistics
support throughout the battlefield. More than 48,000 FMTV trucks and trailers
are in service with the US Army. An added measure of success in 2008 was
the award of a contract and the exercise of an option for a total of 20,000
FMTV vehicles by the US Department of Defense. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE
Operating group reviews continued
40 www.baesystems.com
The Programmes & Support operating group,
with 30,200 employees
1
,comprises the
Group’s UK-based air and naval activities,
the activities of the acquired Detica security
business and the Integrated System
Technologies business.
Programmes
& Support
Financial highlights
– Sales
1
reduced over 2007 on Brunei OPV completion
and transition to Typhoon Tranche 2 deliveries
– Return on sales
1
improved to 10.6%
– Typhoon Tranche 2 pricing agreed
Performance
2008 2007 2006
Sales
1
£4,638m £5,327m £4,615m
Underlying EBITA
2
(restated) £491m £456m £331m
Return on sales 10.6% 8.6% 7.2%
Cash inflow
3
£651m £807m £449m
Order intake
1
£4,195m £9,091m £5,178m
Order book
1
£19.8bn £20.9bn £17.0bn
Key points
– Successful transition to start of Typhoon Tranche 2
deliveries
– BVT naval joint venture formed
– Manufacturing contract for Future Carriers secured
– Detica acquisition completed
– First Type 45 successfully delivered off contract
Looking forward
Programmes & Support is driven by its existing order
book and the level of future UK MoD funding to meet
current UK armed forces operational requirements
and delivery of the Defence Industrial Strategy.
The BVT joint venture is underpinned by the six ship
Type 45 programme,the manufacturing phase of
the Future Aircraft Carrier (CVF) programme and
export contracts.
Detica’s position in the UK market means that it is
well-positioned to benefit from increasing government
focus on intelligence,security and resilience.
During 2008,Programmes & Support achieved underlying EBITA
2
of £491m (2007 £456m) on sales
1
of £4,638m (2007 £5,327m)
and generated an operating cash inflow
3
of £651m (2007 £807m).
The lower sales
1
in 2008 reflect the transition from Typhoon
Tranche 1 deliveries to Tranche 2 and completion in 2007 of the
Brunei Offshore Patrol Vessel (OPV) contract. The acquisition of
Detica in September contributed sales
1
and underlying EBITA
2
of £55m and £9m,respectively.
Military Air Solutions
Military Air Solutions is responsible for delivering a range of military
programmes including Typhoon,Hawk,Nimrod MRA4,F-35 Lightning
II and autonomous air vehicles. In addition,it is responsible for
through-life support to Harrier,Hawk,Tornado,Nimrod MR2,E-3D
Sentry and VC-10 aircraft.
The business made good progress during 2008 in delivering on
its programme commitments. Work continues with the UK MoD
to explore whether a long-term partnering agreement (LTPA) in
the air sector may provide mutual value to both parties.
Delivery of Typhoon aircraft to the four partner nations continues
with a cumulative total of 57 aircraft delivered to the UK and 97 to
the other European partner nations. All Tranche 1 aircraft have now
been delivered and Tranche 2 deliveries commenced. In October,
the first flight of a Typhoon aircraft for the Saudi customer took
place marking the start of the flight test programme.
In the UK,Royal Air Force (RAF) Typhoons are operational in Air
Defence and Quick Reaction Alert roles,and have a full multi-role
capability. Discussions to establish a long-term,availability-based
support contract are progressing. Work has also commenced
on further air-to-ground capability enhancements. Discussions
regarding the Tranche 3 requirements of each of the four partner
nations are ongoing.
On the Hawk contract for India,23 of the UK-built aircraft have
been accepted by the customer and have been inducted to the
Indian Air Force. Customer acceptance of the last of the 24 Hawk
aircraft for South Africa took place in November.
The first five South African Gripen aircraft have been accepted by
the customer to plan.
Aircraft acceptances of the Hawk Mk128 Advanced Jet Trainer for
the RAF are expected to commence in early 2009,with RAF pilots
then starting their Mk128 conversion flying programme. Support
under the Hawk Integrated Operational Support programme,and
provision of synthetic training to RAF fast jet pilots,continues at
RAF Valley.
The current Nimrod MRA4 aircraft development programme is
progressing with completion of the flight test programme and
qualification of the aircraft systems expected during 2009.
All nine production standard aircraft are in manufacture.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding profit/(loss) on disposal
of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories. Restated to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses. See page 29.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment,and dividends from equity accounted investments. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 41
The contracts for VC-10,Sentry and Nimrod MR2 aircraft support
continue,and a contract expansion for much of the on-base
engineering,logistics and technical support for the VC-10 has
been secured.
The Tornado availability programme,ATTAC,is in full service
and continues to perform in line with contractual milestones.
The Harrier GR9 upgrade programme is on schedule. The Harrier
aircraft is currently providing close air support to UK military
operations overseas. Discussions are progressing on contracting
for a Harrier availability service.
All three F-35 Lightning II aircraft variants,Carrier,Conventional Take-
Off and Landing,and Short Take-Off and Vertical Landing (STOVL),
are now in various stages of manufacture and assembly. The STOVL
variant had its maiden flight in June. Low-rate initial production
continues under contract from Lockheed Martin.
BAE Systems continues to leverage its expertise in Unmanned
Aircraft Systems (UAS) and position itself in this growth market. In
addition to the existing Taranis programme,which is a key enabler
to the UK MoD’s evaluation of future requirements,BAE Systems
has entered into a jointly funded UK MoD Mantis advanced
technology demonstrator programme. The aim of this programme
is to demonstrate the potential of a large unmanned system to
support future operational needs. The UAS portfolio also includes
the HERTI surveillance system. The pre-production HERTI unmanned
air system has been operating at fully active overseas customer
airbases integrated with manned platform operations.
The redundancy programme announced in April affecting over 600
jobs at the Brough and Woodford sites is progressing towards its
2010 completion.
BVT Surface Fleet Limited (BVT) (55% interest)
The joint venture between BAE Systems and VT Group (VT)
was formed on 1 July 2008,creating the UK’s leading provider
of surface warship building and through-life support operations.
Following formation,BVT signed the manufacturing contract for the
Future Aircraft Carrier (CVF) and has assumed overall responsibility
for delivery of the programme,including project management,
engineering,shipbuild and integration. BVT is also responsible
for the engineering and build of blocks 2 and 4. The cutting of steel
for the first ship is planned for spring 2009.
The programme to build six Type 45 Destroyers has progressed well
during the year with all key milestones being achieved,including the
successful completion of sea trials and acceptance off contract by
the customer of the first of class ship,HMS Daring.
Both contracts to build three Ocean Patrol Vessels for the Royal
Navy of Oman and three Offshore Patrol Vessels for the Trinidad
and Tobago Coastguard are projected to incur significant losses.
Consistent with estimates provided by BVT management,loss
provisions of £96m (£53m at our 55% share) have been recorded
through fair value accounting. As a result of a review of these export
contracts,which were contributed by VT into BVT,BAE Systems is
in negotiation with VT regarding a possible injection of capital by
VT into the BVT business.
In September 2008,a contract was received to support the
construction of two further Fast Attack Craft for the Hellenic Navy,
building on the successful contract for the previous five vessels.
The last of the three ex-Royal Navy Type 23 frigates for the
Chilean Navy completed its reactivation and was handed over
to the customer.
In January 2009,VT announced that it has decided to exercise
its put option to sell its interest in BVT to BAE Systems and that it
expects to be in a position to exercise that option by 1 July 2009.
Submarine Solutions
In a challenging year for the Astute programme,HMS Astute,the first
of class,is now scheduled for delivery to the customer at the end of
2009. Orders have been received to continue the build of boat 4 and
for long lead items on boat 5.
Detica
BAE Systems acquired Detica,a leading UK consultancy servicing
the counter-threat agenda,in September 2008. Detica employs
1,400 staff. Detica helps its clients tackle terrorism and serious
crime by helping them collect,manage and exploit information to
reveal actionable intelligence. Services range from business and
technology consulting,system integration and support to the sale
of proprietary hardware and software.
Detica assists clients with initiatives in areas such as counter-
terrorism,serious and organised crime,and immigration and border
control,as well as fraud detection and identity management through
its sales of Detica NetReveal®software. Its financial services
business remains challenged by current market conditions.
Detica’s sales for the full year increased by 20% on 2007 reflecting
higher sales to the UK government and,in particular,growth in sales
of Detica NetReveal®software.
Integrated System Technologies (Insyte)
Following the successful sea trials of the first of class Type 45
destroyer,HMS Daring,during 2008,the Sampson Radar,Combat
Management System and Long Range Radar are all now fitted to
the next three ships.
The Seawolf Mid-Life Update system has now passed successful
system harbour trials and is undertaking sea trials on the Type 23
HMS Sutherland.
The establishment of the Maritime Composite Training Systems,
state-of-the-art training facilities at HMS Collingwood and Royal
Naval Base Devonport,will be achieved in 2009.
The Sting Ray lightweight torpedo programme remains ahead of
schedule with the fourth batch of production weapons accepted by
the customer in November 2008. Progress on securing an export
order for this torpedo is well advanced.
Autonomous systems
The need to avoid exposing individuals to dangerous or difficult environments
has driven the development of unmanned and autonomous systems. The pre-
production HERTI unmanned air system has been operating at fully active
overseas customer airbases integrated with manned platform operations. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE
Operating group reviews continued
42 www.baesystems.com
The International operating group,with
19,200 employees
1
,comprises the Group’s
businesses in Saudi Arabia and Australia,
together with a 37.5% interest in the pan-
European MBDA joint venture,a 20.5%
shareholding in Saab of Sweden and
a 49% shareholding in Air Astana.
International
Financial highlights
– Aggregate return on sales
1
maintained at 13%
for the sector
– Cash inflow
3
reflects utilisation of advances received in
2007 on the Salam Typhoon programme
– Post-acquisition sales
1
of £130m from Tenix Defence
Performance
2008 2007 2006
Sales
1
£3,333m £3,359m £3,428m
Underlying EBITA
2
(restated) £435m £435m £412m
Return on sales 13.1% 13.0% 12.0%
Cash inflow
3
£163m £678m £171m
Order intake
1
£4,065m £3,876m £3,854m
Order book
1
£11.0bn £7.9bn £7.1bn
Key points
– Saudi Typhoon programme (Salam) progressing
to schedule
– Tenix Defence acquisition completed; price
adjustments in negotiation
– Impairment taken of £120m on Saab carrying value
Looking forward
The Group seeks to sustain its long-term presence in the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia through delivering on current
programme and industrialisation commitments,and
developing new business. In Australia,the acquisition
of Tenix Defence and reinforcement of the business as
through-life capability partner to the Australian Defence
Force across all domains,are expected to provide growth
in the near term.
During 2008,the International operating group achieved underlying
EBITA
2
of £435m (2007 £435m) on sales
1
of £3,333m (2007
£3,359m) and generated an operating cash inflow
3
of £163m
(2007 £678m) as advances received in 2007 on the Salam
Typhoon programme were utilised. In June 2008,BAE Systems
completed the acquisition of Tenix Defence,which contributed
sales
1
of £130m and a £12m post-acquisition loss
2
after
including integration costs.
CS&S International
BAE Systems has a major presence in the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia where it acts as prime contractor for the UK government-to-
government defence agreement. Progress continues to be made to
modernise the Saudi armed forces in line with the Understanding
Document signed in December 2005 between the UK and Saudi
Arabian governments.
Under the 2007 contract for the supply of 72 Typhoon aircraft,
the first aircraft remains on schedule for delivery in June 2009.
Discussions continue with the Royal Saudi Air Force (RSAF)
to agree the support and training solutions for the aircraft
to enable their entry into service during 2009.
The support provided under the Saudi British Defence
Co-operation Programme continues to provide operational
capability to both the RSAF and Royal Saudi Naval Forces
operations. In particular,work is ongoing in partnership with
the RSAF to maintain and enhance the capability of the
Tornado aircraft while extending its operational life.
In addition to some 1,500 employees in the UK,around 4,400
people are employed by the Group in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
of whom approximately half are Saudi nationals. The business
continues to develop its presence in Saudi Arabia and remains
committed to developing a greater indigenous capability in
the Kingdom.
The security of employees is the highest priority and new
residential and office facilities were completed in 2008,
incorporating increased security measures and a greater
range of pastoral and recreational facilities for the workforce.
Further facilities will be completed in 2010.
Work is ongoing at a senior level to refine the strategy for
securing a greater proportion of business in the land sector.
The Royal Saudi Land Forces are anticipated to require
upgrades and capability enhancements in future years.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding profit/(loss) on disposal
of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories. Restated to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses. See page 29.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment,and dividends from equity accounted investments. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 43
Australia
Following the acquisition of Tenix Defence during 2008,including
100% of the former joint venture company Tenix Toll Defence
Logistics,BAE Systems is now the largest defence contractor
in Australia. This acquisition has ensured that BAE Systems
Australia can offer capability across the aerospace,land,
maritime and joint domains.
BAE Systems Australia is a subcontractor to Boeing to deliver
the ground and air subsystems of the Wedgetail Airborne Early
Warning and Control programme. Wedgetail has experienced
significant schedule delays and cost overruns. An agreement
was reached with Boeing that defines and concludes the
Group’s role in delivering the ground subsystem by June 2009.
The Australian government has re-evaluated its requirements
under the Land 121 contract for the supply of medium and
heavy tactical trucks and is issuing a revised Request for
Tender. BAE Systems Australia remains in the competition
with responsibility for tendering (and carrying out the project)
transferred from BAE Systems,Inc. to BAE Systems Australia.
Major programmes now in BAE Systems Australia’s portfolio
following the Tenix Defence acquisition include the prime contract
for the supply of two Landing Helicopter Dock (LHD) ships to the
Royal Australian Navy,and the supply of one multi-role,two offshore
and four inshore patrol vessels to the New Zealand Ministry of
Defence. The LHD programme is in the early stages of a fixed price
development programme that will need continued focus to deliver
the contracted outcomes. The multi-role vessel under the New
Zealand contract has been accepted by the customer,but a number
of warranty claims have subsequently been made. The remaining
vessels will be progressively presented for acceptance in 2009.
The completion accounting process for the Tenix Defence acquisition
is ongoing.
Saab (20.5% shareholding)
Saab’s sales were SEK23.8bn (£2.0bn),with export sales
accounting for 68%. Operating income was SEK166m (£14m),
producing an operating margin of 0.7%.
The Group has taken an impairment of £120m against
the carrying value of its shareholding in Saab,reflecting a
significant reduction in Saab’s share price during the year.
MBDA (37.5% interest)
MBDA’s performance in 2008 delivered an increasing return
on sales on broadly unchanged sales volume.
Key domestic production deliveries included Mica air-to-air
missiles,Aster surface-to-air missiles,Seawolf naval air defence
missiles and Taurus cruise missiles. 2008 saw the completion
of deliveries on the UK MoD’s Brimstone air-to-ground missile
programme and export deliveries of an air weapons package
to Greece. MBDA delivered over 2,500 missiles in 2008.
Development programmes continue to progress well. 2008 saw
a number of successful development firings on key programmes,
including the Meteor and Aster weapon systems.
As the UK MoD’s designated lead contractor in managing its
complex weapons sector under the Defence Industrial Strategy,
MBDA secured a series of important Assessment Phase contracts
for new programmes,including the Fire Shadow loitering munition
which was successfully fired early in 2008,completing a rapid
development demonstrator programme lasting just 15 months.
An important contract amendment has also been received on
the Meteor (air-to-air missiles) development contract to re-align
the programme to a revised customer timetable. A 15-year
availability contract to support the Seawolf missile system
was secured.
A key export contract win was for the £398m Spada air-to-surface
weapon system to Pakistan.
Australia
The acquisition of Tenix Defence in Australia is a clear reflection of BAE Systems’
home market strategy,developing the Group’s position as the premier global
defence,security and aerospace company. The Group will expand and develop
in Australia with through-life support solutions and services activities,continuing
to support the Australian customer base with an even broader capability.
Saudi Arabia
The latest development in a long-standing relationship with Saudi Arabia
will see the provision of 72 Typhoons and associated training to around 300
Royal Saudi Air Force technicians in the UK. The training programme has
been designed by BAE Systems to produce multi-skilled aircraft technicians. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE
Operating group reviews continued
44 www.baesystems.com
HQ & Other Businesses,with 1,800
employees
1
,comprises the regional
aircraft asset management and support
activities,head office and UK shared
services activity,including research
centres and property management.
HQ& Other
Businesses
Financial highlights
– FRIP dispute settled with all major reinsurers
Performance
2008 2007 2006
Sales
1
£235m £243m £295m
Underlying EBITA
2
(restated) £(101)m £(203)m £(146)m
Cash (outflow)/inflow
3
£(66)m £181m £(225)m
Order intake
1
£212m £345m £267m
Order book
1
£0.4bn £0.4bn £0.3bn
Looking forward
Market conditions in the aircraft asset management
business are increasingly challenging given the
economic downturn and restrictions on available
credit to higher risk customers which is an increasing
feature of new markets. Losses are expected to
continue at levels comparable to 2008.
During 2008,HQ & Other Businesses reported a loss
2
of £101m
(2007 loss
2
£203m) on sales
1
of £235m (2007 £243m) and had
an operating cash outflow
3
of £66m (2007 inflow
3
£181m). Of this,
the reported loss
2
for Regional Aircraft was £17m (2007 £105m)
with operating cash outflow
3
of £3m (2007 inflow
3
£175m).
The commercial aircraft market has become increasingly challenging
with the tightened availability of funding to aircraft operators due
to the global credit issues and economic slowdown. Oil prices have
been high over the year impacting operator profitability and their
operational cash flows. Discussions are ongoing with operators as
to their future fleet requirements and marketing activity is focused
on both uncontracted idle and returning aircraft. During 2008,the
Regional Aircraft business placed 75 aircraft through new leases,
extensions with existing customers and sales. Support revenues
have fallen on lower demand for aircraft components and services.
Power-by-the-hour contracts worth £43m in 2008 were secured.
Historically,much of the leasing business has been underpinned
by the Group’s Financial Risk Insurance Programme (FRIP) which
made good shortfalls in actual lease income against originally
estimated future income for a 15-year period from 1998 to
2013. Since 2006,the Group and certain reinsurers have been
in dispute over several areas of the policy. During 2007 and
2008,agreements were reached with all major reinsurers and
settlements paid by them.
The balance sheet carrying value of aircraft (£240m) is based on
the net present value of forecast future net leasing or disposal
income and reflects the current adverse economic climate.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding profit/(loss) on disposal
of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories. Restated to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses. See page 29.
3 Net cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment,and dividends from equity accounted investments. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 45
The Board monitors the financial
performance of the Group at an
operating group level. Certain of
the financial measures are regarded
as Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).
Operatinggroup
performance
summary
Underlying
EBITA
2
Return Cash Order Order
Sales
1
(restated) onsales flow
3
intake
1
book
1
£m £m % £m £m £bn
Electronics,Intelligence & Support 4,459 506 11.3 380 4,904 5.2
Land & Armaments 6,407 566 8.8 467 8,568 11.5
Programmes & Support 4,638 491 10.6 651 4,195 19.8
International 3,333 435 13.1 163 4,065 11.0
HQ & Other Businesses 235 (101) (66) 212 0.4
19,072 1,897 1,595 21,944 47.9
Intra-group (529) – – (635) (1.4)
18,543 1,897 10.2 1,595 21,309 46.5
Underlying
EBITA
2
Return Cash Order Order
Sales
1
(restated) on sales flow
3
intake
1
book
1
£m £m % £m £m £bn
Electronics,Intelligence & Support 3,916 437 11.2 302 4,178 3.5
Land & Armaments 3,538 324 9.2 10 4,535 7.3
Programmes & Support 5,327 456 8.6 807 9,091 20.9
International 3,359 435 13.0 678 3,876 7.9
HQ & Other Businesses 243 (203) 181 345 0.4
16,383 1,449 1,978 22,025 40.0
Intra-group (673)–– (851) (1.4)
15,710 1,449 9.2 1,978 21,174 38.6
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding profit/(loss) on disposal
of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories. Restated to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses. See page 29.
3 Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment and dividends from equity accounted investments.
Operating group performance summary 2008
Operating group performance summary 2007
Sales
1
,underlying EBITA
2
,cash flow
3
and order intake
1
are Group KPIs. See pages 24 and 25 for a review of these KPIs on a Group basis. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY
46 www.baesystems.com
Responsibility
“Leadership in
standards of global
business conduct” BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 47
We are continuing to embed a high
performance culture at the heart
ofourCompanybydevelopingglobal
leadership in standards of business
conduct,atotalcommitmenttosafety,
supportforskillsdevelopmentandby
embracing inclusiveness throughout
our organisation.
Responsibility contents
Corporate responsibility review 48
Risk management 56
Principal risks 58
4 48 www.baesystems.com
“Ethics is
fundamental to
our reputation”
Raj Rajagopal Managing Director,Corporate Responsibility
The Group is determined that it should
be recognised as a leader in responsible
business worldwide,and we continue to
strive for ways to improve our business
and its reputation.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY
Corporate responsibility review
Our approach
Delivery of our Corporate Responsibility agenda is now firmly
embedded as a Group Strategic Objective within the Group’s
strategy (see page 10). This reflects the increased emphasis
and importance placed on ensuring that the Group’s commitment
to total performance includes every aspect of business,not only
financial and programme performance,but also business conduct
and the Corporate Responsibility agenda. This is reflected in the
new organisation structure.
The Group’s Corporate Responsibility agenda and activity have
matured considerably over recent years. To continue to deliver
on the Group’s commitment to achieving a leadership position
in responsible business worldwide will require a sustained and
focused effort particularly in embedding the necessary behaviours
and an inclusive culture across all of our businesses. A key part
of this will be delivering on the recommendations of the Woolf
Committee to ensure high standards of business conduct (see
page 50).
Key to the delivery of our strategy are leadership and role model
behaviours at the most senior level. Our 2008 objectives on
ethics,safety and diversity required both a demonstration of
leadership,as well as measures of progress towards our stated
goals. To confirm the importance of these objectives,12% of the
available executive bonus allocation was set against performance
on safety and ethics objectives.
We continue to develop other aspects of our Corporate
Responsibility agenda,in particular environment and sustainability.
Governance of corporate responsibility
Our objectives are delivered through our business operations
and managed through the Executive Committee. The Corporate
Responsibility Committee evolved its role in 2008 to provide
independent oversight,advice and strategic direction on social,
ethical and environmental issues that face the Group. The
Committee’s report on its 2008 activity can be found on page 72.
During 2008,the Committee undertook a number of activities
which included:
– oversight of health and safety performance;
– review and oversight of the development of the Global Code
of Conduct;
– ongoing review of performance against the Group’s objectives;
and
– site visit to our Submarine Solutions site in Barrow-in-Furness
to review and understand how Corporate Responsibility has
been embedded within the business. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 49
Corporate responsibility objectives
2008 objectives Progress 2009 objectives
1
Ethics
Establish global leadership standards
of business conduct:
– Senior leadership to communicate and
demonstrate commitment to high ethical
standards through employee engagement.
Number of engagement events and
employees reached to be measured.
– Develop and roll out a Group-wide Code
of Conduct.
– Implement the response to the Woolf
Committee recommendations.
– Senior leadership used opportunities
of team meetings and conferences to
emphasise importance of ethical
business conduct.
– Roll-out of the Global Code of Conduct to
employees across the Group commenced
in January 2009 (see page 51).
– Detailed programme in place to implement
Woolf recommendations,with a number
of actions already addressed (see page 50).
– Senior leadership to lead two employee
focus/engagement sessions to discuss the
Global Code of Conduct and ethical issues.
– Deliver the 2009 Woolf Committee
implementation plan milestones and obtain
independent external assurance of this.
– Employee sample survey on selected
ethics questions to be carried out in the
fourth quarter of 2009. Results to show
an improvement relative to the 2008
survey results.
Safety
Continue to drive performance in safety to a
level comparable with leading performers:
– Days lost to work-related injuries: Reduce
the gap between 2007 Group performance
and external benchmark by 10% in 2008
(benchmark is 2,000 days lost per 100,000
employees).
– Senior leadership to demonstrate
commitment to safety by undertaking
formal training and conducting safety
audits across our operations. Number of
safety audits conducted to be measured.
– Progress to benchmark safety performance
against a five level Safety Maturity Matrix
(SMM) – all businesses to achieve Level 3
by the end of 2008 and have a plan in
place to attain Level 5 by the end of 2011
(Level 5 has been benchmarked against
leading companies).
– The gap between Group performance and
the external benchmark was reduced by
just over 9% during 2008.
– Training sessions held between May and
August. Safety audits conducted by senior
leaders (see page 52).
– All BAESystems’ major operational sites
(other than those acquired during the year)
achieved Level 3 by the end of 2008.
All businesses submitted Level 5 plans
by the end of 2008.
– Senior leaders each to undertake three
safety audits,and flow-down training and
requirement to conduct safety reviews to
two levels below the Executive Committee.
– Minimum of Level 3 on the SMM,with 60%
of sites progressed to Level 4 by the end
of 2009.
– Incident rate targets to be set by business
at a level reflecting the progress required
to achieve the 2011 target of best in class.
– Incident rate in 2009 to show at least a
10% improvement over 2008 and,for sites
with significantly worse than best in class
statistics,improvement targets to be set
consistent with achieving best in class
in 2011.
Diversity and inclusion
Create an environment that values and
respects the contribution,based on merit,
of all members of the communities in which
we operate:
– Senior leadership to demonstrate
commitment to such an environment by
attending a diversity awareness training
programme by mid-year.
– Establish a Group-wide Women’s Forum.
– Develop an action plan to enhance diversity
and inclusion by mid-year.
– A workshop on the role of leadership in
establishing a diverse and inclusive culture
was held in June at a senior leaders’ forum.
Many of the attendees led similar events
with their management teams.
– Inaugural virtual global Women’s Forum
was held in June with 70 participants across
seven locations from three countries.
Eighteen locations in three countries
participated in the second forum in October.
– Each business set an action plan to address
specific diversity and inclusion issues
identified in the Employee Opinion Survey.
A summary of the 2008 survey results is
set out on page 53.
– Senior leadership to participate in a
workshop to develop the inclusion agenda
for their business. Senior leaders to lead
two events with employee groups to
develop action plans to address culture,
barriers and improvements.
– Executive Committee to review the
Operational Framework and supporting
policies and processes to identify potential
improvements required to develop a more
inclusive culture. Any changes to be
included in the updated July 2009 version
of the Operational Framework.
– Senior leadership to develop one personal
objective on inclusion during the first half
of 2009 for implementation in the second
half of the year.
1 Ethics and safety objectives are two of the Executive Committee’s top ten objectives for 2009. Diversity and inclusion objectives have been set within the individual performance objectives for
the senior leadership. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY
Corporate responsibility review continued
50 www.baesystems.com
Implementing the Woolf Committee recommendations
The Woolf Committee Report was published in May 2008. It made
23 recommendations for further improvement. These will provide a
route map for the Group to establish a global reputation for ethical
business conduct. The Committee’s full report is available on our
website at www.baesystems.com/woolfcommittee
We have committed to act on all of its recommendations and have
put in place a comprehensive implementation programme of up
to three years to achieve this. The outputs of the implementation
programme will not be dealt with in isolation; in order for us to deliver
this programme successfully,the outputs must quickly become part
of how the Group conducts its day-to-day business as a key part of its
performance culture.
The Executive Committee has appointed the Group General Counsel
as sponsor of a programme to implement the Woolf Committee
findings and reinforce high standards of business conduct as a
sustainable way of working across the Group. The programme,
which is led by a full-time Programme Director and a central team
of 14 people,applies project management disciplines and processes
to the programme similar to those applied to the Group’s projects.
A Steering Committee,drawn from members of the Executive
Committee and other senior leaders,has been established to
provide strategic oversight to the programme and to monitor
progress regularly.
As part of the Implementation Programme,the Programme Team
has divided each of the 23 recommendations into six key areas of
operational activity,with each area being addressed by a Working
Group. These six Working Groups consist of approximately 60 senior
managers drawn from across the global BAESystems business.
External professional advisers have also been engaged to support
the focus of the Programme. The scope of work being carried out
in the Working Groups is as follows:
(i) Customer Contracting – developing procedures to assess the
ethical and reputational risks involved with the selling of defence
equipment and capability by BAE Systems. Such assessments are
planned to form part of our consideration of what equipment and
capabilities we sell,to whom we sell it,and what contractual
obligations we will accept.
(ii) Anti-Corruption and Compliance – assessing and recommending
changes to our anti-corruption policies,procedures and
guidelines. This work includes codifying and integrating the
existing policies on Business Development Adviser appointments,
and recommending further enhancements to anti-bribery policies
and procedures. Other policies under review include those relating
to facilitation payments,gifts,hospitality and donations,Group
giving,sponsorship,conflicts of interest together with internal
investigations and disciplinary policy concerning breaches of
ethical policies.
(iii) Board and Management Operations – recommending
enhancements to corporate governance arrangements with
respect to the management of non-financial risk. This Working
Group is also responsible for recommending the establishment
of a new role of Managing Director of Corporate Responsibility
as well as developing procedures to embed further the explicit
consideration of ethical and reputational risk in the Group’s
decision-making.
(iv) Leadership in Business Ethics – defining and articulating the
strategic aspiration and intent of the Group to be a leader
in standards of business conduct among global companies.
This Working Group is also defining the role and performance
management assessment (including remuneration) of
BAESystems’ senior executives,the development of an ethics
and compliance training strategy,and the drive for openness
and transparency.
(v) External engagement – recommending actions to support the Group’s
leadership in the defence industry on key matters of ethical and
reputational risk. This covers a wide range of external stakeholders
such as governments,non-governmental organisations,customers
and competitors.
(vi) Establishing a Global Code of Conduct – focusing on the
delivery and implementation of a new Global Code of Conduct
to communicate the required principles of business conduct
and the standards expected of all employees,regardless of
location or role,consistent with the Group’s aspiration and
intention to be a leader in standards of business conduct
among global companies.
Business Development Advisers
In 2007,the Group undertook an extensive programme to revise its
policies,processes and procedures with regard to the appointment,
management and payment of Business Development Advisers.
Central to this process is the creation of a Business Development
Adviser Compliance Panel. The Panel is chaired by independent third
parties. The revised process was described by the Woolf Committee
as representing leading-edge practice.
During 2007 and 2008,whilst the new process for the appointment,
management and payment of advisers was being designed and
implemented,the Group also undertook a review of current contracts
with existing Business Development Advisers and of expired contracts
with outstanding obligations; this exercise included a review of these
arrangements by the Panel. As a result of the review,and the Group’s
stated strategy to focus on the development of home markets,many
Business Development Adviser contracts were either terminated or
expired without renewal. As defined in the revised process,decisions
by the Group to re-appoint,or maintain the contract and services,of
a Business Development Adviser are subject to the Group receiving
from the Panel prior affirmative advice to do so. As a result of the
actions described above,the number of Business Development
Advisers has been substantially reduced.
Looking forward
With the exception of the Global Code of Conduct,which is at a very
advanced stage,the first phase of the work for the Working Groups
is nearing completion. This phase involves identification of the actions
necessary to implement each of the recommendations in the Woolf
Committee Report,exploring options for change and proposing
solutions. The status of these proposed solutions was reviewed,
in detail,by the Steering Committee in December 2008.
The next planned phase,to be undertaken in the first half of 2009,
is a consultation process both inside and outside the Group on
these proposed solutions. We then plan that the feedback from this
consultation will be fully considered in formulating the final design
of the changes to be implemented.
The programme to implement the recommendations of the
Woolf Committee is an extensive and thorough undertaking over
a programme of up to three years during which changes will be
progressively implemented across the Group. As stated above,we
already have a revised policy relating to the engagement of Business
Development Advisers. In addition,we have reinforced our training in
standards of business conduct and have taken initial steps to include
a greater emphasis on assessing non-financial risk in the assessment
of customer bid proposals.
Once we have fully implemented the necessary changes,our
intention is that BAE Systems will be recognised as a global
leader in standards of business conduct.
Our progress in implementing each recommendation will be
monitored regularly by our Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Independent external auditors,Deloitte,have been appointed to
assure our progress annually. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 51 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 51
Ethics
We are determined to be recognised as a leader in responsible
business conduct worldwide,and we continue to strive for ways
to improve our business and its reputation. Maintaining high
standards of ethical conduct is essential to enhance our overall
business performance,build trust and improve our reputation
with stakeholders. Our licence to operate depends on this.
We aim to build on our employees’ pride and integrity by equipping
them with the capability,accountability and confidence to ensure
high ethical standards are maintained. To do this,we must make
sure that all employees understand what we expect of them. Our
Global Code of Conduct sets this out clearly.
Global Code of Conduct
The Code,which builds on working practices already in place
in various parts of the business,was launched in January 2009.
It improves awareness of our policies and aims to ensure a
consistent approach is taken across all our operations. The Code
provides guidance on the principles and standards of behaviour
we expect of all employees,regardless of location or role. It
encourages employees to ask for help and emphasises that
they can raise concerns without fear of reprisal.
The Code is being rolled out to all employees during the first
half of 2009 through face-to-face briefings. Every employee will
be asked to confirm that they have understood,and will comply
with,the Code. The roll-out of the Code will be supported by
mandatory training to raise awareness,either online or face
to face.
Ethics Helpline
Our Ethics Helpline exists so that employees can report ethical
concerns arising from our business,confidentially,wherever they
operate and whatever their role.
Visible leadership
Our senior leaders must promote a collective and individual
sense of responsibility for ethical conduct,and are committed
to lead by example. They are responsible for ensuring that our
new Code becomes the core tenet for how business gets done
at BAE Systems.
Continuous improvement in ethical business conduct is included
in the objectives for all Executive Committee members and linked
to their remuneration (see page 79).
Safety
We firmly believe that ensuring the safety of our employees and
those who work on our sites is a pre-condition of our operations.
We recognise the risks associated with both manufacturing
and daily office working,and seek to ensure that these risks are
managed and mitigated as far as is reasonably possible. In 2007,
we declared our aspiration and commitment to achieving a level
of safety comparable with the best in class. This section provides
an update on our progress towards this goal.
Many of our employees are involved in manufacturing,often using
heavy equipment and sometimes handling explosive or nuclear
materials. In addition,a number of BAE Systems employees are
based at customer sites providing maintenance and support
services. These include military bases in combat zones,such
as Iraq and Afghanistan.
Our goal is to achieve leadership safety performance,compared with
the best performing companies worldwide. This requires a significant
reduction in workplace accidents and injuries. Our target,based on
the performance of leading companies,is to reach 2,000 days lost
to work-related injuries per 100,000 employees. Our performance
in 2007 was 10,084
1
days and in 2008 this was reduced to 9,336
days (see page 27).
In 2007,we launched a four-year plan with safety targets for
every BAE Systems business. We are focusing on sharing best
practice and embedding a safety culture across the Group. We
are also working closely with our customers in aiming to ensure
the safety of employees based off-site where we do not have
operational control.
Fatalities
This year,we are saddened to report the deaths of five employees.
These include two fatalities at our sites – one during a crane
operation at our shipyards in San Diego,US and one during a
maintenance procedure at our aircraft facility in Brough,UK.
We are reviewing the causes of these accidents and co-operating
fully with regulatory investigations. Our shipyards have made
a number of management changes as a result and our Brough
site is implementing a 15-point remedial action plan.
Three fatalities occurred among our employees deployed on active
service with the US armed forces in Iraq and Afghanistan. These
are subject to ongoing military procedures and investigation. We
recognise the bravery of these individuals in being prepared to enter
dangerous territories to support the work of our armed forces.
A clear safety strategy
In 2007,we launched our four-year plan to achieve a leadership
position in safety across BAE Systems. Our goal is to ensure a
consistent level of good safety management in the short term
and drive safety performance to a level comparable with leading
performers over a four-year period.
Visible leadership in safety
We recognise the critical role that leadership plays in ensuring high safety
standards. During 2008,60 senior executives underwent safety training and
conducted safety reviews across our sites. For the safety reviews,the executives
were given a detailed briefing on a site or operation,then walked through the
area talking to employees.
1 Restated. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY
Corporate responsibility review continued
52 www.baesystems.com
We developed a five-level Safety Maturity Matrix (SMM) to help
us progress towards recognised best practice and continue to
improve performance across our sites. Our target is for all our
businesses to achieve level 5 (benchmark) by the end of 2011.
During 2008,each business provided a rating against the SMM.
Initial ratings ranged from Levels 1 to 4 and plans were set in
place to achieve Level 3 across all BAE Systems’ businesses
by the end of 2008. This was achieved across all BAE Systems’
major operational sites, other than those acquired during the
year. Further benefit was gained from our safety professionals
supporting audits of other sites across our operations. This
delivered cross-site learning,improved networking and
exchange of good practice.
We recognise that ‘best in class’ is a continually improving target
and will annually review the criteria we are aiming for. This will be
supplemented by ongoing benchmark visits with other companies
to understand how we can keep raising our standards of safety.
Continuous improvement in safety performance is included in the
objectives for all senior executives and linked to their remuneration
(see page 79). Our Corporate Responsibility Committee has
reviewed performance in 2008 and allocated the bonus accordingly.
Visible leadership
In 2008,senior leaders demonstrated their commitment to safety
by undertaking formal training and personally conducting site
safety audits. The initiative was designed to inspire employees
and give senior managers an insight into safety issues affecting
employees on the shop floor.
We plan to make senior manager-led safety audits a regular
feature of our approach to safety management. In 2009,we
will involve the next two levels of management from across
BAE Systems.
Sharing best practice
Leadership in safety performance requires a consistent approach
across our different sites and businesses. The exchange of ideas,
policies and best practices is essential.
Safety experts from our UK and US businesses conducted
audits of our sites against our SMM during 2008. These allowed
the experts to share best practice with other BAE Systems’
businesses,and to learn from examples of excellence in
different regions and sites.
Diversity and inclusion
Our workplace is changing. A growing number of our employees
are based at customer sites,providing maintenance and support
services on military bases and for troops on the front line. This
requires new skills and capabilities,and a different approach to
people management. At the same time,our business is expanding
internationally as we increase our presence in key markets. We
need to create a mobile workforce,and use skills and capabilities
from across BAE Systems to service customers wherever they
are based.
These changes are taking place against the backdrop of a skills
shortage,and increased competition for science and engineering
graduates in many of our home markets.
We must anticipate and respond to these trends. Our approach
includes:
– expanding our recruitment pool to include talented people from
all genders and backgrounds;
– creating an inclusive work environment that supports the
retention of skilled employees,and encourages collaboration
between employees in different markets;
– providing training to help employees keep abreast of changing
customer requirements; and
– good communication that keeps all employees involved and
motivated regardless of location.
Inclusion
We aim to establish a diverse workforce. The main challenges
are increasing the percentage of women in our workforce and
increasing ethnic diversity in the UK.
Our senior leaders are responsible for creating an inclusive work
environment. This is included in the objectives for all Executive
Committee members.
Senior leaders received inclusion awareness training in 2008 to
help them understand their role in creating an inclusive culture.
Gender
Increasing gender diversity is very challenging. Today,the percentage
of female engineering and technology graduates remains low in
many countries and at only 15% in the UK (2005-2007 Higher
Education Statistics Agency).
Education and skills
Helping to inspire the next generation of engineers and inventors is central
to BAE Systems’ commitment to education and training. The Group is a major
supporter of the US-based FIRST programme (For Inspiration and Recognition
of Science & Technology),including the FIRST Robotics Competition in which
teams of young people design and build robots. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 53
Our approach to increasing gender diversity includes:
– education – our schools programme challenges perceptions
that engineering is a male career choice;
– recruitment – we have reviewed our graduate recruitment
brochures and websites to ensure they appeal to a diverse
audience and include case studies of female graduates;
– leadership development – we have identified female employees in
each business who have the potential to become senior leaders.
They have been appointed a senior mentor to help identify
development needs and provide guidance on career planning;
– flexible working – many of our businesses enable flexible
working,including part-time working; and
– women’s networks – these provide female employees with a
wider network of contacts and support,and act as a source
of expertise to help the business identify barriers and enablers
to the inclusion of women at all levels within the Group. In 2008,
we held two Women’s Forums,uniting more than 70 employees
at a number of sites globally,to raise awareness of women’s
networks. These were led by senior executives. We have also
launched a ‘Women at BAE Systems’ online forum and held
awareness sessions on women’s networks across the business.
Ethnicity
Our approach to ethnic diversity is tailored to local culture and
heritage in each of our home markets subject to compliance with
local laws. For example,in South Africa we are increasing the
number of black Africans in the workforce,in line with the South
African Government’s Black Economic Empowerment Agenda.
In Saudi Arabia,we are focusing on increasing the proportion
of Saudi nationals in the workforce.
Age
We already have succession planning in place to prepare the
Group for changes to the age profile of our workforce as a result
of employees retiring. Business initiatives include identifying high-
potential employees and ensuring they work closely with those
who are about to retire. Retirees are encouraged to share their
knowledge using documentation and coaching sessions. Where
practicable,we offer flexible working for employees who would
like to reduce their hours without retiring completely.
Other areas of Corporate Responsibility
We continue to further our understanding of other aspects of
our Corporate Responsibility agenda and have initiated a number
of programmes to embed them throughout the Group.
Training and development
We must ensure that employees develop their skills and keep up
with changing technology and customer requirements. In addition,
we support apprenticeships and other initiatives that increase the
number of qualified engineers,technicians and project managers.
We employed 347 new apprentices in the UK and 712 graduates
joined our graduate recruitment programmes across the US and
UK. We also employed 410 summer interns and 31 students in
industrial placements in the US and UK,respectively.
Employee communications
Good communication helps keep our workforce engaged and
motivated. Our approach includes regular employee surveys,
global,regional and departmental newsletters,and a global
intranet site. We also engage with our people through employee
representative bodies and trade unions. These relationships are
important in helping us resolve issues and improve our
employment policies.
This year,our biennial employee opinion survey was completed
by more than 58,000 employees.
Highlights from this year’s survey results include an increase
in the level of overall job satisfaction (three percentage points
higher at 71%),satisfaction with career and training opportunities
(four percentage points higher at 56%),and an increase in the
proportion of employees believing that the Group demonstrates
clear ethical standards (seven percentage points higher at 73%).
The results also reflect strong awareness and understanding
in the areas of safety,ethics and diversity.
Feedback from employees has also indicated areas for
improvement. Compared with 2006,satisfaction levels were
reduced for acting on customer feedback (three percentage
points lower at 70%),having clear and measurable personal
objectives (three percentage points lower at 67%),and ensuring
that employees receive regular updates on performance against
the business plan and strategy (three percentage points lower
at 58%).
In response to the survey results,the Executive Committee has
agreed four performance improvement priorities:
– personal performance objectives should be clear and measurable;
– properly recognise people for doing a good job;
– business changes that affect us should be communicated in
a timely manner; and
– our working culture should enable everyone to demonstrate high
standards of business conduct,and to speak up and challenge
inappropriate behaviour.
Businesses have developed action plans to address their survey
results. All businesses will include measures to address these
four priority areas as part of their improvement action plans and
the Executive Committee will regularly review progress made. Company giving
BAE Systems is committed to working effectively with sponsorship and charitable
partners to benefit our customers and the communities near our operations.
The Group focuses on supporting the armed forces and their families as well
as education projects with a science,engineering and technology focus.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY
Corporate responsibility review continued
54 www.baesystems.com
Education and community
We give time and money to support education and charities in
our key markets.
Recruiting and retaining people with the necessary skills and
ability is extremely important to our business. Our education
programmes are designed to interest young people in science
and engineering,and help combat the skills shortage affecting
our industry.
Our businesses support local charities through corporate
donations,and employee fundraising and volunteering. This
helps us develop good relationships with the communities
near our sites,and motivate and engage our employees.
Environment
We recognise that our day-to-day operations,our products,
and their use and disposal have the potential to damage the
environment. To keep our impact to a minimum,we must manage
our resources efficiently and minimise waste. We also need
to consider the lifecycle of our products including how they
are maintained and disposed of.
Reducing these impacts helps us to cut costs,improve efficiency
and comply with the growing volume of environmental regulation.
Concerns around climate change and rising energy costs mean
that our environmental performance is of growing interest to all
of our stakeholders.
Our environment policy
We published our new environment policy in January 2009. This
states our commitment to reducing resource use,minimising the
through-life impacts of our products and establishing environmental
performance targets. It is included in our Global Code of Conduct
that is being distributed to all employees (see page 51).
We work in partnership with customers and suppliers on
environmental issues. In 2008,we were the first signatory to the
UK Ministry of Defence’s (MoD) Sustainable Procurement Charter.
Climate change
Our primary environmental impacts and contribution to CO2 levels
are through the use of energy for heating and lighting,and the
travel footprint of our employees. In 2008,we commissioned the
Coefficient Company to provide an estimate of our total carbon
footprint for 2007,including business travel,to give us a view
of our global emissions. Including the travel footprint of our
employees,our CO2 levels were estimated at around 920,000
tonnes in 2007. We reported in 2007 that 550,000 tonnes
related to energy use.
Our businesses are looking into initiatives to help reduce our
carbon footprint,including implementing energy saving measures
and sharing best practice. We are also identifying ways to reduce
business travel.
To support our customers,BAE Systems has developed HybriDrive®
technology for buses which helps increase fuel economy,whilst
reducing emissions (see page 21). This was developed from
hybrid electric drive systems for vehicles in our military portfolio.
In 2009,we plan to extend our data collection to include CO2
emissions from product trials and key suppliers. We are also
working with the UK MoD to calculate the carbon footprint of
the lifecycle of defence equipment. Energy use (Gwh) 1,742 1,706 1,655
CO2 emissions relating to energy use (million tonnes) 0.57 0.55 0.66
Volatile organic compound emissions (tonnes) 742 642 519
Our environmental data reflects the emphasis on the minimisation of the use of resources within the Group’s businesses.
This reduction has been achieved even with an increase in throughput at a number of our sites.
We collect data on ethics,safety,diversity and environment to help us monitor performance and identify areas for improvement.
The data is recorded by the businesses and collated centrally for review. Days recorded lost to work-related injuries is a key
performance indicator (see page 27 for details). Specific notes are recorded below.
2006 2007 2008
Ethics
Ethics enquiries from employees 410 327 507
The increase in the number of enquiries reflects the Group’s continued focus on awareness and training relating to business conduct.
Days recorded lost to work-related injuries 10,204 10,084
1
9,336
Total recorded injuries to all employees 4,788 4,454 4,089
The gap between Group performance and the external benchmark of 2,000 days lost per 100,000 employees was reduced by just
over 9% during 2008.
Gender diversity:
Male employees 80% 79% 80%
Female employees 20% 21% 20%
Ethnic diversity:
White 87% 82% 85%
Non-white 13% 18% 15%
Age diversity:
Under 25 7% 8% 10%
26 to 35 18% 17% 17%
36 to 49 42% 39% 38%
50 to 59 26% 27% 27%
60 + 7% 9% 8%
The focus of our diversity agenda is creating an inclusive environment where our employees,regardless of gender,ethnicity or age,
can realise their full potential.
Ethnic diversity figures are based on South Africa,UK and US data only.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 55
Corporate responsibility performance summary
1 Restated.
Safety (per 100,000 employees)
Diversity
Environment DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY
Risk management
56 www.baesystems.com
Risk management
withinBAESystems
Effective management of risk and
opportunity is essential to the delivery
of the Group’s objectives,achievement
of sustainable shareholder value and
protection of its reputation.
Executive
Committee
review
Board review
Board Committee review
Assurance / Self-assessment
Operational Framework
Reporting / Monitoring
Reporting / Monitoring
– Audit Committee review
– Corporate Responsibility
Committee review
– Organisation
– Culture
– Governance
– Core Business Processes
– Delegated Authorities
– Mandated Policies and
Processes
– BAE Systems’ Businesses
Monitoring and control
– Risks and plans are monitored
and regularly and rigorously
reviewed with significant risks
immediately notified through
the business reporting systems
– Key risks are reported through
the Integrated Business Plan,
twice yearly through the
Operational Assurance Statement
self-assessment,and at Quarterly
Business Reviews
– The Executive Committee
conducts risk workshops
to analyse and allocate
management responsibility for
the management of the most
significant non-financial risks
to the Group
– The Board and the Audit and
Corporate Responsibility
committees review risk
on a regular basis
Monitoring and control
Monitoring and control
Mitigation
Analysis
Evaluation
Identification
Identification
– At least six monthly,each business
and function undertakes a full
review of potential risks
– Risks are recorded in registers
explaining the event(s) with cause
and effect statements prompting
effective mitigation strategies
– Risk owners are allocated who
have authority and responsibility
for assessing and managing
the risk
Analysis
– Risks are analysed for impact and
probability to determine exposure
to the business
Evaluation
– Risk exposure is comprehensively
reviewed and risks prioritised in
relation to the achievement of
business objectives
– Risk evaluation is documented in
controlled risk registers showing:
– the risks that have been
identified
– characteristics of the risk
– the basis for determining
mitigation strategy
– necessary review and
monitoring
Mitigation
– Implementation of action plans to
manage,or respond to,the risks
– Robust mitigation strategy subject
to regular and rigorous review
Business risk management BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 57
Effective management of risk and opportunity is essential to
the delivery of the Group’s objectives,achievement of sustainable
shareholder value and protection of its reputation. The Group’s
approach to risk management is aimed at the early identification
of key risks and then removing or reducing the likelihood and
effect of risks before they occur,and dealing effectively with them
if they crystallise. The Group is committed to the protection of its
assets,which include human,property and financial resources,
through an effective risk management process,underpinned
where appropriate by insurance.
The management of risk is linked into the Group’s strategy,
the environment in which it operates,the Group’s appetite for
risk and the delivery of the Group’s business objectives. The
underlying principles are that risks are continuously monitored,
associated action plans reviewed,appropriate contingencies are
provisioned and this information is reported through established
management control procedures.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that risk is
effectively managed across the Group and has delegated to
the Audit Committee the responsibility for reviewing in detail
the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls.
The Executive Committee remains committed to the effective
management of material non-financial risks including those
arising in connection with safety and ethical issues. The
Executive Committee advises the Corporate Responsibility
Committee of all matters within the latter’s remit.
In order to assist the Committees and the Board in their review,
the Group has the self-assessment Operational Assurance
Statement (OAS) process,which is mandated by the Operational
Framework. The OAS is in two parts: a self-assessment of
compliance with appropriate parts of the Operational Framework;
and a report showing the key risks for the relevant business.
Together with independent reviews undertaken by Internal
Audit,and the work of the external auditors,the OAS forms
the Group’s process for reviewing the effectiveness of the
system of internal controls.
Reporting within the Group is structured so that key issues are
escalated through the management team,ultimately to the Board
if appropriate. The responsibility for risk identification,analysis,
evaluation,mitigation,reporting and monitoring rests with line
management. Both the Audit Committee and the Corporate
Responsibility Committee report the findings of their reviews to
the Board so that the Board can form a view. Further information
on the activities of the Board and its Committees is given in the
Corporate governance section on pages 66 to 76.
As with any system of internal control,the policies and processes
that are mandated in the Operational Framework are designed
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives,and can only provide reasonable,and not
absolute,assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
Further detail of these business processes and mandated policies
is given on page 18 and in the Corporate governance section on
pages 67 and 68.
Non-financial risk management assessment
In 2007,we introduced an overlay to our existing risk assessment and assurance
process to more rigorously identify potential issues of non-financial and reputational
risk. The output from the existing risk assessment processes is collated and
reviewed by the Executive Committee,along with inputs and consideration of
external factors,to identify those issues where the cumulative risk,or possible
reputational impacts,could be significant. The Non-Financial Risk register is
reviewed regularly by the Executive and Corporate Responsibility Committees
to monitor the ongoing status and progression of mitigation plans. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY
Principal risks
58 www.baesystems.com
Defence spending
The Group is
dependent
on defence
spending and
reductions in
such spending
could adversely
affect the Group.
Certain parts
of the Group’s
business are
dependent on a
small number of
large contracts.
Description: The Group’s core businesses are primarily
defence-related,selling products and services directly
and indirectly primarily to the US,the UK,the Saudi
Arabian and other national governments. In any single
market,defence spending depends on a complex mix
of political considerations,budgetary constraints and
the ability of the armed forces to meet specific threats
and perform certain missions. Because of these
factors,defence spending may be subject to
significant fluctuations from year to year.
Although the Group expects growth in US defence
spending to slow,it believes it is well placed to support
the US Department of Defense’s likely emphasis
on force sustainment,readiness and affordable
transformation. The UK defence equipment budget
is expected to continue to be constrained,having
potential implications for the sustainability of long-term
funding for future defence technologies and engineering
capabilities in the UK. Saudi Arabia is expected to remain
one of the heaviest defence spenders in the world.
Impact: A decrease in defence purchases by the
Group’s major customers could have a material
adverse effect on the Group’s future results of
operations and financial condition.
Mitigation: The Group’s business is geographically
spread across six home markets and its products are
marketed across a range of sectors within the defence
arena. In addition,the Group uses realistic assumptions
to underpin its financial and operational planning.
Description: A significant proportion of the Group’s
revenue comes from a small number of large contracts.
These contracts individually are typically worth or
potentially worth £1bn or more including,but not
limited to,those contracts in the Programmes &
Support operating group.
Impact: The loss,expiration,suspension,
cancellation or termination of any one of these
contracts,for any reason,could have a material
adverse effect on the Group’s future results
of operations and financial condition.
Mitigation: The Board regularly reviews the Group’s
performance in these markets,and the Executive
Committee continues to work closely with its
customers to ensure the Group strategy is aligned
with theirs (refer to Strategy section on page 10).
The Group’s
largest customer
contracts are
government
contracts.
Description: The governments of the United Kingdom,
the United States and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia are
the Group’s three largest end customers. Any significant
disruption or deterioration in the relationship with
these governments and a corresponding reduction in
government contracts would significantly reduce the
Group’s revenues. Moreover,companies engaged in
the supply of defence-related equipment and services
to government agencies are subject to certain
business risks particular to the defence industry.
These governments could unilaterally cancel,suspend
or amend their contractors’ funding under existing
contracts or eligibility for new contracts potentially
at short notice. Terms and risk sharing agreements
can also be amended. In addition,the Group,as a
government contractor,is subject to financial audits and
other reviews by some of its governmental customers
with respect to the performance of,and the accounting
and general practices relating to,government
contracts. As a result of these audits and reviews,
costs and prices under these contracts may be
subject to adjustment.
Impact: The termination of one or more of the contracts
for the Group’s programmes by governments,or the
failure of the relevant agencies to obtain expected
funding appropriations for the Group’s programmes,
could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s
future results of operations and financial condition.
Mitigation: The Board regularly reviews the Group’s
performance in these markets,and the Executive
Committee continues to work closely with its
customers to ensure the Group strategy is aligned
with theirs (refer to Strategy section on page 10).
The timing of
contracts could
materially affect
the Group’s
future results
of operations
and financial
condition.
Description: The Group’s operating performance and
cash flows are dependent,to a significant extent,on
the award of defence contracts.
Impact: Because the amounts payable under these
contracts can be substantial,the timing of award or
failure to receive anticipated orders could materially
affect the Group’s operating results and cash flow
for the periods affected.
Mitigation: The Board regularly reviews the Group’s
performance with regard to contract awards,and
the Executive Committee actively manages the assets
and resources of the Group in line with the timing
of awards.
Large contracts
Government contracts
Contract timing BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 59
The Group is
exposed to
risks inherent
in operating in
a global market.
Description: BAE Systems is a global company which
conducts business in a number of regions,including
the Middle East,and,as a result,assumes certain risks
associated with businesses with a broad geographical
reach. In some countries these risks include,and are
not limited to,the following: government regulations
and administrative policies could change quickly and
restraints on the movement of capital could be imposed;
governments could expropriate the Group’s assets;
burdensome taxes or tariffs could be introduced;
political changes could lead to changes in the business
environment in which the Group operates; and economic
downturns,political instability and civil disturbances
could disrupt the Group’s business activities.
Impact: The occurrence of any such events could
have a material adverse effect on the Group’s future
operational performance and financial condition.
Mitigation: The Group has a balanced portfolio with
six home markets.
Global market
The Group is
subject to
export controls
and other
restrictions.
Description: A portion of the Group’s sales is derived
from the export of its products. Many of the products
the Group designs and manufactures for military or dual
use are considered to be of national strategic interest.
The export of such products outside the jurisdictions in
which they are produced is normally subject to licensing
and export controls and other restrictions. No assurance
can be given that the export controls to which the Group
is subject will not become more restrictive,that new
generations of the Group’s products will not also be
subject to similar or more stringent controls,or that
political factors or changing international circumstances
will not result in the Group being unable to obtain
necessary export licences.
Impact: Reduced access to export markets could have
a material adverse effect on the Group’s future results
of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply
with export controls and wider regulations could expose
the Group to fines and other penalties,including
potential restrictions on trading.
Mitigation: The Group has formal systems and
policies in place which are mandated under the
Group’s Operational Framework to ensure adherence
to regulatory requirements and to identify any
restrictions that could adversely impact the
Group’s future activities.
Export controls and other restrictions
Fixed-price contracts
The Group has
fixed-price
contracts.
Description: A significant portion of the Group’s
revenue is derived from fixed-price contracts,although
the Group has reduced its exposure to fixed-priced
design and development activity which is in general
more risk intensive than fixed-price production activity.
An inherent risk in these fixed-price contracts is that
actual performance costs may exceed the projected
costs on which the fixed prices for such contracts
are agreed.
Impact: The Group’s failure to anticipate technical
problems,estimate costs accurately or control costs
during performance of a fixed-priced contract may reduce
the profitability of such a contract or result in a loss.
Mitigation: To manage contract-related risks and
uncertainties,contracts are managed through the
application of the Lifecycle Management (LCM)
business process mandated by the Group’s Operational
Framework at the operational level (refer to page 21 for
further information on LCM). The consistent application
of metrics is used to support the review of individual
contract performance (refer to page 26 for KPIs relating
to programme execution).
Consortia and joint ventures
The Group is
involved in
consortia,joint
ventures and
equity holdings
where it does not
have control.
Description: The Group participates in various consortia,
joint ventures and equity holdings,exercising varying
and evolving degrees of control. While the Group seeks
to participate only in ventures in which its interests
are aligned with those of its partners,the risk of
disagreement is inherent in any jointly controlled
entity,and particularly in those entities that require
the unanimous consent of all members with regard
to major decisions,and that specify restricted rights.
Impact: In the event of disagreement within a
consortium,joint venture or equity holding and the
business arrangement failing to meet its strategic
objectives or expected benefits,the Group’s business
and results of operations may be adversely affected.
Mitigation: The Group has formal systems and
procedures in place to monitor the performance
of such business arrangements and identify and
manage any adverse scenario arising. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY
Principal risks continued
60 www.baesystems.com
Competition
The Group’s
business is
subject to
significant
competition.
Description: Most of the Group’s businesses are
focused on the defence industry and subject to
competition from national and multi-national firms with
substantial resources and capital,and many contracts
are obtained through a competitive bidding process.
The Group’s ability to compete for contracts depends
to a large extent on the effectiveness and innovation of
its research and development programmes,its ability to
offer better programme performance than its competitors
at a lower cost to its customers,and the readiness of
its facilities,equipment and personnel to undertake
the programmes for which it competes.
Additionally,in some instances,governments direct to
a single supplier all work for a particular programme,
commonly known as a sole-source programme.
Although governments have historically awarded certain
programmes to the Group on a sole-source basis,they
may in the future determine to open such programmes
to a competitive bidding process. Government contracts
for defence-related products can,in certain countries,
be awarded on the basis of home country preference.
Therefore,other defence companies may have an
advantage over the Group for some defence-related
contracts on the basis of the jurisdiction in which they
are organised,where the majority of their assets are
located or where their officers or directors are located.
Impact: In the event that the Group is unable adequately
to compete in the markets in which it operates,the
Group’s business and results of operations may be
adversely affected.
Mitigation: The Group’s strong global market
positioning,balanced portfolio,leading capabilities
and performance continue to address this risk
(refer to pages 15 to 17 for further information
on the Group’s positioning and portfolio).
Pension funding
The Group is
exposed to
funding risks in
relation to the
defined benefits
under its pension
schemes.
Description: The Group operates certain defined
benefit pension schemes. At present,in aggregate,
there is an actuarial deficit between the value of
projected liabilities of these schemes and the value
of the assets they hold. The Group has put in place
and is implementing deficit recovery plans in line
with agreements reached with the respective scheme
trustees based on actuarial advice and valuation results.
Impact: The amount of the deficits may be adversely
affected by a number of factors,including lower than
assumed investment returns,changes in long-term
interest rate and price inflation expectations,and
greater than anticipated improvements in members’
longevity. An increase in pension scheme deficit may
require the Group to increase the amount of cash
contributions payable to these schemes,thereby
reducing cash available to meet the Group’s other
obligations or business needs.
Mitigation: The performance of the Group’s pension
schemes and deficit recovery plans are regularly
reviewed by both the Group and the Trustees of the
schemes taking actuarial and investment advice as
applicable. The results of these reviews are discussed
with the Board and appropriate action taken (refer to
page 136 for further details of the Group’s retirement
benefit plans).
Acquisitions
The Group has
experienced
growth through
acquisitions.
Anticipated
benefits of
acquisitions may
not be realised.
Description: The Group has experienced growth
through acquisitions and continues to pursue
acquisitions in order to meet its strategic objectives.
Integrating the operations and personnel of acquired
businesses is a complex process. The Group may
not be able to integrate the operations of acquired
businesses with existing operations rapidly or without
encountering difficulties.
Impact: The diversion of management attention to
integration efforts and any difficulties encountered
in combining operations could adversely affect the
Group’s business. The failure to manage growth
by acquisition while at the same time maintaining
adequate focus on the existing assets of the Group
could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s
business,future results of operations or financial
condition. In addition,failure to integrate acquisitions
appropriately creates the risk of impairments arising
on goodwill and other intangible assets.
Mitigation: The Group has an established methodology
in place to deliver the effective integration of acquisitions.
The Group has an established policy for monitoring
impairment risks. See note 1 to the Group accounts on
page 110 for further information on the Group’s approach
to impairment testing. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 61
Laws and regulations
The Group is
subject to risk
from a failure to
comply with laws
and regulations.
Description: The Group’s operations are subject to
numerous domestic and international laws,regulations
and restrictions. Non-compliance with these laws,
regulations and restrictions could expose the Group to
fines,penalties,suspension or debarment,which could
have a material adverse effect on the Group. The Group
has contracts and operations in many parts of the
world and operates in a highly regulated environment.
The Group is subject to the laws and regulations of
many jurisdictions,including those of the UK and US.
These include,without limitation,regulations relating
to import-export controls,money-laundering,false
accounting,anti-bribery and anti-boycott provisions.
From time to time,the Group is subject to government
investigations relating to its operations.
Impact: Failure by the Group or its sales representatives,
marketing advisers or others acting on its behalf to
comply with these laws and regulations could result
in administrative,civil or criminal liabilities resulting
in significant fines and penalties and/or result in the
suspension or debarment of the Group from government
contracts for some period of time or suspension of the
Group’s export privileges.
Mitigation: During the year,the Group has continued
to add to its resources dedicated to legal and regulatory
compliance in order to further enhance its capability
to identify and manage the risk of compliance failure.
Internal and external market risk assessments form an
important element of the ongoing corporate development
process. Policies and procedures for the appointment of
advisers engaged in business development have been
further refined,and a uniform global policy and process
has been established. The investigation announced in
2004 by the Serious Fraud Office into suspected false
accounting and corruption is continuing. In June 2007,
the Company was notified by the US Department of
Justice that it had commenced an investigation relating
to the Group’s compliance with anti-corruption laws,
including its business concerning the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia.
Exchange rates
The Group is
exposed to
volatility in
currency
exchange rates.
Description: The global nature of the Group’s business
means it is exposed to volatility in currency exchange
rates in respect of foreign currency denominated
transactions,and the translation of net assets and
income statements of foreign subsidiaries and equity
accounted investments. The Group is exposed to a
number of foreign currencies,the most significant
being the US dollar.
Impact: Significant fluctuations in exchange rates
to which the Group is exposed could have a material
adverse effect on the Group’s future results of
operations and financial condition.
Mitigation: In order to protect itself against currency
fluctuations,the Group’s policy is to hedge all material
firm transactional exposures,unless otherwise approved
as an exception by the Treasury Review Management
Committee,as well as to manage anticipated economic
cash flow exposures over the medium term. The Group
aims,where possible,to apply hedge accounting
treatment for all derivatives that hedge material foreign
currency exposures. The Group does not hedge the
translation effect of exchange rate movements on
the income statement or balance sheet of overseas
subsidiaries and equity accounted investments
it regards as long-term investments. Hedges are,
however,undertaken in respect of investments that
are not considered long-term or core to the Group.
Additional risks and uncertainties currently unknown to the Group,or which the Group currently deems immaterial,may also have an
adverse effect on the financial condition or business of the Group. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
62 www.baesystems.com
Governance
“Committed to the
effective management
of our business”
Governance contents
Board of directors 64
Corporate governance 66
Remuneration report 75
Other statutory and regulatory information,
including statement of directors’ responsibilities 94
5 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 63
Our Operational Framework is a key
document for all our employees. It sets
out the way we do business and what
it means to be part of BAESystems.
It is based on principles of good
governance,a set of definitions,
values,policies and processes that
guide our work and behaviour,and a
clear system of delegated authority. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Board of directors
64 www.baesystems.com
2. Ian King
4
Chief Executive
Ian King was appointed as
Chief Executive on 1 September
2008,having originally been
appointed to the Board as Chief
Operating Officer,UK and Rest
of the World,at the beginning
of 2007. He was previously
Group Managing Director of the
Company’s Customer Solutions
& Support business and,prior
to that,Group Strategy and
Planning Director. Immediately
prior to the BAe/MES merger
he was Chief Executive of
Alenia Marconi Systems,having
previously served as Finance
Director of Marconi Electronic
Systems. He is a non-executive
director of Rotork plc.
Appointed: 2007 Age: 52
3. Walt Havenstein
4
Chief Operating Officer,
President and CEO,
BAE Systems,Inc.
Walt Havenstein was appointed
to the Board in 2007 as Chief
Operating Officer,US,and
is also President and CEO
of BAE Systems,Inc. He was
previously President of the
Company’s US-based
Electronics & Integrated
Solutions business. He
was President of the Sanders
defence electronics business
prior to it being acquired by the
Company from Lockheed Martin
in 2000. A graduate of the US
Naval Academy,he served 12
years in the US Marine Corps.
Appointed: 2007 Age: 59
4. George Rose
Group Finance Director
George Rose was appointed
Group Finance Director in 1998.
Prior to joining the Company in
1992,he held senior positions
in the Rover Group and Leyland
DAF. He is a non-executive
director of Saab AB and
National Grid plc,and a
member of the Industrial
Development Advisory
Board. He is a Fellow of
the Chartered Institute of
Management Accountants.
Appointed: 1998 Age: 56
5. Phil Carroll
3
Phil Carroll is a former
chairman and chief executive
of Fluor Corporation and a
former president and chief
executive of Shell Oil Company
Inc. He was appointed by the
US Department of Defense
in 2003 to serve as the first
Senior Adviser to the Iraqi
Ministry of Oil. He is a former
non-executive director of
Scottish Power plc.
Appointed: 2005 Age: 71
6. Michael Hartnall
1
Michael Hartnall is a former
finance director of Rexam plc,
prior to which he held senior
positions with a number of
manufacturing companies.
He is a non-executive director
of Lonmin plc and a former non-
executive director of Elementis
plc. Michael Hartnall chairs
the Board’s Audit Committee.
He is a Fellow of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants
in England and Wales.
Appointed: 2003 Age: 66
Chairman Non-executive directors Executive directors
1. Dick Olver FREng
3,4
Dick Olver was appointed
as Chairman in 2004. A civil
engineer,Dick Olver joined BP
in 1973 where he held a variety
of senior positions culminating
in his appointment to the board
of BP p.l.c. as CEO of Exploration
and Production in 1998. He
was subsequently appointed
deputy group chief executive
of BP in 2003,stepping down
from that position when he
assumed the chairmanship
of BAE Systems. Dick Olver
chairs the Board’s Nominations
Committee and the Non-
Executive Directors’ Fees
Committee. He is a Business
Ambassador for UK Trade &
Investment,a Fellow of the
Royal Academy of Engineering,
and a member of the Royal
Academy Council and the
Trilateral Commission. He is a
former non-executive director
of Thomson Reuters plc.
Appointed: 2004 Age: 62
12 3 4 5 6 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 65
7. Andy Inglis
2
Andy Inglis is a director of BP
p.l.c. He is a member of the BP
executive management team,
and is also chief executive of
BP’s Exploration & Production
business. He is a Fellow of the
Royal Academy of Engineering
and a Fellow of the Institute
of Mechanical Engineers.
Andy Inglis chairs the Board’s
Corporate Responsibility
Committee.
Appointed: 2007 Age: 49
8. Sir Peter Mason KBE
1,3
Sir Peter Mason is the non-
executive chairman of Thames
Water and a non-executive
director of Acergy S.A. He was
formerly chief executive of AMEC
plc,executive director of BICC
plc,chairman and chief executive
of Balfour Beatty Limited and
chief executive of Norwest Holst
Group PLC. Sir Peter has been
appointed the Board’s Senior
Independent Director.
Appointed: 2003 Age: 62
9. Roberto Quarta
1,5
Roberto Quarta is a partner in
the private equity firm Clayton,
Dubilier & Rice,in connection
with which he serves as
chairman of Rexel SA and Italtel.
He was previously chairman and
chief executive of BBA Group
plc,an executive director of BTR
plc and a non-executive director
of PowerGen plc and Equant NV.
Appointed: 2005 Age: 59
10. Sir Nigel Rudd
2,5
Sir Nigel Rudd is currently
chairman of BAA Limited and
Pendragon plc,and deputy
chairman of Barclays PLC and
Invensys plc. He was formerly
chairman of Alliance Boots
Group PLC and Pilkington plc.
He also holds a number of other
public appointments,including
chairman of the CBI’s
Boardroom Issues Group.
Sir Nigel chairs the Board’s
Remuneration Committee.
He is a Fellow of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants
in England and Wales.
Appointed: 2006 Age: 62
11. Carl Symon
5
Appointed to the Board on
11 June 2008,Carl Symon
retired from IBM in 2001
having held a number of senior
positions in the US,Europe,
Latin America and Asia,including
serving as chairman and chief
executive of IBM UK Limited. He
is a non-executive director of BT
Group plc and Rexam PLC,and a
former non-executive director of
Rolls-Royce Group plc and former
chairman of HMV Group plc.
Appointed: 2008 Age: 62
12. Ravi Uppal
2
Appointed to the Board on
2 April 2008,Ravi Uppal is
managing director and chief
executive officer of L&T Power
Limited,a member of the Larsen
& Toubro group which operates
in the technical,engineering,
construction and manufacturing
sector and is one of the largest
companies in India’s private
sector. He was previously
President,Global Markets
for the power and automation
technology group ABB Limited
where he was responsible for
ABB’s marketing and business
development on a worldwide
basis. Prior to that he was
managing director of Volvo India,
establishing that corporation’s
business in India.
Appointed: 2008 Age: 56
Each of the eight non-executive
directors listed above is
considered to be independent for
the purposes of the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance.
Company Secretary
David Parkes
1 Member of the Audit Committee.
2 Member of the Corporate Responsibility
Committee.
3 Member of the Nominations Committee.
4 Member of the Non-Executive Directors’
Fees Committee.
5 Member of the Remuneration Committee.
78 9 10 11 12 DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Corporate governance
66 www.baesystems.com
“The BAE Systems
Board is always
looking to move
the Group forward”
Dick Olver Chairman
The events that shook financial markets last year
have made many directors reflect on their governance
responsibilities and particularly their role in ensuring
that,in the words of the Combined Code,there is a
‘framework of prudent and effective controls which
enables risk to be assessed and managed’.
Much is demanded of directors of major companies – and rightly so
given the impact that the fortunes of such companies can have on
the global economy. As directors we need to continually challenge
the way we operate and look to improve the effectiveness of how we
as a board collectively discharge our duties and provide leadership.
I hope that this report provides you with a wider understanding of
aspects of our governance framework and practices,which together
with the other reports in this section,details how we apply the
Combined Code principles.
The BAE Systems Board is always looking to move the Group forward
and is determined that it shall be recognised as a global leader
in responsible business. Appointing the Woolf Committee was a
good example of this and,as Lord Woolf wrote,this has provided
“…a route map for the Company to establish a global reputation for
ethical business conduct that matches its reputation for outstanding
technical competence”. In advance of its publication,the Board
committed to act on any recommendations made in the Committee’s
report and these are being carefully addressed as part of a
three-year programme. For its part,the Board will,amongst other
things,undertake further ethics awareness training in 2009.
The board of a company stands at the apex of its governance
structure and its effectiveness is critical to the governance of
the company as a whole. There is no definitive guide as to what
makes an effective board. The UK’s Combined Code on corporate
governance does provide clear principles of good governance
practice. However,it is just a framework,and it is for individual
boards to determine how they can maximise their effectiveness.
A large part of this comes down to how use is made of the time
and talents available to the board; and the annual performance
evaluation required by the Code is an important tool in helping a
board to collectively reflect on whether it is operating effectively
and pointing out the areas where improvements can be made.
The BAE Systems Board has recently completed its annual
performance evaluation. For the past four years we have engaged
in the same process,using an external facilitator to undertake
one-to-one interviews with all the directors. This provides a rich
source of information not just on the Board’s performance but
also on that of individual directors and of myself as Chairman. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 67
Through the evaluation we try to ensure that as a board we are
spending the right amount of time on the right things. Last year,
the BAE Systems Board held nine meetings plus a day spent
conducting a strategy review. Looking back over the time we
allocated to various matters at these meetings and analysing this
under a few generic headings provides the following analysis:
for the current year and financial projections for the following
five years. Reflecting the long-term nature of much of the Group’s
business,part of the development of strategy involves analysing
the business over the following ten years. The process is
undertaken annually and culminates in the Board approving the
Group strategy and financial five-year plan. At each scheduled
meeting,the Board monitors performance against the agreed plan.
– Lifecycle Management (LCM)
The purpose of LCM is to provide a structured approach to
managing the Group’s commitments and investments throughout
project and product lifecycles,facilitating continuous improvement.
This includes the bidding process,including the authority required
for the submission of contract bids and tenders,most of which are
managed on a delegated basis. However,the larger bids require
Board approval and,during 2008,it considered and authorised a
number of major contract bids. The LCM process is essential for
the management of long-term contracts and mandates that key
risks are identified and managed at different stages through
the life of a project or product,which can run into tens of years.
Importantly,LCM also covers the period before a contract is
awarded,or even bid for. This helps to ensure that risks are
understood,enabling informed decisions to be made to either
commit to a business opportunity or decline to bid if risks do
not align to the reward potential. The risks identified by the LCM
process are also used as the basis for recognising profit on long-
term contracts,ensuring that profit is only taken when risks on
the contract are retired.
– Mergers,Acquisitions and Disposals Process (M&A)
The purpose of the M&A process is to provide a structured
approach to managing the Group’s acquisitions,joint ventures
and disposals (see page 68).
– Performance Centred Leadership (PCL)
The purpose of the PCL framework is to provide an integrated
approach to management,resourcing and people development.
This process addresses objective setting and performance
assessment; making sure that the targets used to reward
executive performance are set as part of the strategic and
financial planning processes that are part of the routine
management of the whole Group. The process for the setting
of objectives for executives is initiated firstly by the Chairman
developing non-financial objectives with the Chief Executive.
These are then forwarded to the Remuneration Committee for
its consideration. The Remuneration Committee (in consultation
with the Corporate Responsibility Committee for corporate
responsibility-related matters) agrees appropriate non-financial
objectives for the executive directors and also financial objectives
26%
8%
32%
31%
3% Governance
Operational
performance
Training and
awareness
Strategy/M&A
Other
This analysis is fairly basic but I think it fairly represents the
work of the BAE Systems Board last year and hopefully will provide
some insight into how it operates. As you can see,most time
was spent on operational performance and Strategy/Mergers and
Acquisitions (M&A),with the rest of the time spent largely dealing
with governance matters. The detail of what was included in these
categories is discussed in more detail below.
Operational performance
This principally covers the Board’s role in setting performance
targets and objectives for management and then monitoring
and overseeing progress against these. Plans are agreed and
objectives are set as part of the Group’s core processes. These
are contained in the Operational Framework,a document that
details the way we do business and what it means to be part of
BAE Systems. It is based on principles of good governance,a set
of definitions,values,policies and processes that guide our work
and behaviour,and a clear system of delegated authority. Through
the Operational Framework the Board has mandated five core
business management processes that have been developed by
the Group over a number of years and are at the heart of our
performance delivery.
In brief these processes are:
– Integrated Business Plan (IBP)
The purpose of the IBP process is to assess and monitor the
Group’s ability to maximise value in accordance with its strategy
and objectives. It consists of a strategic plan,a financial forecast DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Corporate governance continued
68 www.baesystems.com
based on the output from the IBP process. The Remuneration
Committee monitors performance against the objectives
throughout the year.
– Performance Management Process (PMP)
The purpose of the PMP is to provide a structured approach
and clear framework for the evaluation and management
of performance in accordance with the Group’s strategy and
objectives. The IBP provides agreed business objectives and
measures for the following year. Performance against these
is then monitored during the year using three levels of review;
individual executive,project and business. At each Board meeting,
the Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officer BAE Systems,
Inc. report to the Board on operational performance based on
the information they receive through the PMP.
As reported in the Performance section of this Annual Report,
the Board uses a range of financial and non-financial performance
indicators when reviewing operational performance. The financial
KPIs shown on pages 24 and 25 are reviewed at all scheduled
board meetings,with the non-financial KPIs (see pages 26 and
27) reviewed on a quarterly basis. The non-financial KPI reporting
is managed by a central department,the Centre for Performance
Excellence,which in consultation with the Board has developed
the metrics to meet its performance reporting needs and is
tasked with ensuring that the information is accurate and timely.
Strategy/M&A
This covers the Board’s involvement in developing and agreeing
the Group’s future strategy,and the implementation of that
strategy where it involves major M&A activity.
The Group has developed an annual strategy review process that
has been effective in driving the strategic transformation of the
Group over the last few years and delivering strong financial
performance. You will see on pages 10 and 11 of this report
details of the Group Strategic Framework that captures the top-
level output from the IBP process. This process is undertaken
over a nine-month period each year and culminates in the Board
approving the changes to the framework and agreeing the five-year
financial plan. Integrating financial planning with the development
of strategy ensures that business plans reflect the evolution of
our strategy,and resources are available and aligned with the
implementation of the strategic objectives and actions that are
identified in the Group Strategic Framework.
The IBP and the development of strategy are managed by the
Chief Executive but the Board ultimately approves the financial
plan and strategy each year,and has an important role to play
in constructively challenging the plans based on the wider
perspective and different skills and knowledge that the non-
executive directors bring to the Board. At a number of its meetings
held through the year the Board has specific agenda items covering
the development of strategy. It also spends a whole day each year
undertaking a detailed review of strategy,which coincides with
its review of the financial plan for the next five years. From this,
the Board has an awareness of the growth profile of the Group’s
existing businesses over this period and how different strategic
options can be overlaid on the plan. This helps the Board to plan
the evolution of the strategic shape of the Group and thereby
establish the foundations for long-term growth.
Setting strategy is an important element of total risk management.
Certain risks facing a company will be structural in nature and such
risks need to be recognised and mitigated by long-term strategic
planning. Also,strategic change itself usually involves risk and it is
for the Board to exercise its judgement as to what is the appropriate
level of risk to take. The quality of judgement exercised by a board
is heavily dependent on its awareness of the business. A significant
element of the time that we as a board spend on strategy involves
developing a collective awareness of the strategic landscape. At four
of the eight scheduled board meetings last year (excluding our whole
day strategy review) we dedicated time to understanding different
geographical markets,sectors adjacent to our traditional markets,
new and developing technologies and capabilities,and revisiting
strategic decisions we made in the past to check that there had
not been changes of which we needed to be aware.
One area identified through the annual strategy planning process
as being of strategic importance to the Group was establishing
security businesses in our home markets. This provides a good
example of the Board’s involvement in M&A activity. Having
developed an awareness of the global security market,and from
that agreeing a strategic objective of growing this related market
segment,the Board was able to respond quickly when the Chief
Executive proposed that a bid should be made for the prime
UK company operating in this sector,Detica. Having made the
decision to approach the Detica board with a view to acquiring
the company,the Board thereafter managed the acquisition
through a committee of the Board that met on four occasions
during the summer of 2008.
Governance
This covers the role of the Board in setting the Group’s values
and standards,ensuring that the appropriate governance
structures and controls are in place and operating effectively,
and reporting on these matters to shareholders.
The Board agrees the structure of the Group’s internal controls
and this includes setting the standards and values that govern
all that we do. It looks to the Audit Committee and Corporate
Responsibility Committee to undertake most of the work involved
in monitoring and seeking assurance as to compliance with the
controls within this framework. These committees are formed
of independent non-executive directors and are therefore
appropriately structured to undertake the role. However,the Board
as a whole must maintain oversight of such important matters
and after each committee meeting the chairmen of each of the
Board’s committees report on the matters they have dealt with.
Reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls is part of the
Board’s governance responsibilities. The Audit and Corporate
Responsibility committees have been tasked with reviewing and
seeking assurance as to the effectiveness of internal controls.
The chairmen of the committees report regularly to the Board
on this and other activities they undertake,thereby ensuring that
all directors have visibility and the opportunity to discuss such
matters (see pages 70 and 73).
One of the most important decisions that the Board took last
year was to appoint a new Chief Executive. In last year’s report
I outlined the process that the Board had adopted in seeking
a new Chief Executive,which began with the invaluable work the
Nominations Committee had undertaken in the last few years in
overseeing the development of our succession and management
resource planning processes. This meant that from day one of our
search our internal succession planning processes were indicating
that in Ian King we had an excellent internal candidate. However,
given the importance of this position,the Committee worked
through a thorough process,undertaking a global search looking at
various external candidates. Having completed the search process BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 69
2008 Objectives
– Engage non-executive and executive directors
in dialogue to ensure smooth and transparent
selection and transition of the new
Chief Executive.
– Board to conduct additional site visits as part
of its meeting programmes. Use the visits as an
opportunity to meet with senior management to
support succession planning.
– Understand and review the competencies,
processes and culture required to support the
Company’s increasingly global position.
– Ensure that ethical and reputational implications
of strategic growth options are explored and
understood. Plan for and commence embedding
the Woolf Committee recommendations.
– Keep attention focused on programme KPIs.
2008 Achievements
– The Nominations Committee engaged with
all directors and managed the Chief Executive
appointment process. The Board then appointed
an internal candidate and has supported a
smooth and seamless transition.
– Board members visited Oman and Saudi Arabia
in 2008. In addition,non-executive directors
visited the Submarine Solutions and Insyte
businesses in the UK.
– The Board studied globalisation opportunities
in the defence sector before and during the
annual strategy session and approved four
global initiatives.
– The Board committed to implementing all the
Woolf Committee’s recommendations before
the final report was delivered in May 2008.
The Company subsequently set up teams to
create and act upon plans for implementation.
– Directors regularly reviewed the Programme
Margin Variation and Schedule Adherence
metrics that are used to provide oversight
of contract performance.
2009 Objectives
– Maximise the effectiveness of the strategy
planning process and continue to visit
operational sites to develop further the Board’s
awareness and understanding of the Group.
– Continue to engage with management in
studying and developing the actions needed
to exploit global markets.
– Support the Chief Executive in ensuring the
Woolf Report recommendations are implemented
across the Group,ensuring all staff and external
stakeholders are engaged.
– Provide support to the new Chief Executive
to ensure his success.
– Focus on KPIs,ensuring they continue to
provide the right level of performance oversight,
and periodically take a more in-depth look at
specific programmes.
– Ensure attention remains focused on near-term
andlong-termsuccessionplanningfortheBoard.
Board performance evaluation – objectives
Dick Olver Chairman
the Committee concluded that Ian King was the strongest candidate
and nominated him for appointment. The Board duly appointed him
Chief Executive with effect from the beginning of September 2008.
I began by commenting on the value of performance evaluation
and using that as the basis for continually improving on how we
discharge our responsibilities as a board. In the table below we
have summarised how the Board performed against the objectives
set for 2008 and those we have set for this year.
The performance evaluation process also looks at how individual
directors and the Board’s committees have performed. I meet
with all directors individually and provide them with an appraisal
of their performance based on feedback from the process. Where
a director chairs a committee I also provide him with feedback on
his performance in chairing it and how effective the committee
has been in performing its duties. Finally,the Senior Independent
Director receives feedback on my performance as Chairman so
that he can meet with the non-executive directors and discuss
my performance before discussing this with me.
Shareholder communications
The Board recognises the importance of ensuring that there is
a dialogue with shareholders so that it understands issues or
concerns they may have. A comprehensive investor relations
programme has been in place for many years. This is managed by
the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director who meet with the
Company’s largest shareholders on a regular basis. I also maintain
a dialogue with our larger shareholders and their representative
bodies. For example,last year I held meetings with investors to
explain how we will be implementing the recommendations in
the Woolf Report,and answering questions they had.
To assist the Board in its understanding of any issues and
concerns investors may have,each year it is presented with
the results of a survey undertaken across our twenty largest
shareholders (who together control more than 25% of the
Company). The survey is undertaken by a third party consultant
who interviews the shareholders and delivers his findings directly
to the Board.
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) provides all shareholders
with the opportunity to meet with the Company,ask questions
and give their views on its performance. We recognise that not
all shareholders can attend the AGM and last year a number
of shareholders took advantage of our new Frequently Asked
Questions (FAQ) facility. This facility enables shareholders to
e-mail or post questions to us and for the Company to provide
answers to the most frequently asked questions at the meeting
and also post these on our website. The FAQ facility will be
available again this year. The Company tries to make attendance
at our AGM rewarding in terms of participating in this essential
governance process and in developing a better understanding of
the business. I urge as many shareholders as possible to attend
the meeting on 6 May 2009. Responsibilities
– Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s financial reporting,
internal control policies and procedures for the identification,
assessment and reporting of risk.
– Monitoring the role and effectiveness of the Internal Audit
function including approving the appointment or removal of
the Director of Internal Audit.
– Considering and making recommendations to the Board
on the appointment of the Auditors.
– Keeping the relationship with the Auditors under review,
including the terms of their engagement and fees,their
independence and expertise,resources and qualification.
– Monitoring the integrity of the Group’s financial statements.
– Reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee can be found
on the Company’s website or can be obtained from the
Company Secretary.
70 www.baesystems.com
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Corporate governance continued
70 www.baesystems.com
Activities
One of the Committee’s principal responsibilities is to monitor the
integrity of the Group’s financial statements and any significant
judgements that need to be made in their production.
A sound system of internal controls is essential for reliable financial
reporting and also for the effective management of the Group. In
assessing the quality of the control environment the Committee
received reports during the year from the Group’s Auditors,KPMG
Audit Plc,and the Group’s Internal Audit function on the work they
had undertaken in reviewing and auditing the control environment.
The Group has a well defined controls framework based on a set of
core processes that have been developed over a number of years.
This is documented in the Operational Framework. Twice during the
year the Committee reviewed the results of the Group’s Operational
Assurance Statements (OAS) process,through which senior
managers across the Group report on the quality of their
businesses’ implementation and compliance with the policies
mandated in the Operational Framework. The Committee also
reviewed the output from the OAS process that requires managers
to report on significant risks to the delivery of their business plans
and the status of plans to mitigate such risks.
As part of its review of the Group’s financial reporting,the
Committee reviews significant financial reporting judgements.
The areas in which such judgements are required change over
time,and to assist the Committee in understanding these it
reviewed with the Group’s Auditors their assessment of the
Group’s principal financial reporting and control risks. As well as
indicating where significant accounting judgements are required,
this risk assessment was also used to direct the audit work
undertaken by the Auditors.
To gain a greater awareness of the Group’s operations and,in
particular,to understand in more detail the implementation of
core control processes,the Committee has for a number of years
met with the management of different businesses. During 2008,
the Committee met with senior executives from the Group’s
Electronics & Integrated Solutions business based in Nashua,
New Hampshire and also with the management of the Insyte
business at its New Malden site near London.
Last year,the regulations in the UK concerning periodic financial
reporting for listed companies were revised. As a result of this
the Company was required to publish Interim Management
Statements in the periods between the publication of its full and
half-yearly reports. The Committee reviewed these statements
prior to their publication in May and October 2008.
To discharge its responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness
of the Group’s Internal Audit function,the Committee reviewed
the results of an evaluation of the function’s performance across
the Group. This covered different aspects of the function’s remit
and reported on work planning,access to skills and knowledge,
quality of reporting,implementation of audit recommendations
and its independence.
With regard to the Auditors,the Committee evaluated their
effectiveness and reviewed and agreed the fees they were paid
in respect of their audit work. In 2008 this formed part of a
wider review of external audit performance and effectiveness
undertaken by the Committee on a triennial basis. On the basis
of this review the Committee recommended to the Board that it
recommend that shareholders support the re-appointment of the
Auditors at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
Audit Committee Report
Michael Hartnall
Audit Committee
Chairman
Members
Michael Hartnall (Chairman)
Sir Peter Mason
Roberto Quarta
Governance
The Audit Committee was in place throughout 2008 and all its
members were independent in accordance with provision A.3.1
of the Combined Code.
Mr Hartnall has been chairman of the Committee since 2003.
He was formerly the finance director of a FTSE 100 company and
is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England
and Wales.
The Committee has asked that the Chief Executive,Group Finance
Director,Director Financial Control,Reporting and Treasury and the
Director of Internal Audit normally attend its meetings. However,
during the year,the Committee held individual meetings without
Group executives present,without the Director of Internal Audit
present and also with only the external auditors present.
The Committee met six times in 2008. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 71 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 71
– reviewed the Interim Management Statements issued by the
Company in May and October 2008;
– agreed the approach and scope of the audit work to be
undertaken by the Auditors;
– agreed the fees to be paid to the Auditors in respect of the
2008 audit;
– reviewed the fees paid to the Auditors in respect of non-audit
work undertaken during the year;
– received assurances from the Auditors regarding their
independence;
– undertook a comprehensive review of the Auditors’ performance,
including fee benchmarking,management performance
evaluation,client service review and future audit strategy;
– undertook an evaluation of the Group’s Internal Audit function;
– received a report from the Director of Internal Audit on the work
undertaken by the Internal Audit function;
– received a presentation on the Group’s tax affairs;
– reviewed the Group’s processes for disclosing information to the
Auditors and the statement concerning such disclosure in the
Annual Report; and
– reviewed the Committee’s terms of reference.
On behalf of the Audit Committee
Michael Hartnall Audit Committee Chairman
The Committee accepts that certain work of a non-audit nature is
best undertaken by the Auditors. The Committee reviews regularly
the amount and nature of non-audit work they perform and did so
in 2008. It believes that it is not appropriate to limit the level of
such work by reference to a set percentage of the audit work fee,
as this does not take into account important judgements that
need to be made concerning the nature of work undertaken.
However,the Committee has agreed the following rules with
regard to non-audit work undertaken by the Auditors:
– any non-audit work to be undertaken by the Auditors in excess
of £250,000 must be authorised by both the Chairman of the
Audit Committee and the Group Finance Director;
– no partner/director of the Auditor’s worldwide audit team shall
be employed by the Group within two years of the conclusion
of a relevant audit;
– no qualified member of the worldwide audit team at manager
level or below is to be employed by the Group within two years
of the conclusion of a relevant audit; and
– no partner/director of the Auditors not associated with the
audit is to be employed by the Group without the approval
of the Group Finance Director and the Chairman of the
Audit Committee.
During the year the committee chaired by Lord Woolf published its
report on the Group’s ethical policies and processes. One of the
recommendations contained in the report was that the Corporate
Responsibility and Audit committees should hold at least one joint
meeting a year to decide on the preparation of the annual internal
audit programme. The first such meeting was held last November,
at which the Director of Internal Audit reported to the two
committees on the work that was being undertaken reviewing the
recommendation in the Woolf Report concerning ethical business
conduct assurance activity. At the meeting,the committees agreed
the approach that would be taken in agreeing the annual
programme of activity to be undertaken by Internal Audit.
Summary of work undertaken by the Audit Committee in the last
12 months:
– reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls and
the disclosures made in the Annual Report on this matter;
– reviewed the output from the Group-wide process used to
identify,evaluate and mitigate risk;
– received a report from the Auditors on their review of the
effectiveness of controls across the Group;
– reviewed half-yearly risk assessments detailing major financial
and non-financial risks and the status of actions identified to
mitigate such risks;
– reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s helpline procedures in
respect of the reporting of possible accounting,financial control
and other financial irregularities;
– reviewed the financial statements in the 2007 and 2008 Annual
Report and the 2008 Half-Yearly Report,and received a report
from the Auditors on the statements;
– reviewed the basis for preparing the Group accounts on a going
concern basis,and strengthened the process for reviewing the
analysis supporting the going concern judgement and disclosures
in the financial statements; DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Corporate governance continued
72 www.baesystems.com
Activities
During 2008 the Corporate Responsibility Committee evolved
further its role in providing oversight and strategic direction to
social,ethical and environmental matters within BAE Systems.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive
directors and as such are able to exercise independent oversight
and provide advice based on the experience and knowledge of
its members. The primary focus of the Committee in 2008 was
providing review and oversight of the Group’s performance against
its corporate responsibility objectives.
When the Woolf Committee issued its report following its review
of the Company’s ethics policies and processes it recognised the
value of the Committee’s governance structure. The Woolf Report
recommended that the Corporate Responsibility Committee should
have a key role in providing oversight and reporting on standards
of ethical business conduct and reputational risk,and in
performing this duty its role would be analogous to that of the
Group’s Audit Committee. To assist the Committee in undertaking
the role recommended by Woolf,we agreed that the Committee
should engage an external party to undertake assurance work –
similar in some ways to the role of the Group’s Auditors and its
relationship with the Audit Committee. The Committee ran the
process for the selection of an assurance provider and approved
the appointment of Deloitte to undertake this role.
Deloitte will provide assurance over aspects of the programme
for the implementation of the recommendations in the Woolf
Report and assurance over selected subject matter in the
separate 2008 Corporate Responsibility Report to be published
by the Group. In managing the relationship with Deloitte we will
be introducing similar practices to those adopted by the Audit
Committee to manage its relationship with the Group’s Auditors.
This will include agreeing on a regular basis the annual assurance
strategy,the scope of work and the fee payable for this. In
addition,the Committee will agree their terms of engagement
and also review their independence and effectiveness.
The Woolf Committee recommended that the Group adopt a Global
Code of Conduct. The Corporate Responsibility Committee was
closely involved in overseeing the production of the Code. The
Global Code of Conduct was launched across the Group at the
beginning of 2009 and one of the Committee’s priorities for
this year will be to monitor the quality of the roll-out process
that is aimed at ensuring that a common language and set
of expectations regarding business conduct are embedded
throughout the Group.
The Committee met with Ian King,the Group’s Chief Executive,to
discuss priorities in this area. We agreed with his view that ethics,
health and safety and diversity should be the prime focus for the
Group and therefore for the Committee’s activities. However,the
Committee will continue to monitor the Group’s performance in
other important corporate responsibility areas,such as the
environment and our social and community responsibilities.
During 2008,the Committee continued its activity in overseeing
and monitoring the Group’s performance in protecting the health
and safety of our employees,and everyone working at or near our
sites. This included looking at how health and safety is managed
and led throughout the Group,the development of standards and
the indicators used to monitor performance. To assist members
of the Committee in their understanding of the management
of health and safety,and other corporate responsibility matters,
the Committee will be holding certain of its future meetings at
Corporate Responsibility
Committee Report
Andy Inglis
Corporate Responsibility
Committee Chairman
Members
Andy Inglis (Chairman)
Sir Nigel Rudd
Ravi Uppal
Mr Weinberg was a member of the Committee and its Chairman
for the period up to 7 May 2008. Mr Inglis was appointed
Chairman of the Committee with effect from that date.
Mr Carroll stood down from the Committee on 7 May 2008 and
Mr Uppal joined the Committee with effect from that date.
Responsibilities
– Assisting the Board in overseeing the development of strategy
and policy on social,environmental and ethical matters.
– Monitoring and reviewing the Group’s performance in
managing social,environmental,ethical and reputational risk.
– Overseeing and supporting key stakeholder engagement on
social,environmental and ethical issues.
The full terms of reference of the Corporate Responsibility
Committee can be found on the Company’s website or can
be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Governance
The Corporate Responsibility Committee was in place throughout
2008 and all its members were independent in accordance with
provision A.3.1 of the Combined Code.
During the year,the Nominations Committee reviewed the
membership of the Committee and nominated Mr Uppal as
a member and nominated Mr Inglis to chair the Committee
following Mr Weinberg’s retirement from the Board.
The Committee has asked that the Chief Executive,Group General
Counsel,Group Human Resources Director,Managing Director
Corporate Responsibility and the Director of Internal Audit
normally attend its meetings.
The Committee met five times in 2008. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 73
Group sites. The first such meeting was held in 2008,when the
Committee visited the Barrow-in-Furness Submarine Solutions site.
Since its formation four years ago,the Committee has had
access to the audit and assurance services provided by the
Group’s Internal Audit function,and that function will continue
to provide valuable services to the Committee that complement
the independent assurance activities that Deloitte will provide.
The Director of Internal Audit attends all of the Committee’s
meetings and presents the findings from audits involving areas
covered by its terms of reference. He also provides details of the
output from the Group’s Operational Assurance Statement process
that provides assurance as to compliance with the Group’s core
control polices. In his report on the activity of the Audit Committee
(see page 70),Michael Hartnall has reported on the joint meeting
held between the Audit and Corporate Responsibility committees
last year at which we agreed the approach we will take in approving
the annual programme of work to be undertaken by the Internal
Audit function. We have agreed that the committees should hold
two joint meetings in 2009 to ensure that audit and assurance
work is co-ordinated effectively.
To be effective the Committee needs be aware of what the key
risks are to the value of the Group. Therefore,during the year
the Committee regularly reviewed the Non-Financial Risk register
that is used by the Executive Committee to identify and manage
reputational and non-financial risks and the impact they could
have on the Group’s value and reputation. This risk analysis is
used to help set the Committee’s priorities.
It is important that executive remuneration reflects not just basic
financial performance but performance in areas such as those
that are within the remit of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
To achieve this,the Committee has agreed that it will be consulted
by the Remuneration Committee when agreeing the non-financial
objectives for the executive directors’ bonus scheme. In 2008 the
Committee recommended objectives relating to ethics,and health
and safety. These were agreed by the Remuneration Committee
and the Committee will oversee performance against these during
2009 and,in line with the process adopted with regard to the
2008 objectives,will make a recommendation as to the level
of achievement against them.
Summary of work undertaken by the Corporate Responsibility
Committee in the last 12 months:
– recommended to the Remuneration Committee corporate
responsibility-related leadership objectives for the executive
directors’ annual bonus plan;
– reviewed the output from the Non-Financial Risk process that
identifies and seeks to mitigate significant non-financial and
reputational risks that could impact the Group;
– reviewed the Group’s health and safety performance;
– reviewed the operation of the Ethics Helpline and the nature
of the matters reported;
– agreed the corporate responsibility sections in the 2007 and
2008 Annual Reports and the separate Corporate Responsibility
Reviews for those years;
– considered the recommendations from the Woolf Committee
as they relate to the Committee;
– reviewed the plans for the implementation of the
recommendations in the Woolf Report;
– agreed the process for the creation of the Global Code of
Conduct and agreed the final draft of the Code;
– received reports on the plans for the roll-out of the Global Code
of Conduct across the Group;
– met with the Group’s then two Chief Operating Officers and
reviewed with them the management of health and safety
across the Group;
– oversaw the search for a third-party provider of corporate
responsibility assurance services and approved the appointment
of Deloitte to perform this role;
– received reports from the Director of Internal Audit on corporate
responsibility-related work undertaken by the Group’s Internal
Audit function in 2008;
– held a joint meeting with the Audit Committee to agree the
approach to be taken with regard to agreeing the annual
programme of work to be undertaken by the Internal Audit
function; and
– reviewed the Committee’s terms of reference.
On behalf of the Corporate Responsibility Committee
Andy Inglis Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Corporate governance continued
74 www.baesystems.com 74 www.baesystems.com
Activities
In the first half of 2008,the Committee’s main focus was on
managing the search for a new Chief Executive to succeed Mike
Turner who retired at the end of August 2008. The search process
was initiated towards the end of 2007 and began with the
Committee considering the succession plans that the Committee
has assisted in developing over a number of years. Under the
heading of Chief Executive,these plans identified Ian King in the
‘Ready Now’ category. However,recognising the time available in
which to conduct a search and the vital importance of this particular
appointment,the Committee agreed that it should engage search
consultants to review suitable candidates in the external global
market. Egon Zehnder International were selected by the Committee
to conduct this search,and all directors were consulted by them and
the Chairman as part of the search process. Having completed the
process,the Committee nominated Ian King for appointment to the
position of Chief Executive with effect from 1 September 2008.
The Committee was also active in 2008 in the appointment of
new non-executive directors. The Zygos Partnership was engaged
to assist the Committee in searching for suitable candidates for
nomination. The search resulted in Carl Symon and Ravi Uppal
being nominated and duly appointed to the Board. These
individuals broaden the global business experience available
to the Board.
In past years the Nominations Committee has reported on the
succession planning processes that have been introduced across
the Group in recent years. The management resource planning
and development processes that are the basis of these plans
are reviewed annually by the Committee. Last year the Committee
reviewed the output from the succession and development process
looking at individual succession plans and analysing the overall
strength of the management resource,the development themes
that apply to the global senior management cadre and how these
are being addressed.
Finally,during 2008 the Nominations Committee reviewed
the membership of Board committees following changes to the
membership of the Board. Andy Inglis was nominated to succeed
Peter Weinberg as chairman of the Corporate Responsibility
Committee and changes were recommended to the membership
of certain committees so as to ensure that full use was made of
the time and expertise offered by our non-executive directors.
On behalf of the Nominations Committee
Dick Olver Nominations Committee Chairman
Nominations Committee Report
Dick Olver
Nominations
Committee Chairman
Responsibilities
– Reviewing regularly the structure,size and composition of
the Board and making recommendations to the Board on
any desired changes.
– Identifying and nominating for the Board’s approval suitable
candidates to fill all vacancies for non-executive and,with
the assistance of the Chief Executive,executive directors.
– Planning for the orderly succession of new directors to
the Board.
– Recommending to the Board the membership and
chairmanship of the Audit,Corporate Responsibility
and Remuneration committees.
The full terms of reference of the Nominations Committee can
be found on the Company’s website or can be obtained from
the Company Secretary.
Members
Dick Olver (Chairman)
Phil Carroll
Sir Peter Mason
Governance
The Nominations Committee was in place throughout 2008. It is
chaired by the Chairman of the Company. Whilst he is not deemed
to be independent,the other two members of the Committee are
independent non-executive directors in accordance with provision
A.3.1 of the Combined Code.
When dealing with any matters concerning the Chairmanship of
the Board,the Chairman of the Committee will absent himself
from meetings as required and Sir Peter Mason,the Board’s
Senior Independent Director,will take the chair.
The Committee normally asks the Chief Executive and Group HR
Director to attend its meetings. During the year,the Committee
did meet without Group executives present.
The Committee met six times in 2008. Governance
The Committee is chaired by Sir Nigel Rudd and all of its members
are independent non-executive directors. The Company’s Chairman
and Chief Executive attend Committee meetings by invitation only.
They do not attend where their individual remuneration is discussed
and no director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
In 2008 the Committee met seven times and details of
attendance at these meetings are provided in the Corporate
Governance Report on page 94.
The Committee appointed Kepler Associates as its Independent
Adviser in 2007 to provide advice to the Committee and its
individual members on all aspects of the Committee’s remit.
Kepler Associates will not undertake any work for the Company
whilst they are retained as the Committee’s Independent Adviser.
Representatives from Kepler Associates have attended each of
the Committee meetings during 2008,except the June meeting
in the US,and will be in attendance at all meetings unless
specifically requested otherwise by the Committee.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 75
Remuneration Committee Report
Sir Nigel Rudd
Remuneration
Committee
Chairman
Members
Sir Nigel Rudd (Chairman)
Roberto Quarta
Carl Symon
During the year,Peter Weinberg served as a member of the
Remuneration Committee until his retirement from the Board
on 7 May 2008. Sir Peter Mason also served as a Committee
member for part of 2008.
Remuneration report
The Board has delegated authority to the
Remuneration Committee for remuneration
policy and determining the specific
packages for the Chairman and executive
directors,and has delegated authority
to the Non-Executive Directors’ Fees
Committee to agree fees payable to
the non-executive directors.
Responsibilities
– Agreeing a policy for the remuneration of the Chairman,
executive directors,members of the Executive Committee,
the Company Secretary and other senior executives.
– Within the agreed policy,determining individual remuneration
packages for the Chairman and executive directors.
– Agreeing the policy on terms and conditions to be included
in service agreements for the Chairman,executive directors,
members of the Executive Committee,the Company Secretary
and other senior executives,including termination payments
and compensation commitments,where applicable.
– Approving any employee share-based incentive schemes and
any performance conditions to be used for such schemes.
– Determining any share scheme performance targets.
The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee,
which conform with the requirements of the Combined Code,
can be found on the Company’s website or can be obtained
from the Company Secretary.
The reports from both these Committees are incorporated into this
Remuneration report,together with a report on the remuneration or
fees paid to directors and the policy underpinning this.
The Remuneration report is structured as follows:
– Remuneration Committee report page 75
– Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee report page 76
– Remuneration reporting:
– Remuneration strategy,policy and service
contracts for executive directors pages 77 to 86
– Chairman’s appointment,term and fees page 86
– Non-executive directors’ appointment,
term and fees page 86
– Tabular information on directors’ shareholdings,
share-based incentives,emoluments
and pensions pages 87 to 93 During the year the Committee also received material assistance
and advice on remuneration policy from the Group’s Human
Resources Director,Alastair Imrie,and the Human Resources
Director,Group Remuneration and Benefits,Graham Middleton.
Dick Olver,Chairman,Mike Turner (prior to his retirement as Chief
Executive at the end of August 2008),and Ian King (since his
appointment as Chief Executive from 1 September 2008) also
provided advice that was of material assistance to the Committee.
Legal advice to the Committee has been provided by Linklaters
and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer,who are both appointed by
the Company,and who also provided services to the Company
during the year. The Committee is satisfied that the services
provided to it by these firms were of a technical nature and did
not create any conflict of interest. If a conflict of interest were to
arise in the future,the Committee would appoint separate legal
advisers from those used by the Company.
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC),who are appointed by the
Company and also provided services to the Company during
the year,provided detailed information on market trends and
the competitive positioning of packages. Hewitt New Bridge
Street,who are appointed by the Committee,provided advice
on the total shareholder return figures for assessing the
performance condition under the Performance Share Plan.
Activities
In discharging its responsibilities,the Committee has,during the
year,reviewed the Company’s reward strategy and agreed the:
– performance targets for the year and progress against
those targets;
– operation of the long-term incentive plans and policy for executive
share scheme grants including the level of individual grants and
performance conditions;
– policy for the operation of the all-employee share schemes;
– award of annual incentives based on the prior year’s performance;
– package for the new Chief Executive appointed during the year;
– discretionary elements of the executive share plans;
– payout on the special incentive awarded to Mike Turner which
vested on his retirement at the end of August 2008; and
– review of the pensionability of annual incentives for US executives.
In addition,the Committee has:
– reviewed the Remuneration report; and
– consulted with major shareholders over aspects of
remuneration policy.
The Company’s remuneration strategy,policy and details of
executive remuneration are set out on pages 77 to 93 of this
Remuneration report.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee
Sir Nigel Rudd Remuneration Committee Chairman
76 www.baesystems.com
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Remuneration report continued
76 www.baesystems.com
Non-Executive Directors’ Fees
Committee Report
Members
Dick Olver (Chairman)
Philip Bramwell
Walt Havenstein
Ian King
During the year Mike Turner served as a member of the Non-
Executive Directors’ Fees Committee until his retirement at
the end of August 2008.
Responsibilities
– Reviewing the fees payable to non-executive directors
(excluding the Chairman) and making changes to such
fees as deemed appropriate.
Governance
The Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee has delegated
authority from the Board to agree fees payable to non-executive
directors on its behalf.
Activities
The Board has approved the following guidelines to be used
by the Committee when discharging its responsibilities:
– fees shall be sufficient to attract and retain individuals with the
necessary skills,experience and knowledge required to ensure
that the Board is able to discharge its duties effectively;
– in setting fees the Committee shall have regard to the amount of
time individual non-executive directors are required to devote to
their duties and also the scale and complexity and international
nature of the business and the responsibility involved;
– fees payable to non-executive directors shall be paid in cash and
shall not be performance-related; and
– non-executive directors shall not participate in the Company’s
share-based incentive schemes or pension scheme.
The Committee meets each year to consider the fees paid
to the non-executive directors. Having first reviewed the time
commitments expected of non-executive directors and the
market competitive positioning of existing fee levels,the
Committee agreed the changes detailed on page 86.
On behalf of the Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee
Dick Olver Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee Chairman Purpose
Recognise market value of role and individual’s skills,experience and performance
To drive and reward annual performance of individuals,teams and the Company on both financial
and non-financial metrics,including behaviours
Directly align short-term and long-term reward through compulsory deferral of annual incentive into
shares,and drive and reward delivery of sustained long-term EPS performance through co-investment
aligned to interests of shareholders
Drive and reward delivery of sustained long-term EPS and Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance
aligned to interests of shareholders
Provide competitive retirement benefits which reward long-term performance through seniority,
and loyalty through long service
Provide competitive cost effective benefits package through leveraging the Company’s size and scale
Reward all employees globally for Group performance,encouraging employee share ownership aligned
to interests of shareholders
Package
Base salary
Annual Incentive
Share Matching Plan
Performance Share Plan
Pension provision
Other benefits
Global all-employee
incentive plan
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 77 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 77
Remuneration strategy and policy for executive directors
Remuneration strategy and 2008 review
The Committee undertook a major review of the remuneration
strategy in the second half of 2007 and as a result made a
number of changes for 2008 which:
– brought the remuneration packages into line with market
competitive levels;
– simplified the arrangements to improve line-of-sight between
performance and reward;
– shifted the focus towards long-term sustainable growth
in earnings per share (EPS);
– reinforced the key aspects of the Group’s Corporate
Responsibility agenda;
– directly aligned short-term and long-term reward through
compulsory deferral of part of the annual incentive into the
Share Matching Plan for all executive directors; and
– increased the gearing to drive for high performance as most
of the improvement in the package is only delivered for
achieving more stretching targets.
This review was set out in detail in last year’s report. Following
the annual review in November 2008,the Committee concluded
that the current remuneration strategy remains appropriate,and
intends to continue with the executive remuneration policy as
detailed in this report in 2009 and subsequent years for executive
directors,and this policy will be flowed down to the most senior
executives within the Group globally (approximately 280) to create
a consistent global approach to reward. The principles of the
remuneration strategy are applied consistently across the
Group below this level,taking account of seniority and local
market practice.
The Committee will continue to consult on material changes with
principal shareholders.
Summarised below is the Company’s remuneration strategy and
policy for executive directors,together with the individual elements
of the package and their purpose.
This section of the report explains the Company’s remuneration strategy and policy,the individual components
of executive directors’ remuneration and details of their service contracts as required by legislation.
Strategy
To provide a remuneration package that:
– helps to attract,retain and motivate
– is aligned to shareholders’ interests
– is competitive against the appropriate market
– encourages and supports a high-performance culture
– is fair and transparent
– can be applied consistently throughout the Group
Policy
– Set base salary at around median of the relevant market
competitive level
– Reward stretching superior performance with upper quartile
reward
– Balance between:
– short-term and long-term reward
– fixed and variable reward
– with balance becoming more long-term and more highly
geared with seniority
– Directly align short-term and long-term reward through
compulsory deferral of annual incentive into the
Share Matching Plan
– Competitive package of benefits For the US Chief Operating Officer,regression analysis was used
on US aerospace,defence and general industry sector data to
produce appropriate market figures consistent with the size and
scale of the US business,adjusting where necessary to reflect
the extra responsibility for his plc board role.
The base salary,total cash reward (base salary plus annual
incentive),total direct reward (total cash reward plus long-term
incentives) and total reward (total direct reward plus pension) were
analysed at the median and upper quartile for the relevant posts
in the comparator group companies. This gives the Committee
a view on the competitiveness of the individual elements of the
package as well as the package as a whole.
The Committee also reviewed market trends around the individual
elements of remuneration to ensure that the structure of the
package stays in line with market practice. The remuneration
structure overall also takes account of the performance of the
individual,the Company as a whole and the pay and conditions
of Group employees.
Base salary
As a result of the above review and,having taken account of the
competitive pay positioning,performance and general market
trends,the Committee has increased the annual base salaries
of executive directors with effect from 1 January 2009 as follows:
Appointment of new Chief Executive
Prior to the annual review of remuneration strategy,the Company
announced on 27 June 2008 the appointment of Ian King,previously
Chief Operating Officer – UK/RoW,as Chief Executive with effect
from 1 September 2008. The Committee agreed a package for
Ian King which it considered to be competitive and appropriate to
incentivise him to deliver the next phase of the Company’s strategy.
This comprised annual base salary of £850,000,maximum annual
incentive opportunity for 2008 of 225% of base salary (pro-rated for
the period from appointment) and total award of Performance Shares
in 2008 of 250% of base salary.
The following sections describe in more detail the subsequent
2008 review and the specific arrangements for executive directors.
Approach to the 2008 remuneration review
The 2008 review not only considered the Company’s executive
remuneration packages against the market but also the
Company’s performance to date and its corporate strategy
for the next five years.
Information on the market for comparable management positions
was provided by PwC so that the Committee could form a view as
to where to position the various elements of the package relative
to comparable companies.
The methodology used was to construct appropriate comparator
groups for the individual positions,taking account of company
size,scale of operations and breadth of role. The comparator
group for the UK executive directors comprised the FTSE 50
companies (excluding financial services and retail) with market
capitalisation nearest to that of BAE Systems. The Committee
believes that using market capitalisation creates alignment
between the value placed on the Company and the value placed
on the executives who manage it. The six largest companies were
also excluded as were several others to arrive at a comparator
group of 23 companies (11 larger and 12 smaller) which the
Committee believed appropriate for benchmarking UK executive
directors’ packages.
78 www.baesystems.com
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Remuneration report continued
78 www.baesystems.com
Value at 31 December 2008 of £100 investment
BAE Systems
FTSE 100
Aerospace and defence comparator group
UK executive director pay review comparator group
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
£0
£100
£150
£50
£200
£250
£300
£0
£50
£100
£150
£200
£250
£300
£350
31 Dec 08 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 03
Value at 31 December 2008 of £100 investment
at 31 December 2003
BAE Systems FTSE 100
The graph above shows the value shareholders have achieved by their investment in
BAE Systems over recent years as compared to (i) the FTSE 100 Index; (ii) the companies
forming the sectoral peer group for the BAE Systems Performance Share Plan; and (iii)
the companies forming the comparator group for the 2008 executive pay review. The
graph depicts the value for BAE Systems and the comparators at the end of 2008 of
a single £100 investment made at the beginning of each of the last five years.
This graph,which has been produced in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7A
to the Companies Act 1985,shows the value by 31 December 2008,on a total shareholder
return basis,of £100 invested in BAE Systems on 31 December 2003 compared with the
value of £100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index. The other points plotted are the values at
intervening financial year ends. The FTSE 100 is considered to be an appropriate comparator
for this purpose as it is a broad equity market index. As BAE Systems is a constituent member
of the FTSE 100,it was deemed to be the most appropriate general UK equity index.
Base salary Base salary
at 31 December at 1 January Percentage
Executive director 2008 2009 increase
Ian King
1
Chief Executive £850,000 £900,000 5.9%
George Rose
Group Finance Director £592,500 £622,500 5.1%
Walt Havenstein
Chief Operating Officer – US $900,000 $960,000 6.7%
1 Ian King was an executive director at the beginning of 2008 in the role of Chief
Operating Officer – UK/RoW on an annual base salary of £592,500,and was
promoted to Chief Executive with effect from 1 September 2008. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 79 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 79
Incentives
The Group strategy is set out on page 10 along with the Group
Strategic Framework. This explains how the Group strategy is
delivered through the Group Strategic Objectives,which apply
across all businesses and are championed by the Executive
Committee,and the Business Portfolio Actions,which apply to
the businesses individually or jointly and are championed by the
relevant Executive Committee members. Both are underpinned by
the Integrated Business Plan (IBP) which sets out the individual
businesses’ plans for the next five years in terms of strategy,
actions and performance,making sure they are aligned to
collectively deliver the Group strategy.
Each year,the Board agrees the Executive Committee’s top ten
objectives which are those key to delivering the Group’s strategy.
These are set out on page 9 and are used as the basis to set the
individual objectives for the executive directors which are agreed
by the Chairman,Dick Olver and the Committee. These then flow
down to members of the Executive Committee and the senior
leadership team to ensure that all businesses within the Group
are aligned with the overall Group strategy.
The remuneration strategy incentivises and rewards executives to
deliver their contribution to the achievement of the Group strategy
through the combination of short-term incentives targeted at
business performance,Group performance,personal performance
and leadership behaviours,and long-term incentives targeted
at Group performance. To directly align short-term and long-term
reward,executive directors will be required to invest at least one-
third of their net 2009 annual incentive into the Share Matching
Plan (SMP) when the annual incentive is paid in 2010. Further
investment can be made on a voluntary basis up to a maximum
investment of half their net annual incentive.
Annual Incentive Plan
The annual incentives for 2009 continue to focus on a combination
of in-year financial performance and longer-term performance
and risk management (both business risk and reputation risk).
Two-thirds is driven off in-year financial performance and one-third
based on driving performance and improvement in ethics and safety
(reinforcing the importance of key aspects of the Group’s Corporate
Responsibility agenda) combined with the other objectives
supporting the Group’s strategy.
To remain competitive,the 2009 maximum annual incentive
opportunity for the Group Finance Director increases from 125%
to 150% of base salary but one-third will be compulsorily invested
into the SMP (compared to one-quarter of the 2008 annual
incentive). Table (i) below summarises the revised annual
incentive structure and levels for the executive directors.
The financial targets are derived from the IBP and are based on
earnings and cash targets as these are seen as the key indicators
of both short-term and long-term financial performance and value
creation,and are supported by the Company’s major shareholders.
At Group level,EPS is used whereas EBITA
2
is used to measure
earnings performance at a business level. Previously cash targets
have been based on net cash/debt at the year end. For 2009,
to incentivise improved phasing of cash generation throughout the
year,a combination of year end and average net cash/debt will be
used. As last year,the payout for achieving on-target performance
against the in-year financial targets remains at 40% of maximum.
The Committee believes that the annual incentive targets for the
executive directors are stretching but achievable. The structure
of the 2009 annual incentive plan for executive directors is
summarised in table (ii) below.
Table (i) – Maximum annual incentive as percentage of salary
Ian King Walt Havenstein George Rose
2009 2008
1
2009 2008 2009 2008
CEO CEO COO – UK/RoW US COO Group Finance Director
In-year financial performance 150% 150% 83% 150% 150% 100% 83%
Ethics and safety 28.5% 27% 15% 28.5% 27% 19.5% 15%
Other objectives supporting the Group strategy 46.5% 48% 27% 46.5% 48% 30.5% 27%
Total 225% 225% 125% 225% 225% 150% 125%
Annual incentive compulsorily invested into SMP 75% 75% 31.25% 75% 75% 50% 31.25%
Maximum bonus payable in cash 150% 150% 93.75% 150% 150% 100% 93.75%
1 The 2008 annual incentive for Ian King will be pro-rated for his periods as Chief Executive (CEO) and Chief Operating Officer (COO) – UK/RoW.
Table (ii) – Annual incentive as a percentage of base salary for 2009
Ian King Walt Havenstein George Rose
Base Stretch Base Stretch Base Stretch
Measure target target target target target target
Group EPS 30% 75% 10% 25% 20% 50%
Group cash 30% 75% 10% 25% 20% 50%
Business EBITA
2
– – 20% 50% – –
Business cash – – 20% 50% – –
Ethics and safety Up to 28.5% Up to 28.5% Up to 19.5%
Other objectives supporting the Group’s strategy Up to 46.5% Up to 46.5% Up to 30.5%
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,finance costs and taxation expense.
If performance is between the base and stretch targets,the bonus is pro-rated on a straight-line basis. Proportion of incentive package (%)
In-year measures Long-term EPS Relative TSR Share price
0 20 40 60 80 100
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
Ian King (CEO)
Walt Havenstein (US COO)
George Rose (Group Finance Director)
Long-Term Incentive Plans (LTIPs)
The Company operates two LTIPs (having ceased awards of share
options in 2008) – the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and the Share
Matching Plan (SMP). At the May 2008 AGM,shareholders approved:
– an increase in the maximum annual award under the PSP to four
times base salary;
– half the PSP awards to use a performance condition based on
internal metrics (EPS for 2008),with the remaining half to continue
to use Total Shareholder Return (TSR); and
– an improvement in the SMP match to 2:1 for improved performance.
Full details of the PSP and SMP are contained on pages 82 and 83.
To maintain a competitive package,the 2009 PSP awards for the
Group Finance Director will be 250% of base salary so that all
three executive directors will have the same level of awards in 2009.
Proportion of package value delivered through fixed and
performance-related reward
The following chart re-expresses this as a proportion of the
overall package and shows that,for the Group Finance Director,
more than half the package is performance-related at on-target
performance rising to over three quarters at stretch performance.
For the Chief Executive and US Chief Operating Officer,these
figures are even higher at two-thirds at on-target performance and
85% at stretch performance. It also demonstrates the importance
of the SMP, which is the largest driver of gearing in the package
and delivers a similar value to the PSP at stretch performance.
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
Proportion of incentive package (%)
Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP
Ian King (CEO)
Walt Havenstein (US COO)
George Rose (Group Finance Director)
0 20 40 60 80 100
80 www.baesystems.com
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Remuneration report continued
80 www.baesystems.com
Total value of incentives
The table below shows the incentive package for executive directors
for 2009.
Ian King
Incentives as a and
percentage of base salary Walt Havenstein George Rose
Annual Incentive Plan
– On-target 110% 73%
– Maximum 225% 150%
Share Matching Plan
– Match 2:1
– Compulsory deferral 1/3
PSP award
– TSR 125%
– EPS 125%
Total 250%
Value of package
The chart below shows the total value of the package for the three
executive directors at both on-target and stretch performance.
Performance drivers of incentive package
The following chart shows the drivers of performance in the
incentive package and demonstrates that long-term EPS is the
dominant driver of performance reward.
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
Ian King (CEO)
Walt Havenstein (US COO)
George Rose (Group Finance Director)
Value of incentive package (£’000)
Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP
0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000
Pension provision
Following the changes made recently in the UK in response to
pensions simplification legislation (as reported in 2006),no
further changes to the pension arrangements for UK executive
directors are required.
As reported last year,following the increases in US annual incentive
levels,the Committee undertook a review of pensionability of
annual incentives for US executives. Given the changes made
in 2006 to increase the pay averaging period for existing US
executives to ten years by 2015,the Committee decided that
annual incentives should continue to be pensionable in line
with normal US practice but to limit the maximum pensionability
to 150% of base salary from 2008.
Analysis of package BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 81 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 81
Performance in 2008
The structure of the 2008 Annual Incentive Plan was set out
in last year’s Remuneration report and summarised below.
Financial performance
2008 was another very successful year,building on the strong
performance of recent years. Stretch performance targets on
EPS,profit and cash were each achieved at the plc,UK/RoW
and BAE Systems,Inc. levels. At the individual business level,
the major businesses achieved stretch on most but not all their
targets with notable performances in Land & Armaments and
Military Air Solutions. Three of the smaller businesses did not
meet their targets on one or other of the profit and cash elements.
Non-financial performance
The Executive Committee’s Top Ten objectives for 2008 and the
assessment of performance against these are set out on page7,
whilst page 49 provides more detailed information on Objective
10,which relates to the Corporate Responsibility agenda,and
the performance against this.
Significant progress was made against the ethics objective,
including developing the Global Code of Conduct and rolling
this out to all employees from January 2009,and the Group is
on plan with its programme to implement the Woolf Committee
recommendations. The Committee awarded the full stretch payout
to the executive directors in respect of that part of the annual
incentive driven off ethics performance.
On safety,all major operational sites (other than those acquired
during the year) achieved Level 3 against the five-level Safety
Maturity Matrix and have submitted plans to achieve Level 5 by
the end of 2011. Senior Leaders undertook formal training and
completed safety audits. Regrettably,there were five employee
fatalities during the year,two on company sites and three
deployed on active service with the US armed forces. The gap
between Group performance and external benchmarks on days
lost to work-related injuries was closed by 9% during the year,
falling short of the target of 10%. The Committee awarded only
one-third of the potential payout on that part of the annual
incentive driven off safety performance.
On other objectives supporting the Group Strategy,significant
progress was made against all the eight remaining Top Ten
objectives and the Committee agreed an overall assessment of
7 out of 8. The Committee also reviewed the individual directors’
overall performance and their behavioural performance.
Accordingly,the Committee determined the payout under the 2008
Annual Incentive Plan as follows:
2008 annual Mike Ian Walt George
incentive payout Turner King Havenstein Rose
% of stretch 93.7% 94.7% 92.7% 93.9%
% of base salary 140.5% 150.0% 208.5% 117.3%
Amount £1,405,000 £1,275,000 $1,876,500 £695,200
In addition:
– The real growth in EPS over the three years to 2008 exceeded
5% pa so that the awards of share options granted in 2006 vest
in full.
– The Company’s TSR for awards of shares made in June 2005
under the Performance Share Plan exceeded the upper quintile
position when compared against the comparator group of 18
other defence and aerospace companies. The Committee has
satisfied itself that there has been a sustainable improvement
in the underlying performance of the Group over the three-year
performance period and so this award has vested in full.
– The TSR for the PSP award made in December 2005 fell just
short of the upper quintile position and accordingly 97.1% of
the award vested.
The Committee also determined that the performance conditions
attached to the special incentive awarded to Mike Turner in
October 2007,which related to continuing the successful
implementation of the Company’s business strategy,satisfaction
of leadership objectives set by the Committee,achieving an
orderly handover of key external relationships,and facilitating an
orderly succession to the Chief Executive role,had been met in
full. Accordingly the whole of the award vested. This comprised
an award of 231,618 shares and a cash payment of £1,181,250.
Half the shares and cash were released on his retirement on
1 September 2008 with the remaining half due to be released
a year later. The share award is included in Table B on page 91
and the cash award is included in Table C on page 92.
Annual incentive as a percentage
of base salary for 2008 Mike Turner Ian King
2
Walt Havenstein George Rose
Base Stretch Base Stretch Base Stretch Base Stretch
Measure target target target target target target target target
Group EPS 20% 50% 15.5% 38.8% 15% 37.5% 16.6% 41.5%
Group cash 20% 50% 15.5% 38.8% 15% 37.5% 16.6% 41.5%
Business EBITA
1
– – 5.5% 13.8% 15% 37.5% – –
Business cash – – 5.5% 13.8% 15% 37.5% – –
Ethics and safety Up to 18% Up to 19% Up to 27% Up to 15%
Other objectives supporting
the Group’s strategy Up to 32% Up to 34% Up to 48% Up to 27%
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,finance costs and taxation expense.
2 Ian King’s figures represent the total arising from pro-rating his figures for his periods as Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officer – UK/RoW. Plan provisions
Performance conditions for grants of awards to be made under the Performance Share Plan and the Share Matching Plan in 2009
are detailed below. Performance conditions for grants of awards made prior to 2009 are detailed on pages 88 and 89.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Key features for PSP awards in 2009:
– half the PSP award will be based on a Total Shareholder Return performance condition (PSP
TSR
) and the other half on an Earnings
per Share (PSP
EPS
) performance condition;
– length of period for performance condition: three years with any shares vesting paid out in three equal tranches on vesting at the end
of years three,four and five; and
– shares under award attract dividends prior to vesting.
The graph below summarises the current position on the
TSR element for outstanding awards under the PSP as at
31 December 2008. The coloured box shows the range of
TSR required for 25% vesting to full vesting,and the square
shows BAE Systems’ TSR.
82 www.baesystems.com
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Remuneration report continued
Summary of Long-Term Incentive Plans
Performance condition – PSP
EPS
– Proportion of the award capable of exercise: determined by the
rate of annual actual EPS growth over the three-year performance
period,with nil vesting at annual actual EPS growth of 5% or
less and 100% vesting at 11% growth as set out below:
– Rationale for performance measure: major investors consider
EPS to be a key indicator of long-term financial performance and
value creation.
50% of award based on TSR
growth relative to a sectoral comparator
groupofcompaniesover the three-year
performance period,subject to a secondary
financial measure
PSP
award
50% of award based on actual
annual EPS growth over the
three-year performance period
PSP award
paid in shares
(amount varying
according to
performance
achieved)
One-third available immediately
at the end of year three
The second third available
at the end of year four
The final
third available
at the end of
year five
Year
3
Year
4
Year
6
Year
5
Year
7
Year
1
Year
2
Year
3
How the PSP operates
0
25
50
75
100
11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
% of total
award vesting
Annual actual EPS growth (%)
Performance condition – PSP
EPS
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
8 Sep 08 26 Mar 08 30 Mar 07 12 Apr 06
64% vesting 89% vesting 85% vesting 85% vesting
Performance of outstanding PSP
TSR
awards
% of Total Shareholder
Return (TSR)
For the US executives,the awards are automatically delivered at the end of years three,four and five,subject to the performance condition achieved.
The proportion that would vest is shown at the bottom
of the chart. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 83
Performance Share Plan (PSP) continued
Performance condition – PSP
TSR
– Proportion of the award capable of exercise determined by:
(i) the Company’s TSR (share price growth plus dividends)
ranking relative to a comparator group of 18 other
international defence and aerospace companies
(see table below):
PSP
TSR
– sectoral peer group
Boeing General Dynamics Raytheon
Cobham GKN Rockwell Collins
Dassault Aviation Goodrich Rolls-Royce
EADS Honeywell International Smiths Group
Embraer PN Lockheed Martin Thales
Finmeccanica Northrop Grumman United Technologies
None of the shares vest if the Company’s TSR is outside the
top 50% of TSRs achieved by the sectoral comparator group
and 100% vest if it is in the top quintile (ie top 20%) as set
out below:
and
(ii) whether there has been a sustained improvement in the
Company’s underlying financial performance and whether
it is appropriate to release some or all of the awards. In
taking such a view,the Committee may consider (but not
exclusively) the following financial metrics: net cash/debt;
EBITA
1
; order book; turnover; risk and underlying project
performance.
– Rationale for performance measures: importance to major
investors as an indication of both earnings and capital
growth relative to other major companies in the same
sector and to ensure that awards only vest if there has
been a clear improvement in the Company’s performance
over the relevant period.
Share Matching Plan (SMP)
Key features for grants of awards in 2009:
– stand-alone share investment plan with the investment linked
to the award under the Annual Incentive Plan;
– participants are granted a conditional award of Matching
Shares against the gross value of the annual incentive invested;
– Matching Shares attract dividends during the three-year deferral
period,released on vesting of any Matching Shares;
– executive directors are required to invest one-third of their
2008 net annual incentive into the SMP; and
– maximum level of investment will be 50% of the net
annual incentive.
Match and performance condition
– Nil match for actual EPS growth of less than 5% pa increasing
uniformly to a 2:1 match at 11% pa growth.
– Rationale for performance measure: major investors consider
EPS to be a key indicator of long-term financial performance
and value creation.
Personal shareholding policy
The Committee has agreed a policy whereby all executive directors
are required to establish and maintain a minimum personal
shareholding equal to 200% of base salary. As a minimum,a
holding equal to 100% of base salary must be achieved as quickly
as possible using shares vesting or options exercised through the
executive share option schemes or long-term incentive schemes,
by using 50% of the shares that vest or 50% of the options which
are exercised on each occasion. Thereafter,executive directors are
required to increase their personal shareholding gradually,on each
occasion using 25% of the shares that vest or 25% of the options
exercised each year,until a personal shareholding equal to 200%
of annual base salary is achieved and maintained. These limits
are reviewed periodically. A similar arrangement applies to senior
executives eligible for share-based long-term incentives with limits
aligned to the levels of awards made under these plans.
Details of the directors’ personal shareholdings are shown in
Table A on page 87.
0
25
50
75
100
100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0
% of total
award vesting
Performance relative to comparator group (percentile)
Performance condition – PSP
TSR
11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
1:1
Performance condition – SMP 2009
Match
Annual EPS growth (%)
0
2:1
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets,finance costs and taxation expense. Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
During 2008 the UK executive directors were eligible to participate
in the all-employee free shares element of the Share Incentive
Plan. As a result of the Company’s performance in 2008,all eligible
employees (including the UK executive directors) will be entitled
to receive shares worth £524. A similar arrangement operates for
non-UK employees on a cash or shares basis depending on local
tax and security laws.
The Company operates a share purchase arrangement (Partnership
Shares) under the Share Incentive Plan. Under this arrangement,
UK-based employees (including executive directors) may purchase
ordinary shares in BAE Systems by either monthly investments
of between £10 and £125 a month,or lump sum investments
of between £10 and £1,500 in a tax year,both limited to 10%
of salary if less. The Partnership Shares attract Matching Shares.
As the plan is an all-employee plan,the Matching Shares are not
subject to performance conditions in accordance with legislation.
One free matching share is awarded for each Partnership Share
up to a maximum of £63 per month.
Dividends paid in respect of the shares in the Share Incentive
Plan for UK-based employees are reinvested as Dividend Shares.
Dilution of share capital
The Committee has agreed that,in respect of new issue or
treasury shares,shares representing no more than 1% (and no
more than 0.5% for the executive schemes) of the Company’s
issued share capital will be used in any one financial year for the
grant of incentives under all of the Company’s employee share
schemes. The table below sets out the available dilution capacity
for the Company’s employee share schemes based on the limits
set out in the rules of those schemes.
2008
Total issued share capital as at 31 December 2008 3,582m
All schemes:
10% in any consecutive 10 years 358.2m
Remaining headroom 237.7m
Executive schemes:
5% in any consecutive 10 years 179.1m
Remaining headroom 107.2m
The Company currently intends to use new issue shares to satisfy
future share awards under the executive long-term incentive plans
up to the 0.5% annual dilution limit,and to use treasury shares
to satisfy awards of free shares and matching shares under the
all-employee Share Incentive Plan. For outstanding options it is
intended that new issue shares will be utilised for the Executive
Share Option Plan,and treasury and new issue shares for the
all-employee Save-As-You-Earn Share Option Scheme.
Post-retirement benefits
UK pension benefits
UK executive directors are members of the BAE Systems
Executive Pension Scheme (the ExPS) and members of the
underlying employee pension plans. As such,they are subject
to the same contribution rates payable by employees of the
underlying plans,and the benefits changes introduced in 2006 for
post April 2006 service including the introduction of the Longevity
Adjustment Factor,a reduction in the maximum level of pension
increases and a change in the definition of Pensionable Pay.
The ExPS tops up the underlying employee plan to provide a target
benefit for executive directors payable from normal retirement age
of 1/30th of Final Pensionable Pay (FPP) for each year of ExPS
pensionable service (subject to a maximum of two-thirds of FPP).
FPP is defined as base salary averaged over the last 12 months
prior to leaving service in respect of service accrued to 5 April
2006 and 36 months prior to leaving in respect of service from
6 April 2006. The ExPS also provides a lump sum death-in-service
benefit equal to four times base salary at date of death,and
a spouse’s death-in-service pension equal to two-thirds of
the prospective pension at normal retirement age. Children’s
allowances are also payable,usually up to the age of 18.
Spouses’ pensions and children’s allowances are also payable
upon death in retirement and death after leaving the Company’s
employment with a deferred pension. Pensions are increased
annually by the rise in the Retail Prices Index subject to a
maximum increase of 5% per year in respect of pre 6 April 2006
service and 2.5% per year in respect of service from
6 April 2006.
As a result of the 2006 age discrimination legislation,executive
directors’ default retirement age is 65 but they retain any previous
rights they had to retire and draw their pensions without actuarial
reduction for early payment at an earlier age.
Following the changes made to take account of the Pensions
Simplification tax changes which came into effect from April 2006,
UK executives reaching the Lifetime Allowance (LTA) are given
a number of choices as previously reported. These are:
– remain in the pension scheme and pay any additional tax
charge; or
– opt out of the pension scheme (and so earn no further pension
benefits in respect of future service) and instead receive a
taxable salary supplement. This supplement will be 30% of
salary and 20% of salary for those senior executives with a
two-thirds salary target after at least 20 years’ and 30 years’
service,respectively; or
– restrict scheme benefits to the value of the LTA with the
remainder being provided directly from the Company as an
unfunded promise. At retirement,the unfunded Company
benefits can be either taken as pension or commuted in full
for a taxable lump sum.
The Committee reviews these arrangements each year in the
light of developing market practice and believes they remain
appropriate as they provide executives with competitive pension
benefits and choices for dealing with the LTA which may better
suit their needs whilst being broadly cost neutral to the Company,
are in line with market practice and do not compensate executives
for changes in taxation.
Ian King is a member of the BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan
(the 2000 Plan),applicable to former employees of Marconi
Electronic Systems (MES),and a member of the ExPS with a
normal retirement age of 62. The 2000 Plan provides a pension
of 1/50th of Final Pensionable Earnings (FPE) for each year of
pensionable service,payable from a normal retirement age of 65,
and members pay contributions of 8% of Pensionable Earnings.
FPE under the 2000 Plan is the best three-year average of base
salary and bonus in the ten Plan Years prior to leaving,less an
offset for State pensions. The Company decided in 2006 to limit
pensionable bonuses in the 2000 Plan in the 2006/07 Plan Year
84 www.baesystems.com
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Remuneration report continued
84 www.baesystems.com BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 85 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 85
to 20% of base salary and to 10% of base salary for the 2007/08
Plan Year and thereafter. However,there is a guarantee that the
FPE figure for benefits in respect of service prior to 6 April 2007
will not be less than the FPE figure at 5 April 2007 to ensure that
employees do not lose the benefit of contributions paid on past
bonuses. Ian King joined the ExPS in 1999 following the BAe/MES
merger. Therefore Ian King’s total pension is the sum of his 2000
Plan benefits plus the top-up from the ExPS.
George Rose is a member of the BAE Systems Pension Scheme
paying contributions of 9.29% of base salary,and is a member
of the ExPS with a normal retirement age of 60. George Rose was
affected by the previously applicable Inland Revenue earnings cap
on approved pensions and has an unapproved (ie non-tax qualified)
pension arrangement to top up his benefits from the approved
schemes. This was designed so that the total pension from all
sources would be broadly in line with the pension he would have
received from the Group pension schemes had he not been subject
to the earnings cap. The Pension Simplification tax changes
allowed the flexibility to remove the earnings cap for George
Rose in respect of service from April 2006, although some of
his benefits will remain to be provided by means of an unfunded
promise from the Company. No further contributions will be paid
into his funded unapproved top-up arrangement.
US pension benefits
Walt Havenstein is a member of the BAE Systems Employees’
Retirement Plan which provides a pension from age 60 for each year
of pensionable service of 1.25% on his Final Average Pay (FAP) up to
Social Security Covered Compensation (circa $70,000) plus 1.5% on
his FAP in excess of Social Security Covered Compensation. FAP is
currently the highest three-year average of base salary plus bonus
(which for pension purposes is limited from 2008 to a maximum
of 150% of base salary) but the averaging period will increase by
one year each year beginning in 2009 and reaching a ten-year
average in 2015. Executive directors pay contributions at the same
rates as other employees in the plan,being 1.5% of earnings. The
pension does not carry any spouse’s pension or pension increases.
Walt Havenstein also receives a 50% match on his contributions
to his 401(k) plan up to a maximum contribution of 8% of earnings.
Details of post-retirement benefits for each of the executive
directors who served during 2008 are shown in Table D on page
93 and are calculated in accordance with the requirements of
Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
Other benefits
Other benefits provided to the executive directors include a car
allowance,the taxable benefit of any private use of a chauffeur-
driven car and a cash allowance for medical examination.
Ian King was provided with Company support in 2008 to relocate
his flat to central London as detailed in the notes to Table C on
page 92.
Executive directors’ service contracts
It is the Committee’s policy that executive directors should
normally have service contracts that provide for the Company
to give the individual 12 months’ notice of termination. This
policy has been chosen because it provides a reasonable balance
between the need to retain the services of key individuals and
the need to limit the liabilities of the Company in the event of
the termination of a contract. The executive directors have
service contracts with Group companies and details of these
are shown below.
Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period
Walt Havenstein 1 December 2006 3 months 3 months
either party
Ian King 27 June 2008 12 months 12 months
either party
George Rose 16 November 1998 12 months 12 months
(amended: from the
3 December 1999 Company,
15 January 2004 6 months
and from the
17 October 2005) individual
In the event of the termination of an executive director’s contract
it is the Committee’s policy to seek to limit any payment made
in lieu of notice to a payment equal to the amount of one year’s
base salary. The service contracts for all of the executive directors
contain specific provisions to the effect that the Company has the
right,and in Walt Havenstein’s case,generally has the obligation,to
pay a sum equivalent to 12 months’ salary (plus the continuation
of 18 months’ medical benefits in Walt Havenstein’s case) in the
event of the Company terminating their contracts for reasons other
than gross misconduct. No executive director has provisions in his
service contract that relate to a change of control of the Company
(and neither does the Chairman nor the non-executive directors in
their respective letters of appointment).
Retirement arrangements for Mike Turner
Mike Turner was employed under a service contract dated
22 February 1994 (amended 30 May 1995,3 December 1999,
8 May 2002,15 January 2004 and 14 October 2005) and,as
announced on 16 October 2007,he stepped down and retired
from the Company at the end of August 2008. The termination
arrangements were set out in a termination agreement and
disclosed in last year’s report.
On leaving the Company at the end of August 2008,he received
a termination payment of £236,884 in respect of his contractual
and statutory rights relating to the unserved portion of his 12-
month notice period to 16 October 2008,and an immediate
pension of £524,063 pa and tax free lump sum of £1,637,488
as set out in Table D on page 93,calculated in accordance with
the rules of the schemes.
He also received a payment due in respect of his 2008 annual
bonus as set out in Table C on page 92 and his special incentive
vested in full as set out on page 81 of this report. His other share
plan interests were dealt with as disclosed in last year’s report
and summarised in the notes on page 91.
Policy on external board appointments
The long-standing policy of allowing executive directors to hold
external non-BAE Systems-related non-executive directorships with
the prior approval of the Committee will continue. The Committee
considers that external directorships provide the Company’s
senior executives with valuable experience that is of benefit to
BAE Systems. It is also considered appropriate for BAE Systems
to contribute to the pool of non-executive expertise available for
the benefit of the wider business community,thereby reciprocating
the benefit that it in turn has received from other organisations
which have permitted members of their senior management teams
to serve on the BAE Systems Board. The Committee believes that it is reasonable for the individual executive director to retain
any fees received from such appointments given the additional
personal responsibility that this entails. Such fees retained by the
executive directors in 2008 for the period in which they served
on the BAE Systems Board were as follows: Ian King £32,691;
George Rose £82,500; and Mike Turner £49,785 plus grants
of Deferred Stock Units to the value of £72,766.
Chairman’s appointment,term and fees
Dick Olver was appointed Chairman on 1 July 2004. His
appointment was for an initial fixed three-year term with effect from
17 May 2004 (the date that he was appointed to the Board as a
non-executive director) and was extended by the Board in 2007,
on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee (as chaired
by Sir Peter Mason,the Senior Independent Director),for a second
term of three years to 16 May 2010 unless terminated earlier in
accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association,or by either
party giving the other not less than six months’ prior written notice.
His appointment is documented in a letter of appointment which is
not a contract of employment and he is required to devote no fewer
than two days a week to his duties as Chairman. His appointment
as Chairman will automatically terminate if he ceases to be a
director of the Company. His fee for the second three-year term,
which has been set by the Committee at £600,000 per annum,
will not be subject to review during the three-year term.
Non-executive directors’ appointment,
term and fees
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but
do have letters of appointment detailing the basis of their
appointment. The dates of their original appointment were
as follows:
Non-executive director Date of appointment Expiry of current term*
Phil Carroll 07.09.2005 06.09.2009
Michael Hartnall 10.06.2003 09.06.2009
Andy Inglis 13.06.2007 12.06.2010
Sir Peter Mason 22.01.2003 21.01.2012
Roberto Quarta 07.09.2005 06.09.2011
Sir Nigel Rudd 10.09.2006 09.09.2009
Carl Symon 11.06.2008 10.06.2011
Ravi Uppal 02.04.2008 01.04.2011
* Subject to re-election at the AGM following their appointment and subsequently at
intervals of no more than three years in accordance with the Company’s Articles
of Association.
The non-executive directors are normally appointed for two
consecutive three-year terms subject to review after the end of
the first three-year period and with any third term of three years
being subject to rigorous review and taking into account the need
progressively to refresh the Board. They do not have periods of
notice and the Company has no obligation to pay compensation
when their appointment terminates. They are subject to re-election
at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) following their appointment
and subsequently at intervals of no more than three years. Peter
Weinberg retired from the Board on 7 May 2008 at the conclusion
of the 2008 AGM having originally been appointed to the Board
on 16 June 2005.
Non-executive directors are proposed by the Nominations
Committee and are appointed by the Board on the basis of
their experience to provide independent judgement on issues
of strategy,performance,resources and standards of conduct.
The letters of appointment for non-executive directors detail
the amount of time it is anticipated that the individual will need
to devote to his or her duties as a director,being 15 days per
year plus additional commitment for chairing a committee or
undertaking the role of Senior Independent Director. The level of
their fees is set by the Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee
to reflect this time commitment and responsibility,and after
reviewing practice in other comparable companies.
Having reviewed the time commitments required and the market
competitive positioning,a number of changes have been made to
the structure of fees payable to non-executive directors for 2009.
– The base fee has been increased by 4.8% from £63,000
to £66,000.
– The total time commitment and additional fee for chairing the
Audit,Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration committees
have been aligned at around 25 days and at £20,000,
respectively.
Committee 2008 fee* 2009 fee*
Audit Committee £20,000 £20,000
Corporate Responsibility Committee £15,000 £20,000
Remuneration Committee £15,000 £20,000
– The time commitment and additional fee for the responsibilities
of being Senior Independent Director have been aligned to those
for the committee chairmen. The Senior Independent Director
is not a chairman of one of the above three committees.
– The previous transatlantic meeting allowance of £4,000 has
been replaced by a travel allowance of £4,000 per meeting on
each occasion that a non-executive director’s attendance at a
Board meeting necessitates air travel of more than five hours
(one-way) to the meeting location. For 2009,a maximum of six
travel allowances will be payable.
The table below summarises the fee structure for 2008 and 2009.
Non-executive director 2008 fee* 2009 fee*
Chairman Audit Committee £83,000 £86,000
Chairman Corporate
Responsibility Committee £78,000 £86,000
Chairman Remuneration Committee £78,000 £86,000
Senior Independent Director £78,000 £86,000
Other non-executive directors £63,000 £66,000
* Excludes the travel allowance (and in 2008 the transatlantic allowance) of £4,000 per
meeting referred to above.
By order of the Board
Dick Olver Chairman
18 February 2009
86 www.baesystems.com
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Remuneration report continued
86 www.baesystems.com BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 87 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 87
Tabular information on directors’ shareholdings,share-based incentives,emoluments and
pensions
Table A
Directors’ interests
As at 1 January 2008*
Executive Share
Ordinary Share Restricted Matching Performance
shares Option Plan
2
Share Plan Plan Share Plan
2
P J Carroll
1
12,000––––
M J Hartnall 20,000––––
W P Havenstein 72,328 327,640 10,249 18,947 303,607
A G Inglis – – – – –
I G King 317,897 1,270,250 37,950 46,410 552,675
Sir Peter Mason 25,283––––
R L Olver 40,000––––
R Quarta – – – – –
G W Rose 538,032 768,769 18,975 – 675,994
Sir Nigel Rudd 11,400––––
C G Symon
3
–––––
R K Uppal
4
–––––
As at 31 December 2008
Executive Share
Ordinary Share Restricted Matching Performance
shares Option Plan
2
Share Plan Plan Share Plan
2
P J Carroll
1
12,000––––
M J Hartnall 20,000––––
W P Havenstein 144,467 327,640 10,249 45,065 452,661
A G Inglis –––––
I G King 497,884 1,270,250 – 155,821 823,106
Sir Peter Mason 25,283––––
R L Olver 40,000––––
R Quarta –––––
G W Rose 619,977 484,679 – 52,286 780,243
Sir Nigel Rudd 11,400––––
C G Symon
3
–––––
R K Uppal
4
–––––
* Or upon appointment.
1 The ordinary shares held by Phil Carroll are represented by 3,000 American Depositary Shares.
2 The Executive Share Option Plan and Performance Share Plan figures for Walt Havenstein include Stock Appreciation Rights.
3 Appointed as a director on 11 June 2008.
4 Appointed as a director on 2 April 2008.
The table above gives details of the interests in ordinary shares in BAE Systems plc held by directors and their connected persons
for those individuals who were directors of the Company as at 31 December 2008. There have been no changes in the interests of
the current directors listed in the table above between 31 December 2008 and 18 February 2009 with the exception of the interests
in the ordinary shares of Ian King and George Rose who have each acquired an additional 97 ordinary shares since 31 December 2008
under the partnership and matching shares elements of the Share Incentive Plan so that their beneficial shareholdings at the date of
this report stood at 497,981 and 620,074 respectively.
The Company’s register of directors’ interests (which is open to inspection) contains full details of directors’ share interests.
Information subject to audit
The Auditors are required to report on the information contained in Tables B,C and D on pages 88 to 93. Table B
Share Options and Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) Awards – Ian King
Market
Granted Exercised Lapsed 31 Exercise Date of price on Date from
Share 1 January during the during the during the December price Date of exercise exercise which Expiry
Options 2008 year year year 2008 £ grant or lapse £ exercisable date
PSP
TSR
70,737 – 70,737 – – nil 30.09.03 08.10.08 3.76 30.09.08
1,2
–
PSP
TSR
121,068 – 60,533 – 60,535 nil 30.03.04 31.03.08 4.83 30.03.08
1,3
30.03.11
PSP
TSR
147,935 – 49,311 – 98,624 nil 24.03.05 25.03.08 4.77 24.03.08
1,4
24.03.12
PSP
TSR
96,962 – – – 96,962 nil 12.04.06 – – 12.04.09
5
12.04.13
PSP
TSR
115,973 – – – 115,973 nil 30.03.07 – – 30.03.10
5
30.03.14
PSP
TSR
– 122,039 – – 122,039 nil 26.03.08 – – 26.03.11
5
26.03.15
PSP
EPS
– 122,039 – – 122,039 nil 07.05.08 – – 26.03.11
5
26.03.15
PSP
TSR
– 103,467 – – 103,467 nil 08.09.08 – – 08.09.11
5
08.09.15
PSP
EPS
– 103,467 – – 103,467 nil 08.09.08 – – 08.09.11
5
08.09.15
552,675 451,012 180,581 – 823,106
ExSOP 138,242 – – – 138,242 4.21 20.12.99 – – 20.12.02
1
20.12.09
ExSOP 318,314 – – – 318,314 1.72 30.09.03 – – 30.09.06
1
30.09.13
ExSOP 272,388 – – – 272,388 2.01 30.03.04 – – 30.03.07
1
30.03.14
ExSOP 221,903 – – – 221,903 2.64 24.03.05 – – 24.03.08
1
24.03.15
ExSOP 145,443 – – – 145,443 4.28 12.04.06 – – 12.04.09
1
12.04.16
ExSOP 173,960 – – – 173,960 4.57 30.03.07 – – 30.03.10
5
30.03.17
1,270,250 – – – 1,270,250
Market Market
Granted Vested Lapsed 31 price at date price on
1 January during the during the during the December of award Date of Date of vesting
LTIPs 2008 year year year 2008 £ award vesting £
SMP 46,410 – – – 46,410 4.57 22.03.07 – –
SMP – 109,411 – – 109,411 4.86 26.03.08 – –
46,410 109,411 – – 155,821
RSP 37,950 – 37,950 – – 2.64 24.03.05 25.03.08 4.77
37,950 – 37,950 – –
Note: Performance conditions for the options and awards set out above are detailed in the notes to Table B on pages 88 and 89.
1 Subject to a performance condition that has been met.
2 ‘Date exercisable’ refers to the date on which the portion of the option exercised during the year became exercisable.
3 As (2) above. The option over shares remaining at the year end is exercisable on the third anniversary of grant.
4 As (2) above. The option over shares remaining at the year end is exercisable in two tranches on the second and third anniversary of grant.
5 Subject to a performance condition that is yet to be tested.
88 www.baesystems.com
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Remuneration report continued
88 www.baesystems.com
(i) 2005-2007 grants – 33.33% of each option grant is exercisable if
the Company achieves on average real EPS growth pa of 3% but less
than 4% over the three-year performance period; 66.67% for real EPS
growth pa of 4% but less than 5%; and 100% for real EPS growth of
5% or more.
(ii) 2004 grant – as in (i) but performance is retested at the end of year
five against the full period from grant; and
(iii)2001-2003 grants – as in (i) but performance is retested at the end
of years four and five against the full period from grant.
(iv) 1999 grant (following the BAe/MES merger) under the predecessor
Executive Share Option Scheme:
(a) grants to George Rose and Mike Turner were conditional on
the satisfaction of a performance condition based on the
achievement of merger integration cost savings over a three-year
performance period.
(b) grant to Ian King could only be exercised if the pre-exceptional EPS
for any three-year period over the ten-year option life exceeded the
sum of inflation for that period and real growth of 9% was achieved.
PSP
TSR
– nil vesting if the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) at
the end of the three-year performance period is outside the top 50% of
TSRs achieved by a sectoral comparator group; 25% vesting if TSR is at
median (50%); and 100% vesting if TSR is in the top 20%,with vesting
on a straight-line basis between these two points.
PSP
EPS
– proportion of the award exercisable is determined by the rate of
annual actual EPS growth over the three-year performance period,with nil
vesting at annual actual EPS growth of 5% or less,100% vesting at 11%
growth,and vesting on a straight-line basis between these two points.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
A full description of the PSP is set out on pages 82 and 83. PSP awards granted since 2008 attract dividends prior to vesting.
Awards that vest at the end of year three are exercisable in three tranches at the end of years three,four and five.
Executive Share Option Plan (ExSOP)
No options have been granted under this Plan since 2007 and it is intended only to be used in future in exceptional circumstances. Options granted
under this Plan are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of grant. The maximum duration of an option is ten years. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 89 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 89
Table B continued
Share Options and Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) Awards – George Rose
Market
Granted Exercised Lapsed 31 Exercise Date of price on Date from
Share 1 January during the during the during the December price Date of exercise exercise which Expiry
Options 2008 year year year 2008 £ grant or lapse £ exercisable date
PSP
TSR
86,832 – – – 86,832 nil 30.09.03 – – 30.09.08
1,2
30.03.10
PSP
TSR
153,400 – 76,699 – 76,701 nil 30.03.04 31.03.08 4.83 30.03.08
1,3
30.03.11
PSP
TSR
189,393 – 63,130 – 126,263 nil 24.03.05 25.03.08 4.77 24.03.08
1,4
24.03.12
PSP
TSR
123,831 – – – 123,831 nil 12.04.06 – – 12.04.09
5
12.04.13
PSP
TSR
122,538 – – – 122,538 nil 30.03.07 – – 30.03.10
5
30.03.14
PSP
TSR
– 122,039 – – 122,039 nil 26.03.08 – – 26.03.11
5
26.03.15
PSP
EPS
– 122,039 – – 122,039 nil 07.05.08 – – 26.03.11
5
26.03.15
675,994 244,078 139,829 – 780,243
ExSOP 115,125 – – – 115,125 4.21 20.12.99 – – 20.12.02
1
20.12.09
ExSOP 284,090 – 284,090 – – 2.64 24.03.05 25.03.08 4.77 24.03.08
1
24.03.15
ExSOP 185,747 – – – 185,747 4.28 12.04.06 – – 12.04.09
1
12.04.16
ExSOP 183,807 – – – 183,807 4.57 30.03.07 – – 30.03.10
5
30.03.17
768,769 – 284,090 – 484,679
Market Market
Granted Vested Lapsed 31 price at date price on
1 January during the during the during the December of award Date of Date of vesting
LTIPs 2008 year year year 2008 £ award vesting £
SMP – 52,286 – – 52,286 4.86 26.03.08 – –
– 52,286 – – 52,286
RSP 18,975 – 18,975 – – 2.64 24.03.05 25.03.08 4.77
18,975 – 18,975 – –
Note: Performance conditions for the options and awards set out above are detailed in the notes to Table B on pages 88 and 89.
1 Subject to a performance condition that has been met.
2 ‘Date exercisable’ refers to the date on which the option outstanding at the year end became exercisable.
3 ‘Date exercisable’ refers to the date on which the portion of the option exercised during the year became exercisable. The option over shares remaining at the year end is exercisable on
the third anniversary of grant.
4 As (3) except that the option over shares remaining at the year end is exercisable in two tranches on the second and third anniversary of grant.
5 Subject to a performance condition that is yet to be tested.
Share price information
The mid-market price for the Company’s ordinary shares at 31 December 2008 was 376.75p (2007 498p). The range during the year was 302.5p
to 507p.
Aggregate amount of gains made by directors
The aggregate amount of gains made by directors from the exercise of share options in 2008,as calculated at the date of exercise,was £6,278,313
(2007 £14,882,281). The net aggregate value of assets received by directors in 2008 from long-term incentive plans,as calculated at the date of
vesting,was £1,931,858 (2007 £1,066,284).
Rationale for key performance measures for PSP,ExSOP and SMP
EPS – importance to major investors as a key indicator of long-term financial performance and value creation.
TSR (and secondary financial measure) – importance to major investors as an indication of both earnings and capital growth relative to major
companies in the same sector,and to ensure that awards only vest if there has been a clear improvement in the Company’s performance over
the relevant period.
Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
Replaced by the SMP in 2007.
The matching award of shares under the RSP (under which awards have not been granted since 2006) was historically not subject to performance
criteria as it was designed to retain key staff and encourage executives to re-invest in Company shares the cash bonuses that they had earned under
the annual bonus plan which was itself subject to performance conditions.
Share Matching Plan (SMP) – matching shares
A full description of the SMP is set out on page 83. SMP awards attract dividends prior to vesting.
2008 award – nil match for actual EPS growth of 5% pa or less,increasing uniformly to a 1:1 match for 8% pa growth.
2007 award – nil vesting for real EPS growth pa of less than 3% over the three-year performance period,with one-third of the matched award vesting
on average real EPS growth pa of 3% but less than 4%,two-thirds vesting with a growth rate of 4% but less than 5%,and full vesting at growth of 5%
or over. Table B continued
Share Options and Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) Awards – Walt Havenstein
Market
Exercised Lapsed Date of price on
Granted or released during 31 Exercise exercise, exercise Date from
Share 1 January during the during the the December price Date of release or release which Expiry
Options 2008 year year year 2008 £ grant or lapse £ exercisable date
PSP
TSR
32,271 – 32,271 – – – 30.09.03 30.09.08 3.99 30.09.08
1,2
–
PSP
TSR
52,909 – 26,454 – 26,455 – 30.03.04 31.03.08 4.85 30.03.08
1,3
30.09.11
PSP
TSR
60,633 – 20,210 – 40,423 – 24.03.05 25.03.08 4.73 24.03.08
1,4
24.03.12
PSP
TSR
9,949 – 3,220 289 6,440 – 22.12.05 22.12.08 3.43 22.12.08
1,4
22.12.12
PSP
TSR
64,302 – – – 64,302 – 12.04.06 – – 12.04.09
5
12.04.13
PSP
TSR
83,543 – – – 83,543 – 30.03.07 – – 30.03.10
5
30.03.14
PSP
TSR
– 115,749 – – 115,749 – 26.03.08 – – 26.03.11
5
26.03.15
PSP
EPS
– 115,749 – – 115,749 – 07.05.08 – – 26.03.11
5
26.03.15
303,607 231,498 82,155 289 452,661
ExSOP 90,949 – – – 90,949 2.64 24.03.05 – – 24.03.08
1
24.03.15
ExSOP 14,923 – – – 14,923 3.56 22.12.05 – – 22.12.08
1
22.12.15
ExSOP 96,453 – – – 96,453 4.28 12.04.06 – – 12.04.09
1
12.04.16
ExSOP 125,315 – – – 125,315 4.57 30.03.07 – – 30.03.10
5
30.03.17
327,640 – – – 327,640
Market Market
Granted Vested Lapsed 31 price at date price on
1 January during the during the during the December of award Date of Date of vesting
LTIPs 2008 year year year 2008 £ award vesting £
SMP 18,947 – – – 18,947 4.57 22.03.07 – –
SMP – 26,118 – – 26,118 4.86 26.03.08 – –
18,947 26,118 – – 45,065
RSP 10,249 – – – 10,249 4.18 12.04.06 – –
10,249 – – – 10,249
Note: Performance conditions for the options and awards set out above are detailed in the notes to Table B on pages 88 and 89.
1 Subject to a performance condition that has been met.
2 ‘Date exercisable’ refers to the date on which the portion of the award delivered during the year was due to be delivered.
3 As (2) above. The remaining shares under award at the year end are due for delivery on the third anniversary of grant.
4 As (2) above. The remaining shares under award at the year end are due for delivery in two tranches on the second and third anniversary of grant.
5 Subject to a performance condition that is yet to be tested.
90 www.baesystems.com
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Remuneration report continued
90 www.baesystems.com
In addition,Walt Havenstein has a cash-settled Stock Appreciation Right (SAR) over 53,010 ordinary shares granted on 27 November 2000 at a
SAR price of £3.73,exercisable from 27 November 2003 until 27 November 2010. This was exercisable only if growth in pre-exceptional EPS for
any three-year period over the ten-year life exceeded the sum of inflation for that period and a growth requirement of 9%,which was met.
Note: Awards granted to Walt Havenstein (a US national) under the PSP are technically characterised as long-term incentives rather than options as,
subject to the attainment of the performance condition,they are delivered automatically on the third,fourth and fifth anniversary of grant without the
need to exercise an option. They are shown in the top portion of the table for ease of comparison. Gains on delivered PSP awards for Walt Havenstein
are included in the directors’ gains on LTIPs figure on page 89 whilst PSP gains for the other directors are included in the share option gains figure.
The 2003-2005 PSP awards and 2005 ExSOP options granted to Walt Havenstein are granted under the Stock Appreciation Rights Schedule to those
plans. The exercise price referred to for the latter is the SAR price. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 91 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 91
Table B continued
Share Options and Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) Awards – Mike Turner
1
Market
Granted Exercised Lapsed 31 Exercise Date of price on Date from
Share 1 January during the during the during the December price Date of exercise exercise which Expiry
Options 2008 year year year 2008
2
£ grant or lapse £ exercisable date
PSP
TSR
130,814 – 130,814 – – nil 30.09.03 01.09.08 4.78 01.09.08 –
PSP
TSR
242,123 – 121,061 – – nil 30.03.04 31.03.08 4.83 30.03.08 –
PSP
TSR
– – 121,062 – – nil 30.03.04 01.09.08 4.78 01.09.08 –
PSP
TSR
303,030 – 101,008 – – nil 24.03.05 25.03.08 4.77 24.03.08 –
PSP
TSR
– – 202,022 – – nil 24.03.05 01.09.08 4.78 01.09.08 –
PSP
TSR
304,906 – – – 304,906 nil 12.04.06 – – 12.04.09 30.09.09
PSP
TSR
310,175 – – – 310,175 nil 30.03.07 – – 30.03.10 30.09.10
1,291,048 – 675,967 – 615,081
ExSOP 122,855 – – – 122,855 4.21 20.12.99 – – 20.12.02 01.09.09
ExSOP 454,545 – 454,545 – – 2.64 24.03.05 25.03.08 4.77 24.03.08 –
ExSOP 457,359 – – – 457,359 4.28 12.04.06 – – 01.09.08 01.09.09
ExSOP 465,262 – – – 465,262 4.57 30.03.07 – – 01.09.08 01.09.09
1,500,021 – 454,545 – 1,045,476
Market Market
Granted Vested Lapsed 31 price at date price on
1 January during the during the during the December of award Date of Date of vesting
LTIPs 2008 year year year 2008
2
£ award vesting £
SMP 109,529 – 109,529 – – 4.57 22.03.07 01.09.08
3
4.78
SMP – 94,261 – – 94,261 4.86 26.03.08 – –
109,529 94,261 109,529 – 94,261
RSP 37,950 – 37,950 – – 2.64 24.03.05 25.03.08 4.77
37,950 – 37,950 – –
PSA 231,618 – 115,809 – 115,809 5.10 16.10.07 01.09.08
3
4.78
231,618 – 115,809 – 115,809
Note: Performance conditions for the options and awards set out above are detailed in the notes to Table B on pages 88 and 89,except for the PSA for which the performance condition is set
out below.
1 Retired as a director on 31 August 2008.
2 As at 31 August 2008,the date of Mike Turner’s retirement,options outstanding totalled 1,068,979 under the PSP and 1,045,476 under ExSOP, and awards outstanding totalled 203,790
under the SMP, nil under the RSP and 231,618 under the PSA.
3 The SMP and PSA awards which vested on 1 September 2008 attracted reinvested dividends which equated on vesting to an additional 4,746 and 3,255 shares,respectively. The market
price on vesting was £4.78. The value of the related gain is included in the figure for the aggregate gain from long-term incentive plans on page 89.
Treatment of options and awards on retirement
As disclosed in last year’s report,the treatment of Mike Turner’s
outstanding options and awards at his retirement on 31 August 2008
was as follows:
– unexercised options under ExSOP were preserved and exercisable in
full within 12 months of his retirement. Any performance condition that
remained to be satisfied was waived;
– PSP awards already vested (awards granted in 2005 and earlier)
were preserved and exercisable within six months of retirement;
– unvested PSP awards (awards granted in 2006 and 2007): the
performance condition will be tested at the end of the normal three-
year performance period,will vest to the extent that the performance
condition has been met,and will be exercisable within six months.
The number of shares that vest will not be pro-rated to reflect his
actual service during the applicable three-year periods;
– unvested 2007 matching SMP award: the performance condition was
tested at retirement; the award vested in full and was not time pro-
rated; and
– unvested 2008 matching SMP award: the performance condition will be
tested in February 2009 and the quantum of the award vesting will not
be time pro-rated.
Performance Share Award (PSA) – Performance condition
Mike Turner was granted a contingent award over 231,618 shares
on 16 October 2007 under which the shares would vest in two equal
tranches in the year following his retirement on 31 August 2008,subject
to the satisfaction of certain performance targets by 31 August 2008.
These targets,which were fully met,related to continuing the successful
implementation of the Company’s business strategy,satisfaction of
leadership objectives set by the Remuneration Committee,achieving an
orderly handover of key external relationships and facilitating an orderly
succession to the Chief Executive role. The Committee believed that this
was the most appropriate incentive in relation to his period of service
to retirement. The first tranche of shares under award was released
on 1 September 2008; the second tranche will be released in 2009. Table C
Directors’ remuneration
2008 2007
Base Base
salary Fees Bonus Benefits Other pay Total salary Fees Bonus Benefits Other pay Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Chairman
R L Olver – 600 – 59 – 659 – 562 – 19 – 581
Executive directors
C V Geoghegan
1
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 490 – 411 33 147 1,081
W P Havenstein
2
486 – 1,013 29 – 1,528 390 – 584 61 – 1,035
I G King
2
678 – 1,275 169 – 2,122 545 – 532 22 – 1,099
S L Mogford
1
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 176 – 243 13 – 432
G W Rose 593 – 695 72 – 1,360 560 – 532 32 – 1,124
M J Turner
3
667 – 1,405 89 1,028 3,189 945 – 1,375 35 284 2,639
Non-executive directors
Professor S Birley
1
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a –26 – – – 26
P J Carroll –63 – – 28 91 –78 – – – 78
Dr U Cartellieri
1
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a –47 – – – 47
M J Hartnall –83 – – 8 91 –86 – – – 86
A G Inglis
2
–73 – – 8 81 –40 – – – 40
Sir Peter Mason –78 – – 8 86 –81 – – – 81
R Quarta –63 – – 8 71 –66 – – – 66
Sir Nigel Rudd –78 – – 8 86 –75 – – – 75
C G Symon
4
–35 – – 12 47 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
R K Uppal
4
–47 – – 12 59 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
P A Weinberg
3
–27 – – 12 39 –93 – – – 93
2,424 1,147 4,388 418 1,132 9,509 3,106 1,154 3,677 215 431 8,583
1 Retired during or at the end of 2007.
2 Appointed in 2007.
3 Retired in 2008.
4 Appointed in 2008.
All emoluments and compensation paid to the directors during the year are shown above. Where the individual was appointed during the year the amount
shown is for the period from appointment.
The other pay received by Mike Turner in 2008 comprises (i) a cash supplement of £200,000 payable from opting out of future accrual under the Company
pension schemes between 1 January 2008 and his retirement,(ii) his termination payment of £236,884 referred to on page 85,and (iii) a cash payment
of £590,625 representing half the conditional cash award under his special incentive referred to on page 81 (the balance of this cash award being payable
shortly after the first anniversary of his retirement date).
The 2008 benefits figure for Ian King includes a taxable allowance of £25,000 and costs of £39,700 (grossed up) towards the cost of relocating his flat
to central London.
The benefits received by the UK-based executive directors include,where applicable,the provision of a car and the taxable benefit of any private use of
a chauffeur-driven car and attendance at corporate events. The benefits received by the Chairman,Dick Olver,include the taxable benefit relating to the
private use of a chauffeur-driven car and attendance at corporate events. It should be noted that the calculation of the 2008 taxable benefit of any private
use of a chauffeur-driven car has been revised to reflect HMRC guidance.
The benefits received by Walt Havenstein,the US-based executive director,include a cash allowance for a car,medical examination,dental benefits and
insured life benefits.
The other pay received by the non-executive directors represents the travel allowance (previously transatlantic allowance) of £4,000 per meeting as set
out on page 86.
Sir Richard Evans retired as a director and Chairman on 30 June 2004. He remained employed in a part-time customer relationship role and ceased to
be an employee on 29 February 2008. In 2008,his remuneration was £265,480 (2007 £332,400) and comprised a salary,a cash allowance for a car,
chauffeur-driven car and consultancy fees for his role as a member of the Home Market Advisory Board for Saudi Arabia.
There were no other payments to former directors during the year other than the Company pension payments to Richard Lapthorne and Sir Peter Gershon
referred to in the notes to Table D on page 93.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Remuneration report continued
92 www.baesystems.com 92 www.baesystems.com BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 93 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 93
Table D
Post-retirement beneﬁts
Change in
Accrued Increase/ accrued Transfer Transfer Increase in
pension at (decrease) pension value at value at transfer value
31 December in accrued after allowing 1 January 31 December Director’s less director’s
2008
1
benefits for inflation 2008
2
2008 contributions contributions
Age NRA* £ per annum £ per annum £ per annum £ £ £ £
W P Havenstein
3
59 60 156,471 80,566 76,338 791,208 1,745,364 2,326 951,830
I G King 52 62 425,245 51,857 37,115 3,075,417 4,672,376 58,747 1,538,212
G W Rose
4
56 60 330,769 35,195 23,525 4,326,358 5,573,907 54,876 1,192,673
M J Turner
5
60 60 648,493 (11,051) (37,096) 11,637,570 11,827,916 – 190,346
* Normal Retirement Age.
1 Accrued pensions may be reduced if they are taken before the normal retirement age of the scheme. In addition,a longevity adjustment factor applies
to UK pension accrued after 5 April 2006.
2 Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with GN11 issued by the actuarial profession. For UK-based directors the assumptions are the
same as those used in the calculation of cash equivalents from the schemes. For US-based directors the assumptions are the same as those used
for accounting disclosures. The amount of the increase in transfer value arising from the change in assumptions is: Walt Havenstein (£nil); Ian King
(£965,915); George Rose (£514,150); Mike Turner (£408,201).
3 Walt Havenstein’s accrued pension comprises £21,856 from a contributory Qualified Plan and £134,615 from Non-Qualified Plans. In addition,Walt
Havenstein participates in a Section 401(k) defined contribution arrangement set up for US employees in which the Company will match employee
contributions up to a limit. In 2008 the Company paid contributions of $6,402 (£4,413) into this 401(k) arrangement. In addition,the Company paid
$42,395 (£29,224) into a Deferred Compensation arrangement. Walt Havenstein is paid in US dollars. Of the change in the accrued benefit and the
transfer value £42,296 and £471,786 respectively is due to currency movements.
4 George Rose has an unapproved retirement arrangement for pensionable service before 5 April 2006 that is partly funded and partly unfunded.
No Company contributions have been made to these arrangements during the year.
5 As a result of the changes to taxation of pensions introduced in April 2006 Mike Turner elected to opt out of the pension scheme and since April 2006
had been receiving a taxable salary supplement of 30% of his base salary. Mike Turner retired from the Board on 31 August 2008 and started to draw
his pension of £524,063 pa after having exchanged part of his pension for a tax-free cash lump sum of £1,637,488. The transfer value as at
31 December 2008 allows for this exchange of pension for tax-free cash.
Sir Peter Gershon and Richard Lapthorne,both former directors,have unfunded pension arrangements. In 2008 the Company paid Sir Peter Gershon a
cash lump sum of £334,805 and pension of £18,188 and Richard Lapthorne a pension of £119,279 (2007 £93,554) in respect of these arrangements. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Other statutory and regulatory information
94 www.baesystems.com
Applying the principles of the Combined Code
on Corporate Governance
The Board has structured its activities so as to incorporate
the main and supporting principles in the UK’s Combined Code,
recognising these to be a sound statement of accepted good
practice for a company such as BAE Systems. The core activities
of the Board and its committees are documented and planned
on an annual basis but this only forms the basic structure within
which the Board operates. The directors are required to provide
entrepreneurial leadership for the Company,relying on the
business skills and judgement that each director possesses.
The governance structure recognises this essential human
element and the role of the Chairman in ensuring that decisions
are made by the directors within a framework of prudent and
effective controls.
The Board has adopted a document,the Board Charter,in
which there is a statement of governance principles that guide
the activities of the Board and also details of the roles of the
Chairman,Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director.
The governance principles reflect the main and supporting
principles contained in the Combined Code, and cover
the following:
– Strategy – reviewing and agreeing strategy;
– Performance – monitoring the performance of the Group and
also evaluating its own performance;
– Standards and Values – setting standards and values to guide
the affairs of the Group;
– Oversight – ensuring an effective system of internal controls is
in place,ensuring that the Board receives timely and accurate
information on the performance of the Group and the proper
delegation of authority; and
– People – ensuring the Group is managed by individuals with the
necessary skills and experience,and that appointments to the
Board are managed effectively.
The Board Charter states that the Chief Executive is responsible for
the leadership and operational management of the Company within
the strategy and business plan agreed by the Board. Included within
the Charter is a schedule of matters that have been reserved for
the Board’s decision. These include approving the vision,values,
principles of ethical conduct,overall governance structure of the
Company,and its strategy and business plans. Within the Board’s
delegated authorities it has reserved for itself,amongst other
things,certain decisions concerning contract bids and tenders,
acquisitions and disposals of businesses,capital expenditure
and Company-funded product development expenditure.
A copy of the Board Charter can be found on the Company’s website,
or alternatively,can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code
The Company was compliant with the provisions of the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance throughout 2008.
Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
1 Appointed to the Board on 11 June 2008.
2 Retired from the Board on 31 August 2008.
3 Appointed to the Board on 2 April 2008.
4 Retired from the Board on 7 May 2008.
The attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its committees in 2008 was as follows:
Corporate Non-Executive
Audit Responsibility Nominations Remuneration Directors’ Fees
Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee
Mr P Carroll 9 (9) – – 5 (6) – –
Mr M J Hartnall 8 (9) 6 (6) – – – –
Mr W Havenstein 8 (9) – – – – 1 (1)
Mr A G Inglis 8 (9) – 5 (5) – – –
Mr I G King 7 (9) – – – – –
Sir Peter Mason 9 (9) 6 (6) – 6 (6) 1 (1) –
Mr R L Olver 9 (9) – – 6 (6) – 1 (1)
Mr R Quarta 7 (9) 5 (6) – – 6 (7) –
Mr G W Rose 9 (9) – – – – –
Sir Nigel Rudd 7 (9) – 4 (5) – 7 (7) –
Mr C G Symon
1
5 (5) – – – 3 (3) –
MrMJTurner
2
7 (7) – – – – 1 (1)
Mr R K Uppal
3
7 (7) – 4 (4) – – –
MrPAWeinberg
4
3 (4) – 1 (1) – 1 (2) – BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 95
The Board
The Board comprises a non-executive chairman,eight non-executive
directors and three executive directors.
The Board considers all of the non-executive directors,with the
exception of the Chairman,to be independent for the purposes
of the Combined Code. Each of these directors has been identified
on pages 64 and 65 of this report.
Following appointment to the Board,directors undertake an
induction programme aimed at familiarising them with the
Company. The programme for directors joining during 2008
included the following:
– Directors’ duties,corporate governance and board procedures;
– Business planning and internal control processes;
– Strategy and planning;
– Metrics used to monitor business performance;
– Investor relations;
– Corporate responsibility (including ethical business conduct
and health and safety); and
– Internal Audit.
In addition to the above,as part of the induction process,new
directors will typically visit the Group’s principal operations in
order to meet employees and gain an understanding of the
Group’s products and services. On-going training is provided
for the Board and individual directors as required.
During the year,the Chairman,Dick Olver,retired from the board of
Thomson Reuters plc and was appointed a Business Ambassador
for UK Trade & Investment and became a senior adviser to
Clayton,Dubilier & Rice.
Mr Quarta is a partner in Clayton,Dubilier & Rice (CDR) and
Mr Olver and Sir Nigel Rudd are advisers to that firm. The Board
has considered Mr Quarta’s and Sir Nigel Rudd’s independence
in light of the provisions in paragraph A.3.1 of the Combined
Code concerning significant links with other directors through
involvement with other companies or bodies. Following review,
the Board considers that,for the purposes of the Code,their
relationship through CDR does not constitute a significant link.
In reaching this determination the following matters were taken
into consideration:
– as advisers to CDR Mr Olver and Sir Nigel Rudd have no
management responsibilities or oversight obligations in
respect of CDR or any of its investments; and
– Mr Olver and Sir Nigel Rudd have no involvement with the
companies that Mr Quarta is a director of,or has management
responsibility for,within CDR.
Mr Olver and Sir Nigel Rudd have undertaken to advise the
Board should there be any material change in their relationship
with CDR whilst Mr Quarta has an involvement with that firm.
In 2008 the Board was scheduled to meet eight times and in
addition one day was spent reviewing strategy. Additional Board
meetings are called as required and in total the Board met nine
times during the year.
The Board has appointed Sir Peter Mason as the Senior Independent
Director. Amongst the duties undertaken by Sir Peter during the
year was to meet with the non-executive directors without the
Chairman present to discuss the Chairman’s performance.
The Company’s Articles of Association require that all new
directors seek re-election to the Board at the following Annual
General Meeting (AGM). In addition,all directors are required to
stand down and seek re-election to the Board at least once every
three years.
The Board has set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting
their reasons for supporting the re-election of those directors
seeking re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Internal control
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the
Group’s system of internal controls,including financial,operational
and compliance controls and risk management systems,in
accordance with the Combined Code and the Turnbull guidance
(as revised).
BAE Systems has developed a system of internal control that
was in place throughout 2008 and to the date of this report,
that encompasses,amongst other things,the policies,processes,
tasks and behaviours that,taken together,seek to:
– facilitate the effective and efficient operation of the Company
by enabling it to respond appropriately to significant operational,
financial,compliance and other risks that it faces in carrying out
its business;
– assist in ensuring that internal and external reporting is
accurate and timely,and based on the maintenance of proper
records supported by robust information-gathering processes;
and
– assist in ensuring that the Company complies with applicable
laws and regulations at all times,and also internal policies in
respect of the standards of behaviour and conduct mandated
by the Board.
Reporting within the Company is structured so that key issues are
escalated through the management team ultimately to the Board
if appropriate. The Operational Framework provides a common
framework across the Company for operational and financial
controls,and is reviewed on a regular basis by the Board. The
business policies and processes detailed within the Operational
Framework draw on global best practice and their application is
mandated across the organisation. Lifecycle Management (LCM)
is such a process,and promotes the application of best practice
programme execution and facilitates continuous improvement
across the Group. It considers the whole life of projects from
inception to delivery into service and eventual disposal,and
its application is critical to our capability in delivering projects
to schedule and cost.
Further key processes are Integrated Business Planning (IBP),
Quarterly Business Reviews (QBR) and Performance Centred
Leadership (PCL). The IBP ,approved annually by the Board,results
in an agreed long-term strategy for each operating group,together
with detailed near-term budgets. The QBRs evaluate progress DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Other statutory and regulatory information continued
96 www.baesystems.com
against the IBP and business performance against objectives,
measures and milestones. PCL drives business success by linking
individual goals to those of the organisation,enabling employees
to understand how their own success contributes to the success
of the whole business.
Whilst the quality of the control processes is fundamental to the
overall control environment,the consistent application of these
processes is equally important. The consistent application of
world-class control processes is a key management objective. The
Company is committed to the protection of its assets,which include
human,property and financial resources,through an effective risk
management process,underpinned where appropriate by insurance.
The Internal Audit team independently reviews the risk identification
procedures and control processes implemented by management. It
provides objective assurance as to the operation and validity of the
systems of internal control through a programme of cyclical reviews
making recommendations for business and control improvements
as required.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility
for reviewing in detail the effectiveness of the Company’s system
of internal controls. Having undertaken such reviews,the
Committee reports to the Board on its findings so that the Board
as a whole can take a view on this matter. In order to assist the
Audit Committee and the Board in this review,the Company has
developed the Operational Assurance Statement (OAS) process.
This has been subject to regular review over a number of years,
which has resulted in a number of refinements being made.
The OAS requires that each part of the business completes
a formal review of its compliance against the Operational
Framework,including operational and financial controls,and
risk management processes. It is signed-off by the managing
director of every line of business and relevant functional directors.
The OAS is completed every six months and includes a formal
assessment of business risk.
The overall responsibility for the system of internal control
within BAE Systems rests with the directors of the Company.
Responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control
procedures lies with the line leaders of each operating business.
In line with any system of internal control,the policies and
processes that are mandated in the Operational Framework are
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives,and can only provide reasonable and
not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The responsibility for internal control procedures with joint ventures
and other collaborations rests,on the whole,with the senior
management of those operations. The Company monitors its
investments and exerts influence through Board representation.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities,together with the factors likely
to affect its future development,performance and position are
set out in the Operating group reviews on pages 36 to 44. The
financial position of the Group,including information on order
book,cash flow,treasury policy and liquidity,can be found in the
Financial review on pages 28 to 34. Principal risks are detailed
on pages 58 to 61. In addition,the financial statements include,
amongst other things,notes on finance costs (page 120), loans
and overdrafts (page 134) and financial risk management
(page 155).
After making due enquiries,the directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the accounts.
Relations with shareholders
The Company has a well-developed investor relations programme
managed by the Chief Executive,Group Finance Director and
Investor Relations Director. In addition,the Chairman is in regular
contact with major shareholders and looks to keep them informed
of progress on corporate governance matters. In order to assist in
developing an understanding of the views of major shareholders,
each year the Company commissions a survey of investors
undertaken by external consultants. The results of the survey
are presented to the Board.
The Company maintains a comprehensive Investor Relations website
that provides,amongst other things,information on investing in
BAE Systems and copies of the presentation materials used for
key shareholders presentations. This can be accessed via the
Company’s website,www.baesystems.com
The AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to develop
their understanding of the Company and ask questions on the
matters put to the meeting including this Annual Report. All
shareholders are entitled to vote on the resolutions put to the
AGM and,to ensure that all votes are counted,the Company’s
Articles of Association requires that a poll is taken on all the
resolutions in the Notice of Meeting. The results of the votes
on the resolutions will be published on the Company’s website.
Principal activities
The BAE Systems Group delivers,through its wholly-owned
subsidiaries and equity accounted investments,a full range
of systems and services for air,land and naval forces,as well
as advanced electronics,information technology solutions and
customer support services.
Directors
The current directors who served during the 2008 financial year
are listed on pages 64 to 65. Of those directors,Ravi Uppal was
appointed to the Board on 2 April 2008 and Carl Symon on
11 June 2008. Peter Weinberg served as a director during the
period up to his retirement on 7 May 2008 and Mike Turner
served during the period up to his retirement on 31 August 2008.
Dividend
An interim dividend of 5.8p per share was paid on 1 December
2008. The directors propose a final dividend of 8.7p per ordinary
share. Subject to shareholder approval,the final dividend will be
paid on 1 June 2009 to shareholders on the share register on
24 April 2009. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 97
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The Company’s AGM will be held on 6 May 2009. The Notice of
Annual General Meeting is enclosed with this Annual Report and
details the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
Office of Fair Trading undertakings
As a consequence of the merger between British Aerospace and
the former Marconi Electronics Systems businesses in 1999,
the Company gave certain undertakings to the Secretary of State
for Trade and Industry (now the Secretary of State for Business,
Enterprise and Regulatory Reform). In February 2007,the Company
was released from the majority of these undertakings and the
remainder have been superseded and varied by a new set of
undertakings. Compliance with the undertakings is monitored by a
compliance officer. Further information regarding the undertakings
and the contact details of the compliance officer may be obtained
through the Company Secretary at the Company’s registered office
or through the Company’s website.
Supplier payment policy
It is Group policy that suppliers should be paid in accordance
with the payment terms and conditions stated in the applicable
purchase order. In the UK,the Group is a signatory to the
government’s Prompt Payment Code,under which it has
undertaken to pay suppliers on time,give clear guidance on
payment procedures and encourage the adoption of the code
throughout its supply chain.
The average number of days’ credit provided in 2008 by suppliers
was 34 days (2007 39 days).
Charitable donations
During 2008,the amount donated for charitable purposes in the
UK was £3.4m (2007 £1.4m). Further details of the Company’s
charitable activities are set out on page 54.
Political donations
No political donations were made in 2008.
Structure of share capital
As at 31 December 2008,the Company’s authorised share capital
of £188,750,001 comprised 4,800,000,000 ordinary shares of
2.5p each,275,000,000 7.75p (net) cumulative redeemable
preference shares of 25p each and one Special Share of £1.
As at 31 December 2008,BAE Systems’ issued share capital of
£89,545,439 comprised 3,581,817,533 ordinary shares of 2.5p
each and one Special Share of £1.
Treasury shares
No treasury shares were acquired by the Company during 2008.
As at 1 January 2008,the number of shares held in treasury
totalled 61,945,000 (having a total nominal value of £1,548,625
and representing 1.73% of the Company’s called up share capital
at 1 January 2008). During 2008,the Company used 6,906,047
treasury shares (having a total nominal value of £172,651 and
representing 0.19% of the Company’s called up share capital
at 31 December 2008) to satisfy awards under the Free and
Matching elements of the Share Incentive Plan and options
under the Save-As-You-Earn Share Option Scheme. The 3,562,049
treasury shares utilised in respect of the Share Incentive Plan
were disposed of by the Company for nil consideration; the
3,343,998 treasury shares utilised under the Save-As-You-Earn
Option Scheme were disposed of by the Company for a total
consideration of £3,109,918. As at 31 December 2008,the
number of shares held in treasury totalled 55,038,953 (having
a total nominal value of £1,375,974 and representing 1.54%
of the Company’s called up share capital at 31 December 2008).
The rights to such shares are restricted in accordance with the
Companies Acts and,in particular,the voting rights attaching to
these shares are automatically suspended.
Rights and obligations of ordinary shares
On a show of hands at a general meeting every holder of ordinary
shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall
have one vote and,on a poll,every member present in person or
by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary
share held. Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the
Company’s Articles of Association,holders of ordinary shares
are entitled to a dividend where declared or paid out of profits
available for such purposes. Subject to the relevant statutory
provisions and the Company’s Articles of Association,on a return
of capital on a winding-up,holders of ordinary shares are entitled,
after repayment of the £1 Special Share,to participate in such
a return.
Rights and obligations of the Special Share
The Special Share is held on behalf of the Secretary of State
for Business,Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (the ‘Special
Shareholder’). Certain provisions of the Company’s Articles
of Association cannot be amended without the consent of the
Special Shareholder. These provisions include the requirement
that no foreign person,or foreign persons acting in concert,
can have more than a 15% voting interest in the Company,the
requirement that the majority of the directors are British,the
requirement that decisions of the directors at their meetings,
in their committees or via resolution must be approved by
a majority of British directors and the requirement that the
chief executive and any executive chairman are British.
The holder of the Special Share is entitled to attend a general
meeting,but the Special Share carries no right to vote or any
other rights at any such meeting,other than to speak in relation
to any business in respect of the Special Share. Subject to
the relevant statutory provisions and the Company’s Articles of
Association,on a return of capital on a winding-up,the Special
Share shall be entitled to repayment of the £1 capital paid up
on the Special Share in priority to any repayment of capital to
any other members.
The holder of the Special Share has the right to require the
Company to redeem the Special Share at par or convert the
Special Share into one ordinary share at any time. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Other statutory and regulatory information continued
98 www.baesystems.com
Restrictions on transfer of securities
The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company are
as follows:
– the Special Share may only be issued to,held by and transferred
to the Special Shareholder or his successor or nominee;
– the directors shall not register any allotment or transfer of any
shares to a foreign person,or foreign persons acting in concert,
who at the time have more than a 15% voting interest in the
Company,or who would,following such allotment or transfer,
have such an interest;
– the directors shall not register any person as a holder of any
shares unless they have received: (i) a declaration stating
that upon registration,the share(s) will not be held by foreign
persons or that upon registration the share(s) will be held by
a foreign person or persons; (ii) such evidence (if any) as the
directors may require of the authority of the signatory of the
declaration; and (iii) such evidence or information (if any) as
to the matters referred to in the declaration as the directors
consider appropriate;
– the directors may,in their absolute discretion,refuse to register
any transfer of shares which are not fully paid up (but not so as
to prevent dealings in listed shares from taking place);
– the directors may also refuse to register any instrument of
transfer of shares unless the instrument of transfer is in respect
of only one class of share and it is lodged at the place where
the register of members is kept,accompanied by a relevant
certificate or such other evidence as the directors may
reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to
make the transfer;
– the directors may refuse to register an allotment or transfer
of shares in favour of more than four persons jointly;
– where a shareholder has failed to provide the Company with
certain information relating to their interest in shares,the
directors can,in certain circumstances,refuse to register
a transfer of such shares;
– certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws
and regulations (for example,insider trading laws);
– restrictions may be imposed pursuant to the Listing Rules of
the Financial Services Authority whereby certain of the Group’s
employees require the Company’s approval to deal in shares;
and
– awards of shares made under the Company’s share incentive
plan are subject to restrictions on the transfer of shares
prior to vesting.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between its
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer
of shares and/or voting rights.
Significant direct and indirect holders of securities
As at 18 February 2009,the Company had been advised of the
following significant direct and indirect interests in the issued
ordinary share capital of the Company:
Name of shareholder Percentage notified
AXA S.A. and its group of companies 9.02%
Barclays PLC 3.98%
Franklin Resources Inc,and affiliates 4.92%
Legal & General Group Plc 4.07%
BlackRock,Inc 4.96%
Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes
The Trustees of the employee trusts do not seek to exercise
voting rights on shares held in the employee trusts other than
on the direction of the underlying beneficiaries. No voting
rights are exercised in relation to shares unallocated to
individual beneficiaries.
Restrictions on voting deadlines
The notice of any general meeting shall specify the deadline for
exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote
in relation to resolutions to be proposed at the general meeting.
The number of proxy votes for,against or withheld in respect of
each resolution are publicised on the Company’s website after
the meeting.
Appointment and replacement of directors
Subject to certain nationality requirements mentioned below,
the Company may by ordinary resolution appoint any person to
be a director.
The majority of directors holding office must be British. Otherwise
the directors who are not British shall vacate office in such order
that those who have been in office for the shortest period since
their appointment shall vacate their office first,unless all of the
directors otherwise agree among themselves. Any director who
holds the office of either chairman (in an executive capacity)
or chief executive shall also be British.
The Company must have six directors holding office at all times.
If the number is reduced to below six,then such number of
persons shall be appointed as directors as soon as is reasonably
practicable to reinstate the number of directors to six. The
Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time vary
the minimum number of directors.
At each AGM of the Company,any director who was elected or
last re-elected at or before the AGM held in the third calendar
year before the then current calendar year must retire by rotation
and such further directors must retire by rotation so that in total
one-third of the directors retire by rotation each year. A retiring
director is eligible for re-election.
Amendment of the Company’s Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by
a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders. Where
class rights are varied,such amendments must be approved by
the members of each class of shares separately. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 99
In addition,certain provisions of the Articles of Association cannot
be amended without the consent of the Special Shareholder.
These provisions include the requirement that no foreign person,
or foreign persons acting in concert,can have more than a 15%
voting interest in the Company,the requirement that the majority
of the directors are British,the requirement that decisions of the
directors at their meetings,in their committees or via resolution
must be approved by a majority of British directors and the
requirement that the chief executive and any executive chairman
are British.
At the 2009 AGM a special resolution will be put to shareholders
proposing amendments to the existing Articles of Association
primarily in order to accommodate the provisions of the new
Companies Act 2006.
Powers of the directors
The directors are responsible for the management of the business
of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company
subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the
Memorandum and Articles of Association.
At the 2008 AGM, the directors were given the power to buy
back a maximum number of 351,337,974 ordinary shares at a
minimum price of 2.5p each. The maximum price was an amount
equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations of
the Company’s ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock
Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately
preceding the day on which such ordinary shares are contracted
to be purchased. This power will expire at the earlier of the
conclusion of the 2009 AGM or 30 June 2009. A special resolution
will be proposed at the 2009 AGM to renew the Company’s
authority to acquire its own shares.
At the 2008 AGM,the directors were given the power to issue new
shares up to an amount of £29,275,236. This power will expire
on the earlier of the conclusion of the 2009 AGM or 30 June
2009. Accordingly,a resolution will be proposed at the 2009 AGM
to renew the Company’s authority to issue further new shares.
Conflicts of interest
During 2008 provisions in the Companies Act 2006 concerning
a director’s duties in dealing with actual or potential conflicts of
interest became effective. In accordance with these provisions,
shareholders approved changes to the Company’s Articles of
Association to allow directors to authorise such conflicts.
To avoid potential conflicts of interest the Board requires the
Nominations Committee to check that any individuals it nominates
for appointment to the Board are free of potential conflicts,and
the committee’s terms of reference were amended in 2008 to
reflect this. In addition,the Board’s procedures and the induction
programme for new directors emphasise a director’s personal
responsibility for complying with the duties relating to conflicts of
interest. The procedure adopted by the Board for the authorisation
of conflicts reminds directors of the need to consider their duties
as directors and not grant an authorisation unless they believe,
in good faith,that this would be likely to promote the success of
the Company. As required by law,the potentially conflicted director
cannot vote on an authorisation resolution or be counted in the
quorum. Any authorisation granted may be terminated at any
time and the director is informed of the obligation to inform the
Company without delay should there be any material change in
the nature of the conflict or potential conflict so authorised. The
Nominations Committee has been asked to review on an annual
basis any authorisations granted and to make recommendations
to the Board as appropriate.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with all its
current directors and those persons who were directors for any
part of 2008 which are qualifying indemnity provisions for the
purpose of the Companies Act 2006. A similar indemnity has
been provided to Sir Richard Evans,a former director who retired
from the Board on 30 June 2004 but up to 29 February 2008 was
employed by the Company in a part-time customer relationship role.
The directors of BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan Trustees Limited
and BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme Trustees Limited
benefit from indemnities in the governing documentation of the
BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan and the BAE Systems Executive
Pension Scheme,respectively,which are qualifying indemnity
provisions for the purpose of the Companies Act 2006.
All such indemnity provisions are in force as at the date of this
Directors’ report.
Change of control – significant agreements
The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling
the counterparties to exercise termination,alteration or other
similar rights in the event of a change of control of the Company:
– The Group has entered into a £1.5bn Revolving Credit Facility
dated 1 February 2005 (as amended) and a £500m Letter of
Credit Facility dated 27 March 2006,which provide that,in the
event of a change of control of the Company,the lenders are
entitled to renegotiate terms,or if no agreement is reached
on negotiated terms within a certain period,to call for the
repayment or cancellation of the facilities. The Revolving
Credit Facility was undrawn as at 31 December 2008.
– The Company has entered into a Restated and Amended
Shareholders Agreement with European Aeronautic Defence
and Space Company EADS N.V. (EADS) and Finmeccanica S.p.A
(Finmeccanica) relating to MBDA S.A.S. dated 18 December
2001 (as amended). In the event that control of the Company
passes to certain specified third party acquirors,the agreement
allows EADS and Finmeccanica to exercise an option to terminate
certain executive management level nomination and voting rights
and certain shareholder information rights of the Company in
relation to the MBDA joint venture. Following the exercise of this
option,the Company would have the right to require the other
shareholders to purchase its interest in MBDA at fair market
value. The Company and EADS have agreed that if Finmeccanica
acquires a controlling interest in the Company,EADS will
increase its shareholding in MBDA to 50% by purchasing the
appropriate number of shares in MBDA at fair market value. DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Other statutory and regulatory information continued
100 www.baesystems.com
– The Company,BAE Systems North America Inc. (now BAE Systems,
Inc.) and BAE Systems Holdings Inc. entered into a Special
Security Agreement dated 29 November 2000 with the
US Department of Defense regarding the management of
BAE Systems,Inc. in order to comply with the US government’s
national security requirements. In the event of a change of
control of the Company,the Agreement may be terminated
or altered by the US Department of Defense.
– The Company has entered into a Joint Venture Agreement with
VT Group plc and BVT Surface Fleet Limited dated 1 July 2008.
In the event that a third party (together,if applicable,with
persons acting in concert with any such third party) acquires
a controlling interest of greater than 30% in the Company,
VT Group plc may exercise a put option requiring the Company
to purchase its interest in BVT Surface Fleet Limited at the higher
of £380m and the fair market value on exit of such interest,
subject to downward adjustment for certain matters.
In addition,the Company’s share plans contain provisions as a result
of which options and awards may vest and become exercisable on
a change of control of the Company in accordance with the rules
of the plans.
Persons with whom the Company has essential contractual and
other arrangements
The Company’s largest customers for its products and services
are the governments of the United Kingdom,the United States,the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia. In the US,BAE Systems
is subject to the Special Security Agreement that safeguards
US national security interests,as a result of which BAE Systems
is allowed to supply products and services of a highly sensitive
nature to the US government. Likewise,in Australia,BAE Systems
is subject to an Overarching Deed with the Commonwealth of
Australia that protects the Commonwealth of Australia’s national
security and other interests and allows the Company to own certain
Australian defence-related industrial assets. Agreements between
the governments of the United Kingdom and the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia relating to defence co-operation programmes continue to
remain essential to the development of the Company’s business
in Saudi Arabia.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc,the auditors for the Company,have indicated
their willingness to continue in office and a resolution proposing
their re-appointment will be put to the AGM.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect
of the Annual Report and financial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and
the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable
law,and have elected to prepare the parent company financial
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and
applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as
adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the
performance of the Group; the Companies Act 1985 provides
in relation to such financial statements that references in the
relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true
and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial
statements,the directors are required to:
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
– make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
– for the Group financial statements,state whether they have
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
– for the parent company financial statements,state whether
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained
in the parent company financial statements; and
– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the
parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the parent company and enable them to
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies
Act 1985. They have general responsibility for taking such steps
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations,the directors are also
responsible for preparing a directors’ report,directors’
remuneration report and corporate governance statement
that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation
in other jurisdictions. BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 101
Statement of disclosure of information to auditors
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this
Directors’ report confirm that,so far as they are each aware,there
is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors
are unaware; and each director has taken all the steps that he
ought to have taken to make himself aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are
aware of that information.
Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the
annual financial report
Each of the directors listed below confirms that to the best of
his knowledge:
– the financial statements,prepared in accordance with the
applicable set of accounting standards,give a true and fair view
of the assets,liabilities,financial position and profit or loss of
the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation
taken as a whole; and
– the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development
and performance of the business,and the position of the
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation
taken as a whole,together with a description of the principal
risks and uncertainties that they face.
Dick Olver Chairman
Ian King Chief Executive
Walt Havenstein Chief Operating Officer – BAE Systems,Inc.
George Rose Group Finance Director
Phil Carroll Non-executive director
Michael Hartnall Non-executive director
Andy Inglis Non-executive director
Sir Peter Mason Non-executive director
Roberto Quarta Non-executive director
Sir Nigel Rudd Non-executive director
Carl Symon Non-executive director
Ravi Uppal Non-executive director
By order of the Board
David Parkes Company Secretary
18 February 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Financial
statementsand
shareholder
information
Financial statements and
shareholder information contents
Independent auditors’ report 105
Consolidated financial statements 106
Notes to the Group accounts 110
Company balance sheet 159
Notes to the Company accounts 160
Five-year summary 168
Shareholder information 170
Financial calendar 171
Glossary 172
Annual Report online 173
Shareholder feedback 173
6
Detica NerveCentre uses interactive
whiteboards to facilitate presentations,
demonstrations and discussions.
Fully integrated into the Detica
NerveCentre technical infrastructure,
these whiteboards enable Detica
staff and clients to work collaboratively
and efficiently,capturing ideas and
solutions generated in digital form.
102 www.baesystems.com BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Index to the accounts 
www.baesystems.com 104 
 Note Page Note Page
Independent auditors’ report to the members  
of BAE Systems plc 
 
105
    
  
Index to the Group accounts Index to the Company accounts 
Accounting policies 1 110 Accounting policies 1 160
Acquisition of subsidiaries 31 151 Company balance sheet 159
Changes in accounting policies 2 115 Contingent liabilities and commitments 10 165
Consolidated balance sheet 107Creditors 8 164
Consolidated cash flow statement  108 Current asset investments 5 163
Consolidated income statement 106Debtors 4 163
Employee share schemes 12 166 Consolidated statement of recognised income  
and expense 
109 Fixed asset investments 3 162
Contingent liabilities and commitments 24 142 Loans and overdrafts 7 164
Disposal groups 19 133 Other financial assets and liabilities 6 163
Disposals 9 124 Other information 15 167
Dividends 30 150 Provisions for liabilities and charges 9 164
Earnings per share 10 125Reserves 13 167
Employees and directors 7 121 Share capital 11 165
Equity accounted investments 14 130 Statutory reserve 14 167
Events after the balance sheet date 35 158 Tangible fixed assets 2 162
Finance costs 6 120 
Financial risk management 32 155 
Five-year summary 168 
Group entities 34 158 
Intangible assets 11 126 
Inventories 18 133 
Investment property 13 129 
Loans and overdrafts 20 134 
Net cash as defined by the Group 29 149 
Operating costs 4 119 
Other financial assets and liabilities 17 133 
Other income 5 120 
Other investments 15 131 
Property, plant and equipment 12 127 
Provisions 23 141 
Reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves 27 147 
Reconciliation of operating business cash flow 28 148 
Related party transactions 33 158 
Retirement benefit obligations 22 136 
Segmental analysis 3 116 
Share-based payments 26 144 
Share capital 25 143 
Tax 8 122 
Trade and other payables 21 135 
Trade and other receivables 16 132 
    
Independent auditors’ report to the members of BAE Systems plc 
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 105
We have audited the Group and parent company financial 
statements (the financial statements) of BAE Systems plc for the 
year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Consolidated 
Income Statement, the Consolidated and Company Balance 
Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated 
Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related 
notes. These financial statements have been prepared under  
the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited  
the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is 
described as having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a  
body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act  
1985. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might  
state to the Company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and  
the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this  
report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report  
and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent company financial 
statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report in accordance 
with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of 
Directors’ Responsibilities on page 100. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance 
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial 
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial 
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report  
to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with  
the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to  
you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ 
Report is consistent with the financial statements.  
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has 
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all  
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration  
and other transactions is not disclosed. 
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects 
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of  
the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We 
are not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on 
internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on 
the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures 
or its risk and control procedures. 
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report  
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial 
statements. We consider the implications for our report if we 
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material 
inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our responsibilities 
do not extend to any other information. 
Basis of audit opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing 
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, 
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the 
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the 
significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in  
the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and Company’s 
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed. 
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 
information and explanations which we considered necessary  
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from 
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other 
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the 
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial 
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report  
to be audited. 
Opinion 
In our opinion: 
– the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of  
the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit  
for the year then ended; 
– the Group financial statements have been properly prepared  
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of  
the IAS Regulation; 
– the parent company financial statements give a true and fair 
view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice, of the state of the parent company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2008; 
– the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; 
and 
– the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with 
the financial statements. 
KPMG Audit Plc 
Chartered Accountants  
Registered Auditor  
London 
18 February 2009  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Consolidated income statement 
for the year ended 31 December 
www.baesystems.com 106 
 
Notes
2008
£m 
Total 
2008 
£m  
2007
£m 
Total
2007
£m
Continuing operations   
Combined sales of Group and equity accounted investments 3 18,543  15,710
 Less: share of sales of equity accounted investments 3 (1,872) (1,401)
Revenue 3 16,671  14,309
Operating costs 4 (15,386) (13,480)
Other income 5 415  209
   
Group operating profit excluding amortisation and impairment  
of intangible assets 2,003  1,335
Amortisation 11 (247)  (149)
Impairment  11 (56)  (148)
Group operating profit 1,700  1,038
Share of results of equity accounted investments excluding finance 
costs and taxation expense 132  142
Financial income of equity accounted investments 44  35
Taxation expense of equity accounted investments (37)  (38)
Share of results of equity accounted investments 14 139  139
Impairment in respect of equity accounted investments 14 (121)  –
Contribution from equity accounted investments 18  139
   
EBITA
1
 excluding profit on disposal of businesses and uplift on  
acquired inventories 1,897  1,449
Profit on disposal of businesses
2
 9 238  40
Uplift on acquired inventories (included in operating costs) –  (12)
EBITA
1
 2,135  1,477
Amortisation (247)  (149)
Impairments  (177)  (148)
Financial income of equity accounted investments 44  35
Taxation expense of equity accounted investments (37)  (38)
Operating profit 3 1,718  1,177
Finance costs 6  
 Financial income 3,380  1,257
 Financial expense (2,727)  (1,199)
 653  58
Profit before taxation 2,371  1,235
Taxation expense 8  
 UK taxation (351)  (201)
 Overseas taxation (252)  (134)
 (603) (335)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 1,768  900
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 9 –  22
Profit for the year 1,768  922
   
Attributable to:   
 BAE Systems shareholders 1,745  901
 Minority interests 23  21
 1,768  922
   
Earnings per share 10  
Continuing operations:   
 Basic earnings per share 49.6p  26.0p
 Diluted earnings per share 49.5p  25.8p
Discontinued operations:   
 Basic earnings per share –  0.6p
 Diluted earnings per share –  0.6p
Total:   
 Basic earnings per share 49.6p  26.6p
 Diluted earnings per share 49.5p  26.4p
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense.  
2 Comprises a loss of £nil in operating costs (2007 £8m) and a profit of £238m in other income (2007 £48m).   
Consolidated balance sheet 
as at 31 December 
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 107
Notes  
2008
£m
2007
£m
Non-current assets   
Intangible assets 11  12,306 9,559
Property, plant and equipment 12  2,446 1,774
Investment property 13  112 113
Equity accounted investments 14  1,034 781
Other investments 15  6 6
Other receivables 16  162 322
Other financial assets 17  514 48
Deferred tax assets 8  1,026 567
   17,606 13,170
Current assets   
Inventories 18  926 701
Trade and other receivables including amounts due from customers for contract work 16  3,831 2,933
Current tax   14 35
Other investments 15  – 164
Other financial assets 17  674 101
Cash and cash equivalents   2,624 3,062
   8,069 6,996
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 19  – 94
   8,069 7,090
Total assets 3  25,675 20,260
Non-current liabilities   
Loans 20  (2,608) (2,197)
Trade and other payables 21  (701) (413)
Retirement benefit obligations 22  (3,365) (1,629)
Other financial liabilities 17  (383) (26)
Deferred tax liabilities 8  (80) (40)
Provisions 23  (459) (399)
   (7,596) (4,704)
Current liabilities   
Loans and overdrafts 20  (173) (299)
Trade and other payables 21  (9,165) (8,245)
Other financial liabilities 17  (362) (71)
Current tax   (704) (499)
Provisions 23  (386) (410)
   (10,790) (9,524)
Liabilities directly associated with disposal groups held for sale 19  – (30)
   (10,790) (9,554)
Total liabilities 3  (18,386) (14,258)
Net assets   7,289 6,002
   
Capital and reserves   
Issued share capital 25, 27  90 90
Share premium 27  1,238 1,222
Other reserves 27  5,974 4,631
Retained earnings 27  (68) 23
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent   7,234 5,966
Minority interests 27  55 36
Total equity   7,289 6,002
Approved by the Board on 18 February 2009 and signed on its behalf by: 
I G King G W Rose 
Chief Executive Group Finance Director  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Consolidated cash flow statement  
for the year ended 31 December 
www.baesystems.com 108 
Notes 
2008 
£m 
2007
£m
Profit for the year from continuing operations  1,768 900
Profit for the year from discontinued operations  – 22
Profit for the year  1,768 922
Taxation expense   603 335
Share of results of equity accounted investments  14 (139) (139)
Net finance costs   (653) (58)
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment  755 610
(Gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4, 5 (33) 3
Gain on disposal of investment property 5 (5) (47)
Gain on disposal of non-current other investments  – (8)
Gain on disposal of businesses – continuing operations 4, 5 (238) (40)
Gain on disposal of businesses – discontinued operations 9 – (22)
Cost of equity-settled employee share schemes  51 34
Movements in provisions  (115) 52
Decrease in liabilities for retirement benefit obligations  (272) (233)
Decrease/(increase) in working capital:   
 Inventories  46 (188)
 Trade and other receivables  (5) (271)
 Trade and other payables  246 1,212
Cash inflow from operating activities  2,009 2,162
Interest paid  (249) (224)
Interest element of finance lease rental payments  (5) (6)
Taxation paid  (261) (112)
Net cash inflow from operating activities  1,494 1,820
Dividends received from equity accounted investments  14 89 78
Interest received  156 175
Purchases of property, plant and equipment  (520) (307)
Purchases of intangible assets  (32) (31)
Equity accounted investment funding  – (4)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  44 13
Proceeds from sale of investment property  5 53
Proceeds from sale of non-current other investments  – 15
Purchase of non-current other investments 15 – (1)
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings 29, 31 (1,078) (1,731)
Cash and cash equivalents acquired with subsidiary undertakings 29 2 6
Purchase of equity accounted investments 29 (12) (1)
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary undertakings 9 131 96
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of with subsidiary undertakings 29 (60) (1)
Proceeds from sale of equity accounted investments 9 16 57
Proceeds from sale of other deposits  164 343
Net cash outflow from investing activities  (1,095) (1,240)
Capital element of finance lease rental payments  (18) (25)
Proceeds from issue of share capital 27 16 805
Purchase of treasury shares 27 – (152)
Purchase of own shares  27 (43) (50)
Equity dividends paid 30 (478) (396)
Dividends paid to minority interests  (11) (1)
Dividends paid on preference shares  – (10)
Cash outflow from matured derivative financial instruments  (440) (14)
Cash inflow from reduction in cash collateral  106 9
Cash outflow from repayment of loans  (306) (777)
Net cash outflow from financing activities  (1,174) (611)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents  (775) (31)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  3,046 3,074
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents  334 3
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  2,605 3,046
Comprising:    
 Cash and cash equivalents  2,624 3,062
 Overdrafts  (19) (16)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  2,605 3,046  
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 
for the year ended 31 December 
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 109
Notes  
2008
£m
2007
£m
Currency translation on foreign currency net investments:   
 Subsidiaries   807 (1)
 Equity accounted investments 14  197 43
Amounts credited to hedging reserve   469 41
Net actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension schemes:   
 Subsidiaries   (1,937) 544
 Equity accounted investments   (60) 24
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments   – 5
Current tax on items taken directly to equity 8  58 96
Deferred tax on items taken directly to equity:   
 Subsidiaries 8  425 (259)
 Tax rate adjustment
1
 8  – (19)
 Equity accounted investments   17 (6)
Recycling of fair value movements on disposal of available-for-sale investments   – (6)
Recycling of cumulative currency translation on disposal:   
 Continuing operations   1 –
Net (expense)/income recognised directly in equity   (23) 462
Profit for the year   1,768 922
Total recognised income and expense   1,745 1,384
   
Attributable to:   
 Equity shareholders   1,722 1,363
 Minority interests   23 21
   1,745 1,384
1 The UK current tax rate was reduced from 30% to 28% with effect from 1 April 2008. In 2007, in line with this change, the rate applying to UK deferred tax assets and liabilities was also 
reduced from 30% to 28%, creating a rate adjustment, which was partly reflected in the Consolidated income statement and partly in the Consolidated statement of recognised income  
and expense. 
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts 
www.baesystems.com 110 
1. Accounting policies  
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation  
of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. 
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years 
presented, unless otherwise stated.  
Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements of BAE Systems plc have 
been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), International Financial 
Reporting Interpretations Committee interpretations (IFRICs)  
and the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting 
under IFRS. 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds 
sterling and, unless stated otherwise, rounded to the nearest 
million. They have been prepared under the historical cost 
convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale 
financial assets, and other relevant financial assets and financial 
liabilities (including derivative instruments). 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with  
IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates  
and judgements. 
The directors consider the potential key areas of judgements 
required to be made in applying the Group’s accounting policies. 
These relate to:  
– the determination of the revenue recognition approach to apply 
to individual contracts; 
– the classification of financial assets or liabilities; 
– the classification of retirement benefit plans between defined 
benefit and defined contribution arrangements; and 
– the classification of investments as subsidiaries, equity 
accounted investments or otherwise. 
The directors do not consider that the practical application of  
the judgements is significantly uncertain or subjective in nature. 
An analysis and explanation of the critical accounting estimates 
and judgements used in producing this set of financial statements 
is made in the Directors’ report on pages 33 and 34. 
Basis of consolidation 
The financial statements of the Group consolidate the results  
of the Company and its subsidiary entities, and include its share 
of its joint ventures’ and associates’ results accounted for under 
the equity method, all of which are prepared to 31 December. 
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group. Control is the 
power to govern the operating and financial policies of the entity 
so as to obtain benefits from its activities. Subsidiaries include 
the special purpose entities that the Group transacted through  
for the provision of guarantees in respect of residual values and 
head lease and finance payments on certain regional aircraft sold. 
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for  
the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of the 
acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, 
equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed  
at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and 
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are 
measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.  
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the 
Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded 
as goodwill. The results of such subsidiaries are included in the 
consolidated income statement from the date of acquisition, up  
to the date of disposal. 
An entity is regarded as a joint venture if the Group has joint 
control over its operating and financial policies. An entity is 
regarded as an associate if the Group has significant influence, 
but not control, over its operating and financial policies. Joint 
ventures and associates are accounted for under the equity 
method where the Group’s income statement includes its share  
of their profits and losses and the Group’s balance sheet includes 
its share of their net assets. 
Where the Group contributes a business, or other non-monetary 
assets for an interest in a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, 
such transactions are recorded so that the reduction in ownership 
of the business being contributed is accounted for as a disposal 
while the increased interest in the enlarged Group or new interest 
in the business contributed by other parties to the transaction is 
accounted for as an acquisition. Fair values are applied to those 
operations which are subject to the exchange and which have not 
previously been held within the Group. Any loss or gain resulting 
from the transaction is recorded in the income statement.  
Goodwill 
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible 
assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates 
is included in the carrying value of equity accounted investments. 
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost  
less accumulated impairment losses. Gains and losses on the 
disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill 
relating to the entity sold. 
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose  
of impairment testing. 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to 
IFRS (1 January 2004) has been retained at the previous UK GAAP 
amounts, as any amounts related to intangible assets that would 
have been recorded in the acquired entity if it had applied IAS 38 
Intangible Assets at the date it was acquired by the Group were 
considered immaterial, after being tested for impairment at that 
date. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 
has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any 
subsequent profit or loss on disposal. 
Impairment 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s intangible assets, property, 
plant and equipment, and equity accounted investments are 
reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there 
is any indication of impairment as required by IAS 36 Impairment 
of Assets. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable 
amount is estimated. For intangible assets that are not yet 
available for use, and goodwill, the recoverable amount is 
estimated at each balance sheet date. All other assets are 
considered for impairment under the relevant standard. 
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of  
an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. 
The recoverable amount of assets carried at amortised cost is 
calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows, 
discounted at appropriate pre-tax discount rates. Receivables  
with a short-term duration are not discounted. 
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair 
value less cost to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, 
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present 
value using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate. 
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash 
inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-
generating unit to which the asset belongs.   
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 111
1. Accounting policies continued  
An impairment loss in respect of assets, other than goodwill, 
carried at amortised cost is reversed if the subsequent increase  
in recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event 
occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. An 
impairment loss in respect of an equity investment classified  
as available-for-sale is not reversed through profit or loss.  
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. An 
impairment loss in respect of other assets is reversed if there has 
been a change in the estimate used to determine the recoverable 
amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the 
asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation,  
if no impairment loss had been recognised. 
Revenue and profit recognition 
Sales include the Group’s net share of sales of joint ventures and 
associates. Revenue represents sales made by the Company and 
its subsidiary undertakings, excluding the Group’s share of sales 
of joint ventures and associates. 
Long-term contracts 
The majority of the Group’s long-term contract arrangements  
are accounted for under IAS 11 Construction Contracts. Sales  
are recognised when the Group has obtained the right to 
consideration in exchange for its performance. This is usually 
when title passes or a separately identifiable phase (milestone)  
of a contract or development has been completed and accepted 
by the customer. 
No profit is recognised on contracts until the outcome of the 
contract can be reliably estimated. Profit is calculated by reference 
to reliable estimates of contract revenue and forecast costs after 
making suitable allowances for technical and other risks related to 
performance milestones yet to be achieved. When it is probable that 
total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected 
loss is recognised immediately as an expense. 
Goods sold and services rendered 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received 
or receivable, net of returns, rebates and other similar allowances.  
Revenue from the sale of goods not under a long-term contract is 
recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and 
rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, recovery 
of the consideration is probable, there is no continuing management 
involvement with the goods, and the amount of revenue and costs 
can be measured reliably. Profit is recognised at the time of sale. 
Revenue from the provision of services not under a long-term 
contract is recognised in the income statement in proportion  
to the stage of completion of the contract at the reporting date. 
Sales and profits on intercompany trading are generally 
determined on an arm’s length basis. 
Lease income 
Rental income from aircraft operating leases is recognised in 
revenue on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant 
lease. Lease incentives granted are charged to the income 
statement over the term of the lease. 
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange 
rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets  
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated 
at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. These 
exchange differences are recognised in the consolidated income 
statement unless they qualify for net investment hedge accounting 
treatment, in which case the effective portion is recognised 
directly in a separate component of equity. 
For consolidation purposes, the assets and liabilities of overseas 
subsidiary entities, joint ventures and associates are translated  
at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. Income 
statements of such entities are translated at average rates  
of exchange during the year. All resulting exchange differences, 
including exchange differences arising from the translation of 
borrowings and other financial instruments designated as hedges 
of such investments, are recognised directly in a separate 
component of equity. 
Translation differences that arose before the transition date  
to IFRS (1 January 2004) are presented in equity but not as  
a separate component. When a foreign operation is sold, the 
cumulative exchange differences recognised since 1 January  
2004 are recognised in the income statement as part of the  
profit or loss on sale. 
Research and development 
The Group undertakes research and development activities either 
on its own behalf or on behalf of customers. 
Group-funded expenditure on research activities is written off  
as incurred and charged to the income statement. 
Group-funded expenditure on development activities applied to a 
plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved 
products and processes is capitalised as an internally generated 
intangible asset if certain conditions are met. The expenditure 
capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and 
related overheads. Capitalised development expenditure is stated 
at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Capitalised development expenditure is amortised over the 
expected life of the product.  
Where the research and development activity is performed for 
customers, the revenue arising is recognised in accordance with 
the Group’s revenue recognition policy above. 
Other intangible assets 
Acquired computer software licences for use within the Group  
are capitalised as an intangible asset on the basis of the costs 
incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software. 
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable 
and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will 
probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one 
year, are recognised as intangible assets. Capitalised software 
development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment losses. Group-funded expenditure 
associated with enhancing or maintaining computer software 
programmes for sale is recognised as an expense as incurred. 
Trademarks and licences have definite useful lives and are carried 
at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Intangible assets arising from a business combination are 
recognised at fair value, amortised over their estimated useful 
lives and subject to impairment testing. 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets. 
The estimated useful lives are as follows: 
Acquired computer software licences  2 to 5 years 
Capitalised software development 2 to 5 years 
Trademarks and licences  up to 20 years 
Other intangibles  up to 10 years  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
 
www.baesystems.com 
1. Accounting policies continued 
112 
Property, plant and equipment 
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of  
self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct 
labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads. 
Depreciation is provided, normally on a straight-line basis, to  
write off the cost of property, plant and equipment over their 
estimated useful lives to any estimated residual value, using  
the following rates: 
Buildings  up to 50 years, or the 
lease term if shorter 
Research equipment  8 years 
Computing equipment, motor vehicles 
and short-life works equipment  
3 to 5 years 
Aircraft  up to 15 years, or the 
lease term if shorter 
Other equipment  10 to 15 years, or the 
project life if shorter 
In the Group’s US businesses, depreciation is normally provided 
on a basis consistent with cost reimbursement profiles under US 
government contracts. Typically this provides for a faster rate of 
depreciation than would otherwise arise on a straight-line basis. 
No depreciation is provided on freehold land and assets in the 
course of construction. 
The assets’ residual values, useful lives and depreciation 
methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each 
balance sheet date. Where applicable, useful lives reflect the 
component accounting principle. 
Assets obtained under finance leases are included in property, 
plant and equipment and stated at an amount equal to the lower 
of the fair value and the present value of the minimum lease 
payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses. 
Investment property 
Land and buildings that are leased to non-Group entities  
are classified as investment property. The Group measures 
investment property at its cost less accumulated depreciation  
and accumulated impairment losses. 
Depreciation is provided, on a straight-line basis, to write off the 
cost of investment property over its estimated useful life of up  
to 50 years. 
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and 
adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. 
Other investments 
The Group determines the classification of its other investments 
at initial recognition taking account of, where relevant, the 
purpose for which the investments were acquired. The Group 
classifies its other investments as follows: 
(a) loans and receivables: term deposits, principally comprising 
funds held with banks and other financial institutions, are 
carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method;  
(b) at fair value through profit or loss: financial instruments held 
for trading or designated by management on initial recognition. 
They are held at fair value and included in non-current assets 
unless management intends to dispose of the investment 
within 12 months of the balance sheet date;  
(c) held to maturity: non-derivative financial assets with fixed or 
determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Group’s 
management has the positive intention and ability to hold to 
maturity. During the year, the Group did not hold any 
investments in this category; 
(d) available-for-sale: investments other than interests in joint 
ventures and associates and term deposits and not classified 
as (b) or (c) above. They are held at fair value and included in 
non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of 
the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date. 
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised at the  
date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. 
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction 
costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit 
or loss. 
Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash 
flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred 
and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards 
of ownership. 
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes  
in the fair value of the investments classified as at fair value 
through profit or loss are included in finance costs in the income 
statement in the period in which they arise. Unrealised gains  
or losses arising from changes in the fair value of investments 
classified as available-for-sale are recognised in equity. When 
investments classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, 
the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income 
statement as gains and losses from investment securities within 
finance costs. 
The fair values of quoted investments are based on bid prices  
at the balance sheet date. 
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost 
less impairment losses. A provision for impairment is established 
when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able  
to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the 
receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, 
probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial 
reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are 
considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.  
Amounts due from customers for contract work include long-term 
contract balances less attributable progress payments. 
Long-term contract balances are stated at cost, plus attributable 
profit, less provision for any anticipated losses. Appropriate 
provisions for any losses are made in the year in which they  
are first foreseen.  
Progress payments are amounts received from customers in 
accordance with the terms of contracts which specify payments  
in advance of delivery and are credited, as progress payments, 
against any expenditure incurred for the particular contract. Any 
unexpended balance in respect of progress payments is held in 
trade and other payables as customer stage payments or, if the 
amounts are subject to advance payment guarantees unrelated to 
company performance, as cash received on customers’ account. 
Cash received on customers’ account is excluded from net 
cash/(debt) as defined by the Group. 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, including all relevant 
overhead expenditure, and net realisable value.    
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 113
1. Accounting policies continued  
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, call deposits 
and other short-term liquid investments with original maturities of 
three months or less and which are subject to an insignificant risk 
of change in value. For the purpose of the cash flow statement, 
cash and cash equivalents also includes bank overdrafts that are 
repayable on demand. 
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as assets 
held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell if their carrying amount is to be recovered 
principally through a sale transaction rather than through 
continuing use. 
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly 
probable and expected to be completed within a year from the 
classification. In addition, the asset (or disposal group) is to  
be available for immediate sale in its present condition and is 
actively being marketed at a price that is reasonable in relation  
to its current fair value. 
Loans and overdrafts 
Loans and overdrafts are recognised initially at fair value, less 
attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
loans and overdrafts are stated at amortised cost or fair value  
in respect of the hedged risk where hedge accounting has been 
adopted, with any difference between cost and redemption value 
being recognised in the income statement over the period of the 
borrowings on an effective interest basis. 
Borrowing costs 
Borrowing costs in connection with the acquisition or construction  
of items of property, plant and equipment, investment property 
and inventories are not capitalised. 
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are stated at their cost. 
Leases 
Assets obtained under finance leases are included in property, plant 
and equipment at cost and are depreciated over their useful lives, or 
the lease term, whichever is the shorter. Future instalments under 
such leases, net of financing costs, are included within loans. Rental 
payments are apportioned between the finance element, which is 
included in finance costs, and the capital element, which reduces the 
outstanding obligation for future instalments, so as to give a constant 
charge on the outstanding obligation. 
Payments, including any incentives, made under operating leases 
are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term. 
Assets held for leasing out under operating leases are included in 
property, plant and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and accumulated impairment losses. Rental income is recognised 
in revenue on a straight-line basis. 
Assets leased out under finance leases cease to be recognised  
in the balance sheet after the inception of the lease. Instead, a 
finance lease receivable, representing the discounted future lease 
payments to be received from the lessee plus any discounted 
unguaranteed residual value, is recorded as a long-term financial 
asset. Interest income is recognised in the income statement as 
it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset. 
Derivative financial instruments 
The global nature of the Group’s business means it is exposed to 
volatility in currency exchange rates. In order to protect itself against 
currency fluctuations, the Group’s policy is to hedge all material firm 
transactional exposures as well as to manage anticipated economic 
cash flow exposures over the medium term. The Group also uses 
interest rate derivative instruments to manage the Group’s exposure 
to interest rate fluctuations on its borrowings and deposits by 
varying the proportion of fixed rate debt relative to floating rate  
debt over the forward time horizon. The Group aims to achieve 
hedge accounting treatment for all derivatives that hedge material 
foreign currency exposures and those interest rate exposures where 
hedge accounting can be achieved. 
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold 
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, 
derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted 
for as trading instruments. 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, such instruments are stated at  
fair value at the balance sheet date. Where a derivative financial 
instrument is designated as a hedge of cash flows relating to  
a highly probable forecast transaction (income or expense), the 
effective portion of any change in the fair value of the instrument is 
recognised directly in reserves. Amounts recognised in reserves are 
recycled from reserves into the cost of the underlying transaction 
and recognised in the income statement when the underlying 
transaction affects profit or loss. The ineffective portion of any 
change in the fair value of the instrument is recognised in the 
income statement immediately. Where a derivative financial 
instrument is designated as a fair value hedge, changes in the fair 
value of the underlying asset or liability, and gains and losses on 
the derivative instrument, are recognised in the income statement 
for the period. Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments 
that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the 
income statement for the period.  
Tax 
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and 
deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly  
in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income  
for the year, using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect 
of previous years. 
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet liability 
method, on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts 
used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are 
not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial 
recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor 
taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries 
to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable 
future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected 
manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets 
and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will 
be realised. 
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of 
dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability  
to pay the related dividend.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
 
www.baesystems.com 
1. Accounting policies continued 
114 
Provisions 
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group 
has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be 
required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably 
estimated. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by 
discounting the expected future cash flows at an appropriate  
pre-tax discount rate. 
A provision for warranties is recognised when the underlying  
products and services are sold. The provision is based on 
historical warranty data and a weighting of all possible outcomes 
against their associated probabilities. 
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has 
approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the 
restructuring has either commenced or has been publicly 
announced. Future operating costs are not provided for. 
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected 
benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than 
the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract. 
Provisions for losses on contracts are recorded when it becomes 
probable that total estimated contract costs will exceed total 
contract revenues. Such provisions are recorded as write downs  
of work-in-progress for that portion of the work which has already 
been completed, and as liability provisions for the remainder. 
Losses are determined on the basis of estimated results on 
completion of contracts and are updated regularly. 
Employee benefits – Pension obligations 
Group companies operate various pension plans. The Group  
has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.  
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans 
are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred. 
For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing benefits 
is determined periodically by independent actuaries and charged 
to the income statement in the period in which those benefits  
are earned by the employees. Actuarial gains and losses are 
recognised in full in the period in which they occur, and are 
recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense. 
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent the 
benefits are already vested, or otherwise is recognised on a 
straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits 
become vested. 
The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet 
represent the present value of the defined benefit obligations as 
adjusted for unrecognised past service cost and as reduced by  
the fair value of scheme assets. 
Long-term service benefits – Equity and equity-related  
compensation benefits 
The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share options to 
employees. In accordance with the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-
based Payments, the Group has applied IFRS 2 to all equity-settled 
share options granted after 7 November 2002 that were unvested 
as of 1 January 2005 and all cash-settled options outstanding at 
the balance sheet date. 
As explained in note 26, equity-settled share options are 
measured at fair value at the date of grant using an option pricing 
model. The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the 
vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the number of 
shares that will actually vest. 
Cash-settled share options are measured at fair value at the 
balance sheet date using an option pricing model. The Group 
recognises a liability at the balance sheet date based on these 
fair values, and taking into account the estimated number of the 
options that will actually vest and the relative completion of the 
vesting period. Changes in the value of this liability are recognised 
in the income statement for the year. 
Preference share capital 
In 2007, the Group’s 7.75p (net) cumulative redeemable 
preference shares of 25p each were converted into the Group’s 
ordinary shares of 2.5p on the basis of 0.47904 ordinary shares 
for every preference share.  
In accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation,  
the preference shares were considered a compound financial 
instrument and, accordingly, split into an underlying debt 
instrument, classified within loans and overdrafts, and an equity 
conversion option, classified within equity. 
The underlying debt instrument was presented on an amortised 
cost basis until extinguished on conversion. 
The equity conversion option was presented at its historic fair 
value, based on the date of original issue of the preference 
shares. On conversion of the preference shares into ordinary 
shares, the equity component was reclassified to share capital 
and share premium.  
Dividends 
Equity dividends on ordinary share capital are recognised  
as a liability in the period in which they are declared.    
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 115
2. Changes in accounting policies  
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2008 
With effect from 1 January 2008 the Group has early adopted  
IFRS 8, Operating Segments (effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2009). This requires that entities 
adopt the ‘management approach’ to the financial reporting of their 
operating segments, under which segment information is presented 
on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.  
The standard is concerned with disclosure only and has no impact  
on the consolidated income statement or balance sheet. 
The following interpretation to published standards is effective  
for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008: 
– IFRIC 11, IFRS 2, Group and Treasury Share Transactions, provides 
guidance on whether share-based transactions involving treasury 
shares or group entities should be accounted for as equity-settled 
or cash-settled share-based payment transactions. 
This does not have any impact on the Group’s accounts. 
Amendments to existing standards and interpretations that are 
not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group 
The following EU endorsed amendments and interpretations to 
published standards are effective for accounting periods beginning  
on or after 1 July 2008, and have not been early adopted by  
the Group: 
– Amendments to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement and IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, 
permit the reclassification of some financial instruments under 
limited circumstances and require additional disclosures in the 
event that a reclassification is made. These amendments are 
not expected to have any impact on the Group’s accounts; and 
– IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes is not relevant to  
the Group. 
The following EU endorsed standards, and amendments and 
interpretations to published standards are effective for accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, but have not been 
early adopted by the Group: 
– Amendment to IAS 23, Borrowing Costs requires capitalisation 
of borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset 
(one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use 
or sale) as part of the cost of that asset. There is no longer an 
option to immediately expense those borrowing costs. Whilst 
this will represent a change in the Group’s accounting policy, 
application of the revised standard is prospective. It is not 
expected to have a significant impact on the Group’s accounts  
on the basis of the current profile of the Group’s borrowing  
and the way its qualifying assets are generally funded; 
– Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements:  
A Revised Presentation, provides an entity with a choice  
of presenting one performance statement (‘statement  
of comprehensive income’) or two statements (‘income 
statement’ and ‘statement of comprehensive income’).  
There is also a requirement to present a new financial 
statement (‘consolidated statement of changes in equity’), 
which will present information that has previously been 
disclosed in the notes. In addition, where entities restate  
or reclassify comparative information, they will be required  
to present a restated opening balance sheet for the earliest 
comparative period. The standard is concerned with disclosure 
only, and it is likely that both the income statement and 
statement of comprehensive income will continue to be 
presented as separate performance statements; 
– Amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based Payment: Vesting  
Conditions and Cancellations, provides clarification of the  
vesting conditions which should be included in the grant  
date fair value for transactions with employees and others 
providing similar services. It is not expected to have an  
impact on the Group’s accounts; 
– Amendments to IAS 32, Financial Instruments and IAS 1, 
Presentation of Financial Statements: Puttable Financial 
Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation, require 
entities to classify puttable financial instruments as equity, 
where the entity is obliged to deliver a share of net assets  
of the entity upon liquidation. It is not expected to have an 
impact on the Group’s accounts; 
– Amendments to IFRS 1, First-time adoption of IFRS and IAS 27, 
Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: Cost of an 
Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly-Controlled Entity or Associate, 
allow first time adopters to use a deemed cost of either fair 
value or the carrying amount under previous accounting practice 
to measure the initial cost of investments in the separate 
financial statements. There are no plans to transition the 
Group’s subsidiaries to IFRS and, therefore, the amendments 
will have no impact on the Group;  
– Improvements to IFRSs 2008 is the first standard issued  
under the International Accounting Standards Board’s annual 
improvements process. It amends 20 existing standards,  
basis of conclusions and guidance. The improvements include 
changes in presentation, recognition and measurement 
requirements. They are not expected to have any material 
impact on the Group’s accounts; and 
– IFRIC 14, IAS 19, The Limit on Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum 
Funding Requirements and their Interaction, aims to clarify how 
to determine in normal circumstances the limit on the asset 
that an employer’s balance sheet may contain in respect of its 
defined benefit pension plans and when additional liabilities 
might be required to be recognised. This will not have any 
impact on the Group’s accounts. 
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 116 
3. Segmental analysis 
The Group has five reportable segments which are organised around a combination of the different products and services they provide 
and the geographical area in which they operate: 
– Electronics, Intelligence & Support, based primarily in the US, designs, develops, produces and services systems and subsystems 
for a wide range of military and commercial applications. It comprises four lines of business: Electronic Solutions, Information 
Solutions, Platform Solutions and Support Solutions, and includes the acquired MTC business (note 31); 
– Land & Armaments, based primarily in the US, is a leader in the design, development, production, through-life support and upgrade 
of armoured combat vehicles, tactical wheeled vehicles, naval guns, missile launchers, artillery systems and munitions; 
– Programmes & Support comprises the Group’s UK-based air and naval activities, the Integrated System Technologies (Insyte) 
business and the acquired Detica business (note 31); 
– International comprises the Group’s businesses in Saudi Arabia and Australia, including the acquired Tenix Defence business  
(note 31), and its interests in the pan-European MBDA joint venture, Saab of Sweden and Air Astana; and 
– HQ & Other Businesses comprises the regional aircraft asset management and support activities, head office and UK shared 
services activity, including research centres and property management. 
Management monitors the results of these operating groups to assess performance and make decisions about the allocation of 
resources. Segment performance is evaluated based on underlying EBITA
1
. This is reconciled below to the operating group result and  
the operating profit in the consolidated financial statements. Finance costs and taxation expense are managed on a Group basis. 
Analysis by operating group 
Combined sales of 
Group and equity 
accounted 
investments 
Less:  
sales by equity 
accounted 
investments 
Add:  
sales to equity 
accounted 
investments  Revenue 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
2008 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 4,459 3,916 – (7) – – 4,459 3,909
Land & Armaments 6,407 3,538 (1) (1) 1 – 6,407 3,537
Programmes & Support 4,638 5,327 (1,531) (1,367) 983 1,111 4,090 5,071
International  3,333 3,359 (1,446) (1,307) – – 1,887 2,052
HQ & Other Businesses 235 243 – – – – 235 243
 19,072 16,383 (2,978) (2,682) 984 1,111 17,078 14,812
Intra-operating group sales/revenue (529) (673) 25 – 97 170 (407) (503)
 18,543 15,710 (2,953) (2,682) 1,081 1,281 16,671 14,309
 
Intra-operating  
group revenue  
Revenue from  
external customers
 
2008 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 94 97 4,365 3,812
Land & Armaments 30 11 6,377 3,526
Programmes & Support 248 361 3,842 4,710
International  11 10 1,876 2,042
HQ & Other Businesses 24 24 211 219
 407 503 16,671 14,309
 
 
Capital  
expenditure
2
  
Depreciation  
and amortisation
2
 
 
2008 
£m 
2007 
£m  
2008
£m
2007
£m
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 105 92  104 84
Land & Armaments 98 82  227 144
Programmes & Support 85 77  92 110
International 212 60  46 18
HQ & Other Businesses 52 30  69 51
 552 341  538 407
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses and uplift on acquired 
inventories. Restated to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses. See page 29. 
2 Includes intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and investment property.   
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 117
3. Segmental analysis continued 
 
Underlying  
EBITA
1 
(restated) 
Profit/(loss) on 
disposal of 
businesses 
Uplift on acquired 
inventories 
Amortisation of 
intangible assets  
Impairment of 
intangible assets
Operating  
group result
2
 
 
2008 
£m 
2007 
£m
2008 
£m
2007 
£m
2008 
£m
2007 
£m
2008 
£m
2007 
£m  
2008 
£m 
2007 
£m
2008 
£m
2007 
£m
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 506 437 61 (8) – – (24) (15)  – – 543 414
Land & Armaments 566 324 – – – (12) (168) (110)  (40) – 358 202
Programmes & Support 491 456 177 – – – (24) (19)  (5) (145) 639 292
International  435 435 – – – – (30) (4)  (120) – 285 431
HQ & Other Businesses (101) (203) – 48 – – (1) (1)  (12) (3) (114) (159)
 1,897 1,449 238 40 – (12) (247) (149)  (177) (148) 1,711 1,180
Financial income of equity accounted 
investments     44 35
Taxation expense of equity accounted 
investments     (37) (38)
Operating profit     1,718 1,177
Finance costs     653 58
Profit before taxation     2,371 1,235
Taxation expense      (603) (335)
Profit for the year from continuing 
operations     1,768 900
 
 
Assets excluding 
intangible assets and 
equity accounted 
investments Intangible assets 
Equity accounted 
investments Total assets  Total liabilities 
 
2008 
£m 
2007
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
2008 
£m 
2007 
£m  
2008
£m
2007
£m
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 1,954 1,406 5,272 4,491 4 3 7,230 5,900  (1,470) (1,164)
Land & Armaments 2,019 1,510 5,712 4,435 – – 7,731 5,945  (1,505) (1,191)
Programmes & Support 866 1,035 875 575 217 45 1,958 1,655  (3,506) (3,696)
International 1,899 1,106 429 27 813 733 3,141 1,866  (1,933) (1,778)
HQ & Other Businesses 1,690 882 18 31 – – 1,708 913  (3,035) (1,705)
 8,428 5,939 12,306 9,559 1,034 781 21,768 16,279  (11,449) (9,534)
Disposal groups held for sale (note 19)  – 94  – (30)
Tax   1,040 602  (784) (539)
Retirement benefit obligations  40 59  (3,365) (1,629)
Cash/(debt) as defined by the Group 
(note 29)  2,827 3,226  (2,788) (2,526)
Consolidated total assets/(liabilities)  25,675 20,260  (18,386) (14,258)
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses and uplift on acquired 
inventories. See page 29. 
2 The analysis by operating group of the share of results of equity accounted investments is provided in note 14. 
Analysis of non-current assets by geographical location 
 
Carrying value of  
non-current assets 
Asset location 
2008
£m
2007
£m
United Kingdom 1,774 1,529
Rest of Europe 1,272 1,147
Saudi Arabia 704 400
United States 11,703 9,351
Asia and Pacific 554 60
Africa, Central and South America 22 11
Non-current operating group assets 16,029 12,498
Financial instruments 985 149
Inventories 926 701
Trade and other receivables 3,828 2,931
Total operating group assets 21,768 16,279
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 118 
3. Segmental analysis continued 
Analysis of sales and revenue by geographical location 
 Sales  Revenue 
Customer location 
2008 
£m 
2007 
£m  
2008
£m
2007
£m
United Kingdom 3,398 3,433  2,908 3,179
Rest of Europe 2,647 2,611  1,633 1,750
Saudi Arabia 1,626 1,903  1,538 1,836
Rest of Middle East 130 158  87 91
United States 9,417 6,264  9,401 6,216
Canada 129 119  125 117
Asia and Pacific 808 978  692 930
Africa, Central and South America 388 244  287 190
 18,543 15,710  16,671 14,309
Analysis of revenue by category 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Sale of goods 6,042 4,559
Construction contracts 8,176 7,611
Services 2,376 2,070
Lease income 68 63
Royalty income 9 6
 16,671 14,309
Analysis of revenue by major customer 
Revenue from the Group’s three principal customers is as follows: 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
UK Ministry of Defence 3,669 3,871
US Department of Defense 7,094 4,389
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Ministry of Defence and Aviation 1,531 1,808
Revenue from the UK Ministry of Defence amounted to £3,669m (2007 £3,871m) arising from sales by all five operating groups. 
Revenue from the US Department of Defense was £7,094m (2007 £4,389m) from sales by the Programmes & Support, Electronics, 
Intelligence & Support, Land & Armaments and International operating groups. Revenue from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Ministry  
of Defence and Aviation was £1,531m (2007 £1,808m) from sales by the Electronics, Intelligence & Support and International 
operating groups.  BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 119
4. Operating costs 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Raw materials and other bought in items 7,809 5,557
Change in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress (1,395) 13
Cost of inventories expensed 6,414 5,570
Staff costs (note 7) 4,618 3,924
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 634 610
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 4
Loss on disposal of businesses (note 9) – 8
Other operating charges 3,719 3,364
 15,386 13,480
Included within the analysis of operating costs are the following expenses: 
 Lease and sublease payments: 
  Minimum lease payments 151 112
 151 112
Research and development expense including amounts funded under contract 1,044 1,460
Significant one-off costs included in operating costs 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Rationalisation programmes 87 25
 
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 7 5
Land & Armaments 19 2
Programmes & Support 52 4
International 4 9
HQ & Other Businesses 5 5
 87 25
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates included in operating costs 
2008  2007 
UK
£’000
Overseas 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
UK 
£’000 
Overseas
£’000
Total
£’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the  
Company’s annual accounts* 1,333 – 1,333 1,111 –1,111
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services    
 The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation* 2,178 3,576 5,754 2,203 3,407 5,610
 Other services pursuant to legislation:     
  Interim review 543 – 543 520 – 520
  Other including shareholder circular related work 81 – 81 104 – 104
 Further assurance services    
  Advice on accounting matters 19 3 22 28 – 28
  Internal controls 39 – 39 16 – 16
  Due diligence 795 – 795 880 1,036 1,916
 Tax services    
  Compliance 392 1,112 1,504 308 793 1,101
  Advisory 490 547 1,037 909 488 1,397
 Other services – – – 313 – 313
Total fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates 5,870 5,238 11,108 6,392 5,724 12,116
    
* Total fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates  
 for audit services  7,087  6,721
Tax services include tax compliance support and services in relation to the Group’s expatriate employees based around the world.  
The majority of services provided outside the UK were provided in the US. 
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 120 
5. Other income 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Rental income from operating leases 47 46
Profit on disposal of investment property 5 47
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 34 1
Profit on disposal of businesses (note 9) 238 48
Management recharges to equity accounted investments 17 15
Other 74 52
 415 209
6. Finance costs 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Interest income 147 169
Net present value adjustments 3 21
Expected return on pension scheme assets (note 22) 846 845
Net gain on remeasurement of financial instruments
1
 681 135
Gain on sale of available-for-sale investments – 6
Foreign exchange gains
2
 1,703 81
Financial income 3,380 1,257
Interest expense: 
 On bank loans and overdrafts (2) (4)
 On finance leases (5) (6)
 On bonds and other financial instruments (253) (218)
 On preference debt – (13)
 (260) (241)
Facility fees (4) (4)
Net present value adjustments (30) (22)
Interest charge on pension scheme liabilities (note 22) (795) (753)
Net loss on remeasurement of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss
3
 (917) (77)
Foreign exchange losses
4
 (721) (102)
Financial expense (2,727) (1,199)
Net finance costs 653 58
Additional analysis of finance costs 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Net finance costs – Group 653 58
Net finance costs – share of equity accounted investments 44 35
 697 93
Analysed as: 
Net interest: 
 Interest income 147 169
 Interest expense (260) (241)
 Facility fees (4) (4)
 Net present value adjustments (27) (1)
 Gain on sale of available-for-sale investments – 6
 Share of equity accounted investments 42 33
 (102) (38)
Other finance costs: 
 Group: 
  Net financing credit on pensions 51 92
  Market value and foreign exchange movements on financial instruments and investments 746 37
 Share of equity accounted investments 2 2
 697 93
1 The increase in the net gain on remeasurement of financial instruments has mainly been driven by exchange movements on the US dollar relating to debt-related derivative financial 
instruments, and on the Euro, relating to hedging loans from equity accounted investments. 
2 The increase in foreign exchange gains mainly reflects the exchange gain on an intercompany loan from the UK to the US businesses. 
3 The net loss on remeasurement of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss is principally due to the movement in the US dollar exchange rate on hedges relating to a portion 
of the intercompany loan from the UK to the US businesses. 
4 The increase in foreign exchange losses is mainly due to movements in the Euro exchange rate relating to loans from equity accounted investments, and the revaluation  
of a loan from the US business to the UK.  BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 121
7. Employees and directors 
The weekly average and year-end numbers of employees, excluding those in equity accounted investments, were as follows: 
 Weekly average  At year end 
 
2008 
Number 
‘000 
2007 
Number 
‘000 
2008
Number
‘000
2007
Number
‘000
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 32 31 34 31
Land & Armaments 21 16 21 21
Programmes & Support 26 27 26 27
International 9 7 11 7
HQ & Other Businesses 2 2 2 2
 90 83 94 88
The aggregate staff costs of Group employees, excluding employees of equity accounted investments, were: 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Wages and salaries 4,053 3,353
Social security costs 324 269
Share options granted to directors and employees – equity-settled 18 18
Share options granted to directors and employees – cash-settled (23) 40
Pension costs – defined contribution plans (note 22) 84 62
Pension costs – defined benefit plans (note 22)
1
 160 178
US healthcare plans (note 22) 2 4
 4,618 3,924
1 Excludes £21m of past service credit included within other income (note 5). 
The Group considers key management personnel as defined under IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to be the members of the  
Group’s Executive Committee and the Company’s non-executive directors. Fuller disclosures on directors’ remuneration are set  
out in the Remuneration report on pages 75 to 93. Total emoluments for directors and other key management personnel were:  
 
2008
£’000
2007
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 14,954 13,221
Post-employment benefits 1,339 942
Termination benefits 237 –
Share-based payment 5,142 5,300
 21,672 19,463 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 122 
8. Tax 
Taxation expense 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Current taxation expense 
UK corporation tax 
 Current tax (357) (140)
 Double tax relief 7 29
 Adjustment in respect of prior years 19 (21)
 (331) (132)
Overseas tax charges 
 Current year (241) (160)
 Adjustment in respect of prior years 23 –
 (218) (160)
 (549) (292)
Deferred taxation expense 
UK 
 Origination and reversal of temporary differences (58) (103)
 Adjustment in respect of prior years 38 39
 Tax rate adjustment
1
 – (5)
Overseas 
 Origination and reversal of temporary differences (47) 22
 Adjustment in respect of prior years 13 4
 (54) (43)
Taxation expense (603) (335)
1 The UK current tax rate was reduced from 30% to 28% with effect from 1 April 2008. In 2007, in line with this change, the rate applying to UK deferred tax assets and liabilities was also 
reduced from 30% to 28%, creating a rate adjustment, which was partly reflected in the Consolidated income statement and partly in the Consolidated statement of recognised income  
and expense. 
The following table reconciles the theoretical income tax expense, using the UK corporation tax rate, to the reported tax expense. The 
reconciling items represent, besides the impact of tax rate differentials and changes, non-taxable benefits or non-deductible expenses  
arising from differences between the local tax base and the reported financial statements. 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Profit before tax 2,371 1,235
 
UK corporation tax rate 28.5% 30.0%
 
Expected income tax expense (676) (371)
 
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions (45) (13)
Expenses not tax effected (40) (38)
Income not subject to tax 55 70
Research and development tax credits 5 39
Goodwill impairment (15) (44)
Chargeable gains (5) (28)
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 74 23
Current year losses not tax effected (9) (11)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 93 22
Adjustments in respect of equity accounted investments 6 36
Other (46) (20)
Taxation expense (603) (335)
Current tax taken in equity 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Relating to financial instruments 2 (1)
Relating to share-based payments 2 28
Relating to pensions 54 69
 58 96 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 123
8. Tax continued 
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 
 
Deferred tax  
assets 
Deferred tax  
liabilities  
Net balance  
at 31 December 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
2008 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Property, plant and equipment 1 1 (70) (71) (69) (70)
Intangible assets – – (509) (372) (509) (372)
Provisions and accruals 459 271 (2) (2) 457 269
Goodwill impairment – – (34) (25) (34) (25)
Pension/retirement plans:   
 Deficits 1,115 522 – – 1,115 522
 Additional contributions 66 106 – – 66 106
Share-based payments 30 75 – – 30 75
Financial instruments – 6 (136) – (136) 6
Other items 42 16 (17) (7) 25 9
Rolled over capital gains – – (18) (18) (18) (18)
Capital losses carried forward 18 18 – – 18 18
Trading losses carried forward 1 7 – – 1 7
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 1,732 1,022 (786) (495) 946 527
Set off of tax (706) (455) 706 455 – –
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 1,026 567 (80) (40) 946 527
Movement in temporary differences during the year 
At 
1 January 
2008
£m
Exchange 
movements
£m
Acquisitions  
and  
disposals
2
£m 
Other 
movements 
£m 
Recognised 
in income 
£m 
Recognised 
in equity
£m
At 
31 December 
2008
£m
Property, plant and equipment (70)(17)(2)– 20 – (69)
Intangible assets (372) (116) (67) – 46 – (509)
Provisions and accruals 269 92 45 1 50 – 457
Goodwill impairment (25)(9)28– (28) – (34)
Pension/retirement plans:   
 Deficits 522 115 (35) 1 (98) 610 1,115
 Additional contributions 106 – 4 – (14) (30) 66
Share-based payments 75 4 – – (23) (26) 30
Financial instruments 6 – – – (10) (132) (136)
Other items 9 (2) 3 1 11 3 25
Rolled over capital gains (18) – – – – – (18)
Capital losses carried forward 18 – – – – – 18
Trading losses carried forward 7 – 2 – (8) – 1
 52767(22)3 (54) 425 946
   
At 
1 January 
2007
£m
Exchange 
movements
£m
Acquisitions
£m
Other 
movements 
£m 
Recognised 
in income 
£m 
Recognised 
in equity
£m
At 
31 December 
2007
£m
Property, plant and equipment (67) – (8) 1 4 – (70)
Intangible assets (143) (5) (272) – 47 1 (372)
Provisions and accruals 260 (2) 42 (3) (28) – 269
Goodwill impairment (17) – 18 – (26) – (25)
Pension/retirement plans:   
 Deficits 778 (3) 7 – (50) (210) 522
 Additional contributions 158 – – – (1) (51) 106
Share-based payments 82 – – – 1 (8) 75
Financial instruments 25 – – – (7) (12) 6
Other items (28) 2 7 1 25 2 9
Rolled over capital gains (19) – – – 1 – (18)
Capital losses carried forward 19 – – – (1) – 18
Unremitted overseas dividends (1) – – – 1 – –
Trading losses carried forward 15 1 – – (9) – 7
 1,062(7)(206)(1) (43) (278)527
2 Acquisitions and disposals includes deferred tax assets on the acquisition of MTC (£16m) and Tenix Defence (£9m), and the finalisation of fair values relating to the Armor Holdings, Inc. 
acquisition in 2007 (£7m), less deferred tax liabilities on the acquisition of Detica (£23m) and the deferred tax asset transferred on formation of the BVT joint venture (£31m). 
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 124 
8. Tax continued 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 
 
2008 
£m 
2007
£m
Deductible temporary differences 23 22
Capital losses carried forward 58 59
Trading and other losses carried forward 90 140
 171 221
These assets have not been recognised as the incidence of future profits in the relevant countries and legal entities cannot be 
sufficiently accurately predicted at this time.  
The aggregate temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and joint ventures for which 
deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is £332m (2007 £432m). 
9. Disposals 
Continuing and discontinued operations for the year ended 31 December 2008 
Name 
Country of 
incorporation
 
Date of sale
Percentage 
share
Profit on 
disposal of 
businesses
£m
Proceeds 
from sale of 
subsidiary 
undertakings 
£m 
Proceeds 
from sale of 
equity 
accounted 
investments 
£m 
Deferred  
consideration
4
£m 
Surveillance and Attack division USA 22.02.08 100% 61 118 – – 
BAE Systems Surface Fleet Solutions Limited
2
 UK 01.07.08 45% 121 – – – 
Flagship Training Limited
1
 UK 01.07.0850%56– 16 53 
Gregory backpack business USA 14.03.08 100% – 7 – – 
Continuing operations  238 125 16 53 
Discontinued operations
3
 – Mobile International 
business USA 14.02.08100%–6 – – 
  238131 16 53 
Continuing and discontinued operations for the year ended 31 December 2007 
Name 
Country of 
incorporation
 
Date of sale
Percentage 
share
Profit/(loss) 
on disposal 
of 
businesses 
£m 
Proceeds 
from sale of 
subsidiary 
undertakings 
£m 
Proceeds 
from sale of 
equity 
accounted 
investments
£m
HR Enterprise Limited and its subsidiary Xchanging  
HR Services Limited (XHRS) UK 17.01.07 50% – – 10
Xchanging Procurement Services (Holdco)  
Limited (XPS) UK 06.03.07 50% 44 – 47
Customer Training Centre UK 13.12.07 100% 4 6 –
Inertial Products business USA 20.08.07 100% (6) 70 –
TEMPEST products business USA 11.12.07 100% (2) 1 –
Transaction costs  – (5) –
Continuing operations  40 72 57
Discontinued operations
5
 – SELEX UK 30.03.07 25% 22 24 –
  62 96 57
1 Consideration of £67m has been deferred over three years, the discounted value of which is £53m. 
2 On 1 July 2008, the Group exchanged a 45% shareholding in BAE Systems Surface Fleet Solutions Limited (SFSL) as consideration for the contribution to SFSL of 100% of VT Group plc’s 
shipbuilding and naval support businesses to form the joint venture BVT Surface Fleet Limited. 
3 The Group’s Mobile International business was acquired with Armor Holdings, Inc. on 31 July 2007 with a view to immediate resale. Accordingly, it was classified as held for sale as at  
31 December 2007. The sale was completed on 14 February 2008 for a cash consideration less transaction costs of £6m. 
4 Included within other receivables (note 16 to the Group accounts). 
5 On 30 March 2007, the sale of the Group’s remaining 25% interest in SELEX was completed following the exercise by Finmeccanica SpA of its call option granted as part of the original 
disposal transaction in 2005. Net proceeds of £24m comprise the consideration of £277m, less £253m which was assigned to the BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan in 2006. A profit  
of £22m was recognised during the year upon settlement of warranties and similar obligations on this transaction.  BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 125
10. Earnings per share 
 2008 2007 (restated)
1
 
 £m
Basic 
pence per 
share £m
Diluted 
pence per 
share £m 
Basic 
pence per  
share £m
Diluted 
pence per 
 share
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 1,745 1,745 901  901
Interest on the debt instrument of the convertible  
preference shares –– –  13
Profit for the year after adjusting for interest on the debt 
instrument of the convertible preference shares 1,745 49.6 1,745 49.5 901 26.6 914 26.4
Represented by:   
Continuing operations 1,745 49.6 1,745 49.5 879 26.0 892 25.8
Discontinued operations –––– 22 0.6 22 0.6
Add back/(deduct):   
 Profit on disposal of businesses, post tax (208) (208) (30)  (30)
 Uplift on acquired inventories, post tax –– 9  9
 Net financing credit on pensions, post tax (39) (39) (68)  (68)
 Market value movements on derivatives, post tax (552) (552) (29)  (29)
 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, post tax 184 184 110  110
 Impairment of goodwill – subsidiaries 54 54 148  148
 Impairment of goodwill – equity accounted investments 121 121 –  –
Underlying earnings post tax 1,305 37.1 1,305 37.0 1,041 30.7 1,054 30.4
Represented by:   
 Continuing operations 1,305 37.1 1,305 37.0 1,019 30.1 1,032 29.8
 Discontinued operations –––– 22 0.6 22 0.6
 1,305 37.1 1,305 37.0 1,041 30.7 1,054 30.4
 
 Millions Millions Millions Millions
Weighted average number of shares used in calculating basic  
earnings per share 3,519 3,519 3,386 3,386
Add:   
 Incremental shares in respect of employee share schemes 9  24
 Incremental shares in respect of convertible preference shares –  56
Weighted average number of shares used in calculating diluted  
earnings per share 3,528  3,466
1 Restated following a change in the definition of underlying earnings to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses. See page 29. 
Underlying earnings per share is presented in addition to that required by IAS 33 Earnings per Share to align the adjusted earnings  
measure with the performance measure reviewed by the directors. The directors consider that this gives a more appropriate indication  
of underlying performance. 
In accordance with IAS 33, the diluted earnings per share are without reference to adjustments in respect of outstanding share options  
and convertible preference shares where the impact would be anti-dilutive.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 126 
11. Intangible assets 
 
Goodwill 
£m 
Other
1
£m 
Total
£m
Cost or valuation  
At 1 January 2007 9,204 657 9,861
Additions:  
 Acquired separately – 31 31
 Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 31) 1,563 753 2,316
Disposals (31) (4) (35)
Asset reclassifications (2) 2 –
Reclassified as non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale (note 19) (42) – (42)
Exchange adjustments (31) 12 (19)
At 31 December 2007 10,661 1,451 12,112
Additions:  
 Acquired separately – 30 30
 Internally developed – 2 2
 Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 31) 903 213 1,116
Adjustment on finalisation of provisional goodwill
3
 6 – 6
Disposals (251) (15) (266)
Asset reclassifications – 5 5
Exchange adjustments  1,882 459 2,341
At 31 December 2008 13,201 2,145 15,346
Amortisation and impairment  
At 1 January 2007 2,071 195 2,266
Disposals (1) (4) (5)
Amortisation charge
2
 – 149 149
Impairment charge 148 – 148
Exchange adjustments (5) – (5)
At 31 December 2007 2,213 340 2,553
Disposals (59) (11) (70)
Amortisation charge
2
 – 247 247
Impairment charge 54 2 56
Asset reclassifications – 3 3
Exchange adjustments 125 126 251
At 31 December 2008 2,333 707 3,040
Net book value  
At 31 December 2008 10,868 1,438 12,306
At 31 December 2007 8,448 1,111 9,559
At 1 January 2007 7,133 462 7,595
1 Other intangibles includes internally funded development costs and intangible assets recognised on acquisition of subsidiary companies, of which the most significant are in respect  
of the acquired order book and of ongoing programme relationships. 
2 Amortisation is included in operating costs in the income statement. 
3 Adjustment on finalisation of provisional goodwill relating to the acquisition of Armor Holdings, Inc. in 2007. The amounts are not considered material for the restatement of  
comparative information. 
The Group has no indefinite life intangible assets other than goodwill. The Group’s approach to goodwill impairment testing is set  
out in the accounting policies on page 110. 
The Group’s goodwill of £10.9bn (2007 £8.4bn) is allocated across 16 cash-generating units. In order to calculate the recoverable 
amount of the Group’s goodwill, all goodwill balances by cash-generating units have been considered with regard to value in use 
calculations. These calculations use risk-adjusted future cash flow projections based on the Group’s five-year Integrated Business  
Plan (IBP) and include a terminal value based on the projections for the final year of that plan, with an inflationary growth rate 
assumption applied. Pre-tax discount rates derived from the Group’s post-tax weighted average cost of capital of 8.19% (adjusted for  
risks specific to each cash-generating unit as appropriate) have been used in discounting these projected risk-adjusted cash flows. 
The Group has two cash-generating units whose combined allocated goodwill exceeds 40% of the Group’s total goodwill balance.  
These are both US operations within the Land & Armaments operating group acquired in 2005 and in 2007. The key assumption 
underpinning the cash flow projections for these operations is the continued demand in our home markets and from exports for existing 
and successor military land and tracked vehicles, upgrade programmes and support. Whilst there are no other cash-generating units 
with allocated goodwill balances exceeding 20% of the Group’s total goodwill balance, the majority of the projected cash flows within 
the remaining cash-generating units are underpinned by the expected continuation of levels of US government spending on aerospace, 
defence and security. 
   BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 127
11. Intangible assets continued 
The directors have not identified any reasonably possible material changes relating either specifically to the global military vehicle 
market, or to the levels of defence spending in our home markets, particularly in the US, that would cause the carrying value of 
goodwill to exceed its recoverable amount. The result of the review of the carrying value of goodwill across the Group is an impairment 
charge of £54m (2007 £148m). This mainly reflects lower sales volumes in the US-based Products Group business (£40m against the 
£254m total goodwill), which was acquired with Armor Holdings, Inc. in 2007. The prior year charge included £145m in respect of the 
Insyte business. 
In addition, an impairment of £120m has been taken in the year in respect of the Group’s shareholding in Saab AB. See note 14. 
12. Property, plant and equipment 
 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Plant and 
machinery 
£m 
Aircraft
£m
Total
£m
Cost   
At 1 January 2007 1,313 2,078 606 3,997
Additions 96 190 24 310
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 31) 32 54 6 92
Transfers from inventories – 5 – 5
Transfers to inventories – (6) (1) (7)
Reclassified as non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale (note 19) (11) (16) – (27)
Disposals (24) (172) (25) (221)
Disposal of subsidiaries (10) (29) – (39)
Exchange adjustments (10) (9) (8) (27)
At 31 December 2007 1,386 2,095 602 4,083
Additions 269 209 42 520
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 31) 40 72 – 112
Transfers from inventories 2 – – 2
Reclassification between balance sheet categories 5 (5) – –
Disposals (15) (69) (12) (96)
Disposal of subsidiaries (46) (76) – (122)
Exchange adjustments 331 303 194 828
At 31 December 2008 1,972 2,529 826 5,327
Depreciation and impairment   
At 1 January 2007 433 1,480 338 2,251
Depreciation charge for the year 67 155 32 254
Impairment loss for the year
1
 19 2 3455
Transfers to inventories – (4) – (4)
Reclassified as non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale (note 19) (5) (13) – (18)
Disposals (15) (170) (10) (195)
Disposal of subsidiaries (4) (21) – (25)
Exchange adjustments (1) (3) (5) (9)
At 31 December 2007 494 1,426 389 2,309
Depreciation charge for the year 68 167 55 290
Impairment loss for the year 2 29 9 40
Reclassification between balance sheet categories (3) 3 – –
Disposals (14) (63) (3) (80)
Disposal of subsidiaries (17) (42) – (59)
Exchange adjustments 75 170 136 381
At 31 December 2008 605 1,690 586 2,881
Net book value   
At 31 December 2008 1,367 839 240 2,446
At 31 December 2007 892 669 213 1,774
At 1 January 2007 880 598 268 1,746
1 In 2007, the directors revised the valuation methodology used to determine the value of regional aircraft with a £34m impairment charge arising and a £45m increase to provisions  
in respect of residual value guarantees. 
The impairment in 2008 mainly comprises charges in respect of the spares and support business, and aircraft carrying values within 
the Regional Aircraft business (£32m). The impairment impacts the HQ & Other Businesses (£36m), Programmes & Support (£3m)  
and International (£1m) segments.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 128 
12. Property, plant and equipment continued 
The amounts above include: 
 
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m 
Aircraft
£m
Total
£m
Net book value of assets held as capitalised finance leases   
At 31 December 2008 – – 23 23
At 31 December 2007 6 11 16 33
 
Assets in the course of construction (including investment property (note 13))  
At 31 December 2008 355 107 – 462
At 31 December 2007 88 68 – 156
 
Net book value at 31 December 2008 of: 
 Freehold property 1,242 – – 1,242
 Long leasehold property 45 – – 45
 Short leasehold property 80 – – 80
 Plant and machinery – 744 – 744
 Fixtures, fittings and equipment – 95 – 95
 Aircraft – – 240 240
 1,367 839 240 2,446
The aircraft fleet that is held under capitalised finance lease arrangements is leased to airline companies under operating leases.  
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. 
The future aggregate minimum lease income from the non-cancellable elements of operating leases for assets capitalised (including 
investment property (note 13)) are as follows: 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Receipts due: 
 Not later than one year 104 93
 Later than one year and not later than five years 241 234
 Later than five years 62 63
 407 390
Under the terms of the lease agreements, no contingent rents are payable. Within the above lease income is £17m (2007 £15m) 
relating to assets held by the Group under capitalised finance leases.   
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 129
13. Investment property 
£m
Cost 
At 1 January 2007 167
Disposals (9)
At 31 December 2007 158
Disposals (5)
At 31 December 2008 153
Depreciation and impairment 
At 1 January 2007 44
Depreciation charge for the year 4
Disposals (3)
At 31 December 2007 45
Depreciation charge for the year 1
Disposals (5)
At 31 December 2008 41
Net book value of investment property 
At 31 December 2008 112
At 31 December 2007 113
At 1 January 2007 123
 
Fair value of investment property 
At 31 December 2008 149
At 31 December 2007 160
The fair values above are based on and reflect current market values as prepared by in-house professionals. The valuations were 
prepared by persons having the appropriate professional qualification and with recent experience in valuing properties in the location 
and the type of property being valued. 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Rental income from investment property 21 20 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 130 
14. Equity accounted investments 
Carrying value of equity accounted investments 
Share of  
net assets 
£m 
Purchased 
goodwill
£m
Carrying 
value
£m
At 1 January 2007 238 433 671
Share of results after tax – continuing operations 139 – 139
Acquired  1 – 1
Adjustment to provisional fair values 3 (3) –
Disposal (10) – (10)
Dividends (78) – (78)
Market value adjustments in respect of derivative financial instruments, net of tax (2) – (2)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes, net of tax 17 – 17
Foreign exchange adjustment 13 30 43
At 31 December 2007 321 460 781
Share of results after tax – continuing operations 139 – 139
Acquired  12 178 190
Disposal (13) (4) (17)
Impairment – (121) (121)
Dividends (89) – (89)
Market value adjustments in respect of derivative financial instruments, net of tax (7) – (7)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes, net of tax (43) – (43)
Reclassified from trade and other receivables 4 – 4
Foreign exchange adjustment 98 99 197
At 31 December 2008 422 612 1,034
The formation of the joint venture, BVT Surface Fleet Limited (BVT), was completed on 1 July 2008. The Group’s 55% share of BVT’s 
results has been equity accounted from the date of completion to 31 December 2008 reflecting the joint venture agreement in place 
that creates joint control. The reporting date of BVT is 31 March. 
Fair values have been assigned to the share of net assets as part of the formation of the BVT joint venture. Fair value adjustments  
to the book values include intangible assets acquired as part of the transaction (£47m), comprising programmes, and adjustments  
to reflect loss provisions on export contracts (£53m). The net effect of these is a £6m reduction in the share of net assets acquired. 
Goodwill arising on the formation of the joint venture amounted to £177m. 
As a result of the formation of BVT, the Group’s shareholding in Fleet Support Limited increased to 55% (2007 50%).  
The Group completed the sale of its 50% interest in Flagship Training Limited to VT Group plc on 1 July 2008. 
Included within purchased goodwill is £94m (2007 £110m) relating to the goodwill arising on acquisitions made by the Group’s  
equity accounted investments subsequent to their acquisition by the Group. 
The market value of the Group’s shareholding in Saab AB at 31 December 2008 was £140m (2007 £225m). As a result of the fall  
in market value, the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the Group’s shareholding in Saab AB has been impaired by £120m during  
the year.  
Goodwill impairment also includes £1m in respect of the Group’s £1m investment in 50% of Diamond Detectors Limited during the year. 
Share of results of equity accounted investments by continuing operating group 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Share of results excluding finance costs and taxation expense: 
 Electronics, Intelligence & Support – 1
 Land & Armaments – –
 Programmes & Support 44 27
 International 88 114
 HQ & Other Businesses – –
 132 142
Financial income 44 35
Taxation expense (37) (38)
 139 139
  BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 131
14. Equity accounted investments continued 
Share of the assets and liabilities of equity accounted investments 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Assets: 
 Non-current assets 1,308 892
 Current assets 3,768 3,032
 5,076 3,924
Liabilities: 
 Non-current liabilities (807) (618)
 Current liabilities (3,235) (2,525)
 (4,042) (3,143)
Carrying value 1,034 781
Principal equity accounted investments 
Joint ventures Principal activities 
Group interest in 
allotted capital 
Principally 
operates in
Country of 
incorporation
BVT Surface Fleet Limited  
(Held by BAE Systems Surface Fleet Solutions  
(Holdings) Limited) 
Provider of surface warships and 
through-life support 
55% 
ordinary 
UK England and 
Wales
Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH  
(Held by BAE Systems plc) 
Management and control of the 
Typhoon programme 
33% 
ordinary 
Germany Germany
MBDA SAS  
(Held via BAE Systems Electronics Limited and  
BAE Systems (Overseas Holdings) Limited) 
Development and manufacture  
of guided weapons 
37.5% 
ordinary 
Europe France
Saab AB  
(Held via BAE Systems (Sweden) AB) 
Defence and commercial 
aerospace activities 
20.5% 
Series A&B 
Sweden Sweden
The Group comprises a large number of equity accounted investments and it is not practical to include all of them in the above list.  
The list therefore only includes those equity accounted investments which principally affected the Group accounts.  
A full list of subsidiary, equity accounted investments and other associated undertakings as at 31 December 2008 will be annexed  
to the Company’s next annual return filed with the Registrar of Companies. 
15. Other investments 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Non-current 
Available-for-sale financial assets 
 Equity securities 6 6
 6 6
Current 
Loans and receivables 
 Term deposits – 164
 – 164
Reconciliation of movements 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Non-current 
At 1 January 6 11
Additions – 1
Disposals – (11)
Fair value movements – 5
At 31 December 6 6
Current 
At 1 January 164 503
Additions – 19
Disposals (164) (358)
At 31 December – 164 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 132 
16. Trade and other receivables 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Non-current 
Other receivables 122 255
Pension prepayment (note 22) 37 57
Prepayments and accrued income 3 10
 162 322
Current 
Long-term contract balances 6,215 4,389
Less: attributable progress payments (5,410) (4,013)
Amounts due from contract customers 484 208
Amounts due from customers for contract work 1,289 584
Trade receivables 1,653 1,608
Amounts owed by equity accounted investments 200 239
Other receivables 426 281
Pension prepayment (note 22) 3 2
Prepayments and accrued income 260 219
 3,831 2,933
Included within amounts due from customers for contract work: 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Retentions outstanding against long-term contracts – 1
The ageing of trade receivables is detailed below: 
 2008 2007 
 
Gross
£m
Provision
£m
Net
£m
Gross 
£m 
Provision
£m
Net
£m
Not past due and not impaired 1,176 – 1,176 1,135 – 1,135
Not past due and impaired 2(2) – 13 (13) –
Up to 180 days overdue and not impaired 175 – 175 190 – 190
Up to 180 days overdue and impaired 15 (15) – 4 (4) –
Past 180 days overdue and not impaired 302 – 302 283 – 283
Past 180 days overdue and impaired 33 (33) – 36 (36) –
 1,703 (50) 1,653 1,661 (53) 1,608
Within the debts overdue more than 180 days is an amount due of £277m relating to specific activities on a major programme with 
one of the Group’s major customers. The payment profile for this element of debt was subject to final agreement during the year. The 
customer acknowledged in full the amounts due, and accordingly there was no risk associated with this amount to warrant impairment 
at the balance sheet date. Full payment of the sums due was received in early January 2009. 
Trade receivables are disclosed net of a provision for impairment losses. Movement on the provision is as follows: 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
At 1 January 53 31
Created 32 42
Released (37) (22)
Exchange adjustments 7 –
Acquisitions – 3
Utilised (5) (1)
At 31 December 50 53
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain assets which are considered to be impaired. 
The Group has material receivables due from the UK, US and Saudi Arabian governments where credit risk is not considered an issue. 
For the remaining trade receivables, the provision has been calculated taking into account individual assessments based on past credit 
history and prior knowledge of debtor insolvency or other credit risk.    
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 133
17. Other financial assets and liabilities 
 
2008 
Assets 
£m 
2008 
Liabilities 
£m 
2007
Assets
£m
2007
Liabilities
£m
Non-current   
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts 309 (100) 34 (20)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts 2 (283) 14 (6)
Debt-related derivative financial instruments – assets
1
 203 – ––
 514 (383) 48 (26)
Current   
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts 502 (237) 63 (44)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts 172 (88) 38 (27)
Fair value of put option held by VT Group plc – (37) ––
 674 (362) 101 (71)
Debt-related derivative financial instruments – liabilities
1
   
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts
1
 – – 17 (190)
1 The debt-related derivative financial instrument assets are presented as other financial assets. The debt-related derivative financial liabilities are presented as a component of loans and 
overdrafts (note 20). 
The ineffective portion recognised in the income statement that arises from fair value hedges amounts to a gain of £3m (2007 gain  
of £4m). The ineffective portion recognised in the income statement that arises from cash flow hedges amounts to £nil (2007 £nil). 
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding contracts are detailed in note 32. 
18. Inventories 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Short-term work-in-progress 424 304
Raw materials and consumables 370 285
Finished goods and goods for resale 132 112
 926 701
The Group recognised £46m (2007 £53m) as a write down of inventories to net realisable value in 2008. 
19. Disposal groups 
There are no disposal groups in 2008. 
On 19 December 2007, the Group agreed the sale of its Surveillance and Attack business to Sensor and Antenna Systems, Lansdale, 
Inc., a subsidiary of Cobham Defence Electronic Systems Corporation, for a cash consideration, net of transaction costs, of $231m 
(£118m). Accordingly, the business was presented as held for sale on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2007. As discussed in 
note 9, the business was sold in 2008. 
The Group’s Mobile International business was acquired with Armor Holdings, Inc. on 31 July 2007 with a view to immediate resale. 
Accordingly, it was classified as held for sale in the acquisition balance sheet and as at 31 December 2007. As discussed in note 9, 
the business was sold in 2008.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 134 
20. Loans and overdrafts 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Non-current 
European Investment Bank loan, final instalment 2009 – 4
Alvis loan notes, redeemable 2009 – 1
US$500m 4.75% bond, repayable 2010 361 254
US$1bn 6.4% bond, repayable 2011 728 517
Class B and Class G certificates, final instalments 2011/2013 547 498
Euro-Sterling £100m 10¾% bond, repayable 2014 100 99
US$750m 5.2% bond, repayable 2015 516 376
US$500m 7.5% bond, repayable 2027 341 249
Albertville Hangar Bond, repayable 2018 7 –
Bank loans – 6
Obligations under finance leases 8 20
Debt-related derivative financial instruments – liabilities – 173
 2,608 2,197
Current 
Bank loans and overdrafts 35 41
Euro-Sterling £150m 11
7
/
8% bond, repayable 2008 – 150
European Investment Bank loan, final instalment 2009 4 7
Alvis loan notes, redeemable 2009 1 –
Class B and Class G certificates, final instalment 2011/2013 121 87
Obligations under finance leases 12 14
 173 299
The maturity of the Group’s borrowings is as follows: 
Less than 
one year
£m
Between  
one and  
five years 
£m 
More than 
five years
£m
Total
£m
At 31 December 2008  
 Carrying amount
1
 173 1,644 964 2,781
 Debt-related derivative financial instruments – assets – (87) (116) (203)
 Carrying amount including debt-related derivative financial instruments – assets 173 1,557 848 2,578
 Contractual cash flows, including interest payments 292 1,881 1,314 3,487
At 31 December 2007  
 Carrying amount 299 1,157 1,040 2,496
 Contractual cash flows, including interest payments 484 1,649 1,370 3,503
1 The carrying amount of loans and overdrafts at 31 December 2008 excludes debt-related derivative financial assets of £203m presented as other financial assets. 
Contractual cash flows in respect of all other financial liabilities are equal to the balance sheet carrying amount. Current contractual 
amounts relating to other financial liabilities, such as trade payables, are settled within the normal operating cycle of the business. 
The US$500m 4.75% bond, repayable 2010 was converted on issue to a floating rate bond by utilising an interest rate swap giving  
an effective rate during 2008 of 3.73%. 
The US$1bn 6.4% bond, repayable 2011 has been partially converted to a floating rate bond by utilising a series of interest rate 
swaps. US$500m has been swapped to a floating rate until maturity of the bond in 2011. This has been overlaid by US$300m of 
floating to fixed interest rate swaps that fix the interest payments at a lower rate than the original coupon. The effective interest rate 
during 2008 was 5.76% with an interest rate split on the bond at 31 December 2008 being US$800m fixed and US$200m floating. 
The Class B and Class G certificates are repayable in 2011 and 2013, respectively, with fixed US$ coupon rates of 7.16% and 6.66%, 
giving a weighted average interest rate of 6.88%. At 31 December 2008, the gross outstanding principal due is US$959m. Of this 
balance, US$273m has been converted to a sterling floating rate bond by utilising a series of cross-currency swaps which resulted  
in an effective interest rate during 2008 of 6.97% on this element. 
The US$500m 7.5% bond, repayable 2027 was converted at issue to a sterling fixed rate bond by utilising a cross-currency swap  
and has an effective interest rate of 7.73%. 
The Albertville Hangar Bond is a floating rate bond with an effective interest rate of 3.06%. This bond has been converted to a fixed 
rate using a floating to fixed rate swap, fixing the rate at 3.52%. 
The European Investment Bank borrowing is fixed with an interest rate of 6.86%. 
The debt-related derivative financial instruments represent the market value of certain interest rate and cross-currency derivatives 
which are specifically hedging loans disclosed within the above note. These derivatives have been entered into specifically to manage 
the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange or interest rate risk.   BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 135
20. Loans and overdrafts continued 
Finance lease obligations 
The Group has a number of non-cancellable finance lease arrangements predominantly in respect of aircraft. The maturity of these 
lease liabilities from the balance sheet date is shown below. 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Finance lease liabilities – minimum lease payments due: 
 Not later than one year 13 15
 Later than one year and not later than five years 9 22
 22 37
Future finance charges on finance leases (2) (3)
Present value of finance lease liabilities 20 34
 
Present value of finance lease liabilities – payments due: 
 Not later than one year 12 14
 Later than one year and not later than five years 8 20
 20 34
Under the terms of the lease agreements, no contingent rents are payable. 
The interest rate inherent in these finance leases is fixed at the contract date for all of the lease term. The average interest rate on 
finance lease payables at 31 December 2008 was 7% (2007 7%).  
21. Trade and other payables 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Non-current 
Amounts due to long-term contract customers 275 56
Cash received on customers’ account
1
 for long-term contracts – 2
Amounts owed to equity accounted investments – 7
Other payables 329 306
Accruals and deferred income 97 42
 701 413
Current 
Amounts due to long-term contract customers 4,494 4,710
Amounts due to other customers 348 162
Cash received on customers’ account
1
: 
 Long-term contracts 5 27
 Others 2 1
Trade payables 1,004 913
Amounts owed to equity accounted investments 1,476 847
Other taxes and social security costs 67 58
Other payables 400 297
Accruals and deferred income 1,369 1,230
 9,165 8,245
 
Included above: 
2008
£m
2007
£m
 Amounts due to long-term contract customers 4,774 4,795
1 Cash received on customers’ account is the unexpended cash received from customers in advance of delivery which is subject to advance payments guarantees unrelated  
to Group performance.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 136 
22. Retirement benefit obligations 
Pension plans 
BAE Systems plc operates pension plans for the Group’s qualifying employees in the UK, US and other countries. The principal plans  
in the UK and US are funded defined benefit plans, and the assets are held in separate trustee administered funds. The plans in other 
countries are unfunded or defined contribution plans. Pension plan valuations are regularly carried out by independent actuaries to 
determine pension costs for pension funding and to calculate the IAS 19 deficit. 
The disclosures below relate to post-retirement benefit plans in the UK, US and other countries which are accounted for as defined 
benefit plans in accordance with IAS 19. The valuations used for the IAS 19 disclosures are based on the most recent actuarial 
valuation undertaken by independent qualified actuaries and updated to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 in order to  
assess the deficit of the plans at 31 December each year. Plan assets are shown at the bid value at 31 December each year. 
Post-retirement benefits other than pensions 
The Group also operates a number of non-pension post-retirement benefit plans, under which certain employees are eligible to  
receive benefits after retirement, the majority of which relate to the provision of medical benefits to retired employees of the Group’s 
subsidiaries in the US. The latest valuations of the principal plans, covering retiree medical and life insurance plans in certain  
US subsidiaries, were performed by independent actuaries as at 1 January 2008. These plans were rolled forward to reflect the 
information at 31 December 2008. The method of accounting for these is similar to that used for defined benefit pension plans. 
The financial assumptions used to calculate liabilities for the principal plans were: 
 UK  US 
 
2008
%
2007
%
2006
%
2008 
% 
2007
%
2006
%
Inflation rate 2.9 3.3 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0
Rate of increase in salaries 3.9 4.3 4.0 5.5 5.8 5.8
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2.2 – 3.4 2.3 – 3.3 2.9 – 3.0 – ––
Rate of increase for deferred pensions 2.9 3.3 3.0 n/a n/a n/a
Discount rate 6.3 5.8 5.2 6.5 6.5 5.9
Long-term healthcare cost increases n/a n/a n/a 5.3 5.4 5.5
The assumptions used are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale covered,  
may not necessarily occur in practice. The bid value of plan assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short term and may  
be subject to significant change before they are realised, and the present value of plan liabilities, which are derived from cash flow 
projections over long periods and thus inherently uncertain, as at 31 December are shown in the tables below. 
For its UK pension arrangements the Group has, for the purpose of calculating its liabilities as at 31 December 2008, continued  
to use PA 00 medium cohort tables based on year of birth (as published by the Institute of Actuaries) for both pensioner and  
non-pensioner members in conjunction with the results of an investigation into the actual mortality experience of plan members.  
In addition, this mortality has been subject to a minimum assumed rate of future annual mortality improvements of 1%. For its US 
pension arrangements, the mortality tables used for pensioners and non-pensioners are RP 2000 projected to 2010. The current  
life expectancies underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for the main UK and US plans range from 19 to 23 years for current 
male pensioners at age 65 and 22 to 25 years for current female pensioners at age 65. 
The Group has a number of healthcare arrangements in the US. The long-term healthcare cost increases shown in the table above are 
based on the assumptions that the increases are 9% in 2008 reducing to 5% by 2015 for pre-retirement and 10% in 2008 reducing to 
5% for post-retirement. 
A summary of the movements in the retirement benefit obligations is shown overleaf. The full disclosures, as required by IAS 19,  
are provided in the subsequent information.  BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 137
22. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
Additional disclosure – summary of movements of the retirement benefit obligations 
 
UK 
£m 
US and 
other
£m
Total
£m
Deficit in defined benefit pension plans at 1 January 2008 (1,908) (91) (1,999)
Transfers arising on acquisitions (8) – (8)
Actual return on assets below expected return (2,956) (768) (3,724)
Decrease/(increase) in liabilities due to changes in assumptions 1,471 (38) 1,433
One-off contributions 104 – 104
Recurring contributions in excess of service cost 212 5 217
Exchange translation – (240) (240)
Other movements 13 49 62
Deficit in defined benefit pension plans at 31 December 2008 (3,072) (1,083) (4,155)
US healthcare plans – (61) (61)
Total IAS 19 deficit (3,072) (1,144) (4,216)
Allocated to equity accounted investments and other participating employers
1
 891 – 891
Group’s share of IAS 19 deficit excluding Group’s share of amounts allocated to equity accounted 
investments and other participating employers (2,181) (1,144) (3,325)
As a result of the recent fall in global stock markets the actual return on assets is below that expected. 
The decrease in the liabilities due to changes in assumptions is primarily due to an increase in corporate bond yields which has 
increased the discount rates used to calculate the liabilities of the pension plans as at 31 December 2008. Global credit issues  
have resulted in current corporate bond yields being notably higher than in the recent past. 
Amounts recognised on the balance sheet 
 2008 2007 
 
UK defined
benefit
pension
plans
£m
US and
other
pension
plans
£m
US
healthcare
plans
£m
Total
£m
UK defined 
benefit 
pension 
plans 
£m 
US and 
other 
pension 
plans 
£m 
US
healthcare
plans
£m
Total
£m
Present value of unfunded obligations (10) (132) (11) (153) (1) (97) (13) (111)
Present value of funded obligations (14,221) (2,770) (142) (17,133) (15,099) (1,912) (103) (17,114)
Fair value of plan assets 11,159 1,819 92 13,070 13,192 1,918 95 15,205
Total IAS 19 deficit, net (3,072) (1,083) (61) (4,216) (1,908) (91) (21) (2,020)
Allocated to equity accounted investments  
and other participating employers
1
 891 – – 891 450 – – 450
Group’s share of IAS 19 deficit, net (2,181) (1,083) (61) (3,325) (1,458) (91) (21) (1,570)
Represented by:   
 Pension prepayments (within trade and other 
 receivables) –25 1540 14 32 13 59
 Retirement benefit obligations (2,181) (1,108) (76) (3,365) (1,472) (123) (34) (1,629)
 (2,181) (1,083) (61) (3,325) (1,458) (91) (21) (1,570)
   
Group’s share of IAS 19 deficit of equity 
accounted investments (168)––(168) (49) – – (49)
Amounts for the current and previous four years are as follows: 
Defined benefit pension plans 
2008
£m
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2005
£m
2004
£m
Defined benefit obligations (17,133) (17,109) (17,456) (17,767) (14,482)
Plan assets at bid value 12,978 15,110 14,289 12,461 10,143
Total deficit before tax and allocation to equity accounted investments  
and other participating employers (4,155) (1,999) (3,167) (5,306) (4,339)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on plan liabilities  1,433 952 473 (2,100) (1,221)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on plan assets
2
 (3,724) (156) 521 1,138 265
1 Certain of the Group’s equity accounted investments participate in the Group’s defined benefit plans as well as Airbus SAS, the Group’s share of which was disposed of during the year 
ended 31 December 2006. As these plans are multi-employer plans the Group has allocated an appropriate share of the IAS 19 pension deficit to the equity accounted investments and  
to Airbus SAS based upon a reasonable and consistent allocation method intended to reflect a reasonable approximation of their share of the deficit. The Group’s share of the IAS 19 
pension deficit allocated to the equity accounted investments is included in the balance sheet within equity accounted investments. 
2 At bid value.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 138 
22. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
Assets of defined benefit pension plans 
 2008 
 UK US  Total 
 £m %
Expected
return % £m %
Expected 
return %  £m %
Equities 6,964 62 8.25 1,110 61 9.25  8,074 62
Bonds 3,170 28 5.1 441 24 6.0  3,611 28
Property 846 8 6.0 193 11 7.0  1,039 8
Other  179 2 2.0 75 4 5.0  254 2
Total 11,159 1007.11,8191008.07  12,978100
 
 2007 
 UK US  Total 
 £m %
Expected
return % £m %
Expected 
return %  £m %
Equities 8,296 638.01,384729.25  9,68064
Bonds 3,331 254.9305166.0  3,63624
Property 1,142 96.011567.0  1,2578
Other  423 3 5.5 114 6 5.0  537 4
Total 13,192 1007.01,9181008.25  15,110100
When setting the overall expected rate of return on plan assets, historical markets are studied and long-term historical relationships 
between equities and bonds are preserved. This is consistent with the widely accepted capital market principle that assets with higher 
volatility generate a greater return over time. Current market factors such as inflation and interest rates are evaluated before expected 
return assumptions are determined for each asset class. The overall expected return is established with proper consideration of 
diversification and rebalancing. Peer data and historical returns are reviewed to check for reasonableness and appropriateness. 
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 
 
UK defined
benefit
pension
plans
£m
US and 
other 
pension 
plans 
£m 
US
healthcare
plans
£m
Total
£m
Value of plan assets at 1 January 2007 12,579 1,710 91 14,380
Assets acquired on acquisitions
3
 –55 –55
Expected return on assets 879 144 7 1,030
Actuarial (loss)/gain (171) 15 (3) (159)
Actual return on assets 708 159 4 871
Contributions by employer 384 103 8 495
Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice arrangements 107 – – 107
Total contributions by employer 491 103 8 602
Members’ contributions (including Department for Work and Pensions rebates) 29 10 – 39
Currency loss – (25) (1) (26)
Benefits paid (615) (94) (7) (716)
Value of plan assets at 31 December 2007 13,192 1,918 95 15,205
Assets acquired on acquisitions
4
 99– –99
Expected return on assets 901 165 8 1,074
Actuarial loss (2,956) (768) (39) (3,763)
Actual return on assets (2,055) (603) (31) (2,689)
Contributions by employer 425 61 8 494
Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice arrangements 112 – – 112
Total contributions by employer 537 61 8 606
Members’ contributions (including Department for Work and Pensions rebates) 42 11 – 53
Currency gain – 533 25 558
Benefits paid (656) (101) (5) (762)
Value of plan assets at 31 December 2008 11,159 1,819 92 13,070
3 On 31 July 2007, the Group acquired Armor Holdings, Inc. and its associated pension plans (note 31). 
4 Acquired on formation of BVT Surface Fleet Limited.  BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 139
22. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations before allocation to equity accounted investments and other 
participating employers are as follows: 
 
UK defined 
benefit 
pension 
plans 
£m 
US and 
other 
pension 
plans 
£m 
US
healthcare
plans
£m
Total
£m
Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 2007 (15,445) (2,011) (126) (17,582)
Net liabilities assumed on acquisitions
3
 – (77) –(77)
Current service cost (142) (55) (2) (199)
Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice arrangements (107) – – (107)
Total current service cost (249) (55) (2) (306)
Members’ contributions (including Department for Work and Pensions rebates) (29) (10) – (39)
Past service cost (14) – (2) (16)
Actuarial gain on liabilities 817 135 12 964
Interest expense (795) (115) (7) (917)
Currency gain – 30 2 32
Benefits paid 615 94 7 716
Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2007 (15,100) (2,009) (116) (17,225)
Net liabilities assumed on acquisitions
4
 (107) – –(107)
Current service cost (109) (56) (2) (167)
Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice arrangements (112) – – (112)
Total current service cost (221) (56) (2) (279)
Members’ contributions (including Department for Work and Pensions rebates) (42) (11) – (53)
Past service cost (23) 21 – (2)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on liabilities 1,471 (38) 8 1,441
Interest expense (865) (137) (8) (1,010)
Currency loss – (773) (40) (813)
Benefits paid 656 101 5 762
Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2008 (14,231) (2,902) (153) (17,286)
3 On 31 July 2007, the Group acquired Armor Holdings, Inc. and its associated pension plans (note 31). 
4 Acquired on formation of BVT Surface Fleet Limited. 
Contributions 
The Group contributions made to the defined benefit plans in the year ended 31 December 2008 were £399m (2007 £403m) 
excluding those amounts allocated to equity accounted investments and participating employers (£87m). In 2009, the Group  
expects to make regular contributions at a similar level to those made in 2008. In addition, the Group expects to make incremental 
contributions of £200m in respect of the UK pension schemes and $250m (£172m) to the US pension schemes in 2009.  
The Group incurred a charge in respect of the cash contributions of £84m (2007 £62m) paid to defined contribution plans for 
employees. Following the acquisitions the Group has made in 2008 (note 31), it expects to make a contribution of £132m to these 
plans in 2009.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 140 
22. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
The amounts recognised in the income statement after allocation to equity accounted investments and other participating 
employers are as follows: 
 2008 2007 
 
UK 
defined
benefit
pension
plans
£m
US and
other
pension
plans
£m
US
healthcare
plans
£m
Total
£m
UK 
defined
benefit
pension
plans
£m
US and 
other 
pension 
plans 
£m 
US
healthcare
plans
£m
Total
£m
Included in operating costs:  
 Current service cost (83) (56) (2) (141) (113) (55) (2) (170)
 Past service cost (21) – – (21) (10) – (2) (12)
 (104) (56) (2) (162) (123) (55) (4) (182)
Included in other income:  
 Past service credit –21 – 21 –– – –
 –21 – 21 –– – –
Included in finance costs:  
 Expected return on plan assets 673 165 8 846 694 144 7 845
 Interest on obligations (650) (137) (8) (795) (631) (115) (7) (753)
 23 28 – 51 63 29 – 92
Included in share of results of equity accounted 
investments:  
 Group’s share of equity accounted investments’  
 operating costs (8) – – (8) (6) – – (6)
 Group’s share of equity accounted investments’  
 finance costs 2–– 2 2– – 2
A one percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects: 
One percentage 
point increase 
£m 
One percentage
point decrease
£m
Effect on the aggregate of service cost and interest cost (0.2) 0.2
Effect on defined benefit obligations (2) 2
A 0.5 percentage point change in net discount rates used to value liabilities would have the following effect: 
0.5 percentage 
point increase 
£bn 
0.5 percentage
point decrease
£bn
Effect on defined benefit obligations 1 (1)
  BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 141
23. Provisions 
 
Aircraft
financing
£m
Warranties and
after-sales 
service
£m
Reorganisations –
continuing 
operations
£m
Legal costs, 
environmental 
and other 
£m 
Total
£m
Non-current 65934237 399
Current 206424302 410
At 1 January 2008 85 157 28 539 809
Created 115974158 302
Released (2)(29)(4)(139) (174)
Utilised (34)(36)(33)(112) (215)
Provisions and fair values arising on 
acquisitions (note 31) – 1 – 3 4
Adjustment to provisional fair values (note 31)
1
 – – – 14 14
On disposals – – (1) – (1)
Discounting ––111 12
Exchange adjustments 11 20 3 60 94
At 31 December 2008 71 172 68 534 845
Represented by:  
 Non-current 30 104 10 315 459
 Current 41 68 58 219 386
 71 172 68 534 845
1 Relates to the finalisation of fair values relating to the acquisition of Armor Holdings, Inc. in 2007. 
Aircraft financing 
The provision includes probable exposures under residual value guarantees issued by the Group on previous sales transactions. 
Further information is provided in note 24. Such costs are generally incurred within five years. 
Warranties and after-sales service 
Warranties and after-sales service are provided in the normal course of business with provisions for associated costs being made 
based on an assessment of future claims with reference to past experience. Such costs are generally incurred within three years  
post-delivery. Whilst actual events could result in potentially significant differences to the quantum but not the timing of the outflows  
in relation to the provisions, management has reflected current knowledge in assessing the provision levels and historical evidence 
indicates that the actual outflows are similar to the amounts provided. 
Reorganisations – continuing operations 
The costs associated with the reorganisation programmes are supported by detailed plans and based on previous experience as well 
as other known factors. Such costs are generally incurred within one to three years. There is limited volatility around the timing and 
amount of the ultimate outflows related to these provisions. 
Legal costs, environmental and other provisions 
The Group holds provisions for expected legal, environmental and other costs that it expects to incur over an extended period.  
These costs are based on past experience of similar items and other known factors and represent management’s best estimate  
of the likely outcome. 
Included within legal costs, environmental and other is £26m (2007 £75m) in respect of the cash-settled elements of certain of  
the Group’s share option schemes (note 26). The costs in respect of this liability are expected to occur over the next five years. 
Reflecting the inherent uncertainty within many legal proceedings, the timing and amount of the outflows could differ significantly  
from the amount provided.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 142 
24. Contingent liabilities and commitments 
Aircraft financing contingent liabilities 
Included within the aircraft financing provision of £71m (note 23) is an exposure of £58m as discussed below: 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Potential future cash flow payments in respect of aircraft financing obligations 97 134
Anticipated aircraft values (37) (55)
Adjustments to net present values (2) (9)
Net exposure provided 58 70
The Group has provided residual value guarantees (RVGs) in respect of certain commercial aircraft sold. At 31 December 2008,  
the Group’s gross exposure to make future payments in respect of these arrangements was £97m (2007 £134m). The Group’s  
net exposure to these guarantees is covered by the provisions held and the residual values of the related aircraft. 
The Group is also exposed to actual and contingent liabilities arising from commercial aircraft financing and RVGs given by Saab AB. 
Provision is made against the expected net exposures on a net present value basis within the accounts of Saab. The Group’s share  
of such exposure is limited to its percentage shareholding in Saab. 
Guarantees and performance bonds 
The Group has entered into a number of guarantee and performance bond arrangements in the normal course of business. Provision  
is made for any amounts that the directors consider may become payable under such arrangements. 
Operating lease commitments – where the Group is the lessee 
The Group leases various offices, factories, shipyards and aircraft under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases  
have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. 
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases and associated future minimum sublease 
income are as follows: 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Payments due: 
 Not later than one year 177 125
 Later than one year and not later than five years 546 460
 Later than five years 679 731
 1,402 1,316
 
Total of future minimum sublease income under non-cancellable subleases  259 249
Capital commitments 
Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided for in the accounts is as follows: 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Property, plant and equipment 133 121
Intangible assets 7 6
 140 127
Treasury contingent liabilities 
Treasury contingent liabilities are set out in note 32. 
Other contingent liabilities 
The Group is subject to an ongoing investigation by the UK Serious Fraud Office (the SFO) in connection with marketing of the Group’s 
products. The Group is co-operating fully with the SFO. 
At this stage management cannot determine whether or not it might lead to any proceedings being brought against the Group. 
Accordingly, the potential for fines or other penalties cannot currently be assessed, although the directors continue to consider that  
the Group has not acted unlawfully in relation to any of the matters under investigation. As the investigation is ongoing it is not 
possible to identify the timescale in which these issues might be resolved.  
In addition, in June 2007, the US Department of Justice notified the Group that it had commenced a formal investigation relating to the 
Group’s compliance with anti-corruption laws, including its business concerning the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Again, given the status of 
this matter it is not possible to provide any details of any possible future financial effects that might result from the investigation and 
any subsequent actions or events that might occur as a result of the investigation. Equally it is not possible to provide any timescale  
in which these issues might be resolved. The directors continue to consider that the Group has not acted unlawfully in relation to its 
dealings with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia or in relation to anti-corruption laws. 
Should any financial effects arise as a result of these investigations the directors consider it unlikely that there is any likelihood  
of reimbursement for such costs from any sources other than certain rights to recover reimbursement of the legal costs under the 
Group’s insurance policies.  BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 143
25. Share capital 
 Equity  Non-equity Total 
 
Ordinary shares 
of 2.5p each  
Special Share 
of £1  
 
Number of
shares
m
Nominal 
value 
£m  
Number of 
shares 
 
Nominal
value
£
Nominal
value
£m
Authorised    
At 1 January 2008  4,450 111  1 1 111
Authorised in the year 350 9  – – 9
At 31 December 2008 4,800 120  1 1 120
    
Issued and fully paid    
At 1 January 2007 3,246 81  1 1 81
Exercise of options 29 1  – – 1
Placing of shares 174 5  – – 5
Conversion of preference shares 125 3  – – 3
At 1 January 2008 3,574 90  1 1 90
Exercise of options 8 –  – – –
At 31 December 2008 3,582 90  1 1 90
Special Share 
One Special Share of £1 in the Company is held on behalf of the Secretary of State for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform  
(the Special Shareholder). Certain parts of the Company’s Articles of Association cannot be amended without the consent of the 
Special Shareholder. These articles include the requirement that no foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, can have  
more than a 15% voting interest in the Company, the requirement that the majority of the directors are British, the requirement that 
decisions of the directors at their meetings, in their committees or via resolution must be approved by a majority of British directors 
and the requirement that the Chief Executive and any executive chairman are British citizens. The effect of these requirements can  
also be amended by regulations made by the directors and approved by the Special Shareholder. 
The Special Shareholder may require the Company at any time to redeem the Special Share at par or to convert the Special Share into 
one ordinary voting share. The Special Shareholder is entitled to receive notice of and to attend general meetings and class meetings 
of the Company’s shareholders but has no voting right, nor other rights, other than to speak in relation to any business in respect of 
the Special Share. 
Placing of shares 
On 11 May 2007, 174,418,605 new ordinary shares of 2.5p each were placed at a price of 430p, raising £750m before expenses 
(see note 27). 
Conversion of preference shares 
As at 1 January 2007, the Company had in issue 259,962,909 7.75p (net) cumulative redeemable preference shares of 25p each. 
During the prior year, the shares were converted into ordinary shares of 2.5p each on the basis of 0.47904 ordinary shares for each 
preference share, as a result of which 124,532,630 ordinary shares of 2.5p each were issued. There were, therefore, no preference 
shares in issue as at 31 December 2007 or 31 December 2008. 
In accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, the convertible preference shares were considered to  
be a compound financial instrument consisting of both a debt element and an equity component which required separate accounting 
treatment. Following conversion to ordinary shares the amounts previously recognised within equity (note 27) and within loans and 
overdrafts (note 20) have been extinguished. 
Treasury shares 
As at 31 December 2008, 55,038,953 (2007 61,945,000) ordinary shares of 2.5p each with an aggregate nominal value of 
£1,375,974 (2007 £1,548,625) were held in treasury. During 2008, 6,906,047 treasury shares were used to satisfy awards  
and options under the Share Incentive Plan and the Save-As-You-Earn Share Option Scheme.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 144 
26. Share-based payments 
Details of the terms and conditions of each share option scheme are given in the Remuneration report on pages 75 to 93.  
Executive Share Option Scheme (ExSOS) 
Equity-settled options 
 2008  2007 
 
Number of 
shares 
‘000 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
£  
Number of
shares
‘000
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 31,728 3.33  56,202 2.80
Granted during the year – –  6,161 4.59
Exercised during the year (6,921) 2.67 (19,294) 2.34
Expired during the year (1,076) 4.19 (11,341) 3.07
Outstanding at the end of the year 23,731 3.49  31,728 3.33
Exercisable at the end of the year 13,628 2.78  9,922 2.68
Cash-settled share appreciation rights 
 2008  2007 
 
Number of 
shares 
‘000 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
£  
Number of
shares
‘000
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 16,993 2.67  35,805 2.82
Exercised during the year (3,963) 2.71  (8,512) 2.48
Expired during the year (363) 2.95  (10,300) 3.32
Outstanding at the end of the year 12,667 2.65  16,993 2.67
Exercisable at the end of the year 12,522 2.64  11,452 2.67
 
 2008 2007 
 Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled
Range of exercise price of outstanding options (£) 1.72 – 4.79 2.01 – 4.21 1.72 – 4.87 1.72 – 4.21
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 64 7 6
Weighted average fair value of options granted (£) –– 1.46 –
Expense/(credit) recognised for the year (£m) 5(18) 8 15
Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
Equity-settled options 
 
2008
Number of
shares
‘000
2007
Number of
shares
‘000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 20,952 25,608
Granted during the year 7,507 4,107
Exercised during the year (6,433) (7,240)
Expired during the year (1,146) (1,523)
Outstanding at the end of the year 20,880 20,952
Exercisable at the end of the year 2,151 963 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 145
26. Share-based payments continued 
Cash-settled options 
 
2008
Number of
shares
‘000
2007
Number of
shares
‘000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 7,949 12,701
Exercised during the year (4,368) (4,053)
Expired during the year (438) (699)
Outstanding at the end of the year 3,143 7,949
No options were exercisable at the end of the year. 
 2008 2007 
 Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 53 4 4
Weighted average fair value of options granted (£) 3.78 – 2.29 –
Expense/(credit) recognised for the year (£m) 10 (1) 7 18
The exercise price for the PSP is £nil (2007 £nil). 
Restricted Share Plan (RSP) 
All awards are equity-settled. 
 
2008
Number of
shares
‘000
2007
Number of
shares
‘000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 603 1,338
Exercised during the year (385) (619)
Expired during the year (2) (116)
Outstanding at the end of the year 216 603
Exercisable at the end of the year 3 –
 
 2008 2007
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) – 1
Expense recognised for the year (£m) – 1
The exercise price for the RSP is £nil (2007 £nil). 
Share Matching Plan (SMP) 
All awards are equity-settled. 
 
2008
Number of
shares
‘000
2007
Number of
shares
‘000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 463 –
Granted during the year 1,470 464
Exercised during the year (110) –
Expired during the year (12) (1)
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,811 463
Exercisable at the end of the year – –
 
 2008 2007
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 2 2
Weighted average fair value of options granted (£) 4.79 4.59
Expense recognised for the year (£m) 2 –
The exercise price for the SMP is £nil (2007 £nil).  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 146 
26. Share-based payments continued 
Save-As-You-Earn (SAYE) 
Equity-settled options 
 2008  2007 
 
Number of 
shares 
‘000 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
£  
Number of
shares
‘000
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 9,477 1.25  21,174 1.71
Exercised during the year (4,597) 0.94  (10,873) 2.10
Expired during the year (244) 1.31  (824) 1.64
Outstanding at the end of the year 4,636 1.56  9,477 1.25
Exercisable at the end of the year 94 0.92  157 1.62
Cash-settled share appreciation rights 
2008  2007 
Number of 
 shares 
‘000 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
£  
Number of
shares
‘000
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 5,154 3.14  8,923 2.76
Exercised during the year (1,949) 2.46  (3,214) 2.08
Expired during the year (310) 3.53  (555) 3.18
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,895 3.56  5,154 3.14
Exercisable at the end of the year 2,895 3.56  1,865 2.40
 
 2008 2007 
 Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled
Range of exercise price of outstanding options (£) 0.93 – 1.56 3.85 0.93 – 2.56 1.72 – 3.56
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 1– 1 1
Expense/(credit) recognised for the year (£m) 1(4) 2 7
Details of options granted in the year 
The fair value of both equity-settled awards granted in the year has been measured using the weighted average inputs below and the 
following valuation models: 
PSP – Monte Carlo 
SMP – Dividend valuation model 
 2008 2007
Range of share price at date of grant (£) 3.48 – 5.05 4.32 – 4.86
Exercise price (£) – 0 – 4.79
Expected option life (years) 3 – 4 4 – 5
Volatility 25 – 32% 25 – 36%
Spot dividend yield 3.0 – 4.4% 2.5 – 2.8%
Risk free interest rate 2.4 – 3.9% 5.0 – 5.3%
Volatility was calculated with reference to the Group’s weekly share price volatility, after allowing for dividends and stock splits,  
for the greater of 30 weeks or for the period until vest date. 
The average share price in the year was £4.33 (2007 £4.52). 
The liability in respect of the cash-settled elements of the schemes shown above and reported within liability provisions at 
31 December 2008 is £26m (2007 £75m). 
The intrinsic value of cash-settled options that have vested at 31 December 2008 is £15m (2007 £26m). 
Share Incentive Plan 
The Group also incurred a charge of £28m (2007 £16m) in respect of the all-employee free shares element of the Share Incentive Plan.  BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 147
27. Reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves 
 Attributable to equity holders of the parent 
 
Issued
share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Equity
option of
preference
 shares
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Minority
interests
£m
Total
equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2007 81 841 76 4,330 (1,211) 4,117 17 4,134
Total recognised income and expense – – – 72 1,291 1,363 21 1,384
Placing of shares (net of costs) 5 – – – 736 741 – 741
Share-based payments – – – – 34 34 – 34
Share options:   
 Proceeds from shares issued 1 63 – – – 64 – 64
 Purchase of own shares – – – – (50) (50) – (50)
Conversion of preference shares 3 318 (76) 229 (229) 245 – 245
Purchase of treasury shares – – – – (152) (152) – (152)
Other ––––– – (1)(1)
Ordinary share dividends – – – – (396) (396) (1) (397)
At 31 December 2007 90 1,222 – 4,631 23 5,966 36 6,002
Total recognised income and expense – – – 1,343 379 1,722 23 1,745
Share-based payments – – – – 51 51 – 51
Share options:   
 Proceeds from shares issued – 16 – – – 16 – 16
 Purchase of own shares – – – – (43) (43) – (43)
Other ––––– – 77
Ordinary share dividends – – – – (478) (478) (11) (489)
At 31 December 2008 90 1,238 – 5,974 (68) 7,234 55 7,289
Other reserves include a merger reserve of £4,589m (2007 £4,589m), a statutory reserve of £202m (2007 £202m), a translation 
reserve of £787m (2007 £217m debit) and a hedging reserve of £396m (2007 £57m). The £1,343m credit to other reserves includes 
£1,004m to the translation reserve and £339m to the hedging reserve. Under Section 4 of the British Aerospace Act 1980 the 
statutory reserve may only be applied in paying up unissued shares of the Group to be allotted to members of the Group as fully  
paid bonus shares. 
Placing of shares  
On 11 May 2007, 174,418,605 new ordinary shares of 2.5p each were issued by a placing of shares (note 25). The placing structure 
utilised attracted merger relief under Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985, resulting in a credit to the merger reserve of £736m. 
Subsequent internal transactions required to complete the placing structure have resulted in this part of the merger reserve being 
transferred to the retained earnings reserve.  
Own shares held 
Own shares held, including treasury shares and shares held by BAE Systems ESOP Trust, are recognised as a deduction from  
retained earnings. 
Conversion of preference shares 
During the prior year, 259,962,909 preference shares were converted into ordinary shares of 2.5p each on the basis of 0.47904 
ordinary shares for each preference share (note 25). 
Treasury shares 
During the prior year, 33,270,000 ordinary shares of 2.5p each were repurchased under the buyback programme announced in October 
2006. As at 31 December 2008, 55,038,953 (2007 61,945,000) ordinary shares of 2.5p each with an aggregate nominal value of 
£1,375,974 (2007 £1,548,625) were held in treasury. 
BAE Systems ESOP Trust  
The Group has an ESOP discretionary trust to administer the share plans and to acquire Company shares, using funds loaned by the 
Group, to meet commitments to Group employees. A dividend waiver was in operation for shares within the ESOP Trust, other than 
those owned beneficially by the participants, for the dividends paid in June and December 2008. 
At 31 December 2008, the ESOP held 2,093,818 (2007 1,552,015) ordinary shares of 2.5p each with a market value of £8m  
(2007 £8m). The shares held by the ESOP are recorded at cost and deducted from retained earnings until such time as the shares 
vest unconditionally to employees.  
A dividend waiver was in operation during 2008 and remains over shares within the Company’s Share Incentive Plan Trust other than those 
shares owned beneficially by the participants. A dividend waiver was also in operation for the dividends paid in June and December 2008 
over shares in the Group All-Employee Free Shares Plan Trust other than those shares owned beneficially by participants.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 148 
28. Reconciliation of operating business cash flow 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Cash inflow from operating activities 2,009 2,162
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (520) (307)
Purchases of intangible assets (32) (31)
Equity accounted investment funding – (4)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 44 13
Proceeds from the sale of investment property 5 53
Proceeds from the sale of non-current other investments – 15
Purchase of non-current other investments – (1)
Dividends received from equity accounted investments 89 78
Operating business cash flow 1,595 1,978
 
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 380 302
Land & Armaments 467 10
Programmes & Support 651 807
International 163 678
HQ & Other Businesses (66) 181
Operating business cash flow 1,595 1,978  
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 149
29. Net cash as defined by the Group 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Debt-related derivative financial instrument assets – non-current 203 –
Term deposits – current – 164
Cash and cash equivalents 2,624 3,062
 2,827 3,226
Loans – non-current (2,608) (2,197)
Loans – current (154) (283)
Overdrafts – current (19) (16)
Loans and overdrafts – current (173) (299)
Cash received on customers’ account
1
 (included within payables) (7) (30)
 (2,788) (2,526)
Closing net cash as defined by the Group 39 700
Movement in net cash as defined by the Group 
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Operating business cash flow 1,595 1,978
Interest and preference dividends (98) (65)
Taxation (261) (112)
Free cash inflow 1,236 1,801
Acquisitions and disposals (1,001) (1,574)
Debt acquired on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings (37) (538)
Proceeds from issue of share capital 16 805
Equity dividends paid (478) (396)
Dividends paid to minority interests (11) (1)
Preference share conversion – 245
Purchase of treasury shares – (152)
Purchase of own shares  (43) (50)
Cash outflow from matured derivative financial instruments (440) (14)
Cash inflow from reduction in cash collateral 106 9
Other non-cash movements 339 62
Foreign exchange (374) 36
Movement in cash received on customers’ account
1
 26 32
Movement in net cash as defined by the Group (661) 265
Opening net cash as defined by the Group 700 435
Closing net cash as defined by the Group 39 700
1 Cash received on customers’ account is the unexpended cash received from customers in advance of delivery which is subject to advance payments guarantees unrelated to  
Group performance. 
Cash flows in relation to acquisitions and disposals 
 Subsidiaries  
Equity accounted 
investments 
 
MTC 
£m 
Tenix 
Defence 
£m 
Detica
£m
Other 
acquisitions
2
£m
Total 
acquisitions
£m
Surveillance 
and Attack
£m
Other 
disposals
2
 
£m 
Total 
disposals 
£m  
Flagship
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cash (consideration)/proceeds (188) (328) (543) (19) (1,078) 118 13 131  16 (12) (943)
Cash and cash equivalents  
net of overdrafts 
acquired/disposed 2 – (4) 4 2 –(60) (60) –– (58)
Acquisitions and disposals (186) (328) (547) (15) (1,076) 118 (47) 71  16 (12) (1,001)
Debt acquired on acquisition  
of subsidiary (32) – (5) – (37) –– –  –– (37)
 (218) (328) (552) (15) (1,113) 118 (47) 71  16 (12) (1,038)
2 Other acquisitions and disposals are described in notes 31 and 9, respectively.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 150 
30. Dividends 
Equity dividends 
2008
£m
2007
£m
Prior year final 7.8p dividend per ordinary share paid in the year (2007 6.9p) 274 221
Interim 5.8p dividend per ordinary share paid in the year (2007 5.0p) 204 175
 478 396
After the balance sheet date, the directors proposed a final dividend of 8.7p (2007 7.8p). The dividend, which is subject to shareholder 
approval, will be paid on 1 June 2009 to shareholders registered on 24 April 2009. The ex-dividend date is 22 April 2009. 
Shareholders who do not at present participate in the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan and wish to receive the final dividend in 
shares rather than cash should complete a mandate form for the Dividend Reinvestment Plan and return it to the registrars no later 
than 8 May 2009.   
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 151
31. Acquisition of subsidiaries 
The Group acquired MTC Technologies, Inc. (MTC) in the US on 9 June 2008, Tenix Defence in Australia on 27 June 2008 and Detica 
Group plc (Detica) on 25 September 2008. If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2008, combined sales of Group and equity 
accounted investments would have been £19.0bn, revenue £17.2bn and profit for the year from continuing operations £1.8bn. 
MTC 
On 9 June 2008, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of MTC in the US for a cash consideration including transaction 
costs of $375m (£188m). Goodwill arising on consolidation is £131m. 
Based in Dayton, Ohio, MTC provides technical and professional services, and equipment integration and modernisation for the US 
military and intelligence agencies. 
In the period from acquisition to 31 December, MTC contributed revenue and loss after tax of £98m and £1m, respectively, to the 
Group’s consolidated results. 
The acquisition of MTC complements the existing US business in the Electronics, Intelligence & Support operating group. It allows  
for synergies in professional services, aircraft integration centres, and modification and sustainment. The opportunities presented  
by these circumstances do not translate to separately identifiable intangible assets, but represent much of the assessed value within 
the Electronics, Intelligence & Support operating group supporting the goodwill. 
The MTC acquisition had the following effect on the Group’s assets and liabilities: 
Book value 
£m 
Accounting 
policy 
alignments 
£m 
Fair value 
adjustments
£m
Fair value
£m
Intangible assets 12 – 13 25
Property, plant and equipment 14 (1) 5 18
Inventories 4 – 1 5
Receivables 48 – – 48
Deferred tax assets 1 – 15 16
Payables (23) – (1) (24)
Deferred tax liabilities (4) – 4 –
Provisions – – (1) (1)
Cash and cash equivalents 2 – – 2
Loans (32) – – (32)
Net assets/(liabilities) acquired 22 (1) 3657
Goodwill   131
Consideration   188
   
Consideration satisfied by:   
 Cash   184
 Directly attributable costs:   
  Paid   4
   188
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition of MTC can be analysed as follows: 
£m
Customer relationships 21
Technology 4
 25
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 152 
31. Acquisition of subsidiaries continued 
Tenix Defence 
Tenix Defence Holdings Pty Limited (Tenix Defence), a leading Australian defence contractor, comprises four businesses in the Land, 
Aerospace, Electronic Systems and Marine sector.  
On 27 June 2008, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Tenix Defence for a cash consideration including transaction 
costs paid of A$697m (£328m), subject to adjustment according to the level of working capital in the business at the acquisition date. 
In the period from acquisition to 31 December 2008, Tenix Defence contributed revenue, EBITA
1
 and loss after tax of £130m, £12m 
loss and £39m, respectively, to the Group’s consolidated results. Included within the loss after tax of £39m is an amortisation 
expense on intangible assets of £29m. 
The acquisition of Tenix Defence complements the existing Australian business enabling BAE Systems to establish a greater presence 
in the Australian defence market and in particular to expand into the Australian land and marine sectors. These opportunities do not 
translate into separately identifiable intangible assets, but represent much of the assessed value within Tenix Defence supporting the 
recognised goodwill. 
Certain of the accounting policy alignments have not yet been finalised pending further review. In addition, certain of the fair values 
assigned to the net assets acquired are provisional. These will be amended as necessary in light of subsequent knowledge or events 
to the extent that these reflect conditions as at the date of acquisition.  
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense. 
The acquisition of Tenix Defence had the following effect on the Group’s assets and liabilities: 
Book value
£m
Accounting 
policy 
alignments 
£m 
Fair value 
adjustments
£m
Fair value
£m
Intangible assets 5 (2) 91 94
Property, plant and equipment 36 (2) 43 77
Receivables 68 – – 68
Deferred tax assets –– 9 9
Payables (99) (21) (118) (238)
Provisions (1) (3) 1 (3)
Net assets/(liabilities) acquired 9 (28) 26 7
Provisional goodwill  323
Consideration  330
  
Consideration satisfied by:  
 Cash  323
 Directly attributable costs:  
  Paid  5
  Accrued  2
  330
The fair value adjustment to payables of £118m is in respect of provisions for contract losses. 
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition of Tenix Defence can be analysed as follows: 
£m
Programmes 75
Order backlog 4
Patents 15
 94
 
   
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 153
31. Acquisition of subsidiaries continued 
Detica  
On 25 September 2008, the Group’s offer for the acquisition of Detica for £543m including assumption of net debt became wholly 
unconditional. Detica is a specialist business and technology consultancy with expertise in information exploitation, security and 
resilience, threat intelligence and customer insight. 
In the period from acquisition to 31 December 2008, Detica contributed revenue and profit after tax of £60m (UK £55m) and £1m, 
respectively, to the Group’s consolidated results. 
The acquisition of Detica provides access to UK and US government contracting opportunities in the intelligence, security and 
resilience market and significant cross-selling opportunities, particularly in our home markets. The combination of capabilities within 
Detica and BAE Systems will provide innovative solutions in this growing sector. The opportunities presented by these circumstances 
do not translate to separately identifiable intangible assets, but represent much of the assessed value within BAE Systems supporting 
the recognised goodwill. 
Certain of the fair values assigned to the net assets acquired are provisional. These will be amended as necessary in light of 
subsequent knowledge or events to the extent that these reflect conditions as at the date of acquisition. 
The acquisition of Detica had the following effect on the Group’s assets and liabilities: 
Book value 
£m 
Accounting 
policy 
alignments 
£m 
Fair value 
adjustments
£m
Fair value
£m
Intangible assets 3 – 91 94
Property, plant and equipment 15 – – 15
Inventories 2 – – 2
Receivables 69 – – 69
Deferred tax assets 2 – – 2
Payables (46) – – (46)
Current tax liabilities – – (1) (1)
Deferred tax liabilities (1) – (24) (25)
Overdrafts (4) – – (4)
Loans (5) – – (5)
Net assets acquired 35 – 66 101
Provisional goodwill   442
Consideration   543
   
Consideration satisfied by:   
 Cash   531
 Directly attributable costs:   
  Paid   12
   543
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition of Detica can be analysed as follows: 
£m
Order backlog 22
Customer relationships 22
Trademarks 30
Software 20
 94
Other acquisitions 
Other acquisitions include the acquisitions of 100% of the issued share capital of Tenix Toll Defence Logistics Pty Limited, formerly  
a joint venture between Tenix and Toll Holdings Pty Limited, for A$24m (£12m) and 100% of the issued share capital of IST Dynamics  
for £7m. As a result of these acquisitions, £7m of goodwill was generated in the year.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 154 
31. Acquisition of subsidiaries continued 
Acquisition of subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2007 
The Group made a number of acquisitions during the year ended 31 December 2007, the most significant of which was of Armor 
Holdings, Inc. in the US. The acquisitions took place throughout the year ended 31 December 2007, but if they had occurred on 
1 January 2007, combined sales of Group and equity accounted investments would have been £16.7bn, revenue £15.3bn and  
profit for the year ended 31 December 2007 from continuing operations £928m. 
Armor Holdings, Inc. 
On 31 July 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Armor Holdings, Inc. (Armor), in the US, for a consideration  
of £1,696m, excluding transaction costs incurred by the acquiree (£26m). Goodwill arising on consolidation amounted to £1,554m. 
Armor is a major manufacturer of tactical wheeled vehicles and a leading provider of vehicle and individual armour systems and 
survivability technologies for the military and for the law enforcement and commercial security markets. 
In the period from acquisition to 31 December 2007, Armor contributed EBITA
1
 of £77m and profit after tax of £18m to the Group’s 
consolidated results. 
Mobile International, a subsidiary of Armor, was acquired with a view to immediate resale. Accordingly, it was classified as held for sale 
in the acquisition balance sheet and as at 31 December 2007 (note 19). 
The acquisition of Armor complements the existing US business in the Land & Armaments business group creating synergy potential.  
It allows for continued development of the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles and Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles 
(FMTV) programmes, as well as advanced ceramics for body armour. The opportunities presented by these circumstances do not 
translate to separately identifiable intangible assets, but represent much of the assessed value within the Land & Armaments 
business group supporting the recognised goodwill. 
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense. 
The acquisition had the following effect on the Group’s assets and liabilities: 
Book value
£m
Accounting 
policy 
alignments 
£m 
Fair value 
adjustments
£m
Fair value
£m
Intangible assets 172 – 581 753
Property, plant and equipment 85 (1) 8 92
Inventories 163 (5) (4) 154
Receivables 158 (1) (1) 156
Current tax receivable 33 – 2 35
Deferred tax assets 23 3 – 26
Payables (204) (1) (20) (225)
Deferred tax liabilities (87) – (145) (232)
Retirement benefit obligations (24) 4 (2) (22)
Provisions (13) – (57) (70)
Cash and cash equivalents 6– – 6
Loans (386) (5) (147) (538)
Held for sale 14 – (7) 7
Net (liabilities)/assets acquired (60) (6) 208 142
Goodwill  1,554
Consideration  1,696
  
Consideration satisfied by:  
 Cash  1,682
 Directly attributable costs:  
  Paid  14
  1,696
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition of Armor can be analysed as follows: 
£m
Programmes 551
Customer relationships 129
Trademarks 69
Patents 4
 753
   
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 155
31. Acquisition of subsidiaries continued 
Certain of the fair values assigned to the net assets at the date of acquisition were provisional, and in accordance with IFRS 3 
Business Combinations, the Group has adjusted the fair values attributable to legal provisions and associated deferred taxation  
in the year ended 31 December 2008, resulting in a net increase in goodwill on acquisition of £6m. This has not had a material  
impact on the consolidated accounts and, as such, the Group has not restated the balance sheet at 31 December 2007. 
Other acquisitions in 2007 
Other acquisitions included the acquisition of Pitch Technologies AB and iSC for a consideration of £5m and £4m, respectively.  
In each case, 100% of the shares were acquired. As a result of these acquisitions, an additional £9m of goodwill was generated  
in the year. 
32. Financial risk management 
A discussion of the Group’s treasury objectives and policies and the use of financial instruments can be found in the Directors’ report. 
Financial instruments comprise net cash/(debt) (note 29) together with other financial assets and other financial liabilities (note 17) 
and other instruments deemed to be financial instruments under IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, including 
non-current receivables, non-current payables and non-current provisions. 
Hedging instruments 
The notional, or contracted, amounts of derivative financial instruments are shown below, analysed between foreign exchange 
contracts and interest rate contracts, classified by year of maturity. 
 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 
Foreign exchange contracts 
Not 
exceeding
one year
£m
Between
one year 
and 
five years
£m
More than 
five years
£m
Total
£m
Not 
exceeding 
one year 
£m 
Between 
one year 
and 
five years 
£m 
More than
five years
£m
Total
£m
Net forward (sales)/purchase contracts   
 US dollar (1,199) 248 8 (943) (2,366) 141 (12) (2,237)
 Euro 2,286 620 4 2,910 1,277 425 (1) 1,701
 Other 132 2 – 134 131 3 – 134
 1,219 870 12 2,101 (958) 569 (13) (402)
 
 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 
Interest rate contracts 
Not 
exceeding
one year
£m
Between
one year 
and
five years
£m
More than
five years
£m
Total
£m
Not 
exceeding 
one year 
£m 
Between 
one year 
and 
five years 
£m 
More than
five years
£m
Total
£m
Interest rate swap contracts   
 US dollar – 896 – 896 – 654 – 654
 Sterling 33 146 – 179 30 120 31 181
 33 1,042 – 1,075 30 774 31 835
 
 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 
Cross-currency swap contracts 
Not 
exceeding
one year
£m
Between
one year 
and
five years
£m
More than
five years
£m
Total
£m
Not 
exceeding 
one year 
£m 
Between 
one year 
and 
five years 
£m 
More than
five years
£m
Total
£m
Net forward (sales)/purchase contracts   
 US dollar 58 303 345 706 38 176 339 553
 Swedish krona –– – – (143) – – (143)
 58 303 345 706 (105) 176 339 410
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 156 
32. Financial risk management continued 
Fair value of financial instruments 
The fair value of a financial instrument is the price at which one party would assume the rights and/or duties of another party. 
The fair values of financial instruments have been determined based on available market information at the balance sheet date,  
and the valuation methodologies listed below: 
– the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts are calculated by discounting the contracted forward values and translating  
at the appropriate balance sheet rates; 
– the fair value of both interest rate and cross-currency swaps are calculated by discounting expected future principal and interest  
cash flows and translating at the appropriate balance sheet rates; and 
– the fair value of loans and overdrafts has been estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using 
appropriate market-based interest rates prevailing at 31 December.  
Due to the variability of the valuation factors, the fair values presented at the balance sheet date may not be indicative of the amounts 
the Group would expect to realise in a current market environment. 
The following table compares the estimated fair values of certain financial assets and liabilities to their carrying values at the balance 
sheet date
1
. 
Net carrying
amount
2008
£m
Estimated 
fair value 
2008 
£m 
Net carrying
amount
2007
£m
Estimated
fair value
2007
£m
Assets  
Non-current  
 Other receivables
2
 125 125 265 265
 Other financial assets 514 514 48 48
  
Current  
 Other investments –– 164 164
 Other financial assets 674 674 101 101
 Cash and cash equivalents 2,624 2,624 3,062 3,062
  
Liabilities  
Non-current  
 Loans (2,608) (3,090) (2,197) (2,399)
 Other financial liabilities (383) (383) (26) (26)
  
Current  
 Loans and overdrafts (173) (173) (299) (308)
 Other financial liabilities (362) (362) (71) (71)
1 The estimated fair values of the remaining financial assets and liabilities are consistent with their carrying values at the balance sheet date. 
2 Net carrying amount approximates to estimated fair value as there is no active market.  
Interest rate risk 
Based on contracted maturities and/or repricing dates, the following amounts are exposed to interest rate risk over the future as 
shown below: 
2009
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012 
£m 
2013
£m
Beyond
2013
£m
Assets  
Current  
 Cash and cash equivalents 2,624 – – – – –
  
Liabilities  
Non-current  
 Loans (651) (651) (279) (110) (80) –
  
Current  
 Loans and overdrafts (50) – – – – –
   
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 157
32. Financial risk management continued 
Collateral 
As shown above, the Group has entered into a number of financial derivative contracts to hedge certain long-term foreign currency and 
interest rate exposures. Cash collateral payments can be required to be made periodically to the counterparty dependent on the market 
value of these financial derivatives. Cash deposited in this way is treated as a non-current receivable and at 31 December 2008 
totalled £nil (2007 £109m). 
Committed undrawn borrowing facilities 
At 31 December 2008 the Group had a committed Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) of £1.5bn, which expires in more than two years  
but less than five years (2007 £1.5bn which expires in more than two years but less than five years). Of the £1.5bn, £45m relates  
to Lehman Brothers Commercial Paper Inc. The RCF was originally contracted for five years until 2010. However, it has been extended 
by the agreement of two one-year extensions until 2012, although the available amount for the final year has been reduced from 
£1.5bn to £1.3bn. The RCF remained undrawn throughout the year. 
Interest rate fluctuations 
The objective of interest rate risk management is to reduce the exposure to interest rate fluctuations on borrowings and deposits.  
This is achieved through varying the proportion of fixed rate debt relative to floating rate debt over the forward time horizon by utilising 
derivative instruments, mainly interest rate swaps. The Group’s current interest rate management policy is that a minimum of 25% 
(2007 25%) and a maximum of 75% (2007 75%) of debt is maintained at fixed interest rates. At 31 December 2008, the Group had 
73% (2007 75%) of fixed rate debt and 27% (2007 25%) of floating rate debt based on a gross debt of £2.6bn including debt-related 
derivative financial assets (2007 £2.5bn). 
The floating rate debt has been predominantly achieved by entering into interest rate swaps which swap the fixed rate US dollar 
interest payable on debt into either floating rate sterling or US dollars. At the end of 2008, the Group had a total of $1.3bn (2007 
$1.3bn) of this type of swap outstanding with a weighted average duration of 2.4 years (2007 3.2 years). In respect of the fixed  
rate debt the weighted average period in respect of which interest is fixed was seven years (2007 seven years). 
Given the level of short-term interest rates during the year, the average cost of the floating rate debt was 5.2% (2007 6.7%), 3.5% on  
US dollars and 8% on sterling (2007 6.3% on US dollars and 7.3% on sterling). The cost of the fixed rate debt was 6.8% (2007 7.1%). 
A change of 100 basis points in short-term rates applied to the average fixed/floating mix and level of borrowings would vary the 
interest cost to the Group by £6m (2007 £7m). 
In respect of cash deposits, given the fluctuation in the Group’s working capital requirements, cash is generally invested for short-term 
periods based at floating interest rates. A change of 100 basis points in the average interest rates during the year applied to the 
average cash deposits would vary the interest receivable by £12m (2007 £23m). 
Credit risk on cash and cash equivalents 
The Group is exposed to credit risk on its cash and cash equivalents to the extent of non-performance by its counterparties in respect of 
financial instruments. However, the Group has policies in place to ensure credit risk is limited by placing concentration limits. BAE Systems 
has a credit limit system to manage actively its exposure to treasury counterparties. The cash and cash equivalents balance at  
31 December 2008 of £2,624m (2007 £3,062m) was invested with 14 (2007 26) financial institutions. The system assigns a maximum 
exposure based on the counterparty’s size, a composite credit rating and Credit Default Swap price. These limits are regularly monitored 
and updated. The Group has material receivables due from the UK and US governments where credit risk is not considered to be an issue. 
For the remaining trade receivables no one counterparty constitutes more than 2% of the balance (2007 3%). 
The cash and cash equivalents of the Group are invested in non-speculative financial instruments which are usually highly liquid such 
as short-term deposits. The Group, therefore, believes it has reduced its exposure to credit risk and managed its price risk through  
this process. 
Currency risk 
In order to protect itself against currency fluctuations, the Group’s policy is to hedge all material firm transactional exposures.  
Further explanation is set out in the Risk management and principal risks section of the Directors’ report on page 61.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Group accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 158 
33. Related party transactions 
The Group has a related party relationship with its directors and key management (as disclosed in the Remuneration report on pages 
75 to 93 and in note 7), its equity accounted investments (note 14) and the pension plans (note 22). 
Transactions occur with the equity accounted investments in the normal course of business and are priced on an arm’s-length basis 
and settled on normal trade terms. The more significant transactions are disclosed below:  
 
Sales to  
related party  
Purchases from
related party 
Amounts owed by
related party 
Amounts owed to 
related party 
Lease income/ 
(expense) with 
related party  Other 
Related party 
2008 
£m 
2007 
£m  
2008 
£m
2007 
£m
2008 
£m
2007 
£m
2008 
£m
2007 
£m
2008 
£m 
2007 
£m  
2008 
£m
2007 
£m
BVT Surface Fleet Limited 74 –  1 – 4 – 54 – – –  – –
Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH 889 1,063  – – 61 107 221 – – –  – –
Flagship Training Limited – –  – 1 – – – 7 – –  – –
Fleet Support Limited – 1  – 2 – 1 – – – –  – –
Gripen International KB 1 –  – – 114 109 161 136 – –  – –
MBDA SAS 56 143  10 11 9 20 1,034 709 – 2  – –
Panavia Aircraft GmbH 57 71  127 132 11 1 4 – – –  – –
Saab AB 4 3  9 – 1 – 2 – – –  – 1
CTA International SAS – –  – 2 – – – – – –  – –
Flight Control System Management GmbH – –  – – – 1 – 1 – –  – –
 1,081 1,281  147 148 200 239 1,476 853 – 2  – 1
34. Group entities 
Principal subsidiary undertakings Principal activities 
Group interest 
in allotted 
capital 
Principally  
operates in 
Country of
incorporation
BAE Systems (Operations) Limited 
(Held via BAE Systems Enterprises Limited and  
BAE Systems (Overseas Holdings) Limited) 
Defence and commercial aerospace 
activities 
100% 
Ordinary 
UK England and 
Wales
BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems 
Integration Inc. 
(Held via BAE Systems, Inc.) 
Designs, develops and manufactures 
electronic systems and 
subsystems 
100% 
Common 
US US
BAE Systems Controls Inc. 
(Held via BAE Systems, Inc.) 
Designs, develops and manufactures 
military defence electronics 
equipment 
100% 
Common 
US US
BAE Systems Land & Armaments LP 
1525 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 700, Arlington VA 22209, USA 
(Partners: BAE Systems Land & Armaments Inc. and 
BAE Systems Land & Armaments Holdings Inc.)  
Manufactures and supports  
military vehicles 
100% 
 
US  US
BAE Systems AH Inc.  
(formerly Armor Holdings, Inc.)  
(Held via BAE Systems, Inc.) 
Manufacture of military vehicles  
and supply of vehicle and armour 
systems 
100% 
Common 
US US
BAE Systems Tactical Vehicle Systems LP 
5000 Interstate 10 West, Sealy, TX 77474, USA  
(Partners: BAE Systems TVS Holdings LLC and  
BAE Systems TVS Inc.) 
Mobility and protection systems 100% 
 
US US
The Group comprises a large number of subsidiary undertakings and it is not practical to include all of them in the above list.  
The list therefore only includes those subsidiary undertakings which principally affected the Group accounts.  
A full list of subsidiary, equity accounted investments and other associated undertakings as at 31 December 2008 will be annexed  
to the Company’s next annual return filed with the Registrar of Companies. 
No subsidiary undertakings are excluded from the Group consolidation. 
35. Events after the balance sheet date 
In connection with the joint venture company BVT Surface Fleet Limited (BVT), which was established on 1 July 2008, VT Group plc  
(VT) holds a put option exercisable from 1 July 2009 to sell its 45% interest in BVT to the Group for a minimum of £380m (subject  
to adjustments). In addition, on completion of that put option, deferred consideration of £65m (plus interest) in respect of the sale  
to VT of the Group’s 50% shareholding in Flagship Training Limited becomes payable (subject to adjustment). 
In January 2009, VT announced that it had decided to exercise this put option and that it expects to be in a position to exercise that 
option by 1 July 2009.    
Company balance sheet 
as at 31 December 
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 159
 Notes 2008 
£m 
2007
£m
Fixed assets   
Tangible assets 2 5 6
Investments   
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 3 5,663 5,596
  5,668 5,602
Current assets   
Debtors due within one year 4 9,339 7,670
Debtors due after one year 4 3 116
Investments 5 – 130
Other financial assets due within one year 6 383 139
Other financial assets due after one year 6 249 63
Cash at bank and in hand  1,988 2,360
  11,962 10,478
Liabilities falling due within one year   
Loans and overdrafts 7 (49) (188)
Creditors 8 (12,873) (11,607)
Other financial liabilities 6 (277) (129)
  (13,199) (11,924)
Net current liabilities  (1,237) (1,446)
Total assets less current liabilities  4,431 4,156
   
Liabilities falling due after one year   
Loans 7 (258) (448)
Creditors 8 (6) (9)
Other financial liabilities 6 (346) (57)
  (610) (514)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 9 (120) (70)
  3,701 3,572
   
Capital and reserves   
Issued share capital 11 90 90
Share premium account 13 1,238 1,222
Statutory reserve 14 202 202
Other reserves 13 164 118
Profit and loss account 13 2,007 1,940
Equity shareholders’ funds  3,701 3,572
Approved by the Board on 18 February 2009 and signed on its behalf by: 
I G King G W Rose 
Chief Executive Group Finance Director 
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Company accounts 
www.baesystems.com 160 
1. Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical 
cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-
sale financial assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities 
(including derivative instruments) at fair value through profit or 
loss, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards  
in the United Kingdom (UK GAAP). The going concern basis has 
been applied in these accounts. 
In the Company’s accounts, all fixed asset investments (including 
subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures) are stated at cost (or 
valuation in respect of certain listed investments) less provisions  
for impairments. Dividends received and receivable are credited  
to the Company’s profit and loss account. In accordance with 
Section 230(4) of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is 
exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and  
loss account. The amount of profit for the financial year of  
the Company is disclosed in note 13 to these accounts. 
Relief under Sections 131 and 133 of the Companies Act 1985  
is taken wherever possible. Accordingly, where such relief is 
available, the difference between the fair value and aggregate 
nominal value of shares is not recognised in either shareholders’ 
funds or cost of investment. 
Changes in accounting policies 
Amendments to FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement, and FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, have 
been made that would permit the reclassification of certain 
financial instruments from 1 July 2008. The amendment has been 
issued as part of the response to the deterioration of the world’s 
financial markets. This does not have any impact on the 
Company’s accounts. 
FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures has been amended to reflect 
changes to the law introduced by The Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008. 
This amendment is effective for accounting periods beginning on  
or after 6 April 2008. The Company is exempt from presenting 
FRS 8 disclosures as full equivalent disclosures are presented  
on a Group basis within the consolidated financial statements. 
The following amendments to existing standards are effective for 
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009: 
– Amendments to FRS 20 Share-based Payment: Vesting 
Conditions and Cancellations; and 
– Improvements to FRSs 2008. 
These amendments are not expected to have a significant impact 
on the Company’s accounts. 
Urgent Issues Task Force (UITF) Abstract 44 FRS 20, Group and 
Treasury Share Transactions, is applicable for the year ended 
31 December 2008. This did not have a significant impact on  
the Company’s accounts. 
UITF Abstract 46 (International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee (IFRIC) interpretation 16), Hedges of a Net Investment 
in a Foreign Operation will be applicable for the year ending 31 
December 2009. It is not expected to have any significant impact 
on the Company’s accounts. 
Cash flow statement 
The Company is exempt under the terms of FRS 1 from the 
requirement to publish its own cash flow statement, as its cash 
flows are included within the consolidated cash flow statement  
of the Group. 
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange 
rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets  
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated 
at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. These 
exchange differences are recognised in the profit and loss account 
unless they qualify for hedge accounting treatment, in which case 
the effective portion is recognised directly in a separate 
component of equity. 
Tangible fixed assets 
Depreciation is provided, normally on a straight-line basis, to  
write off the cost or valuation of tangible fixed assets over their 
estimated useful economic lives to any estimated residual value 
using the following rates: 
Buildings up to 50 years, or the 
lease term if shorter 
Computing equipment, motor vehicles  
and short life works equipment 
3 to 5 years 
No depreciation is provided on freehold land and assets in the 
course of construction. 
Impairment reviews are undertaken if there are indications that 
the carrying values may not be recoverable. 
Leases 
Assets obtained under finance leases are included in tangible fixed 
assets at cost and are depreciated over their useful economic lives, 
or the term of their lease, whichever is shorter. Future instalments 
under such leases, net of finance charges, are included within 
loans. Rental payments are apportioned between the finance 
element, which is charged as interest to the profit and loss account, 
and the capital element, which reduces the outstanding obligation 
for future instalments, so as to give a constant rate of charge on 
the outstanding obligation. 
Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the  
profit and loss account on a straight-line basis in arriving at 
operating profit. 
Investments 
The Company’s investment in shares in group companies are 
stated at cost less provision for impairment. 
Tax 
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes 
account of taxation deferred because of timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. 
Deferred tax is recognised on an undiscounted basis in respect  
of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items  
for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not 
reversed by the balance sheet date where there is an obligation  
to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, in the future. 
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
The Company contributes to Group pension plans operated in the 
UK. Details of the principal plans and the financial assumptions 
used are contained in the consolidated accounts of BAE Systems 
plc. As permitted by FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, the plans are 
accounted for as defined contribution plans, as the employer 
cannot identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities  
of the plans. The employer’s contributions are set in relation to 
the current service period and also to fund a series of agreed 
measures to address the pension scheme deficits.   
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 161
Share options and own shares held  
The Company issues equity-settled share options to Group 
employees. In accordance with the requirements of FRS 20  
Share-based Payment, the Company has applied FRS 20 to all 
equity-settled share options granted after 7 November 2002 that 
were unvested as of 1 January 2005. Equity-settled share options 
are measured at fair value at the date of grant using an option 
pricing model. The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of the 
number of shares that will actually vest. 
In accordance with UITF Abstract 25 National Insurance 
Contributions on Share Option Gains, the Company provides  
in full for the employer’s national insurance liability estimated  
to arise on the future exercise of share options granted, except 
where the employee has agreed to settle the employer’s national 
insurance liability as a condition of the grant of the options. 
As required under UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP  
Trusts, the cost to the Company of own shares held is shown  
as a deduction from shareholders’ funds within the profit and  
loss account. Consideration paid or received for the purchase  
or sale of the Company’s own shares in the ESOP trust  
is shown separately in the reconciliation of movements  
in shareholders’ funds. 
Preference share capital 
During the prior year, the Company’s 7.75p (net) cumulative 
preference shares of 25p each were converted into the 
Company’s ordinary shares of 2.5p each on the basis of  
0.47904 ordinary shares for every preference share.  
In accordance with FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and 
Presentation, the preference shares were considered a compound 
financial instrument and, accordingly, split into an underlying debt 
instrument, classified within loans and overdrafts, and an equity 
conversion option, classified within equity. 
The underlying debt instrument was presented on an amortised 
cost basis until extinguished on conversion. 
The equity conversion option was presented at its historic fair 
value, based on the date of original issue of the preference 
shares. On conversion of the preference shares into ordinary 
shares, the equity component was reclassified to share capital 
and share premium.  
Dividends 
Equity dividends on ordinary share capital are recognised as  
a liability in the period in which they are declared. 
 
 
1. Accounting policies continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Company accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 162 
2. Tangible fixed assets 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Plant and
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost   
At 1 January 2008 and 31 December 2008 9 27 36
Depreciation and impairment  
At 1 January 2008 6 24 30
Depreciation – 1 1
At 31 December 2008 6 25 31
Net book value  
At 31 December 2008 3 2 5
At 31 December 2007 3 3 6
The amounts above at 31 December 2008 include: 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Plant and
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Capitalised finance leases  
Cost – 24 24
Accumulated depreciation – 24 24
  
Assets let under operating leases  
Cost – – –
Accumulated depreciation – – –
  
Net book value of:  
Long leasehold property 3 – 3
Fixtures, fittings and equipment – 2 2
 3 2 5
Land and buildings comprise: 
– freehold and long leasehold land and buildings owned by the Company as at 30 June 1996, excluding certain overseas properties, 
revalued at that date. The majority of the Group’s operational properties at that time were valued on a depreciated replacement 
basis, owing to their specialisation, with the remainder on an existing use value basis. Other non-operational properties were valued 
on the basis of open market value; 
– short leaseholds at cost; 
– additions subsequent to 30 June 1996 at cost; and 
– land and buildings owned by subsidiary undertakings acquired since 30 June 1996 at fair value at the date of acquisition. 
3. Fixed asset investments 
Subsidiary 
undertakings 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost  
At 1 January 2008 5,659 – 5,659
Additions 65 – 65
At 31 December 2008 5,724 – 5,724
Impairment provisions  
At 1 January 2008 64 (1) 63
Released (3) 1 (2)
At 31 December 2008 61 – 61
Net carrying value  
At 31 December 2008 5,663 – 5,663
At 31 December 2007 5,595 1 5,596  
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 163
4. Debtors 
 2008
£m
2007
£m
Due within one year 
Corporation tax recoverable 98 34
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 9,197 7,580
Amounts owed by Group joint ventures 6 3
Other debtors 8 23
Prepayments and accrued income 30 30
 9,339 7,670
Due after one year 
Other debtors 3 116
 3 116
Other debtors includes cash collateral of £nil (2007 £109m). 
5. Current asset investments 
 2008
£m
2007
£m
Other securities – 130
6. Other financial assets and liabilities 
2008 
Assets 
£m 
2008 
Liabilities 
£m 
2007
Assets
£m
2007
Liabilities
£m
Due within one year   
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts 211 (220) 62 (41)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts 172 (57) 77 (88)
 383 (277) 139 (129)
Due after one year   
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts 98 (100) 34 (20)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts 2 (246) 29 (37)
Debt-related derivative financial instruments – assets
1
 149 – ––
 249 (346) 63 (57)
Debt-related derivative financial instruments – liabilities
1
   
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts – – – (191)
1 The debt-related derivative financial instrument assets are presented as other financial assets. The debt-related derivative financial liabilities are presented as a component of loans and 
overdrafts (note 7). 
Full disclosures relating to the Group’s other financial assets and liabilities and financial risk management strategies are given in the 
Financial review section of the Directors’ report and note 32 to the Group accounts.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Company accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 164 
7. Loans and overdrafts 
 2008
£m
2007
£m
Due within one year 
Bank loans and overdrafts 20 15
Euro-Sterling £150m 11
7
/
8% bond, repayable 2008 – 150
European Investment Bank loans, final instalment 2009 4 7
SYSTEMS 2001 Asset Trust Option Aircraft bond 25 16
 49 188
Due after one year 
European Investment Bank loan, final instalment 2009 – 4
Euro-Sterling £100m 10
3
/
4% bond, repayable 2014 100 99
SYSTEMS 2001 Asset Trust Option Aircraft bond, final instalment 2013 158 153
Debt-related derivative financial instruments – liabilities – 191
Alvis loan notes, redeemable 2009 – 1
 258 448
Bank loans and overdrafts are at a floating rate of interest. 
The European Investment Bank borrowing is fixed with an interest rate of 6.86%. 
The SYSTEMS 2001 Asset Trust bonds are at a floating rate of interest, having been converted to a sterling floating rate bond by 
utilising a cross-currency swap which resulted in an effective interest rate during 2008 of 6.97% (2007 6.75%). 
Loans and overdrafts are repayable as follows: 
Less than 
one year
£m
Between 
one and 
two years
£m
Between  
two and  
five years 
£m 
More than 
five years
£m
Total
£m
At 31 December 2008  
 Carrying amount
1
 4925133 100307
 Debt-related derivative financial instruments – assets – – (32) (117) (149)
 Carrying amount including debt-related derivative financial instruments – assets 49 25 101 (17) 158
At 31 December 2007  
 Carrying amount 188 26 87 335 636
1 The carrying amount of loans and overdrafts at 31 December 2008 excludes debt-related derivative financial assets of £149m presented as other financial assets. 
The total amount of loans repayable by instalments, where any instalment is due after five years, is £188m (2007 £169m). 
8. Creditors 
 2008
£m
2007
£m
Due within one year 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 11,196 10,584
Amounts owed to Group joint ventures 1,468 844
Other creditors 173 141
Accruals and deferred income 36 38
 12,873 11,607
Due after one year 
Other creditors 6 9
 6 9
9. Provisions for liabilities and charges 
 Contracts and other
£m
At 1 January 2008 70
Created 55
Transfers from subsidiary undertakings 20
Utilised (9)
Released (20)
Discounting 4
At 31 December 2008 120
Provisions created mainly relate to legal costs and the termination of adviser agreements.   
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 165
10. Contingent liabilities and commitments 
Company guaranteed borrowings 
Borrowings by subsidiary undertakings totalling £2,621m (2007 £1,981m) which are included in the Group’s borrowings have been 
guaranteed by the Company.  
11. Share capital 
 Equity  Non-equity Total 
 
Ordinary shares 
of 2.5p each  
Special Share 
of £1  
 
Number of
shares
m
Nominal 
value 
£m  
Number of 
shares 
 
Nominal
value
£
Nominal
value
£m
Authorised    
At 1 January 2008  4,450 111  1 1 111
Authorised in the year 350 9  – – 9
At 31 December 2008 4,800 120  1 1 120
    
Issued and fully paid    
At 1 January 2007 3,246 81  1 1 81
Exercise of options 29 1  – – 1
Placing of shares 174 5  – – 5
Conversion of preference shares 125 3  – – 3
At 1 January 2008 3,574 90  1 1 90
Exercise of options 8 –  – – –
At 31 December 2008 3,582 90  1 1 90
Special Share 
One Special Share of £1 in the Company is held on behalf of the Secretary of State for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform 
(the Special Shareholder). Certain parts of the Company’s Articles of Association cannot be amended without the consent of the 
Special Shareholder. These articles include the requirement that no foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, can have  
more than a 15% voting interest in the Company, the requirement that the majority of the directors are British, the requirement that 
decisions of the directors at their meetings, in their committees or via resolution must be approved by a majority of British directors 
and the requirement that the Chief Executive and any executive chairman are British citizens. The effect of these requirements can  
also be amended by regulations made by the directors and approved by the Special Shareholder. 
The Special Shareholder may require the Company at any time to redeem the Special Share at par or to convert the Special Share into 
one ordinary voting share. The Special Shareholder is entitled to receive notice of and to attend general meetings and class meetings 
of the Company’s shareholders but has no voting right, nor other rights, other than to speak in relation to any business in respect of 
the Special Share. 
Placing of shares 
On 11 May 2007, 174,418,605 new ordinary shares of 2.5p each were placed at a price of 430p, raising £750m before expenses. 
Conversion of preference shares 
As at 1 January 2007, the Company had in issue 259,962,909 7.75p (net) cumulative redeemable preference shares of 25p each. 
During the prior year, the shares were converted into ordinary shares of 2.5p each on the basis of 0.47904 ordinary shares for each 
preference share, as a result of which 124,532,630 ordinary shares of 2.5p each were issued. There were, therefore, no preference 
shares in issue as at 31 December 2007 or 31 December 2008. 
In accordance with FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, the convertible preference shares were considered to  
be a compound financial instrument consisting of both a debt element and an equity component which required separate accounting 
treatment. Following conversion to ordinary shares the amounts previously recognised within equity and within loans and overdrafts 
have been extinguished. 
Treasury shares 
As at 31 December 2008, 55,038,953 (2007 61,945,000) ordinary shares of 2.5p each with an aggregate nominal value of 
£1,375,974 (2007 £1,548,625) were held in treasury. During 2008, 6,906,047 treasury shares were used to satisfy awards  
and options under the Share Incentive Plan and the Save-As-You-Earn Share Option Scheme.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Notes to the Company accounts continued 
www.baesystems.com 166 
12. Employee share schemes 
Options over shares of the ultimate parent undertaking, BAE Systems plc, have been granted to employees of the Company under various 
schemes. Details of the terms and conditions of each share option scheme are given in the Remuneration report on pages 75 to 93  
of this report. 
 Executive Share Option Scheme Save-As-You-Earn 
 2008 2007 2008  2007 
 
Number of
shares
‘000
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£
Number of
shares
‘000
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£
Number of 
shares 
‘000 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
£  
Number of
shares
‘000
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 15,046 3.35 27,513 2.84 296 1.25  654 1.78
Granted during the year –– 2,994 4.59 – –  ––
Exercised during the year (3,164) 2.69 (9,840) 2.31 (145) 0.95 (351) 2.23
Expired during the year (620) 4.37 (5,621) 3.34 (9) 1.26 (7) 1.44
Outstanding at the end of the year 11,262 3.48 15,046 3.35 142 1.56  296 1.25
    
Weighted average remaining life (years) 6 7 1  1
Weighted average fair value of options granted (£) – 1.47 –  –
Range of exercise price of outstanding options (£) 1.72 – 4.79 1.72 – 4.87 1.56  0.93 – 2.57
Expense recognised for the year (£m) 3 4 –  –
 
Share Matching  
Plan 
Performance Share  
Plan 
 Restricted Share  
Plan 
2008
Number of 
shares
‘000
2007
Number of 
shares
‘000
2008 
Number of 
shares 
‘000 
2007 
Number of 
shares  
‘000 
 2008
Number of 
shares
‘000
2007
Number of 
shares
‘000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 280 – 9,874 12,197  351 882
Granted during the year 819 281 2,665 1,996  – –
Exercised during the year (110) – (3,316) (3,742)  (270) (508)
Expired during the year (2) (1) (715) (577)  (1) (23)
Outstanding at the end of the year 987 280 8,508 9,874  80 351
    
Weighted average remaining life (years) 2 2 4 4  – –
Weighted average fair value of options granted (£) 4.79 4.59 3.85 2.31  – –
Expense recognised for the year (£m) 1 – 5 3  – –
The exercise price for the Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan and Restricted Share Plan is £nil (2007 £nil). 
Information on options granted in the year can be found on page 146 (note 26 to the Group accounts).   
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 167
13. Reserves 
Share  
premium  
account 
£m 
Other 
reserves
£m
Profit and 
loss account
£m
At 31 December 2007  1,222 118 1,940
Profit for the year – – 537
Dividends paid – – (478)
Share-based payments – – 51
Exercise of options 16 – –
Purchase of own shares – – (43)
Movements in hedging reserve – 46 –
At 31 December 2008 1,238 164 2,007
Other reserves 
Other reserves for the Company comprise: capital reserve £24m (2007 £24m); hedging reserve £54m (2007 £8m); and non-
distributable reserve arising from property disposals to other Group undertakings £86m (2007 £86m). The non-distributable reserve 
arising from property disposals to other Group undertakings relates to the revaluation surplus realised by the Company on properties 
which were sold to other Group companies as part of operational reorganisations in prior years. Amounts within this reserve will be 
transferred to the profit and loss account as distributable when the related properties are disposed of outside the Group, or written 
down following impairment. 
Own shares held 
Own shares held, including treasury shares and shares held by BAE Systems ESOP Trust, are recognised as a deduction from  
retained earnings. 
Treasury shares 
During the prior year, 33,270,000 ordinary shares of 2.5p each were repurchased under the buyback programme announced in  
October 2006. As at 31 December 2008, 55,038,953 (2007 61,945,000) ordinary shares of 2.5p each with an aggregate nominal 
value of £1,375,974 (2007 £1,548,625) were held in treasury. 
BAE Systems ESOP Trust  
The Group has an ESOP discretionary trust to administer the share plans and to acquire Company shares, using funds loaned by the 
Group, to meet commitments to Group employees. A dividend waiver was in operation for shares within the ESOP Trust, other than 
those owned beneficially by the participants, for the dividends paid in June and December 2008. 
At 31 December 2008, the ESOP held 2,093,818 (2007 1,552,015) ordinary shares of 2.5p each with a market value of £8m  
(2007 £8m). The shares held by the ESOP are recorded at cost and deducted from retained earnings until such time as the shares 
vest unconditionally to employees.  
A dividend waiver was in operation during 2008 and remains over shares within the Company’s Share Incentive Plan Trust other than those 
shares owned beneficially by the participants. A dividend waiver was also in operation for the dividends paid in June and December 2008 
over shares in the Group All-Employee Free Shares Plan Trust other than those shares owned beneficially by participants. 
Company profit 
The Company’s profit for the financial year was £537m (2007 £92m).  
14. Statutory reserve 
Under Section 4 of the British Aerospace Act 1980 this reserve may only be applied in paying up unissued shares of the Company  
to be allotted to members of the Company as fully paid bonus shares. 
15. Other information 
Employees 
The total number of employees of the Company at 31 December 2008 was 655 (2007 520). Total staff costs, excluding charges  
for share options, were £99m (2007 £68m). 
Total directors’ emoluments, excluding company pension contributions, were £9,509,000 (2007 £8,583,000). These emoluments 
were paid for their services on behalf of the BAE Systems Group. No emoluments related specifically to their work for the Company. 
Company audit fee 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts totalled £1,333,000 (2007 £1,111,000).  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Five-year summary 
 
www.baesystems.com 168 
Income statement
1,2,3,4
 
2008
£m
2007
£m
2006 
£m 
2005
£m
2004
£m
Sales including Group’s share of equity accounted investments  
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 4,459 3,916 4,007 3,697 3,063
Land & Armaments 6,407 3,538 2,115 1,270 482
Programmes & Support 4,638 5,327 4,615 4,660 –
International 3,333 3,359 3,428 3,138 –
Programmes – – – – 2,219
Customer Solutions & Support – – – – 2,856
Integrated Systems & Partnerships – – – – 2,022
HQ & Other Businesses 235 243 295 471 464
Intra-operating group sales (529) (673) (695) (655) (417)
 18,543 15,710 13,765 12,581 10,689
Underlying EBITA
6
 (restated)  
Electronics, Intelligence & Support 506 437 429 324 256
Land & Armaments 566 324 168 86 (8)
Programmes & Support 491 456 331 261 –
International  435 435 412 403 –
Programmes – –– – 10
Customer Solutions & Support – – – – 497
Integrated Systems & Partnerships – –– – 95
HQ & Other Businesses (101) (203) (146) (117) (50)
 1,897 1,449 1,194 957 800
Profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses 238 40 13 (4) –
Uplift on acquired inventories – (12) – (44) –
EBITA
5
 2,135 1,477 1,207 909 800
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (424) (297) (139) (122) (110)
Finance costs including share of equity accounted investments 697 93 (174) (196) (132)
Profit before taxation 2,408 1,273 894 591 558
Taxation expense including share of equity accounted investments (640) (373) (248) (147) (219)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 1,768 900 646 444 339
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations – 22 993 111 (336)
Profit for the year 1,768 922 1,639 555 3
  
Balance sheet  
Intangible assets 12,306 9,559 7,595 8,217 6,115
Property, plant and equipment, and investment property 2,558 1,887 1,869 1,922 1,901
Non-current investments 1,040 787 678 1,730 1,535
Inventories 926 701 395 485 498
Payables (excluding cash on customers’ account) less receivables (5,866) (5,373) (4,298) (4,596) (3,891)
Other financial assets and liabilities 240 52 6 (7) –
Retirement benefit obligations (3,365) (1,629) (2,499) (4,101) (3,210)
Provisions  (845) (809) (695) (718) (491)
Net tax 256 63 648 1,012 876
Net cash/(debt) 39 700 435 (1,277) (668)
Disposal groups held for sale – 64 – 137 –
Minority interests (55) (36) (17) (16) (10)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 7,234 5,966 4,117 2,788 2,655
 
   
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 169
 
 
Movement in net cash/(debt) as defined by the Group 
2008
£m
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2005
£m
2004
£m
   
Cash flow from operating activities 2,009 2,162 778 2,099 2,350
Net capital expenditure
7
 (503) (262) (141) (250) (285)
Dividends from equity accounted investments 89 78 145 88 69
Operating business cash flow 1,595 1,978 782 1,937 2,134
Acquisitions and disposals (1,038) (2,112) 1,330 (1,836) (630)
Finance costs (98) (65) (207) (152) (179)
Tax and dividends (750) (509) (431) (342) (312)
Other movements
8
 5 57 (11) (52) 9
(Purchase)/issue of equity shares (27) 603 (71) 373 –
Preference share conversion – 245 6 – –
Exchange movements (374) 36 323 (219) 129
Net (decrease)/increase in net funds (687) 233 1,721 (291) 1,151
Movement in cash on customers’ account 26 32 (9) (35) (13)
Movement in net cash/(debt) (661) 265 1,712 (326) 1,138
Opening net cash/(debt) 700 435 (1,277) (668) (870)
Impact of IFRS adoption – – – (283) (936)
Closing net cash/(debt) 39 700 435 (1,277) (668)
 
Other information 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Basic earnings/(loss) per share – total (pence) 49.6 26.6 50.7 17.4 (0.6)
Basic earnings per share – underlying
9
 (pence) 37.1 30.1 23.5 18.5 13.6
Dividend per ordinary share (pence) 14.5 12.8 11.3 10.3 9.5
Number of employees, excluding share of employees of equity accounted 
investments, at year end  94,000
 
88,000 
 
79,000 80,000 73,300
Capital expenditure including leased assets (£m) 552 341 538 347 359
Order book including the Group’s share of equity accounted investments (£bn) 46.5 38.6 31.7 30.8 29.5
1 For the year ended 31 December 2004, the operating group information presented under IFRS has not been restated to reflect the changes made to the operating groups in 2005,  
2006 and 2007. 
2 For the years ended 31 December 2004 to 2006, Airbus SAS is presented as a discontinued operation under IFRS.  
3 For the years ended 31 December 2004 and 2005, the Avionics business is presented as a discontinued operation under IFRS. 
4 For the years ended 31 December 2005 and 2006, the operating group information presented under IFRS has been restated to reflect changes made to the Group’s  
organisational structure. 
5 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense.  
6 EBITA excluding profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories. Restated to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses. See page 29. 
7 Includes expenditure on property, plant and equipment, investment property, intangible assets and other investments. 
8 Other movements include cash flows from matured derivative financial instruments, cash flows from movement in cash collateral and other non-cash movements. See page 149. 
9 Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses  
and uplift on acquired inventories. Restated to exclude profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses. See page 29.  SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION  
Shareholder information  
www.baesystems.com 170 
Registered office 
6 Carlton Gardens 
London SW1Y 5AD 
United Kingdom 
Telephone: +44 (0)1252 373232  
Company website: www.baesystems.com 
Registered in England and Wales, No. 1470151 
Registrars 
Equiniti Limited (0140) 
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
United Kingdom 
Telephone: 0871 384 2044 
Calls to the above number are charged at 8p per minute from  
a BT landline. Other telephony providers’ costs may vary. 
Telephone number from outside the UK: +44 121 415 7058 
If you have any queries regarding your shareholding, please  
contact the registrars. 
Shareview service 
The Shareview service from our registrar, Equiniti, gives 
shareholders: 
– direct access to data held on their behalf on the share register 
including recent share movements and dividend details; and 
– the ability to change their address or dividend payment 
instructions online. 
To sign up for Shareview you need the ‘shareholder reference’ 
printed on your proxy form or dividend stationery. There is no 
charge to register. 
When you register with the site, you can register your preferred 
format (post or e-mail) for shareholder communications. If you 
select ‘e-mail’ as your mailing preference, you will be sent 
shareholder communications, such as proxy forms and annual 
results, by e-mail instead of post, as long as this option  
is available.  
If you have your dividends paid straight to your bank account,  
and you have selected ‘e-mail’ as your mailing preference, you  
can also collect your tax voucher electronically. Instead of receiving 
the paper tax voucher, you will be notified by e-mail with details  
of how to download your electronic version. 
However, if you choose ‘post’ as your preference, you will be sent 
paper documents as usual. 
Visit the website at www.shareview.co.uk for more details. 
Details of software and equipment requirements are given on  
the website. 
Dividend reinvestment plan 
The Company offers holders of its ordinary shares the option  
to elect to have their dividend reinvested in shares purchased  
in the market instead of cash. If you would like to make this 
election, please request a dividend reinvestment plan mandate 
from our registrars: 
Equiniti Financial Services Limited 
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing  
West Sussex BN99 6DA  
United Kingdom 
Telephone: 0871 384 2268  
Calls to the above number are charged at 8p per minute from  
a BT landline. Other telephony providers’ costs may vary. 
Telephone number from outside the UK: +44 121 415 7058  
 
ShareGift 
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity donation 
scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares which may 
be uneconomic to sell. Details of the scheme are available from 
ShareGift at www.sharegift.org or by telephone on 020 7930 3737. 
Share price information 
The middle market price of the Company’s ordinary shares on 
31 December 2008 was 376.75p and the range during the year 
was 302.5p to 507p. 
American Depositary Receipts 
The BAE Systems plc American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) are 
traded on the Over The Counter market (OTC) under the symbol 
BAESY. One ADR represents four BAE Systems plc ordinary shares. 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the depositary.  
If you should have any queries, please contact: 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
PO Box 64504  
St Paul 
MN 55164-0504 
USA  
Email: jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com  
Telephone number for general queries: (800) 990 1135 
Telephone number from outside the US: +1 651 453 2128 
Website: www.adr.com 
   
 
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 171
Financial calendar 
Financial year end 31 December
Annual General Meeting 6 May 2009
2008 final ordinary dividend payable 1 June 2009
2009 half-yearly results announcement 30 July 2009
2009 interim ordinary dividend payable 30 November 2009
2009 full year results – preliminary announcement February 2010
  – report and accounts April 2010
2009 final ordinary dividend payable June 2010
 
Analysis of share register at 31 December 2008 
 Ordinary shares of 2.5p 
 Accounts  Shares 
Number 
‘000 % 
Number
million %
By category of shareholder   
Individuals 105.4 92.1 103.0 2.9
Nominee companies 8.0 7.0 3,377.4 94.3
Banks – – 2.7 0.1
Other 1.0 0.9 98.7 2.7
 114.4 100.0 3,581.8 100.0
   
By size of holding   
1 – 99 23.4 20.4 1.1 –
100 – 499 32.3 28.2 8.7 0.2
500 – 999 23.6 20.7 16.8 0.5
1,000 – 9,999 32.6 28.5 77.1 2.2
10,000 – 99,999 1.4 1.3 39.1 1.1
100,000 – 999,999 0.7 0.6 260.5 7.3
1,000,000 and over 0.4 0.3 3,178.5 88.7
 114.4 100.0 3,581.8 100.0 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION  
Glossary 
www.baesystems.com 172 
AGM 
Annual General Meeting. 
ATTAC 
Availability Transformation: Tornado Aircraft Contract. 
BvS10 Viking 
Amphibious armoured all-terrain vehicle. 
CVF 
The UK’s future aircraft carrier. 
CVR(T) 
Combat Vehicle Reconnaissance (Tracked) family of armoured 
fighting vehicles. 
DIS 
Defence Industrial Strategy. Published by the UK government in 
December 2005 following consultation with industry, recognises 
the skills and capabilities that will be needed to equip and support 
the UK armed forces and ensure the UK defence industry remains 
world-leading. 
EPS 
Earnings per Share. 
EU 
European Union. 
FAP 
Final Average Pay. 
FMTV 
Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles. 
FPP 
Final Pensionable Pay. 
FRIP 
Financial Risk Insurance Programme. 
FRS 
Financial Reporting Standard. 
GAAP 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 
GDP 
Gross Domestic Product. 
HERTI 
Highly autonomous medium-altitude long-endurance unmanned  
air system. 
HMMWV 
High Mobility Multi-purpose Wheeled Vehicle. 
Home market 
A home market is one in which the Group has a strong domestic 
presence and is a key part of the defence industry capability in 
that country. BAE Systems has six home markets: Australia;  
Saudi Arabia; South Africa; Sweden; the UK and the US. 
IAS 
International Accounting Standard. 
IBP 
Integrated Business Plan. 
IFRIC 
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.  
IFRS 
International Financial Reporting Standard. 
JAVELIN 
Joint Approach to VC-10 Engineering and Logistics Integration with 
the UK’s Royal Air Force. 
JLTV 
Joint Light Tactical Vehicle. 
JTRS 
Joint Tactical Radio Systems. 
JUMP 
Joint Upgrade and Maintenance Programme on the Harrier. 
KPI 
Key Performance Indicator. 
LCM 
Lifecycle Management. 
LHD 
Landing Helicopter Dock. 
Line leader 
An individual with specific profit and loss accountability  
for a business. 
LRIP 
Low-Rate Initial Production.  
LTA 
Lifetime allowance. 
LTIP 
Long-Term Incentive Plan. 
LTPA 
Long-Term Partnering Agreement. 
M777 
A lightweight 155mm field howitzer. 
MASS 
Munitions Acquisition – the Supply Solution. 
MMPV 
Medium Mine Protected Vehicle. 
MoD 
UK’s Ministry of Defence. 
MRAP 
Mine Resistant Ambush Protected wheeled vehicle.  
NLOS-C 
Non-Line-of-Sight Cannon. 
OAS 
Operational Assurance Statement: a six-monthly review of internal 
controls and risk management processes. 
OPV  
Offshore Patrol Vessel. 
PMP 
Performance Management Process. 
PCL 
Performance Centred Leadership: a leadership and performance 
management system used throughout the Group. 
QBR 
Quarterly Business Review. 
RAF 
The UK’s Royal Air Force. 
RCF 
Revolving Credit Facility. 
R&S 
Readiness and sustainment. The provision of through-life 
operational capability for the armed forces. 
RSAF 
The Royal Saudi Air Force. 
RG31 
Mine protected armoured personnel carrier. 
SMM 
Safety Maturity Matrix. 
STOVL 
Short Take-Off and Vertical Landing. 
TACP 
Tactical Air Control Party. 
TAS 
Typhoon Availability Service.  
TSR 
Total Shareholder Return.  
TRMC 
Treasury Review Management Committee.  
UAS  
Unmanned Aircraft Systems.  
  BAESystemsonline
Getmoreonline
YoucannowviewtheBAESystems
AnnualReport2008onourwebsite
www.baesystems.com/reporting/
alongwithfurtherinformationabout
ourperformance,informationforthe
AnnualGeneralMeetingandour
latestpresentations.
Keybenefits
SearchtheAnnualReportforkeyinformation
You can quickly and easily search BAE Systems’
Annual Report 2008 for the information you would
like to read. Simply type in the words you would
like to search for,and the relevant pages will be
listed for you to choose.
AccesstheNoticeofMeetingandvoteonline
You will find the Notice of Meeting for our 2009
Annual General Meeting available here. You can
also vote electronically on the resolutions proposed
at the meeting.
Downloadourcorporatereportingliterature
All BAE Systems’ corporate reports will be
available as downloadable pdfs from this
section of the website.
Linkstofurtherinformation
From the Shareholder Reporting section of our
website you can link to other areas of interest,
including the Annual Report,financial calendar
and much more.
Downloadthelatestpresentations
Keep up to date with our presentations
on performance from our Results Centre.
www.baesystems.com/reporting/
Shareholderfeedback
Ifyouwouldliketogiveusanyfeedbackonthisyear’s
AnnualReport,pleasesendyourwrittencomments
toourinvestorrelationsteamat:
BAESystemsplc
6CarltonGardens
LondonSW1Y5AD
UnitedKingdom
orbye-mailtoandrew.wrathall@baesystems.com
Coverimage
TheDeticaNerveCentreisadynamic,state-of-the-art
facilityforinteractiveworking.Featuringhigh-definition
touchscreens,interactiveandsecureglasswhiteboards,
digitaldatacaptureandmulti-terabytedatastorage,the
DeticaNerveCentrestimulatescreativeexplorationof
“theartofthepossible”ininformationintelligence.
Productionofthisreport
TheprinterisaCarbonNeutral®companyandits
EnvironmentalManagementSystemiscertified
toISO14001:2004.100%oftheelectricityused
isgeneratedfromrenewablesources,95%ofpress
chemicalsarerecycledforfurtheruseandonaverage
99%ofanywasteassociatedwiththisproductionwill
berecycled.Thepapercontains50%recycledfibreand
50%virginfibre.Thepulpforeachpaperisbleached
usinganElementalChlorineFree(ECF)process.
ThepaperisFSCcertified. BAE Systems plc
6 Carlton Gardens
London SW1Y 5AD
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)1252 373232
Registered in England and Wales No. 1470151
Website details
www.baesystems.com
