 ANNUAL REPORT 2013
ANNUAL  
REPORT 
2013
FOR m ORE  
i NFORm ATi ON
—
BAESy STEm S.c Om BAE Systems plc 
6 Carlton Gardens 
London SW1Y 5AD 
United Kingdom 
Telephone: +44 (0) 1252 373232 
www.baesystems.com
Registered in England and Wales No. 1470151
© BAE Systems plc 2014. All rights reserved
BAE SYSTEMS is a registered trade mark of BAE Systems plc. Cautionary statement: All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this document, including, without limitation, those regarding 
the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of BAE Systems and its strategy, plans and objectives and the markets and economies in 
which it operates, are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements which reflect management’s assumptions made on the basis of 
information available to it at this time, involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors which could cause the actual 
results, performance or achievements of BAE Systems or the markets and economies in which BAE Systems operates to be materially different from 
future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. BAE Systems plc and its directors accept no 
liability to third parties in respect of this report save as would arise under English law. Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated 
reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in accordance with schedule 10A of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000. It should be noted that schedule 10A and section 463 Companies Act 2006 contain limits on the liability of the directors of 
BAE Systems plc so that their liability is solely to BAE Systems plc.
At BAE Systems, we serve the needs of our 
customers by delivering a wide range of advanced 
defence, aerospace and security solutions that 
provide a performance edge. With some 84,600 
employees
1
 in six continents, we work together 
with local partners to develop, engineer, manufacture 
and support the innovations that increase defence 
sovereignty, sustain economies and safeguard 
commercial interests. 
That’s Inspired Work. 
1  Including share of equity accounted investments.
GET Th E LATEST i Nv ESTOR 
i NFORm ATi ON ONLi NE:
www. BAESy STEm S.c Om For the latest information on:  
– Innovation 
– Performance 
– Investor presentations 
– Corporate responsibility 
– News and events 
– Company videos
Plus, features enabling you to: 
– View on your laptop, tablet or phone 
– Stay connected with Twitter, Flickr, YouTube and Facebook 
– Sign up for RSS feeds 
– Sign up for e-mail alerts 
– Contact us
BAE Sy STEm S ONLi NE
Printed by Park Communications on FSC®certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System 
is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are 
recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this 
production will be recycled. 
The papers are the combination of 100% virgin fibre and 50% recycled fibre 
sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC®certified forests. The pulp for 
each is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) process.
Front cover image of Type 45 © Crown copyright.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar. Inside this report
Strateg Ic  
report
This section provides an overview of 
how the Group delivers sustainable 
growth in shareholder value.
overv Iew
governance
This section explains the Group’s 
approach to governance and 
directors’ remuneration.
DIrector S’ 
r eport
This section contains additional 
statutory and regulatory information.
FInanc Ial 
Statement S
This section contains the financial 
information for the Group and the 
Company in accordance with 
Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice.
Inve Stor 
re Source S
This section contains reference 
information for shareholders.
07 Group Strategic Framework
09 Business model
20 Chief Executive’s review
24 Executive Committee objectives
26 Key Performance Indicators
29 Risk management 
31 Principal risks summary
32 Group financial performance
36 Segmental performance
62 Sustainability summary
64 Governance summary
02 Results in brief 
03 Outlook for 2014
04 Chairman’s letter
106 Principal risks
112 Sustainability
120 Other statutory and  
regulatory information
125 Index to the accounts
128 Consolidated income statement
129 Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 
141 Consolidated cash flow statement
144 Consolidated balance sheet
145 Consolidated statement of  
changes in equity
182 Company balance sheet
183 Notes to the Company accounts
189 Independent auditor’s report 
192 Five-year summary
194 Shareholder information
196 G l os s a r y   
06-65
02-05
125-193
105-124
194-196
For further information visit:  
www.baesystems.com
67 Board of directors
69 Corporate governance report
74 Audit Committee report
77 Corporate Responsibility  
Committee report
79 Nominations Committee report
80 Remuneration Committee report
82 Directors’ remuneration policy
92 Annual remuneration report
66-104
Bae SyStemS ANNuAl R EPORT 2013 1 r esults in brief
1 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7 to the Group accounts).
2 Restated on adoption of the revised International Accounting Standard 19, Employee Benefits.
3  Including share of equity accounted investments.
4  Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items (see page 33).
5  Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items 
(see note 8 to the Group accounts).
6  Order backlog comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders, and is stated after the elimination of intra-group orders.
7  Basic earnings per share in accordance with International Accounting Standard 33, Earnings per Share.
8  Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets 
contributed to Trust.
9 See note 10 to the Group accounts.
Ian King, Chief Executive
“ O v e r a l l , t he Gr O up 
delivered a s Olid 
perf Ormance in 2013.”
Sales
3
£18,180m 2013
£17,905m 1
 2012
operating business cash flow
8
£147m 2013
£2,692m 2012
operating profit
£806m 2013
£1,605m 1,2
 2012
underlying eBIta
4
£1,925m 2013
£1,862m 1,2
 2012
net (debt)/cash (as defined by the group)
9
£
(
699
)
m 2013
£387m 2012
order backlog
3,6
£42.7bn 2013
£42.5bn 1
 2012
underlying earnings
5
 per share
42.0p 2013
38.7p 1,2
 2012
Dividend per share
20.1p 2013
19.5p 2012
Basic earnings per share
7
5.2p 2013
29.3p 1,2
 2012
 n Sales
3
 increased by 2% to £18.2bn
 n underlying eBIta
4
 increased by 3% to £1.9bn and 
underlying earnings
5
 per share increased by 9% to 42.0p 
 n equitable conclusion reached on price escalation 
negotiations with the Kingdom of Saudi arabia
 n order backlog
3,6
 of £42.7bn maintained at 2012 levels 
with non-uK/uS order intake
3
 of £9.3bn
 n r obust, investment grade balance sheet, with net debt
9
 
of £699m at year end
 n non-cash goodwill impairment of £865m in uS businesses, 
due to increased weighted average cost of capital and 
taking into account lower uS defence spending
 n Full year dividend increased by 3% to 20.1p per share
 n £850m returned to shareholders in 2013, including 
£212m on the share repurchase programme
References to Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) throughout the Annual Report KPI 
2 Bae SyStemS ANNuAl R EPORT 2013
overv Iew
KPI 
KPI 
KPI KPI  outlook for 2014
Following last year’s non-recurring benefit from the Salam 
price escalation settlement, together with continuing uS 
budget pressures, the Group’s reported earnings
5
 per share 
is expected to reduce by approximately 5% to 10% compared 
to 2013.
r eporting segments
Electronic Systems: Sales
3
, in uS dollars, in 2014 are 
expected to be similar to those in 2013 with margins 
at the high end of a 12% to 14% range.
Cyber & Intelligence: Sales
3
 in 2014 are expected to 
be broadly in line with those in 2013 with margins in 
an improved 8% to 10% range.
Platforms & Services (uS): In 2014, sales
3
 in the l and & 
Armaments business (adjusted for the transfer out of the 
uK Munitions business into Platforms & Services (uK)) 
are expected to be some 20% to 25% lower with margins 
of around 9%. Sales
3
 in the Support Solutions business 
are expected to be a little lower in 2014 with mid-single 
digit margins.
Platforms & Services (uK): Following the trading in 2013 of 
the price escalation on the Salam Typhoon contract, and 
excluding the transfer of the uK munitions business, sales
3
 
are expected to reduce by around 5% with margins expected 
to return to a 10% to 12% range.
Platforms & Services (International): Sales
3
 are expected 
to be similar to 2013 with margins expected to be in a 10% 
to 12% range.
Bae SyStemS ANNuAl R EPORT 2013 3
overv Iew Chairman’s  
letter Sir Roger Carr, Chairman
“ the Board has esta Blished 
a Culture of good 
governan Ce and high 
Business ethi Cs.”
I write as the newly appointed Chairman who 
can take no credit for the Company’s solid 
performance in 2013, but with a deep 
commitment to building on the firm foundation 
left by my predecessor, Sir Richard Olver.
In addition to improved performance, there is 
no doubt that under Sir Richard’s Chairmanship, 
the Board established a culture of good 
governance and high business ethics. These 
have been adopted across the business and 
are respected throughout the industry. The 
management teams I inherit are experienced, 
able and focused on operational excellence 
and the delivery of shareholder value.
In 2013, the Group delivered good growth in 
sales and underlying profit. Strong cash flows 
in prior years facilitated the implementation 
of a three-year share repurchase programme 
of up to £1bn, the continued support of our 
pension obligations and the recommendation 
of a final dividend of 12.1p per share, making 
a total 20.1p per share for the year.
The business model is balanced and robust, 
with deep roots in the US, the Middle East 
and the UK, and strong links to our customers 
in the Asia Pacific region.
The defence budget in the US, the Group’s 
largest market, has been through a period 
of uncertainty, but there are signs that some 
clarity is starting to emerge with the recent 
agreement on a two-year budget.
Over the next 12 months, the Company will 
seek to sustain its order backlog in defence 
and strengthen the position of its cyber 
security business.
In a challenging climate for defence spending, 
the executive will continue to focus on 
disciplined cost management in those 
markets that are contracting and increased 
sales endeavours in those parts of the world 
where new business opportunities are both 
appropriate and available.
In the latter part of the year, management was 
successful in reaching agreement in principle 
with the UK’s Ministry of Defence on measures 
to enable the implementation of a restructuring 
of the UK naval ships business, including 
changes to the Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft 
carrier contract. In addition, agreement was 
reached with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on 
outstanding commercial issues associated 
with the Typhoon order. These agreements 
resolved two uncertainties of the recent past 
and provide a more stable platform on which 
to work with these important customers to 
address their future defence and security 
priorities.
In considering the future potential of the 
business, my initial findings are based on 
five fundamentals:
 – BAE Systems is one of the most important 
companies in the UK and one of the world’s 
greatest defence contractors. It has the 
mix of products and services and breadth 
of markets to grow and prosper as an 
independent organisation;
 – its businesses are led by seasoned, 
talented professionals and populated by 
skilled and enthusiastic employees who 
take great pride in their work;
 – its products are respected across the globe 
for their quality, cutting-edge technology, 
reliability in action and performance;
 – its culture and ethos have been established 
to achieve the highest standards: honesty 
and openness in all business dealings, 
respect for those that work for the 
Company, appreciation for those that trade 
with the Company and recognition and 
reward for those that own the Company; and
 – its Board comprises a diverse mix of 
experienced individuals, chosen for their 
relevant skillset, valued for their 
independent mind-set and collectively 
supporting management when appropriate 
and challenging when necessary.
OVERVIEW
4 BAE Sy St Em S Ann UAl R EPORT 2013 Dividend (pence)
The Board has recommended a nal dividend 
of 12.1p per share making a total of 20.1p per 
share for the year, an increase of 3% over 2012. 
2010 17.5
2009 16.0
2011 18.8
2012 19.5
2013 20.1
20.1P +3%
During my first year as Chairman, it is my 
intention to capitalise on these fundamentals 
by working closely with management, visiting 
our locations, meeting our customers and 
engaging with our shareholders.
Together with colleagues, we will pressure 
test our strategy, hone our competitive edge, 
develop our management team, strengthen all 
our relationships and reinforce the principles 
of ethical business through the organisation. 
I am clear that in a rapidly changing world, 
the road ahead will not be smooth, but I take 
up the new role with a sense of privilege in 
my appointment, respect for the organisation, 
enthusiasm for the task and confidence in 
the future.
Directors
Sir Peter Mason, a non-executive director, 
retired from the Board of BAE Systems plc 
on 8 May. Ian Tyler joined the Board as a 
non-executive director of the Company on 
that date.
In June, Chris Grigg was appointed a 
non-executive director of the Company with 
effect from 1 July.
l ee McIntire, a non-executive director, 
resigned from the Board of BAE Systems plc 
on 20 August. 
I joined the Board as a non-executive director 
of BAE Systems plc and Chairman designate 
on 1 October and succeeded Sir Richard Olver 
as Chairman on 1 February 2014. Sir Richard 
stepped down from the Board on that date. 
On 1 February 2014, l inda Hudson retired 
as President and Chief Executive Officer 
of BAE Systems, Inc. and as an executive 
director of BAE Systems plc. On the same 
date, Jerry DeMuro was appointed as 
President and Chief Executive Officer of 
BAE Systems, Inc. and as an executive director 
of BAE Systems plc. He will also serve on 
BAE Systems’ Executive Committee. 
Dividend
The Board has recommended a final dividend 
of 12.1p per share making a total of 20.1p 
per share for the year, an increase of 3% over 
2012. At this level, the annual dividend is 
covered 2.1 times by underlying earnings 
(2012 2.0 times). Subject to shareholder 
approval at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, 
the dividend will be paid on 2 June 2014 to 
holders of ordinary shares registered on 
22 April 2014.
Reporting
This Annual Report has been produced in 
compliance with new narrative reporting 
regulations. The principal change being the 
requirement to produce a Strategic Report 
that provides readers with a clear and focused 
explanation of a company’s strategy, business 
model, key risks and performance. To date, 
BAE Systems has set high standards for the 
quality of its narrative reporting and I hope 
that you will find that this report fulfils the 
requirements and intentions of the new 
regulations, and continues to bring clarity 
and transparency to the Group’s activities.
 
 
 
Sir Roger Carr, Chairman 
OVERVIEW
BAE Sy St Em S Ann UAl R EPORT 2013 5 Our Values are Trusted, Innovative and Bold
Our Mission is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value  through our commitment to Total Performance
Customer Focus  |  Programme Execution  |  Financial Performance  |  Responsible Behaviour
Our Strategy
 Support our customers in safeguarding their vital interests 
 Inspire and develop our people to drive our success 
 Drive shareholder value by improving nancial performance and competitive positions across the business
Integrated Business Plans
Improve prot and cash generation Grow our Cyber, Intelligence and Security business
Grow Electronic Systems Drive value  from our Platform and Services positions
Increase our international business 
Strategic Actions
Our Vision is to be the premier global defence, aerospace and security company
Group Strate Gic 
framework The Group Strategic Framework illustrates the different elements and 
actions required to deliver sustained growth and achieve our vision to 
be the premier global defence, aerospace and security company.
 See Executive Committee objectives on page 24
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE Sy StEmS Annu Al R EpoRT 2013 7
Defence spending The Group is dependent on defence spending. 
 Government customers The Group’s largest customers are governments.
Global market The Group operates in a global market.
Contract award timing The Group is dependent on the timing of award of defence contracts.
Large contracts Certain of the Group’s businesses are dependent on a small number of large contracts. 
Fixed-price contracts The Group has fixed-price contracts. 
Component availability, subcontractor performance and key suppliers The Group is dependent upon component availability, subcontractor performance and key suppliers.
Laws and regulations The Group is subject to risk from a failure to comply with laws and regulations.
Competition The Group’s business is subject to significant competition.
Pension funding The Group has an aggregate funding deficit in its defined benefit pension schemes.
Export controls and other restrictions The Group is subject to export controls and other restrictions.
Acquisitions The anticipated benefits of acquisitions may not be achieved.
Consortia and joint ventures The Group is involved in consortia, joint ventures and equity holdings where it does not have control.
Exchange rates The Group is exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates.
Cyber security The Group could be negatively impacted by information technology security threats.
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
Princi Pal r isks 
s UMMar Y
FUr THEr in FOrMaTiOn On Eac H risk can bE FOU nd On Pa GEs 106 TO 111 OF THE dir Ec TOrs ’ r EPOrT
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SyStEmS Annu Al Repo RT 2013 31
Group financial  
performance Peter Lynas, Group Finance Director
Financial highlights
 n Sales 3 increased by 2%
 n Underlying EBITA 4 increased by 3% to £1,925m
 n Underlying earnings 5 per share increased by 9%
 n Order backlog 3,6 maintained, with non-UK/US order intake 3 of £9.3bn
 n Operating business cash inflow 8 of £147m
 n Net debt 9 of £699m
 n Goodwill impairment charge of £865m relating to the US Intelligence & Security  
and Land & Armaments businesses
 n £212m expended in 2013 on the three-year share repurchase programme
 n Total dividend increased by 3% to 20.1p
1 On adoption of the revised International Accounting Standard 19, Employee Benefits. 2 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7 to the Group accounts). 3 Including share of equity accounted investments. 4 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items. 5  Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items (see note 8 to the Group accounts).
 
Business model – page 9
Critical accounting policies Accounting change 
Certain of the Group’s principal accounting policies are considered by the directors to be critical because of the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the consolidated financial statements. 
With effect from 1 January 2013, the Group has adopted the revised International Accounting Standard 19, Employee Benefits. This replaces interest cost on gross pension liabilities and expected return on gross pension assets with a finance cost on the net pension deficit calculated using the rate currently used to discount defined benefit pension liabilities and requires certain administrative costs to be included within underlying EBITA 4 . Comparative financial information has been restated accordingly. 
  See page 126  See page 126 and note 23 to the Group accounts on page 162
STRATEGIC REPORT
32 BAE SySTEmS Annu Al R EpORT 2013
Segmental  
performance The Group has five principal reporting segments  
which align with the Group’ s strategic direction.
Reporting segments financial performance summary
KPI KPI KPI KPI 
2013
Funded order intake 1 £m
Order backlog 1,2 £bn Sales 1 £m
Underlying EBITA 3 £m
Return  on sales  % Cash flow 4 £m
Electronic Systems 2,697 3.7 2,466 346 14.0 235
Cyber & Intelligence 1,247 0.7 1,243 115 9.3 118
Platforms & Services (US) 3,421 7.4 4,196 265 6.3 192
Platforms & Services (UK) 5,979 20.3 6,890 879 12.8 59
Platforms & Services (International) 7,221 12.3 4,063 429 10.6 (189)
HQ 303 – 306 (109) (268)
20,868 44.4 19,164
Less: Intra-group (1,580) (1.7) (984)
Total 19,288 42.7 18,180 1,925 10.6 147
1  Including share of equity accounted investments. 2  Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders. 3  Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items (see page 33). 4  Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets contributed to Trust. 5  Excluding HQ. 6  Including share of equity accounted investments’ order backlog and before the elimination of intra-group order backlog. 7  The appropriate work share of the Saudi Aircraft Acquisition (under the Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme), Saudi Typhoon Aircraft and Saudi Typhoon Support contracts is reported within Platforms & Services (UK).
STRATEGIC REPORT
36 BAE SySTEmS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Business model – page 9
BAE Systems manages the current impacts of its operations and products, 
and anticipates the future global business environment to ensure that it has 
processes in place to support the long-term sustainability of the Group.
Sustainability of our reputation and our licence to operate is an integral part of the Group’s business model. It is focused on embedding responsible business behaviours and placing emphasis not just on what the Group does, but how it is done.
The Group focuses on the areas identified by internal and external stakeholders as having the greatest potential to affect the long-term sustainability of the business, by directly impacting the Group’s reputation or ability to operate. The areas identified that shape the Group’s sustainability objectives and programmes are high priorities for the Group.
A culture of integrity BAE Systems continues to embed its ethics programme globally, driving the right behaviours by supporting employees in making ethical decisions and embedding responsible business practices. 
The Group’s Code of Conduct sets out the principles and standards of business conduct expected of all employees. It provides them with practical guidance on how to deal with situations that may arise in their day-to-day activities.
Clear governance structures and visible leadership play a vital role in embedding corporate responsibility.
The Group’s governance framework, as described in the Operational Framework, covers the products we make and export. The Group’s Responsible Trading Principles, Product Trading Policy and Pursuit of Export Opportunities Policy help employees make informed decisions about the business opportunities the Group pursues and to address any responsible trading risks, including risks associated with the product and its intended end use, the country of origin and delivery, and the customer. 
The Group is committed to respecting human rights in its operations, within its sphere of influence. 
An inspired workforce BAE Systems recognises that its employees are key to delivering the Group’s strategy successfully and sustaining future business. 
People development The Group’s people strategy of through-career capability development and emphasis on high levels of employee engagement seeks to maximise the contribution that its workforce makes to the performance of the business.
The success of this strategy is measured ultimately in the success of the business as a whole.
Diversity and inclusion BAE Systems is committed to creating an inclusive work environment where a diverse range of talented people can work together to ensure business delivery. Diversity amongst the Group’s workforce is a significant force for innovation and assists the Group in responding to customer requirements. 
At the end of 2013, three (27%) and two (17%) of the Board and Executive Committee members, respectively, were women. Globally, 59 (15%) and 15,000 1 (20%) of the Group’s senior managers 2 and total workforce are women, respectively.
Employee safety Safety of the Group’s employees, and anybody who works on its sites, is a key priority. The Group continues to embed a safety first approach by providing training and tools that help employees understand the importance of a safe workplace, and encouraging employees to take responsibility for their own safety and the safety of those around them. The senior leadership of the Group plays a key role in maintaining the focus on safety and leading through example. 
Responsible environmental management Operational The Group’s goal is to reduce the environmental impact of its operations 
and products by using energy, water and waste more efficiently.
Businesses across the Group have environmental management systems in place that monitor and manage impacts from greenhouse gas emissions, material and solvent use, waste products, and emissions to the atmosphere.
Product Environmental considerations are taken into account throughout a product’s lifecycle from concept, design and manufacture through to use and disposal via the Group’s Lifecycle Management (LCM) process (see page 69). This includes reducing the environmental impacts of the Group’s products during research and development, minimising waste materials during manufacturing, and helping to reduce the impact of our products when they are used, upgraded or disposed of.
Product stewardship The Group’s Research & Development (R&D) activities cover a wide range of programmes, and include technological innovations and techniques to improve the manufacturing and service of products. In 2013, R&D expenditure was £1,051m (2012 £1,138m) of which £171m (2012 £150m) was funded by the Group.
It is critical that the Group’s products perform as designed without harm to the people using them. No complex and innovative product, whether used in defence or civilian markets or both, is without risk. It is essential that the Group achieves an appropriate balance between the benefits they provide to customers and the risks associated with their use.
Community investment BAE Systems’ Global Community Investment Strategy is defined through the support it provides both financial and through volunteering. BAE Systems aims to align its resources in support of primary areas of focus – the needs of the Group’s customers, education and skills, heritage and the communities in which the Group operates. 1 Excluding equity accounted investments and rounded to the nearest thousand employees. 2  Senior managers are defined as employees who have responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the Group or a strategically significant part of the Group and/or who are directors of subsidiary undertakings.
STRATEGIC REPORT
62 BAE SyStEmS ANNuAL REPORT 2013
Su Stainability 
Summary GOVERNANCE 
SUMMARY
 “ Every company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively 
responsible for the long-term success of the company.”
UK Corporate Governance Code
Board appointments The Nominations Committee is responsible for managing the orderly succession of appointments to the Board. In discharging this role, it reviews the balance of skills and experience on the Board regularly, and manages the process of identifying suitable candidates for appointment.
 See Nominations Committee report on page 79
During 2013, the Board appointed Sir Roger Carr to succeed Sir Richard Olver as Chairman. The search for a suitable candidate to succeed Sir Richard was led by the Nominations Committee, which for this purpose was chaired by the Company’s Senior Independent Director, Nick Rose. He engaged with key stakeholders, including major shareholders, throughout the process.
Sir Roger Carr is an experienced company director, having served as chairman on a number of large listed company boards, most recently as chairman of Centrica plc. At present, he is also deputy chairman and senior independent director of the Court of the Bank of England and a member of the UK Prime Minister’s Business Advisory Group. In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, Sir Roger was independent as at the date of his appointment.
Jerry DeMuro was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2014 having succeeded Linda Hudson as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Group’s US business. Mr DeMuro is an experienced US executive who has worked in the national security, technology and aerospace industry for over 30 years. Most recently, he served as executive vice president and corporate vice president of General Dynamics’ Information Systems and Technology Group.
Two independent non-executive directors, Ian Tyler and Chris Grigg, also joined the Board during the year.
In line with best governance practice, all the members of the Board will seek re-election by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting.
The above changes to the Board had a negative impact on its gender diversity. At present, 18% of directors are women (2013 27%). However, the Board remains committed to an aspirational target of at least 25% of its members being women by 2015.
 See Corporate governance report on page 69
Accountability The UK government introduced new requirements for company reporting during 2013. These changes provide an opportunity for boards to improve the quality of reporting on their stewardship of the company. In line with the new requirements, the Board has taken the opportunity to revise its reporting with greater emphasis on producing a focused analysis of the performance of the Company in the Strategic Report. In addition, it has considered the requirement in the UK Corporate Governance Code for narrative reports to be ‘fair, balanced and understandable’, and how directors can ensure that they are in a position to make a timely and well-informed determination on this matter. The Board has reviewed the process for the drafting of the Annual Report and the assurance process used to verify its accuracy and completeness. All Board members have participated in reviewing and commenting on drafts of the report to help ensure that the final publication meets the ‘fair, balanced and understandable’ requirement.
Remuneration After a wide-ranging debate in 2013 that engaged many stakeholders, the UK government enacted regulations that have changed significantly the requirements concerning directors’ remuneration and the role that shareholders play in agreeing a policy on directors’ pay and the maximum payable. The policy agreed and proposed by the Board’s Remuneration Committee is the result of a detailed review that began with a wide-ranging discussion and analysis of what it wished to achieve regarding executive pay and the various remuneration structures that could be employed. The views of the Company’s major shareholders were sought during this process.
As required by the new regulations, the directors’ remuneration policy as detailed in this Annual Report will be put to shareholders for their approval at this year’s Annual General Meeting.
  See Remuneration Committee report on page 80
Corporate responsibility In 2013, five years after the publication of Lord Woolf’s Report on ethical business conduct in BAE Systems plc, the Board and the Corporate Responsibility Committee both reviewed the status of ethical business matters across the Company. It was recognised that a great deal had been achieved in that period through positive leadership from the Board downwards. However, it was recognised that the Board needed to remain vigilant in its oversight of ethical business conduct matters so as to ensure that standards are maintained over the long term and that the Company continues to be at the forefront in this area. The Corporate Responsibility Committee agreed additional activities to help secure a lasting legacy of leadership in the area of responsible business behaviour.
  See Corporate Responsibility Committee report on page 77
Board performance evaluation Each year, the Board uses an external facilitator to assist in reviewing its effectiveness. Directors discuss the feedback from this process and agree objectives aimed at ensuring that the Board remains effective and at the forefront in developing and applying best practice in the boardroom. A review of performance against 2013 objectives is presented opposite.
Code compliance The Company was compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout 2013 and the Board has applied its principles in its governance structure and operations.
 See Corporate governance report on page 69
Business model - page 9
STRATEGIC REPORT
64 BAE SyStEmS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
 See Chief Executive’s review section on pages 20 to 23 
Business  
model BAE Systems is a global defence, aerospace and security company, delivering 
a wide range of products and services for air, land and naval forces, as well as 
advanced electronics, security, information technology and support services. 
The Group’ s business model focuses not just on what it does, but how it does it.
delivering sustainaBle growth in shareholder value through  
t otal performance customer 
focus
 Page 10
f inancial 
performance Page 12
p rogramme 
execution
 Page 11
r esponsi Ble 
Behaviour Page 13
s trong governance Page 19 
d elivering s ustainaB ility Page 18 
o utstanding capaB ilities Page 16 
multiple markets Page 14 
References to the business model throughout the  Annual Report
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE Sy StEmS Annu Al R EPoRT 2013 9
Chief e xe Cutive’s 
review Ian King, Chief Executive
Overview Overall, the Group delivered a solid performance in 2013, against the background of reduced government spending and tough market conditions. A proactive focus on costs and enhanced competitiveness allowed us to protect our margins across the majority of the business and we secured further contract wins in the US, Saudi Arabia and internationally. Our results also benefited from the satisfactory conclusion of price escalation negotiations with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, relating to an existing contract to supply Typhoon aircraft. We have continued to invest in research and technology and to develop business in international markets, and our strong order backlog and robust balance sheet as we enter 2014 are testament to our business health. 
US In the US, budget uncertainties continued to impact government spending and procurement decisions throughout 2013. Sequestration measures resulting from the 2011 Budget Control Act either reduced or delayed many US activities. The Sequestration measures were targeting savings of approximately $450bn (£272bn) from US defence budgets over a ten-year period, equivalent to an approximately 10% overall reduction. As certain areas of spending were protected from these reductions, such as military personnel accounts, the budgets funding much of the US defence industrial base are likely to be disproportionately impacted.
In addition to the Sequestration measures, in October, the political disagreements over the terms of a Continuing Resolution to cover the remainder of the 2013 fiscal year resulted in a partial US government shutdown. Following the brief shutdown, a Continuing Resolution was passed to fund the government until 15 January 2014. Whilst some disruption resulted from the shutdown, the impact to the Group’s overall financial performance was not material.
In December, a bipartisan budget proposal for a two-year federal budget agreement was approved by Congress and signed into law. The resulting spending bill was approved in January 2014, far earlier in the fiscal cycle than in previous years, and whilst this legislation does not eliminate the Sequester completely, it does ease the significant and indiscriminate cuts that were expected in 2014 and 2015. 
Given this environment, we based our planning assumptions on a progressive reduction in our US defence and security businesses of approximately 15% for 2013 and 2014. The recent budget developments return some clarity to near-term US government spending, although pressures to reduce spending and address the US deficit are expected to continue.
STRATEGIC REPORT
20 BAE Sy StEmS Ann UAl R EpORT 2013
Ex Ecutiv E committ EE 
obj Ectiv Es The Executive Committee sets annual objectives which focus on deliverables in 
support of delivery of both short-term results and the overall long-term strategy. 
Performance against the 2013 objectives is discussed below. Recognising the strong 
momentum in delivery of the strategy, the objectives for 2014 remain unchanged.
 See the Group Strategic Framework on pages 7 and 8 
 See the Group’s Key Performance Indicators on pages 26 to 28 
2013 objective
Financial 
pErF ormancE
Meet 2013 financial targets
2013 performance Underlying earnings 1 per share was above threshold, but below target. Order intake 2 was on target. Net cash/(debt) 3 was above target, but below stretch.
 See Annual remuneration report on page 94
2014 objective Meet 2014 financial targets
2013 objective
c ustom Er F ocus 
and programm E 
ExE cution
Continued focus on improving customer satisfaction and programme execution 
2013 performance The Group continued to deliver on its commitments to its customers with good programme execution reflected in an overall improvement in outturn margin across its major programmes.
2014 objective Continued focus on improving customer satisfaction and programme execution
2013 objective
rE sponsibl E 
bE haviour Progress towards recognised leading positions
2013 performance Group targets for safety and environment were met. All Executive Committee members met their individual targets for diversity and inclusion.
 See Annual remuneration report on page 94
2014 objective Progress towards recognised leading positions
2013 objective
EngagEmE nt
Inspire and engage our people  to deliver success
2013 performance Strategy workshops and supporting materials have been rolled out to employees across the businesses during the year to help employees to recognise their role in delivering the Group’s strategic objectives.
2014 objective Inspire and engage our people to deliver success
 See page 12 for more information
  See pages 10 and 11 for  more information
 See page 13 for more information
 See page 114 for more information
1  Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items (see note 8 to the Group accounts). 2 Including share of equity accounted investments. 3  See note 10 to the Group accounts.
STRATEGIC REPORT
24 BAE Sy StEmS ANNUAl R EPORT 2013
Business model – page 9
Key performance 
indicators The Board uses a range of quantitative financial and non-financial  
performance indicators, reported on a periodic basis, to monitor the  
Group’ s performance against its Total Performance and Executive  
Committee objectives. Executive directors’ remuneration is linked  
to certain of these measures.
Financial Performance
The Group sets challenging financial targets through its Integrated Business Planning process to 
maximise financial performance and drive long-term shareholder value.
Funded order intake 1,3 (£bn) Funded order intake 1,3 (£bn)
2010 16.3
2009 21.6
2011 16.6
2012 22.3
2013 19.3
£19.3BN
Definition Funded order intake represents the value of funded orders received from customers in the year. Funded order intake is a measure of in-year performance and supports future years’ sales performance.
Comment Funded order intake 3 benefited from long-term support contracts and further weapons packages in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia secured during the year, and order backlog 3 was sustained at over £42bn. Non-UK/US funded order intake 3 was £9.3bn (2012 £11.2bn), 48% (2012 50%) of total funded order intake 3 .
Sales 1,3 (£bn) Sales 1 (£bn)
2010 22.3
2009 21.8
2011 19.2
2012 17.9
2013 18.2
£18.2BN +2%
Definition Sales represents the amounts derived from the provision of goods and services, and includes the Group’s share of sales of its equity accounted investments.
Comment Volume reductions in the US businesses and, in particular, at Land & Armaments were more than offset by the resumption of Typhoon aircraft deliveries and trading of the price escalation on the Salam programme.
 See sales 3 bridge chart on page 33 
✪  Part of the executive directors’ ✓ Target 7 achieved 2013 annual incentive
1 2012 re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7 to the Group accounts). 2  2012 restated on adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits (see page 126). 2011 and prior years have not been restated. 3  Including share of equity accounted investments. 4  Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items (see page 33). 5  Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items (see note 8 to the Group accounts).
 See Executive Committee objectives on page 24 See Group financial performance on page 32 See Segmental performance on page 36
 See page 94
STRATEGIC REPORT
26 BAE Sy StEmS ANNUAL REPoRT 2013
Risk 
Manage Ment
Effective management of risks and opportunities is essential to the delivery of the 
Group’ s strategic objectives, achievement of sustainable shareholder value, protection 
of its reputation and meeting the requirements of good corporate governance.
Board The Board has overall responsibility for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives, and ensuring that risks are managed effectively across the Group.
Risk is a regular agenda item at Board meetings and the Board reviews risk as part of its annual strategy review process. This is aimed at providing the Board with an appreciation of the key risks within the business and oversight of how they are being managed.
The Board delegates certain risk management activities to the Audit and Corporate Responsibility committees as follows.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee monitors the Group’s key risks identified by the risk assessment processes and reports its findings to the Board twice a year. It is also responsible for reviewing in detail the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control policies, and procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
Corporate Responsibility Committee The Corporate Responsibility Committee monitors the Group’s performance in managing the Group’s significant non-financial risks, including those arising in respect of business conduct, health and safety, and the environment, and reports its findings to the Board on a regular basis.
Approach The Group’s approach to risk management is aimed at the early identification of key risks, to remove or reduce the likelihood and effect of those risks before they occur, and deal effectively with them if they crystallise.
The Group is committed to the protection of its assets, which include human, intellectual and physical property, and financial resources, through an effective risk management process, underpinned where appropriate by insurance.
Reporting within the Group is structured so that key issues are escalated through the management team and ultimately to the Board where appropriate. The underlying principles 
of the Group’s risk management policy are that risks are monitored continuously, associated action plans reviewed, appropriate contingencies provisioned and this information reported through established management control procedures.
As with any system of internal control, the policies and processes that are mandated  in the Operational Framework are designed  to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and  can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Financial and non-financial risks Financial risks expose the Group to potential costs which are quantifiable on the basis that their probability and impact can be adequately understood and related to the financial statements.
Non-financial risks cannot readily be assessed in financial terms and, therefore, cannot be reflected reliably in the financial statements.
Process Businesses The responsibility for risk identification, analysis, evaluation and mitigation rests with the line management of the businesses. They are also responsible for reporting and monitoring key risks in accordance with established processes under the Group’s Operational Framework.
The Group’s risk management process is set out in the Risk Management Policy, a mandated policy under the Operational Framework, and, in respect of projects, in  the Lifecycle Management Framework, a core business process under the Operational Framework. Further guidance is provided  by a Risk Management Maturity  self-assessment tool.
Identified risks are documented in controlled risk registers showing: the risks that have been identified; characteristics of the risk; the basis for determining mitigation strategy; and what reviews and monitoring are necessary. Each risk is allocated an owner who has authority and responsibility for assessing and managing it.
Project risks are reported and monitored in Group-mandated format Contract Review Packs, which are reviewed by management at monthly Contract Reviews. The financial performance of projects is reported and monitored using Contract Status Reports, which form part of the Contract Review Pack. These include programme margin metrics, which are reviewed regularly by the Executive Committee and Board (see KPI on page 28). Project margin is recognised after making suitable allowances for technical and other risks related to performance milestones yet to be achieved.
In addition, every six months, the businesses complete an Operational Assurance Statement (OAS), which is a mandated policy under the Operational Framework. The OAS is in two parts: a self-assessment of compliance with the Operational Framework; and a report showing the key financial and non-financial risks for the relevant business. Together with reviews undertaken by Internal Audit and the work of the external auditors, the OAS forms the Group’s process for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
Executive Committee The key financial and non-financial risks identified by the businesses from the risk assessment processes are collated and reviewed by the Executive Committee to identify those issues where the cumulative risk, or possible reputational impacts, could be significant.
Management responsibility for the management of the Group’s most significant non-financial risks is determined by the Executive Committee. The OAS and Non-financial Risk registers are reviewed regularly by the Executive Committee to monitor the status and progression of mitigation plans, and these key risks are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
Principal risks Risks are identified as principal based on the likelihood of occurrence and potential impact on the Group. The principal risks identified by the Group using the policies and processes explained above during the year are summarised on page 31. 
 For more information on the activities of the Board and its committees see pages 69 to 81
 For more information on the Group’s business processes and mandated policies see page 69
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SyStEmS ANNuAL REPORT 2013 29
Strategic  
report What you Will find in thi S Section 
07
  g ro u p S t r a t e g i c  
fra Me Wor K
The Group Strategic Framework integrates 
the Group’s major goals and actions, 
and defines the direction and shape 
of the Group over the long term.
09
  B u S i n e S S  
Model How BAE Systems serves the needs of its 
customers by delivering a wide range of 
advanced defence, aerospace and security 
solutions.
26
  K e y p e r f o r M a n c e  
indicator S
The Group’s progress against its 
objectives is monitored through a range 
of quantitative financial and non-financial 
performance indicators.
24
  e X e c u t i V e c o M M i t t e e o BJecti Ve S
The Executive Committee objectives 
support both the delivery of  
near-term results and the overall  
longer-term strategy.
29
  r i SK  
Manage Ment An overview of the Group’s approach to 
the effective management of risks and 
processes used to identify both financial 
and non-financial risks.
This Strategic Report was approved by the  
board of directors on 19 February 2014.
David Parkes, Company Secretary
20
  c hi e f e X e c u t i V e ’ S  
re Vie W
Ian King, Chief Executive, summarises 
the Group’s performance, including 
commentary on its major markets 
and financial position.
32
  g ro u p f i nan c i al 
perfor Mance Peter Lynas, Group Finance Director, 
summarises the financial performance 
of the Group in 2013.
64
  g o V e r nan c e 
Su MMary An overview of the Group’s approach to 
governance and directors’ remuneration.
62
  S u S t ai na B i l i t y 
Su MMary Creating a sustainable business requires 
more than financial results. The Group 
places great importance not just on what  
it does, but how it does it.
36
  S e g M e n t a l 
perfor Mance The 2013 performance and characteristics 
of the Group’s five principal reporting 
segments are summarised.
31
  p ri n c i p a l ri S KS 
Su MMary A summary of the principal risks identified 
by the Group based on the likelihood of 
occurrence and potential impact.
6 BAE SySt Em S Annu AL REPoRT 2013 Our Values are Trusted, Innovative and Bold
Our Mission is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value  
through our commitment to Total Performance
Customer Focus  |  Programme Execution  |  Financial Performance  |  Responsible Behaviour
Our Strategy
 Support our customers in safeguarding their vital interests 
 Inspire and develop our people to drive our success 
 Drive shareholder value by improving nancial performance 
and competitive positions across the business
Integrated Business Plans
Improve prot and 
cash generation 
Grow our Cyber, 
Intelligence 
and Security
business
Grow Electronic 
Systems 
Drive value  
from our Platform 
and Services 
positions
Increase our 
international 
business 
Strategic Actions
Our Vision is to be the premier global defence, aerospace and security company
g roup Strategic 
fra Me Wor K
The Group Strategic Framework illustrates the different elements and 
actions required to deliver sustained growth and achieve our vision to 
be the premier global defence, aerospace and security company.
 See Executive Committee objectives on page 24
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt Em S Annu AL REPoRT 2013 7 The key elements of the Group Strategic Framework are 
explained below. Consistent with the strong momentum 
BAE Systems has built over recent years, the Group 
Strategic Framework remains unchanged for 2014.
Our Vision
our Vision provides a clear definition of the future we are striving to achieve,  
which drives us to go above and beyond and outperform the competition. 
Our m ission
our Mission describes our overall goal and the philosophy behind our activities,  
which is key to achieving our Vision. Total Performance is demonstrated in every aspect  
of the way we do business. 
Our Values
our Values enable us to achieve a culture of Total Performance. Living these shared  
values by delivering on our commitments, creating leading-edge solutions and taking  
the initiative, underpins how we deliver our strategy.
Our Strategy
our Strategy defines the direction and shape of the Group over the long term.  
This enables us to prioritise resources and remain agile to adapt to changes in  
this challenging environment.
Strategic Actions
our Strategic Actions are the five key focus areas that will enable the business to  
meet our objectives and deliver against the overall strategy.
Integrated Business Plans
our Integrated Business Plans translate our overarching strategy into 
operational plans that are delivered through the lines of business.
Delivery of the strategy 
is supported by the Group’s 
business model which is 
detailed on pages 9 to 19 and 
brought to life with examples  
of the strategy in action.
STRATEGIC REPORT
8 BAE SySt Em S Annu AL REPoRT 2013
St RAt EGIC REPORt GROUP St RAt EGIC FRAm EWORK  See Chief Executive’s review section on pages 20 to 23 
Bu Sine SS  
Model BAE Systems is a global defence, aerospace and security company, delivering 
a wide range of products and services for air, land and naval forces, as well as 
advanced electronics, security, information technology and support services. 
The Group’ s business model focuses not just on what it does, but how it does it.
deli Vering Su Staina Ble gro Wth in Shareholder Value through  
t otal perfor Mance cu Sto Mer 
focu S
 Page 10
f inancial 
perfor Mance Page 12
p rogra MMe 
e Xecution
 Page 11
r e Spon Si Ble 
Beha Viour Page 13
Strong go Vernance Page 19 
d eli Vering Su Staina Bility Page 18 
o ut Standing capa Bilitie S
Page 16 
Multiple Mar Ket S
Page 14 
References to the business 
model throughout the  
Annual Report
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt Em S Annu AL REPoRT 2013 9 c u Sto Mer  
focu S
 See Segmental performance section on pages 36 to 61
10 BAE SySt Em S Annu AL REPoRT 2013
What i S it?
The Group’s priority to its customers is to understand their evolving needs and expectations, 
and deliver on its commitments throughout the life of its products and services.
What are B ae Sy Ste MS’ Key Strength S?
 n Broad customer base and long-standing relationships with the governments of the uS, 
uK, Saudi Arabia and Australia.
 n Responsiveness to urgent operational requirements.
 n Focused investment in research and development and substantial intellectual property.
h o W doe S thi S help to create Value?
Delivering on commitments and performance also increases the likelihood of further 
opportunities on future programmes.
h o W i S it Mea Sured?
 See the Customer Focus Key Performance Indicator on page 28 
BAE Systems is a leading provider 
of commercial aircraft Full Authority 
Digital Engine Controls (FADEC) 
through its FADEC International joint 
venture with Sagem, and continues 
to provide cutting-edge technology for 
commercial jet engine applications, 
including for the CFM 56 family of 
engines. Building on many years’ 
experience and reflecting the strong 
customer focus embedded in the 
business, BAE Systems, as a tenured 
partner in the FADEC Alliance, has 
been selected to provide the FADEC 
for the next-generation CFM Leap 
engine powering the Airbus A320neo 
and Boeing 737 MAX. 
Image: One of our employees at 
Fort Wayne, Indiana, US p rogra MMe 
eX ecution
 See Segmental performance section on pages 36 to 61
BAE SySt Em S Annu AL REPoRT 2013 11
STRATEGIC REPORT
What i S it?
The Group’s performance is dependent on the successful execution of its projects. It is 
important that the Group wins contracts for high-quality new programmes, and delivers on 
those programmes within tight tolerances of quality, time and cost.
What are B ae Sy Ste MS’ Key Strength S?
 n Talented, diverse and skilled workforce.
 n Breadth of technological capability.
 n World-class project management processes, including Lifecycle Management, regular 
contract reviews and early identification of programme risk.
 n Robust and effective supplier management. 
h o W doe S thi S help to create Value?
Control of costs and schedule throughout the lifecycle of programmes maximises returns 
for the Group.
h o W i S it Mea Sured?
 See the Programme Execution Key Performance Indicator on page 28
HMS Queen Elizabeth and HMS 
Prince of Wales are two aircraft 
carriers currently under construction 
by the Aircraft Carrier Alliance, a 
unique partnering relationship 
between BAE Systems, Thales, 
Babcock and the uK Ministry of 
Defence. Effective programme 
execution is key to the successful 
delivery of the programme. Each 
65,000 tonne carrier will provide the 
armed forces with a four acre military 
operating base that can be deployed 
worldwide and will be versatile 
enough to be used for operations 
ranging from supporting war efforts 
to providing humanitarian aid.
Image: The Queen Elizabeth Carrier at 
Rosyth Dockyard, Fife, UK f inancial 
perfor Mance See Group financial performance section on pages 32 to 35
12 BAE SySt Em S Annu AL REPoRT 2013
What i S it?
The Group sets challenging financial targets through its Integrated Business Planning 
process to maximise financial performance and drive long-term shareholder value.
What are B ae Sy Ste MS’ Key Strength S?
 n Robust procedures for risk management and internal control.
 n Long-term strategy and five-year plan reviewed and updated annually.
 n Regular reviews of performance relative to the Integrated Business Plan.
 n Business portfolio subject to regular strategic review. 
 n A clear capital allocation policy, consistent with sustaining an investment grade 
credit rating.
h o W doe S thi S help to create Value?
Achievement of financial targets underpins the Group’s strategy and delivers returns 
to shareholders. 
h o W i S it Mea Sured?
 See the Financial Performance Key Performance Indicators on pages 26 and 27
under the 2009 Typhoon Tranche 3A 
contract, a total of 88 aircraft have 
been ordered for the four European 
partner nations – Germany, Italy, 
Spain and the uK. Tranche 3 
capability includes over 350 modified 
parts designed, engineered and 
assembled ready to incorporate the 
most advanced capability 
enhancements, including provision 
for conformal fuel tanks and extra 
electrical power and cooling to cater 
for an E-Scan radar, which will 
enhance performance, reliability and 
availability whilst delivering lower 
support costs.
Image: Typhoon production at Warton 
Aerodrome, Lancashire, UK r e Spon Si Ble 
Beha Viour See Sustainability summary section on pages 62 and 63
BAE SySt Em S Annu AL REPoRT 2013 13
STRATEGIC REPORT
What i S it?
Responsible Behaviour is fundamental to the business. The Group’s Code of Conduct 
provides guidance on the principles and standards of business conduct expected of all 
employees. Together with the Group’s Responsible Trading Principles, the Code of Conduct 
underpins the Group’s business activities.
What are B ae Sy Ste MS’ Key Strength S?
 n A culture of integrity. 
 n Robust Code of Conduct and Responsible Trading Principles.
 n A global ethics helpline to provide employees with guidance and a means to raise 
concerns in confidence.
 n Robust assurance processes, compliance systems, support and training. 
h o W doe S thi S help to create Value?
Responsible business practices underpin the Group’s ability to operate and its business 
reputation, and support employees in making the right decisions to drive business performance.
h o W i S it Mea Sured?
  See Responsible Behaviour Key Performance Indicator on page 28, and ethics, safety, 
diversity and inclusion, and environmental metrics on pages 112 to 117
BAE Systems places great 
importance on the way it conducts 
business and continues to reinforce 
a culture of responsible behaviour. 
The Group has established a network 
of Ethics officers to support 
employees who may have concerns 
or queries. In 2013, over 40% of 
ethics issues raised were through 
discussions with Ethics officers.
Image: One of our employees at the 
North Ryde site, New South Wales, 
Australia Sales ofces
Principal markets
Saudi Arabia
Brazil
Australia
South Korea
Germany
India
France
UK
Japan
US
Top ten global defence markets accessible 
for business by the Group ($bn)
Accessible global defence markets
679.8
67.1
60.6
51.3
44.1
41.2
35.9
30.6
30.0
29.5
EADS
Finmeccanica
United Technologies
L-3 Communications
Northrop Grumman
General Dynamics
Raytheon
BAE Systems
Boeing
Lockheed Martin
Top ten global defence contractors’ revenue 
($bn)
BAE Systems’ global defence market position
44.9
31.4
26.8
22.7
21.0
20.6
14.9
12.5
12.1
10.8
Principal markets
Multiple 
Markets
 See Chief Executive’s review section on pages 20 to 23
BAE Systems is a global business with positions across four principal markets 
and a track record of success in international markets.
Market overview
BAE Systems has a broad geographic base 
with business operations in four principal 
markets around the world, in the US, the UK, 
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia. 
These markets are identified as having a 
significant and sustained commitment to 
defence and security. They are countries that 
welcome foreign investment to develop and 
sustain a domestic defence industrial 
capability, building long-term and trusted 
customer relationships. 
BAE Systems has a strong international 
market presence with well-established 
relationships across the globe, supported 
by regional sales offices.
The Group’s strategy continues to focus 
on the importance of winning international 
business, where growth markets remain. 
Success in these international defence, 
aerospace and security markets is evident 
in the significant order intake in markets 
outside the US and UK.
Source: Jane’s Defence Budgets 
(based on 2012 total defence expenditure)
Source: Defense News (based on 2012 revenues)
14 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAl R EpoRT 2013 1  Including share of equity accounted investments.
Sales
1
 by principal market (%)
1
2
3
4
5
1 US 37
2 UK 26
3 Saudi Arabia 20
4 Australia 5
5 Other international 12
6 Xxxxxx [x]
31,500
employees
1
t op 10
US defence contractor
33,300
employees
1
Nu Mber 1 
supplier to the UK Ministry of Defence
19,800
employees
1
£9.3b N
non-UK/US order intake
1
 in 2013
Nu Mber 1
in-country defence supplier in Saudi Arabia 
and Australia
BAE Systems is an established part of the defence industrial capability in the US, the 
UK, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia, where its principal operations are based. 
The Group’s global footprint and strong track record in export sales provides ongoing 
opportunities across international markets.
What are bae s yste Ms’ key stre Ngths?
 n Established customer base and relationships.
 n In-depth knowledge and experience of working in international markets.
h o W does this help to create value?
With near-term budget pressures in some markets, the Group’s broad geographic base 
provides a resilient business portfolio.
l asting relationships with customers not only mean the Group has clear sight of value 
generation in the long term, but also the ability to recognise evolving requirements for 
programme and capability developments.
h o W is it Measured?
order intake and sales by market, with a focus on non-UK/US order intake  
US
BAE Systems is a top ten US defence contractor, 
offering a balanced portfolio of products and services 
in defence, aerospace and security domains, including 
the operational support of equipment used around 
the world by US forces and their allies.
UK
BAE Systems plays a vital role in the UK’s defence 
capabilities across air, maritime and land domains, 
including military and technical service contracts. 
BAE Systems also plays a key role in security and 
intelligence with customers in both government and 
commercial markets.
International
In international markets, including the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia and Australia, the Group is seeing good growth in 
order intake, leading to anticipated growth in international 
sales. In 2013, non-UK/US order intake
1
 was £9.3bn, 
building on the £11.2bn booked in 2012.
In Saudi Arabia, BAE Systems supports the operational 
capability of the Royal Saudi air and naval forces, and is 
investing in the development of Saudi defence 
capabilities.
In Australia, BAE Systems supplies leading capability 
across air defence, land combat systems, naval 
systems and security.
India’s growing defence and security market offers 
opportunities for BAE Systems, particularly in the land 
and air sectors. The Group continues to focus on growing 
order intake and developing in-country relationships.
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAl R EpoRT 2013 15 o utsta Ndi Ng  
capabilities See Segmental performance section on pages 36 to 61
Applied Intelligence (formerly 
BAE Systems Detica) has launched 
its defence-grade cyber security 
product, CyberReveal® , to the 
commercial market. CyberReveal® 
is an analytics and investigation 
product that gives companies the 
intelligence they need to protect their 
sensitive commercial information. 
Cyber & Intelligence comprises government-
focused intelligence-based services, and 
government and commercial cyber security 
activities. 
Intelligence & Security delivers a broad range 
of services, including systems development, 
IT, cyber operations and intelligence analysis 
to enable the US military and government to 
recognise, manage and defeat threats.
Global Analysis and Operations provides 
mission-enabled analytic solutions and 
support to operations across the homeland 
security, law enforcement, defence, 
intelligence and counter-intelligence 
communities.
GEOINT–ISR develops and supports software 
systems and mission applications for 
geospatial tasking for the US defence and 
intelligence communities.
IT Solutions develops, deploys and maintains 
mission applications focused on information 
sharing, knowledge management and 
enhanced enterprise mission IT solutions 
for federal, civilian and defence intelligence 
customers.
Applied Intelligence collects, manages and 
exploits information to enable government 
and commercial clients to reveal intelligence, 
maintain security, optimise performance 
and manage risk. Alongside its secure 
government-focused activities, the business 
is a supplier of information assurance 
products and services to the financial 
services and telecommunications sectors. 
primary operations are in the UK, Denmark, 
Ireland and the US.
e lectro Nic 
syste Ms See pages 38 to 42 
c yber & 
i Ntellige Nce See pages 43 to 47 
Electronic Systems has advanced technology, 
high-integrity electronics capabilities with a 
large portfolio of annually-funded contracts, 
and significant Group-funded research and 
development invested in the business.
Electronic Combat combines the Electronic 
protection, Electronic Warfare and Electronic 
Attack product lines, and provides a depth 
of capability in integrated electromagnetic 
systems for airborne applications.
Survivability & targeting includes situational 
awareness, targeting and survivability 
systems, such as electro-optic sensor 
products, guidance systems, handheld 
targeting and infrared countermeasures 
systems for soldiers and vehicles.
Communications & Control has a strong 
footing in radio frequency communication 
and datalinks, and provides military aircraft 
controls and displays, together with 
platform integration capabilities.
Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance 
(ISR) addresses the market for airborne 
persistent surveillance, identification systems, 
signals intelligence and space products.
Commercial Aircraft electronics addresses 
the commercial aircraft electronics market, 
including fly-by-wire flight controls, full 
authority digital engine controls, cockpit 
controls, head-up displays, cabin 
management systems and power 
management systems.
HybriDrive® propulsion delivers power and 
energy management solutions, including 
vehicle hybrid drive systems.
16 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAl R EpoRT 2013 The Group has five principal reporting segments which align with the Group’s 
strategic direction.
What are B ae Sy Stem S’ key Strength S?
 n Geographically diverse and targeted portfolio of businesses.
 n Balanced portfolio of products and services, including key intellectual property and 
focused investment in research and development.
 n Group-wide mandated processes and an Operational Framework (see page 19). 
h o W doe S thi S help to create value?
The reporting segments allow focus on areas of expertise and recognise the growth 
areas of electronic systems and cyber and intelligence, increasing exports of products 
and services, the significant services element of the business and the Group’s geographic 
spread. Transfer of best practice across businesses, within national security constraints, 
allows the Group to leverage appropriate skills and capabilities to meet the requirements 
of customers.
h o W i S it mea Sured?
Sales by reporting segment  
Platforms & Services (US) comprises the 
Land & Armaments business, which includes 
a range of funded development activity and 
fixed-price production and services 
contracts, and the US-based Support 
Solutions business, which includes services, 
sustainment and systems integration 
activities which may be contracted over 
multi-year arrangements.
Land & Armaments is engaged in the 
design, development, production, support 
and upgrade of armoured combat vehicles, 
artillery systems, naval guns, missile 
launchers and munitions.
US Combat Vehicles focuses on the tracked 
and amphibious vehicles markets, servicing 
both US and international customers.
Weapon Systems focuses on naval weapons, 
munitions and artillery markets, servicing US, 
UK and international customers. Products 
include naval gun systems, artillery systems, 
munitions and missile launchers.
BAE Systems Hägglunds focuses on the 
tracked vehicle market for Swedish and 
international customers.
FNSS, BAE Systems’ Turkish joint venture, 
produces and upgrades tracked and wheeled 
military vehicles for international customers.
Support Solutions is a major supplier of ship 
repair services to the US Navy and complex 
munitions facilities management for the 
Holston and Radford facilities. Other support 
activities in the US include fixed and rotary 
wing aircraft support services.
Platforms & Services (UK) is the focus for the 
Group’s UK prime contracting platform and 
systems integration contracts, with a large 
order backlog of multi-year development, 
production and services contracts.
Military Air & Information includes 
programmes for the production of Typhoon 
combat and Hawk trainer aircraft, F-35 
Lightning II sub-assembly manufacture, 
support for Typhoon, Tornado and Hawk 
aircraft, and development of next-generation 
Unmanned Air Systems and defence 
information systems. The Regional Aircraft 
business provides managed solutions for 
aircraft support services and engineering.
Maritime programmes include the 
manufacture of two new Queen Elizabeth 
Class aircraft carriers and Astute Class 
submarines for the Royal Navy, the design 
of the Successor submarine and Type 26 
frigate, and in-service support.
Combat Vehicles (UK) is the UK-based 
armoured vehicle and support services 
business. The principal programme is 
for the design and manufacture of 
60 Terrier combat engineer vehicles for 
the British Army.
Munitions focuses on the design, 
development and manufacture of a 
comprehensive range of products, servicing 
its main customer, the UK Ministry of 
Defence, as well as international customers. 
The business is the principal supplier of 
munitions to the British armed forces.
Platforms & Services (International) 
comprises businesses in Saudi Arabia, 
Australia, India and Oman, as well as a 
37.5% shareholding in MBDA.
In Saudi Arabia, the business provides 
operational capability support to the 
country’s air and naval forces on UK/Saudi 
government-to-government contracts. 
Contracts include multi-year and fixed-price 
agreements, such as the Saudi British 
Defence Co-operation Programme.
In Australia, the business delivers production, 
upgrade and support programmes for the 
Australian government across the air, 
maritime and land domains. Services 
contracts include the provision of support 
and upgrades. Platforms contracts include 
naval ships, such as the Landing Helicopter 
Dock programme for the Navy. Contracts are 
often multi-year and fixed price.
In India, the Group continues to develop its 
40% software joint venture, BAeHAL, and 
build on its long-standing relationship with 
Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, which is 
manufacturing Hawk aircraft under licence 
in India.
The business is developing its position in 
Oman, building on a long history of 
relationships with the Omani armed forces, 
with resulting orders placed with the 
relevant reporting segments.
MBDA is a leading global guided weapons 
manufacturer.
p latform S & 
Service S (u S)
 See pages 48 to 52
p latform S & 
Service S (uk )
 See pages 53 to 57
p latform S & Service S 
(i nternational)
 See pages 58 to 61 
Sales * by reporting segment (%) 
1
2
3
4
5
1 Electronic Systems 13
2 Cyber & Intelligence 7
3 Platforms & Services (US) 22
4 Platforms & Services (UK) 36
5 Platforms & Services (International) 22
* Including share of equity accounted investments.
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 17
STRATEGIC REPORT Delivering 
Su Stainability See Sustainability summary section on pages 62 and 63
18 BAE SySt EmS Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
What i S it?
BAe Systems manages the current impacts of its operations and products, and 
anticipates the future global business environment to ensure that it has processes in 
place to support the continued operation of the business. 
What are bae Sy Stem S’ key Strength S?
 n Robust standards of workplace and product safety. 
 n A strong commitment to creating an inclusive workplace, where a diverse range of 
talented employees with broad skill sets and capabilities can deliver against global 
customer requirements.
 n programmes to manage the environmental impacts of the Group’s operations and 
products. 
h o W Doe S thi S help to create value?
By managing the areas that have the most potential to affect the continued operation of 
the business, the Group is able to protect its operations and reputation. 
ho W i S it mea Sure D?
 See safety, diversity and inclusion, and environmental metrics on pages 114 to 117
t he future workplace is likely to require 
workers with a breadth, depth and mix 
of skills. BAe Systems is one of the 
largest employers of apprentices in 
the manufacturing and engineering 
sector in the uK with 387 recruited 
during 2013 and a target to recruit 
more than 500 for 2014. t he 
standards achieved by apprentices 
are extremely high as demonstrated 
by pav Bhogal who picked up the 
2013 Best Apprentice of the Year 
prize and Joanne Sharples who won 
an award for outstanding l eadership 
at the new talent Awards run by the 
north West Aerospace Alliance.
Image: One of our apprentices at the 
Maritime – Submarines site in 
Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, UK Strong 
g overnance See Governance summary section on pages 64 and 65
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EmS Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 19
t he Board is responsible for the good governance of the Company. It sets the strategy, 
provides leadership to put this into effect, supervises management and reports to 
shareholders on its stewardship of the Company. t he Board is formed of executive and 
independent non-executive directors, with non-executives comprising the majority of Board 
appointments. t he Board is led by a non-executive Chairman who is responsible for the 
leadership of the Board and its effectiveness. t he Chief executive is responsible for the 
leadership, and the operational and performance management of the Company consistent 
with the strategy and business plan agreed by the Board. 
t he Company was compliant with the provisions of the uK Corporate Governance Code 
throughout 2013.
 From left to right: 
 paul Anderson, paula Rosput Reynolds, Carl Symon, peter l ynas, Ian tyler, Ian King,  
 Sir Roger Carr, Jerry DeMuro, Chris Grigg, Harriet Green oBe, nick Rose
Operational Framework – a stable 
foundation from which to deliver 
strategy and performance
t he operational Framework is a 
document that sets out how 
business is done across 
BAe Systems. Reviewed on an 
annual basis by the Board, it is 
based on principles of good 
governance and details the values, 
policies and processes that are 
mandated across the Group, and 
how the Board delegates authority. 
t he Board and its committees review 
compliance with the requirements of 
the operational Framework on a 
regular basis. Chief e xe Cutive’s 
review Ian King, Chief Executive
Overview 
Overall, the Group delivered a solid 
performance in 2013, against the background 
of reduced government spending and tough 
market conditions. A proactive focus on costs 
and enhanced competitiveness allowed us to 
protect our margins across the majority of the 
business and we secured further contract wins 
in the US, Saudi Arabia and internationally. 
Our results also benefited from the satisfactory 
conclusion of price escalation negotiations 
with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, relating to 
an existing contract to supply Typhoon aircraft. 
We have continued to invest in research and 
technology and to develop business in 
international markets, and our strong order 
backlog and robust balance sheet as we enter 
2014 are testament to our business health. 
US
In the US, budget uncertainties continued to 
impact government spending and procurement 
decisions throughout 2013. Sequestration 
measures resulting from the 2011 Budget 
Control Act either reduced or delayed many 
US activities. The Sequestration measures 
were targeting savings of approximately 
$450bn (£272bn) from US defence budgets 
over a ten-year period, equivalent to an 
approximately 10% overall reduction. As 
certain areas of spending were protected from 
these reductions, such as military personnel 
accounts, the budgets funding much of the 
US defence industrial base are likely to be 
disproportionately impacted.
In addition to the Sequestration measures, in 
October, the political disagreements over the 
terms of a Continuing Resolution to cover the 
remainder of the 2013 fiscal year resulted in 
a partial US government shutdown. Following 
the brief shutdown, a Continuing Resolution 
was passed to fund the government until 
15 January 2014. Whilst some disruption 
resulted from the shutdown, the impact to 
the Group’s overall financial performance 
was not material.
In December, a bipartisan budget proposal 
for a two-year federal budget agreement was 
approved by Congress and signed into law. 
The resulting spending bill was approved in 
January 2014, far earlier in the fiscal cycle 
than in previous years, and whilst this 
legislation does not eliminate the Sequester 
completely, it does ease the significant and 
indiscriminate cuts that were expected in 
2014 and 2015. 
Given this environment, we based our 
planning assumptions on a progressive 
reduction in our US defence and security 
businesses of approximately 15% for 2013 
and 2014. The recent budget developments 
return some clarity to near-term US 
government spending, although pressures to 
reduce spending and address the US deficit 
are expected to continue.
STRATEGIC REPORT
20 BAE SySt EmS Ann UAl R EpORT 2013 “ BAE Sy St Em S h AS Built 
Strong mom Entum in 
d Eliv Ering on it S Str At Egy.”
Nonetheless, there does seem to be clear 
support for some key programmes, including 
the F-35 Lightning II in which BAE Systems 
has a significant participation.
Some of the Group’s US activities are not 
directly exposed to US government budgets. 
Our commercial electronics business 
continues to grow and we anticipate a rising 
contribution from US Foreign Military Sales. 
In December, the Republic of Korea finalised 
an agreement with the US government for 
BAE Systems to perform upgrades and 
systems integration for its fleet of more 
than 130 F-16 aircraft. This business 
opportunity, potentially worth approximately 
$1.3bn (£0.8bn), is not yet included in our 
order backlog.
The Group also continues to be successful 
in winning competitive new business. In 
March, BAE Systems was awarded a five-year 
contract for the operation and management 
of the Holston Army Ammunition Plant in the 
US. In August, the Group was awarded an 
eight-year contract to maintain the readiness 
of Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic 
missiles in the US. In October, the Group 
received a US Army contract for Low-Rate 
Initial Production on the Paladin Integrated 
Management programme, a tracked artillery 
system. In December, the US Navy awarded 
BAE Systems a three-year, $171m (£103m) 
contract to continue providing engineering 
and integration support to Trident II D-5 
submarine-launched ballistic missiles. 
In Land & Armaments, we have refocused 
the business on core markets and our 
capabilities in combat vehicles, amphibious 
vehicles, artillery systems and naval surface 
fires. We have also rationalised the land 
facilities more broadly, reducing 51 sites to 15 
centres. Against a background of substantially 
reduced demand, we are working to protect 
key industrial capabilities and margins.
Performance issues recently emerged in the 
multi-year Radford Army Ammunition Plant 
support contract. Customer volume reductions 
require this contract to be restructured and 
we aim to renegotiate an agreement on this 
key military capability.
UK
Notwithstanding the continued pressure on 
many areas of government spend in the UK, 
our business is in good shape and the outlook 
remains stable. Much of the Group’s UK 
business is concentrated on a small number 
of large programmes where multi-year 
contracts provide good visibility, as evidenced 
by the large UK order backlog. 
In the air sector, the first Tranche 3 Typhoon 
has flown and we have recently been able to 
reveal previously classified footage of the 
successful flight trials of the Taranis unmanned 
aerial vehicle. Deliveries of Typhoon continued 
to European partner nations.
In the maritime sector, in November, 
BAE Systems reached agreement with the 
UK government on measures to enable the 
implementation of a restructuring of its UK 
naval ships business. The measures included 
a restructuring of the Queen Elizabeth Class 
aircraft carrier contract to accommodate 
changes to the programme and to reflect its 
increased maturity. In addition, a programme 
to build three Offshore Patrol Vessels for the 
Royal Navy was announced. Consultation with 
trade union and employee representatives 
commenced regarding the rationalisation of 
the naval ships business to address 
anticipated reduced workload levels beyond 
the current high volume of activity on the 
aircraft carrier programme. Contracts to enact 
this overall agreement are forecast to be 
finalised in 2014.
Good progress has been made in defining the 
Type 26 frigate programme to replace Type 23 
vessels, with over 600 employees now working 
on the contract.
Submarines activity continues to progress on 
the Astute Class programme and workload is 
increasing on the Successor programme in 
preparation for a possible replacement of the 
Vanguard Class boats. 
In September 2014, Scotland will hold an 
independence referendum. The decision on 
independence from the UK is a matter for the 
people of Scotland. However, BAE Systems 
has significant interests and employees in 
Scotland, and it is clear that continued union 
offers greater certainty and stability for our 
business. In the event that Scotland voted to 
become independent, we would need to 
discuss the way forward with the Ministry of 
Defence and UK government, and work with 
them to deliver the best solution in those 
circumstances.
Our Applied Intelligence business (formerly 
BAE Systems Detica), which is well-positioned 
in the fast-growing commercial cyber security 
sector, has substantially increased its order 
backlog.
In February 2013, Applied Intelligence and 
Vodafone agreed the formation of a five-year 
partnership to provide businesses with a 
range of advanced mobile communications 
security products and services, initially 
focused on smartphones and tablets.
Applied Intelligence signed, in September, 
a framework contract with the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) to deliver service 
management integration services across the 
FCO’s global IT estate.
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE Sy St Em S ANNUAL REPORT 2013 21 Non-UK/US order intake
1
 (£bn)
2010 4.3
2011 4.8
2012 11.2
2013 9.3
Non-UK/US order intake
1
 (% of total)
2010 26
2011 29
2012 50
2013 48
The significant flow of new contract awards 
with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia continued 
through 2013. Contracts valued at 
approximately £6.4bn have been signed in 
the year, including a five-year, £1.8bn 
follow-on support contract on the Salam 
Typhoon programme and a further £1.5bn 
contract for Tornado aircraft upgrades and 
weapons under the Saudi British Defence 
Co-operation programme. 
In December, the Swedish government 
exercised its option to buy 102 more BvS10 
all-terrain vehicles in an order worth 
approximately $120m (£72m). In December, 
FnSS, BAE Systems’ Turkish joint venture, 
received a $360m (£217m) contract from 
the land forces of a Middle Eastern country 
for the upgrade of M113 tracked armoured 
personnel carriers.
The Group was disappointed that the 
Canadian government decided to cancel its 
Close Combat Vehicle programme. However, 
we continue to pursue opportunities for 
combat vehicles with the Swedish CV90 
tracked infantry fighting vehicle forming the 
basis for a current bid in Denmark. In addition, 
BAE Systems is working with polish Defence 
Holdings to address substantial replacement 
vehicle requirements expected to emerge later 
this decade in poland. 
BAE Systems continues to develop 
opportunities for Bradley fighting vehicles 
in Saudi Arabia and, more recently, another 
emerging requirement in the region.
The success in South Korea on the F-16 
upgrade programme is a significant 
competitive win.
Peter Leahy (Project manager, Air Warfare Destroyer) – 
weathering the storm
To overcome the lack of shipbuilding skills in Williamstown, Australia, 
peter l eahy set about re-skilling the team on the latest methods, as 
well as importing skills from BAE Systems in the UK. This single-minded 
focus to work efficiently and to deliver high-quality results paid off with 
at least a 30% reduction in costs. This impressive turnaround also 
helped to secure future work for the shipyard.
John Emmons (Senior Lead Full motion Video Analyst) 
– making more moments
With BAE Systems’ activity-based intelligence, a computer-assisted 
problem solving methodology, John Emmons and his team in the US 
are able to streamline the process of digging through vast amounts 
of heavily layered data to reveal patterns and anomalies, thought of as 
intelligence treasures by intelligence analysts studying the behaviour 
of potential threats. Our activity-based intelligence technology helps 
to make big data small.
International
Building on the strong international order 
intake performance in 2012, a further £9.3bn 
of non-UK/US order intake
1
 was achieved in 
the year.
While the opportunity was not included in our 
business plans, we were disappointed that 
the government of the United Arab Emirates 
(UAE) elected not to proceed with proposals 
regarding a range of defence and security 
capabilities including the potential supply of 
Typhoon aircraft. nonetheless, the aircraft 
fully met the customer’s exacting requirements 
and BAE Systems stands ready to work with 
the UAE to address any future requirements. 
We continue to pursue a number of 
opportunities in international markets. 
Building on the successful sale of Typhoon 
and Hawk aircraft in Saudi Arabia and Oman, 
a number of military aircraft-related 
opportunities have been identified. 
Aircraft deliveries on the Salam Typhoon 
programme to Saudi Arabia re-commenced 
in April.
In February 2014, the governments of the 
UK and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia agreed 
price escalation terms relating to the Typhoon 
aircraft under the Salam programme and 
these have been reflected in contractual 
arrangements between the UK government 
and BAE Systems. The terms of the agreement 
are broadly consistent with the Group’s prior 
trading outlook for 2013. Cash settlement 
is expected to follow this pricing agreement, 
commencing in the early part of 2014. The 
Group believes this to be an equitable outcome 
for all parties and is pleased to conclude this 
negotiation which builds on the long-standing 
relationship with this much-valued customer.
1 Including equity accounted investments.
22 BAE SySt EmS Ann UAl R EpORT 2013
St RAt EGIC REPORt CHIEF EXECUt IVE’S REVIEW Balance sheet and capital allocation
The Group’s balance sheet continues to be 
managed conservatively in line with our policy 
to retain an investment grade credit rating and 
to ensure operating flexibility.
Consistent with this approach, the Group 
expects to continue to meet its pension 
obligations, pursue organic investment 
opportunities, pay dividends in line with its 
policy of long-term sustainable cover of 
around two times underlying earnings and 
to make accelerated returns of capital to 
shareholders when the balance sheet allows. 
Investment in value-enhancing acquisitions 
will be considered where market conditions 
are right and where they deliver on the 
Group’s strategy.
In February 2013, the Group initiated a 
share repurchase programme of up to 
£1bn over three years. Implementation of 
the programme has been influenced by the 
timing of a satisfactory resolution of the 
Salam Typhoon price escalation negotiations. 
As at 19 February 2014, BAE Systems had 
purchased 65 million shares for approximately 
£271m under the programme. 
Consistent with previous share buybacks, 
the Group has agreed with the trustees of 
its UK pension schemes to pay £340m of 
cash contributions into the schemes over the 
three-year period of a full implementation of 
the share repurchase programme. 
Inspired Work
Our employees have a key role to play in the 
success of our business. Their contribution 
is never more important than when the 
Group is facing significant market pressures. 
BAE Systems’ people have continued to rise to 
the challenge, demonstrating their commitment 
to meeting the needs of customers with 
increasingly more cost-effective and innovative 
solutions. There are many examples of our 
people’s inspired work highlighted across 
this publication. 
Responsible conduct
The way the Group undergoes its business 
is equally as important as the delivery of 
the output and great emphasis continues to 
be placed on business conduct throughout 
the Group. 
The safety of our employees and those using 
our products is critical to our business, a key 
priority and a fundamental responsibility for 
the Group. Regrettably, there were two 
work-related employee fatalities in 2013. 
Each accident is thoroughly investigated and 
lessons learnt are applied across the Group. 
We continue to drive safety improvements 
and achieved a 17% reduction in the 
Recordable Accident Rate, which represents 
the sixth consecutive year of improvement.
Board and management
Sir Richard Olver stepped down as Chairman 
of the Group in February 2014 and has been 
succeeded by Sir Roger Carr. Sir Richard has 
been a tremendous supporter of our Company 
and our industry over the last decade and has 
led wide-ranging cultural and governance 
changes within the Company. He leaves with 
our best wishes for the future.
I am delighted to welcome Sir Roger Carr 
as Chairman. Sir Roger has two decades of 
Board-level experience leading international 
businesses and most recently was Chairman 
of Centrica plc and president of the 
Confederation of British Industry, the UK’s 
main business lobbying group. He is also 
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent 
Director of the Court of the Bank of England 
and a member of the UK prime Minister’s 
Business Advisory Group.
Jerry DeMuro took up his role as president and 
Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. 
from 1 February 2014. Jerry joins the Group 
from General Dynamics and succeeded 
l inda Hudson, who announced her intention to 
retire from the Company in August. He is also 
an executive director of BAE Systems plc and a 
member of BAE Systems’ Executive Committee.
On 5 February 2014, Tom Arseneault, formerly 
Executive Vice president, product Sectors, 
was appointed as Chief Operating Officer for 
BAE Systems, Inc. and Dave Herr, formerly 
Executive Vice president, Service Sectors, for 
BAE Systems, Inc. and Executive Committee 
member, will retire from the Group on 
31 March 2014.
In January 2014, Claire Divver joined the Group 
from Xstrata plc as Group Communications 
Director and a member of the Executive 
Committee. She replaced Charlotte l ambkin 
who left the Group in September.
Summary and outlook
Budget pressures in some of the Group’s 
larger markets are expected to prevail but 
BAE Systems has a broad-based portfolio. 
Good progress has been made to grow the 
order backlog, providing a solid basis for 
growth over the medium term. The Group’s 
continued focus on cost and targeted 
investment aims to enhance competitiveness 
and affordability for the benefit of customers 
and sustain attractive returns for shareholders.
 
 
 
 
Ian King, Chief Executive
Saeed AlGhamdi (Quality manager, tornado) – from 
apprentice to expert
Saeed AlGhamdi started as an apprentice 13 years ago and is now 
part of a quality control taskforce servicing and maintaining Tornado 
aircraft in Saudi Arabia. His proudest moment has been to re-design 
part of Tornado’s rudder, preventing damage to the part in servicing, 
resulting in cost and time savings which earned him a BAE Systems 
Chairman’s Award. 
Joe murphy mBE (Welding 
trainer) – the Queen’s welder
Working for the past 40 years 
in Barrow-in-Furness, UK, Joe has 
helped to produce highly complex 
submarines for the Royal navy. 
Battling temperatures of up to 
120 degrees in a confined space 
is an art form. Joe Murphy MBE 
passes on his skills, work ethic 
and tenacity to the next generation 
of welders being trained in the 
Joe Murphy Welding Centre 
of Excellence.
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EmS Ann UAl R EpORT 2013 23 Ex Ecutiv E committ EE 
obj Ectiv Es The Executive Committee sets annual objectives which focus on deliverables in 
support of delivery of both short-term results and the overall long-term strategy. 
Performance against the 2013 objectives is discussed below. Recognising the strong 
momentum in delivery of the strategy, the objectives for 2014 remain unchanged.
 See the Group Strategic Framework on pages 7 and 8 
 See the Group’s Key Performance Indicators on pages 26 to 28 
2013 objective
Financial 
p Er Formanc E
Meet 2013 financial targets
2013 performance
Underlying earnings
1
 per share was above threshold, but below target. 
Order intake
2
 was on target. Net cash/(debt)
3
 was above target, but 
below stretch.
 See Annual remuneration report on page 94
2014 objective
Meet 2014 financial 
targets
2013 objective
c ustom Er Focus 
and programm E 
Ex Ecution
Continued focus on improving 
customer satisfaction and 
programme execution 
2013 performance
The Group continued to deliver on its commitments to its customers with 
good programme execution reflected in an overall improvement in outturn 
margin across its major programmes.
2014 objective
Continued focus on 
improving customer 
satisfaction and 
programme execution
2013 objective
rE sponsibl E 
b Ehaviour Progress towards recognised 
leading positions
2013 performance
Group targets for safety and environment were met. All Executive 
Committee members met their individual targets for diversity and 
inclusion.
 See Annual remuneration report on page 94
2014 objective
Progress towards 
recognised leading 
positions
2013 objective
Engag Em Ent Inspire and engage our people  
to deliver success
2013 performance
Strategy workshops and supporting materials have been rolled out to 
employees across the businesses during the year to help employees 
to recognise their role in delivering the Group’s strategic objectives.
2014 objective
Inspire and engage our 
people to deliver 
success
 See page 12 for more information
  
See pages 10 and 11 for  
more information
 See page 13 for more information
 See page 114 for more information
1  Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash 
finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items 
(see note 8 to the Group accounts).
2 Including share of equity accounted investments.
3  See note 10 to the Group accounts.
STRATEGIC REPORT
24 BAE SySt EmS ANNUAl R EPORT 2013 2013 objective
El Ectronic  
syst Ems Be agile, sustain revenues  
and deliver strong bottom  
line performance
2013 performance
The business achieved important contract wins in strategically important 
areas, including in the electronic warfare and commercial aircraft 
electronics markets, and on the US Army’s Joint Effects Targeting System 
programme. Return on sales was maintained around 14%.
2014 objective
Be agile, sustain 
revenues and deliver 
strong bottom line 
performance
2013 objective
c yb Er & 
int Ellig Enc E
Enhance and grow our  
positions in cyber, intelligence  
and security
2013 performance
Whilst the Intelligence & Security business was significantly impacted 
by US budget pressures and the partial government shutdown, it has 
continued to build a leadership position in activity-based intelligence and 
was awarded a three-year follow-on contract to the Counter-Improvised 
Explosive Device programme. Applied Intelligence has been awarded 
strategically important contracts, including with Vodafone for secure 
mobile services and with the Foreign & Commonwealth Office for 
managed IT services. The Applied Intelligence order backlog grew by 
60% in 2013.
2014 objective
Enhance and grow our 
positions in cyber, 
intelligence and security
2013 objective
p lat Forms & 
s Ervic Es ( us )
Drive value from our  
land portfolio and deliver  
sustainable, profitable growth  
in the services sector
2013 performance
In l and & Armaments, cost reduction actions continued and return on 
sales increased to 9.3%. There was a production order from the US Army 
on Paladin Integrated Management and export awards for BvS10 vehicles 
and M113 upgrades. Support Solutions won multi-year contracts in the 
US for munitions facilities management and support to ballistic missiles. 
A l etter of Agreement for upgrades and systems integration on F-16 aircraft 
for South Korea was finalised. Performance was impacted by US budget 
pressures, as well as charges taken on the Radford Army Ammunition 
Plant contract, commercial shipbuilding activity and not being awarded 
follow-on options on the US Navy aircraft maintenance contract.
2014 objective
Drive value from our 
land portfolio and deliver 
sustainable, profitable 
growth in the services 
sector
2013 objective
p lat Forms & 
s Ervic Es ( u K)
Deliver sustainably profitable 
through-life businesses in the  
air, maritime and combat  
vehicles sectors
2013 performance
Strong programme performance delivered a return on sales of 12.8%. In 
air, work progressed on the Omani Typhoon and Hawk aircraft contract, 
and the first Typhoon Tranche 3 aircraft was delivered to the Royal Air 
Force. In maritime, the business reached agreement in principle with the 
UK’s Ministry of Defence on the restructuring of the UK naval ships 
business. Good progress was made on the Type 26 frigate and 
Successor submarine design contracts.
2014 objective
Deliver sustainably 
profitable through-life 
businesses in the air, 
maritime, combat 
vehicles and munitions 
sectors
2013 objective
p lat Forms &  
s Ervic Es 
(i nt Ernational)
Grow our Platforms & Services 
(International) business
2013 performance
In Saudi Arabia, on the Salam Typhoon programme, aircraft deliveries 
resumed, a five-year support contract for £1.8bn was received and price 
escalation terms were agreed. On the Saudi British Defence Co-operation 
Programme, £1.5bn of orders were received for Tornado upgrades and 
weapons procurement. In Australia, good progress was made on the 
l anding Helicopter Dock programme and additional blocks were contracted 
on the Air Warfare Destroyer programme. The business was also awarded 
a five-year contract to continue to support Royal Australian Air Force 
Hawk aircraft.
2014 objective
Grow our Platforms & 
Services (International) 
business
  
See pages 58 to 61 for  
more information
  
See pages 53 to 57 for  
more information
  
See pages 48 to 52 for  
more information
  
See pages 43 to 47 for  
more information
  
See pages 38 to 42 for  
more information
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EmS ANNUAl R EPORT 2013 25 Business model – page 9
KEy p Er Formanc E 
indicators The Board uses a range of quantitative financial and non-financial 
performance indicators, reported on a periodic basis, to monitor the 
Group’ s performance against its Total Performance and Executive 
Committee objectives. Executive directors’ remuneration is linked 
to certain of these measures.
Financial Performance
The Group sets challenging financial targets through its Integrated Business Planning process to 
maximise financial performance and drive long-term shareholder value.
Funded order intake
1,3
 (£bn)
Funded order intake
1,3
 (£bn)
2010 16.3
2009 21.6
2011 16.6
2012 22.3
2013 19.3
£19.3BN
Definition
Funded order intake represents the value 
of funded orders received from customers 
in the year.
Funded order intake is a measure of in-year 
performance and supports future years’ 
sales performance.
Comment
Funded order intake
3
 benefited from long-term 
support contracts and further weapons packages 
in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia secured during 
the year, and order backlog
3
 was sustained at 
over £42bn. Non-UK/US funded order intake
3
 
was £9.3bn (2012 £11.2bn), 48% (2012 50%) 
of total funded order intake
3
.
Sales
1,3
 (£bn)
Sales
1
 (£bn)
2010 22.3
2009 21.8
2011 19.2
2012 17.9
2013 18.2
£18.2BN +2%
Definition
Sales represents the amounts derived from 
the provision of goods and services, and 
includes the Group’s share of sales of its 
equity accounted investments.
Comment
Volume reductions in the US businesses and, 
in particular, at l and & Armaments were more 
than offset by the resumption of Typhoon aircraft 
deliveries and trading of the price escalation on 
the Salam programme.
 See sales
3
 bridge chart on page 33 
✪
  Part of the executive directors’ 
✓
 
Target
7
 achieved
 
2013 annual incentive
1 2012 re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7 to the Group accounts).
2  2012 restated on adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits (see page 126). 2011 and prior years have not been restated. 
3  Including share of equity accounted investments.
4  Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items (see page 33).
5  Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items 
(see note 8 to the Group accounts).
 See Executive Committee objectives on page 24 See Group financial performance on page 32 See Segmental performance on page 36
 See page 94
STRATEGIC REPORT
26 BAE SySt EmS ANNUAl R EPORT 2013 Underlying EBITA
1,2,4
 (£m)
Underlying EBITA
2,3
 (£m)
2010 2,179
2009 2,151
2011 2,025
2012 1,862
2013 1,925
£1,925M +3%
Definition
Underlying EBITA excludes amortisation and 
impairment of intangible assets, finance costs 
and taxation expense, and non-recurring items 
(profit/loss on disposal of businesses and 
regulatory penalties).
Underlying EBITA is used by the Group for 
internal performance analysis as a measure 
of operating profitability that is comparable 
over time.
Comment
Underlying EBITA
4
 increased by 3%, to £1,925m, 
giving a return on sales of 10.6% (2012 10.4%).
Underlying earnings
1,2,5
 per share (pence)
Underlying earnings
3,4
 per share (pence)
2010 39.8
2009 39.1
2011 39.7 45.6
2012 38.7
2013 42.0
42.0P +9%
R&D tax benet
8
Excluding R&D tax benet
8
✪
  Part of the executive directors’ 
✗
 
Target
7
 not achieved
 
2013 annual incentive
Definition
Underlying earnings represent profit for the 
year attributable to equity shareholders 
excluding amortisation and impairment of 
intangible assets, non-cash finance movements 
on pensions and financial derivatives, and 
non-recurring items (see note 8 to the Group 
accounts).
Underlying earnings per share provides a 
measure of shareholder return that is 
comparable over time.
Comment
Underlying earnings
5
 per share benefited from 
the margin recognition on the Salam Typhoon 
programme and the lower tax rate of 22%.
 See underlying earnings
5
 per share bridge chart on page 33 
Operating business cash flow
6
 (£m)
Operating business cash ow
6
 (£m)
£147M 
2010 1,187
2009 1,595
2011 634
2012 2,692
2013 147
Definition
Operating business cash flow represents net 
cash flow from operating activities after capital 
expenditure (net) and financial investment and 
dividends from equity accounted investments.
Operating business cash flow is the measure 
used to assess the operating cash generation 
of the Group.
Comment
As anticipated, advances received in 2012 on 
the Omani Typhoon and Hawk, Saudi training 
aircraft and Saudi Tornado upgrade programmes 
are being utilised. Advances were also 
consumed in the year on the European Typhoon 
Tranche 2 programme. Provisions created in 
previous years were utilised on the Oman 
Offshore Patrol Vessel contract and on 
rationalisation. The £131m Trinidad and Tobago 
termination settlement was paid during the year.
6  Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets 
contributed to Trust. 
7  The target is the Group’s budget for the year, which represents the first year of the five-year Integrated Business Plan (see page 69).
8  Underlying earnings per share in 2011 included a 5.9p tax benefit arising as a result of an agreement with the UK tax authorities addressing a number of items, 
including research and development tax credits.
 See Executive Committee objectives on page 24 See Group financial performance on page 32 See Segmental performance on page 36
 See page 94
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySTEmS ANNUAl R EPORT 2013 27 Business model – page 9
Responsible Behaviour
Responsible Behaviour is fundamental to the business. The Group’s Code of Conduct provides guidance 
on the principles and standards of business conduct expected of all employees. Together with the 
Group’s Responsible Trading Principles, the Code of Conduct underpins the Group’s business activities.
Recordable Accident Rate
✪
  Part of the executive directors’ 
✓
 
Target achieved
 
2013 annual incentive
Definition
The number of injuries per 100,000 employees 
is monitored, and actions taken to minimise the 
risk to the Group’s employees and its operations, 
and drive continual performance improvement.
Performance
2011 1,669
2012 1,162
2013 965
Recordable Accident Rate
*
(per 100,000 employees)
* See Deloitte LLP assurance statement on page 119.
Comment
The Recordable Accident Rate, which focuses on 
the number of accidents, is the principal metric 
used by the Group’s businesses to monitor 
performance in safety and drive improvements in 
accident prevention. The Group also uses a 
five-level Safety Maturity Matrix to help its 
businesses around the world work towards 
consistently high safety standards.
Programme Execution
The Group’s performance is dependent on the successful execution of its projects. It is important that 
the Group wins contracts for high-quality new programmes, and delivers on those programmes within 
tight tolerances of quality, time and cost.
Programme margin variation
  
✓
 
Target achieved
 
Definition
Programme margin variation measures outturn 
projections of, and movements in, margin of key 
customer-funded projects. It provides an 
indicator of the Group’s ability to effectively 
manage major programmes.
Performance
The Group focuses on improving programme 
execution across its major contracts.
Programme margin variation metrics can 
only be fully interpreted and understood on 
a contract-by-contract basis and, therefore, 
aggregated data is not presented.
Comment
The data for the programme margin variation 
metric included 99 contracts reported in 
Contract Reviews prepared under Lifecycle 
Management, representing 63% of the Group’s 
funded order backlog.
Customer Focus
The Group’s priority to its customers is to understand their evolving needs and expectations, and 
deliver on its commitments throughout the life of its products and services.
Customer satisfaction
Definition
Customer satisfaction surveys are used by the 
businesses to collect customer opinions on key 
customer-funded projects. This provides an 
opportunity for customers to share information 
on perceived performance levels and identify 
areas of strength and weakness.
Performance
The Group focuses on improving customer 
satisfaction across its major contracts.
Customer satisfaction metrics can only 
be fully interpreted and understood on a 
contract-by-contract basis and, therefore, 
aggregated data is not presented.
Comment
Recognising the diversity of customers and 
activities across the Group, customer 
satisfaction is managed at a business level.
Customer satisfaction is a metric used by the 
businesses at monthly Contract Reviews 
prepared under Lifecycle Management.
 See Executive Committee objectives on page 24 See Sustainability summary on page 62  See Segmental performance on page 36
 See page 94
28 BAE SySt EmS Annu AL REPoRT 2013
St RAt EGIC REPORt KEy PERFORmANCE INDICAt ORS Risk 
Manage Ment Effective management of risks and opportunities is essential to the delivery of the 
Group’ s strategic objectives, achievement of sustainable shareholder value, protection 
of its reputation and meeting the requirements of good corporate governance.
Board
The Board has overall responsibility for 
determining the nature and extent of the 
significant risks it is willing to take in achieving 
its strategic objectives, and ensuring that risks 
are managed effectively across the Group.
Risk is a regular agenda item at Board 
meetings and the Board reviews risk as 
part of its annual strategy review process. 
This is aimed at providing the Board with 
an appreciation of the key risks within the 
business and oversight of how they are 
being managed.
The Board delegates certain risk management 
activities to the Audit and Corporate 
Responsibility committees as follows.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee monitors the Group’s 
key risks identified by the risk assessment 
processes and reports its findings to the 
Board twice a year. It is also responsible for 
reviewing in detail the effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of internal control policies, 
and procedures for the identification, 
assessment and reporting of risk.
Corporate Responsibility Committee
The Corporate Responsibility Committee 
monitors the Group’s performance in 
managing the Group’s significant non-financial 
risks, including those arising in respect of 
business conduct, health and safety, and 
the environment, and reports its findings to 
the Board on a regular basis.
Approach
The Group’s approach to risk management is 
aimed at the early identification of key risks, 
to remove or reduce the likelihood and effect 
of those risks before they occur, and deal 
effectively with them if they crystallise.
The Group is committed to the protection of 
its assets, which include human, intellectual 
and physical property, and financial resources, 
through an effective risk management process, 
underpinned where appropriate by insurance.
Reporting within the Group is structured so 
that key issues are escalated through the 
management team and ultimately to the Board 
where appropriate. The underlying principles 
of the Group’s risk management policy are 
that risks are monitored continuously, 
associated action plans reviewed, appropriate 
contingencies provisioned and this 
information reported through established 
management control procedures.
As with any system of internal control, the 
policies and processes that are mandated 
in the operational Framework are designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve business objectives, and 
can only provide reasonable, and not 
absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
Financial and non-financial risks
Financial risks expose the Group to potential 
costs which are quantifiable on the basis 
that their probability and impact can be 
adequately understood and related to the 
financial statements.
non-financial risks cannot readily be assessed 
in financial terms and, therefore, cannot be 
reflected reliably in the financial statements.
Process
Businesses
The responsibility for risk identification, 
analysis, evaluation and mitigation rests 
with the line management of the businesses. 
They are also responsible for reporting and 
monitoring key risks in accordance with 
established processes under the Group’s 
operational Framework.
The Group’s risk management process 
is set out in the Risk Management Policy, 
a mandated policy under the operational 
Framework, and, in respect of projects, in 
the Lifecycle Management Framework, a 
core business process under the operational 
Framework. Further guidance is provided 
by a Risk Management Maturity 
self-assessment tool.
Identified risks are documented in controlled 
risk registers showing: the risks that have 
been identified; characteristics of the risk; 
the basis for determining mitigation strategy; 
and what reviews and monitoring are 
necessary. Each risk is allocated an owner 
who has authority and responsibility for 
assessing and managing it.
Project risks are reported and monitored in 
Group-mandated format Contract Review 
Packs, which are reviewed by management 
at monthly Contract Reviews. The financial 
performance of projects is reported and 
monitored using Contract Status Reports, 
which form part of the Contract Review Pack. 
These include programme margin metrics, 
which are reviewed regularly by the Executive 
Committee and Board (see KPI on page 28). 
Project margin is recognised after making 
suitable allowances for technical and other 
risks related to performance milestones yet 
to be achieved.
In addition, every six months, the businesses 
complete an operational Assurance 
Statement (oAS), which is a mandated policy 
under the operational Framework. The oAS is 
in two parts: a self-assessment of compliance 
with the operational Framework; and a report 
showing the key financial and non-financial 
risks for the relevant business. Together with 
reviews undertaken by Internal Audit and the 
work of the external auditors, the oAS forms 
the Group’s process for reviewing the 
effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
Executive Committee
The key financial and non-financial risks 
identified by the businesses from the risk 
assessment processes are collated and 
reviewed by the Executive Committee to 
identify those issues where the cumulative 
risk, or possible reputational impacts, could 
be significant.
Management responsibility for the 
management of the Group’s most significant 
non-financial risks is determined by the 
Executive Committee. The oAS and 
non-financial Risk registers are reviewed 
regularly by the Executive Committee to 
monitor the status and progression of 
mitigation plans, and these key risks are 
reported to the Board on a regular basis.
Principal risks
Risks are identified as principal based on the 
likelihood of occurrence and potential impact 
on the Group. The principal risks identified by 
the Group using the policies and processes 
explained above during the year are 
summarised on page 31. 
 For more information on the activities of the Board and its committees see pages 69 to 81
 For more information on the Group’s business processes and mandated policies see page 69
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EmS Annu AL REPoRT 2013 29 BUSINESSES
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Operational Assurance Statement Risk Register
Non-nancial Risk Register
Monitoring and reporting
Monitoring
Monitoring and reporting
Monitoring and reporting
Integrated Business Plan – Core Business Process*
Annual long-term strategy and ve-year plan for each business
Operational Assurance Statement – Mandated Policy*
Six-monthly management self-assessment of compliance with the Operational Framework and summary of key risks
Chief Executive’s Business Review – Core Business Process*
Quarterly top-level review of the key operational, nancial and non-nancial performance issues within the business, and signicant forthcoming bids and events
Quarterly Business Review – Core Business Process* 
Quarterly management review of the performance of each of the Group’s businesses against their objectives, measures and milestones
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Operational Assurance Statement Risk Register
Non-nancial Risk Register
BUSINESS RISK
Monitoring and reporting Monitoring and reporting
BOARD
Overall responsibility for risk management
Lifecycle Management Contract Review – Core Business Process* 
Monthly management review of project performance and issues to ensure that appropriate decisions and actions are taken
ANALYSIS
IDENTIFICATION
MITIGATION
EVALUATION
4. MITIGATION
Risk owners identied and action
plans implemented
Robust mitigation strategy subject
to regular and rigorous review
Risk Management Policy – Mandated Policy*
1. IDENTIFICATION
Financial and non-nancial risks recorded 
in controlled risk registers
3. EVALUATION
Risk exposure reviewed and  
risks prioritised
2. ANALYSIS
Risks analysed for impact 
and probability to determine  
gross exposure
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE
Non-nancial Risk Register
 For more information on the Group’s operational Framework see page 19 
*  As defined in the Group’s operational Framework.
How BAE Systems manages risk:
30 BAE SySt EmS Annu AL REPoRT 2013
St RAt EGIC REPORt RISK mANAGEmENt Defence spending 
The Group is dependent on defence spending. 
 Government customers 
The Group’s largest customers are governments.
Global market 
The Group operates in a global market.
Contract award timing 
The Group is dependent on the timing of award of defence contracts.
Large contracts 
Certain of the Group’s businesses are dependent on a small number of large contracts. 
Fixed-price contracts 
The Group has fixed-price contracts. 
Component availability, subcontractor performance and key suppliers 
The Group is dependent upon component availability, subcontractor performance and key suppliers.
Laws and regulations 
The Group is subject to risk from a failure to comply with laws and regulations.
Competition 
The Group’s business is subject to significant competition.
Pension funding 
The Group has an aggregate funding deficit in its defined benefit pension schemes.
Export controls and other restrictions 
The Group is subject to export controls and other restrictions.
Acquisitions 
The anticipated benefits of acquisitions may not be achieved.
Consortia and joint ventures 
The Group is involved in consortia, joint ventures and equity holdings where it does not have control.
Exchange rates 
The Group is exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates.
Cyber security 
The Group could be negatively impacted by information technology security threats.
MEDIUM IMPACT
HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT
HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT
HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT
HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT
HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT
HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT
HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT
HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT
HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT
HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT
HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT
HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT
HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT
HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT
HIGH IMPACT
PRinci Pal Risks 
s UMMa RY
FURt He R in FORMati On On e ac H Risk can be FOUnd O n Pages 106 t O 111 OF t He di Rect ORs ’ Re PORt STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EmS Annu AL REPoRT 2013 31 Group financial  
performance Peter Lynas, Group Finance Director
Financial highlights
 n Sales
3
 increased by 2%
 n Underlying EBITA
4
 increased by 3% to £1,925m
 n Underlying earnings
5
 per share increased by 9%
 n Order backlog
3,6
 maintained, with non-UK/US order intake
3
 of £9.3bn
 n Operating business cash inflow
8
 of £147m
 n Net debt
9
 of £699m
 n Goodwill impairment charge of £865m relating to the US Intelligence & Security  
and Land & Armaments businesses
 n £212m expended in 2013 on the three-year share repurchase programme
 n Total dividend increased by 3% to 20.1p
1 On adoption of the revised International Accounting Standard 19, Employee Benefits.
2 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7 to the Group accounts).
3 Including share of equity accounted investments.
4 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items.
5  Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items 
(see note 8 to the Group accounts).
 
Business model – page 9
Critical accounting policies Accounting change 
Certain of the Group’s principal accounting policies are considered 
by the directors to be critical because of the level of complexity, 
judgement or estimation involved in their application and their 
impact on the consolidated financial statements. 
With effect from 1 January 2013, the Group has adopted the revised 
International Accounting Standard 19, Employee Benefits. This 
replaces interest cost on gross pension liabilities and expected 
return on gross pension assets with a finance cost on the net 
pension deficit calculated using the rate currently used to discount 
defined benefit pension liabilities and requires certain administrative 
costs to be included within underlying EBITA
4
. Comparative financial 
information has been restated accordingly. 
  See page 126  See page 126 and note 23 to the Group accounts on page 162
STRATEGIC REPORT
32 BAE SySTEmS Annu Al R EpORT 2013 Underlying earnings
5
 per share bridge (pence)
Support Solutions charges (1.2)
US defence volumes
Share buyback 0.2
Tax rate 1.1
Salam Typhoon trading 6.3
Other (1.6)
2013 42.0
(1.5)
2012 38.7
See note 8 to the Group accounts on page 140
KPI Sales
3
 bridge (£bn)
US defence volumes (0.6)
2012 17.9
Salam Typhoon trading 1.0
Other (0.1)
2013 18.2
See note 1 to the Group accounts on page 130
KPI 
Income statement
Sales
3
 increased by 2% to £18,180m (2012 £17 ,905m). Volume 
reductions in the uS businesses and, in particular, at l and & 
Armaments were more than offset by the resumption of Typhoon 
aircraft deliveries and trading of the price escalation on the Salam 
programme. The movements driving this increase are illustrated in 
the bridge chart above.
Underlying EBITA
4
 increased by 3%, to £1,925m (2012 £1,862m), 
giving a return on sales of 10.6% (2012 10.4%).
Profit on disposal of businesses of £6m includes the disposal of the 
Commercial Armored Vehicles business, which was part of l and & 
Armaments. The profit of £103m in 2012 included the disposals of 
Safety products and Safariland, and assets comprising the Tensylon 
business, which were also l and & Armaments businesses.
Amortisation of intangible assets is £37m lower at £189m mainly 
reflecting intangible assets on programmes in the l and & Armaments 
business becoming fully amortised in 2012.
Impairment of intangible assets of £887m includes goodwill 
impairment of £865m relating to the uS Intelligence & Security and 
l and & Armaments businesses as a result of an increase in the 
Group’s post-tax weighted average cost of capital and an estimate of 
reductions in uS defence spending. The £86m charge in 2012 mainly 
related to the Safariland and Tensylon businesses sold in 2012, and 
the Commercial Armored Vehicles business sold in 2013.
Finance costs
3
 were £392m (2012 £410m). The underlying interest 
charge, which excludes pension accounting, marked-to-market 
revaluation of financial instruments and foreign currency movements, 
is £25m lower at £179m. A full year of interest on the £400m of debt 
issued in June 2012 is more than offset by the lower level of net 
present value charges on long-term liabilities in 2013.
Taxation expense
3
 reflects an effective tax rate of 22% (2012 24%). 
The calculation of the effective tax rate is shown in note 6 to the Group 
accounts on page 137. The underlying tax rate for 2014 is expected 
to be between 21% and 23%, with the final number dependent on the 
geographical mix of profits.
Summary income statement 
2013  
£m
Restated
1
 
2012
2
£m
Sales
3
 
KpI 
18,180 17,905
Underlying EBITA
4
 KpI 1,925 1,862
Return on sales 10.6% 10.4%
profit on disposal of businesses 6 103
EBITA 1,931 1,965
Amortisation of intangible assets (189) (226)
Impairment of intangible assets (887) (86)
Finance costs
3
(392) (410)
Taxation expense
3
 (287) (284)
Profit for the year 176 959
Earnings per share 2013
Restated
1
 
2012
2
 
Underlying earnings
5
 per share
 
KpI 
42.0p 38.7p
Basic earnings per share 5.2p 29.3p
Exchange rates – average 2013 2012
£/$ 1.564 1.585
£/€ 1.178 1.233
£/A$ 1.623 1.531
Earnings per share
Underlying earnings
5
 per share was 42.0p, an increase of 9% on 
2012. The movements driving this increase are illustrated in the 
bridge chart above. 
Basic earnings per share, in accordance with International Accounting 
Standard 33, Earnings per Share, was 5.2p (2012 29.3p). The 
reduction on 2012 mainly reflects the £887m of impairment charges 
taken in 2013 (2012 £86m) which are excluded from underlying 
earnings
5
 per share.
6 Order backlog comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders, and is stated after the elimination of intra-group orders.
7  2012 excludes the £428m contribution from Trust to the uK pension schemes and the £29.5m charitable contribution for the benefit of the people of Tanzania 
in connection with the global settlement with the uK’s Serious Fraud Office in 2010, both made in 2012, as the amounts had been deducted from the Group’s 
net (debt)/cash.
8 See note 9 to the Group accounts.
9 See note 10 to the Group accounts.
  See note 1 to the Group accounts on page 130
  See note 8 to the Group accounts on page 140
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySTEmS Annu Al R EpORT 2013 33 Maturity of the Group’s borrowings (£bn)
See note 21 to the Group accounts on page 160
2023 0.5
2022 0.5
2021 0.9
2020 1.2
2019 1.2
2018 1.9
2017 1.9
2016 1.9
2015 2.1
2014 2.5
2013 2.9
Cash flow
Cash inflow from operating activities
7
 was £205m (2012 £2,916m). 
As anticipated, advances received in 2012 on the Omani Typhoon 
and Hawk, Saudi training aircraft and Saudi Tornado upgrade 
programmes are being utilised. Advances were also consumed in 
the year on the European Typhoon Tranche 2 programme. provisions 
created in previous years were utilised on the Oman Offshore patrol 
Vessel contract and on rationalisation. The £131m Trinidad and 
Tobago termination settlement was paid during the year.
Cash contributions in respect of deficit funding, over and above 
service costs to the uK and uS pension schemes, were £389m 
(2012 £507m).
There was an outflow from net capital expenditure and financial 
investment of £153m (2012 £293m).
Dividends received from equity accounted investments, primarily 
Gripen and MBDA, totalled £95m (2012 £94m).
Interest payments were £19m higher at £166m reflecting a full year 
of interest on the £400m of debt issued in June 2012.
Taxation payments were £23m higher primarily reflecting tax refunds 
in 2012 following the 2011 uK Research & Development tax 
settlement, partly offset by lower uS taxable profits and timing 
differences on uS tax payments.
net cash inflow in respect of acquisitions and disposals of £96m 
in 2012 mainly comprised the disposals of Safety products and 
Safariland, and assets comprising the Tensylon business. 
The net purchase of own shares of £212m represents 51.6 million 
shares purchased under the buyback programme (including 
transaction costs). 
As a consequence of movements in uS dollar and Euro exchange 
rates during the year, there has been a cash outflow from matured 
derivative financial instruments of £47m (2012 £119m) from rolling 
hedges on balances with the Group’s subsidiaries and equity 
accounted investments.
Net debt (as defined by the Group)
9
 is £699m, a net outflow from the 
net cash
9
 position of £387m at the start of the year. Cash and cash 
equivalents of £2,222m (2012 £3,355m) are held primarily for the 
share repurchase programme, pension deficit funding, payment of the 
2013 final dividend, repayment of £0.4bn of debt securities maturing 
in 2014 and management of working capital. The maturity profile of 
the borrowings component of net debt
9
 is illustrated in the chart above. 
Details of the Group’s objectives and policies regarding net (debt)/cash
9
 
are provided in note 28 to the Group accounts on page 175.
Reconciliation of cash flow from 
operating activities
7
 to net (debt)/cash 
(as defined by the Group)
9
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
Cash flow from operating activities
7
 205 2,916
Capital expenditure (net) and financial 
investment (153) (293)
Dividends received from equity accounted 
investments 95 94
Assets contributed to Trust – (25)
Operating business cash flow
8
 KpI 147 2,692
Interest (166) (147)
Taxation (138) (115)
Free cash flow (157) 2,430
Acquisitions and disposals 4 96
net purchase of own shares (212) (16)
Equity dividends paid (638) (620)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (11) (11)
Cash outflow from matured derivative 
financial instruments (47) (119)
Movement in cash collateral (10) (2)
Movement in cash received on 
customers’ account
10
1 1
Foreign exchange translation 3 92
Other non-cash movements (19) (25)
Total cash (outflow)/inflow (1,086) 1,826
Opening net cash/(debt)  
(as defined by the Group)
9
387 (1,439)
Closing net (debt)/cash  
(as defined by the Group)
9
(699) 387
  See note 21 to the Group accounts on page 160
34 BAE SySTEmS Annu Al R EpORT 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORmANCE Movement in the Group’s pension decit (£bn) 
Changes in assumptions 0.3
Return on assets
2012
(1.1)
4.6
Decit funding (0.4)
Other 0.1
2013 3.5
See note 23 to the Group accounts on page 162
Balance sheet
The £1.2bn reduction in intangible assets to £9.7bn (2012 £10.9bn) 
mainly reflects the impairment of goodwill in the uS business (£0.9bn) 
and amortisation (£0.2bn).
Property, plant and equipment, and investment property reduced to 
£2.1bn (2012 £2.4bn) mainly reflecting the classification of a residential 
and office facility in Saudi Arabia as held for sale at the balance sheet 
date. A sale and leaseback transaction for the facility was completed 
on 9 January 2014.
Equity accounted investments and other investments are £286m 
(2012 £270m). The Group’s share of results of equity accounted 
investments (£111m) was largely offset by dividends received (£95m).
The £1.1bn decrease in the Group’s share of the pre-tax pension 
deficit mainly reflects asset returns. The impact of a 0.5 percentage 
point reduction in the uK real discount rate to 1.1% was offset by the 
impact of the rate of increase in salaries being held at Retail prices 
Index (RpI) inflation (2012 0.5% above RpI), a 0.8 percentage point 
increase in the uS nominal discount rate to 4.9% and deficit funding. 
The movement in the pension deficit during the year is illustrated 
in the bridge chart above. 
A net deferred tax asset of £0.7bn (2012 £1.1bn) relating to the 
Group’s pension deficit is included within net tax assets and liabilities.
There was a £1.6bn increase in working capital mainly reflecting a net 
reduction in advance contract funding and utilisation of provisions.
Summary balance sheet
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
Intangible assets 9,735 10,928
property, plant and equipment, and 
investment property 2,071 2,407
Equity accounted investments and other 
investments 286 270
Other financial assets and liabilities (net) (23) (50)
Tax assets and liabilities (net) 405 951
pension deficit (3,509) (4,560)
Working capital (4,988) (6,557)
net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group)
9
(699) 387
net assets/(liabilities) held for sale 140 (2)
Net assets 3,418 3,774
Exchange rates – year end 2013 2012
£/$ 1.656 1.624
£/€ 1.202 1.232
£/A$ 1.851 1.564
 7  2012 excludes the £428m contribution from Trust to the uK pension schemes and the £29.5m charitable contribution for the benefit of the people of Tanzania 
in connection with the global settlement with the uK’s Serious Fraud Office in 2010, both made in 2012, as the amounts had been deducted from the Group’s 
net (debt)/cash.
 8 See note 9 to the Group accounts.
 9 See note 10 to the Group accounts.
10  Cash received on customers’ account is the unexpended cash received from customers in advance of delivery which is subject to advance payment guarantees 
unrelated to Group performance. It is included within trade and other payables in the consolidated balance sheet.
Capital Tax Treasury Pensions 
The Group’s objective is to 
maintain its investment grade 
credit rating and ensure operating 
flexibility. In 2013, the Group’s 
credit ratings were maintained at:
 n Moody’s Investors Service – 
Baa2;
 n Standard & poor’s Ratings 
Services – BBB+; and
 n Fitch’s Investors Service – 
BBB+.
The Group’s tax strategy is to: 
ensure compliance with all 
applicable tax laws and 
regulations; and manage the 
Group’s tax expense in a way 
that is consistent with its values 
and its legal obligations in all 
relevant jurisdictions.
The Group’s treasury activities, 
including the use of financial 
instruments, are overseen by the 
Treasury Review Management 
Committee, which includes 
two executive directors and 
representatives with legal and 
tax expertise.
The Group’s principal pension 
schemes are funded defined 
benefit schemes.
The two largest funded defined 
benefit schemes are the 
BAE Systems pension Scheme 
and the BAE Systems 2000 
pension plan.
  See page 23  See page 120  See page 175  See page 162
  See note 23 to the Group accounts on page 162
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySTEmS Annu Al R EpORT 2013 35 Se Gmental  
performance The Group has five principal reporting segments  
which align with the Group’ s strategic direction.
Reporting segments financial performance summary
KpI KpI KpI KpI 
2013
Funded 
order intake
1
£m
Order 
backlog
1,2
£bn
Sales
1
 
£m
underlying 
EBITA
3
 
£m
Return  
on sales  
%
Cash flow
4
 
£m
Electronic Systems 2,697 3.7 2,466 346 14.0 235
Cyber & Intelligence 1,247 0.7 1,243 115 9.3 118
platforms & Services (uS) 3,421 7.4 4,196 265 6.3 192
platforms & Services (uK) 5,979 20.3 6,890 879 12.8 59
platforms & Services (International) 7,221 12.3 4,063 429 10.6 (189)
HQ 303 – 306 (109) (268)
20,868 44.4 19,164
l ess: Intra-group (1,580) (1.7) (984)
Total 19,288 42.7 18,180 1,925 10.6 147
1  Including share of equity accounted investments.
2  Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders.
3  Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items (see page 33).
4  net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and 
assets contributed to Trust.
5  Excluding HQ.
6  Including share of equity accounted investments’ order backlog and before the elimination of intra-group order backlog.
7  The appropriate work share of the Saudi Aircraft Acquisition (under the Saudi British Defence Co-operation programme), Saudi Typhoon Aircraft and Saudi Typhoon 
Support contracts is reported within platforms & Services (uK).
STRATEGIC REPORT
36 BAE SySTEmS Annu Al R EpORT 2013 Top 15 programmes in order backlog
2,5,6
 summary
Platforms & Services (US)
Programme Description End user
munitions Acquisition Supply Solution Capability provision and manufacture of general munitions British Army 
Paladin Integrated management (PIm) l ow-Rate Initial production of 18.5 vehicle sets, comprising 19 pIM 
howitzers and 18 pIM Carrier Ammunition Tracked vehicles
uS Army 
Norway CV90 Armoured Combat Vehicles Supply of 144 new and 103 upgraded CV90 armoured combat vehicles norwegian Army
Platforms & Services (UK)
Programme Description End user
Queen Elizabeth Class Aircraft Carriers Design and manufacture of two 65,000 tonne aircraft carriers Royal navy
Astute Class Submarines Design and manufacture of seven nuclear-powered attack submarines Royal navy 
Successor Submarine Design of nuclear-powered submarine to carry the uK’s nuclear deterrent Royal navy
Typhoon Tranche 3A Aircraft Manufacture of 88 Typhoon combat aircraft Air forces of the uK, Germany, Italy 
and Spain
Typhoon Tranche 2 Aircraft Manufacture of 236 Typhoon combat aircraft Air forces of the uK, Germany, Italy 
and Spain
Oman Typhoon and Hawk Aircraft Supply of 12 Typhoon and eight Hawk aircraft and in-service support Royal Air Force of Oman
Availability Transformation Tornado 
Aircraft Contract (ATTAC)
Availability service for Tornado aircraft, including maintenance, support 
and training
Royal Air Force 
Platforms & Services (International)
Programme Description End user
Saudi British Defence Co-operation 
Programme
7
 
provision of support to operational capability, including the provision 
of training aircraft, manpower, logistics and training
Royal Saudi Air Force  
Saudi Typhoon Aircraft
7
Supply of 72 Typhoon combat aircraft Royal Saudi Air Force
Saudi Typhoon Support
7
  Availability contract for Typhoon aircraft, including maintenance, support 
and training
Royal Saudi Air Force 
Landing Helicopter Dock Design, production and supply of two 27,000 tonne amphibious l anding 
Helicopter Dock ships
Royal Australian navy 
Aster Phase 3 Full-scale production of Aster 15 and 30 missiles French, Italian and Royal navies, 
French Air Force and Italian Army 
Order backlog
2,5,6
 by reporting segment (%)
1
2
3
4
5
1 Electronic Systems 8
2 Cyber & Intelligence 2
3 Platforms & Services (US) 17
4 Platforms & Services (UK) 46
5 Platforms & Services (International) 27
The Group has a £42.7bn order backlog
1,2
.
Top 15 programmes in order backlog
2,5,6
 (%)
1
2
3
4
1 Platforms & Services (US) 4
2 Platforms & Services (UK) 37
3 Platforms & Services (International) 13
4 Remaining order backlog 46
54% of the order backlog
2,5,6
 is represented by the 
Group’s top 15 programmes, with the remaining 46% 
spread across the ve principal reporting segments.
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySTEmS Annu Al R EpORT 2013 37 El Ectronic 
syst Ems STRATEGIC REPORT
Electronic Systems, with 12,500 employees
1
, 
comprises the US and UK-based electronics 
activities, including electronic warfare systems 
and electro-optical sensors, military and 
commercial digital engine and flight controls, 
next-generation military communications 
systems and data links, persistent surveillance 
capabilities, and hybrid electric drive systems.
 Ele c t r o n i c C om b a t 
Under Foreign Military Sale contracts 
totalling over $0.9bn (£0.5bn), the 
Digital Electronic Warfare System 
(DEWS) will be installed on 84 new 
F-15 aircraft with upgrades to 70 
existing F-15 aircraft for the Royal 
Saudi Air Force. The Group continues 
to pursue other export opportunities 
for the DEWS suite, which provides 
advanced radar warning and 
countermeasure capabilities, 
improved situational awareness, 
offensive targeting support and 
self-protection. 
2013 EXEc Uti VE committ EE o BJEcti VE 
Be agile, sustain revenues and deliver strong bottom line performance 
 
k Ey charact Eristics n Broad base of programmes, with more than 5,000 active contracts
 n No programme greater than 5% of sales
 n Cutting-edge technology and capabilities, with significant levels of research 
and development invested in the business
 n 21% of total sales are to commercial customers
38 BAE SySTEmS ANNUAl R EpoRT 2013 2013 2012 2011
Funded order intake
1
 
KpI £2,697m £2,540m £2,620m
order backlog
1,4
 £3.7bn £3.6bn £3.6bn
Sales
1
  
KpI £2,466m £2,507m £2,645m
Underlying EBITA
2
  
KpI £346m £356m £386m
Return on sales 14.0% 14.2% 14.6%
Cash inflow
3
  
KpI £235m £256m £268m
Financial k Ey points n 6% like-for-like increase in order backlog
1,4
 n Sales
1
 reduced by 2%, with growth in the commercial business mitigating the defence decline
 n Return on sales maintained at around 14%
o p Erational k Ey points n Maintained a leadership position in the electronic warfare market, with strong performance on 
the Group’s components for F-35 l ightning II
 n Won a development contract on the US Army’s Joint Effects Targeting System programme
 n Strengthened position in the Identification Friend or Foe market
 n Strengthened position in the high-growth commercial aircraft electronics market
 n Not selected on the US Army’s next-generation Mid-tier Networking Vehicular Radio programme
 n £0.2bn of research and development expenditure
5
 in 2013
s Ustaina Bility k Ey points n Increase in Recordable Accident Rate primarily due to an increase in outside slips, trips or falls
 n Reduced energy and water usage, and quantity of waste produced
1  Including share of equity accounted investments.
2  Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items (see page 33).
3  Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets 
contributed to Trust.
4  Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders.
5  Includes both Group-funded and customer-funded expenditure.
Sales analysis: activity (%)
1
2
3
4
5
1 Electronic Combat 23
2 Survivability & Targeting 19
3 Communications & Control 21
4 Intelligence, Surveillance & 
 Reconnaissance (ISR) 17
5 Commercial Aircraft electronics/
 HybriDrive® propulsion 20
Sales analysis: defence and commercial (%)
1
2
1 Defence 79
2 Commercial 21
Progress on sustainability
21%
Recordable Accident Rate
Major injuries
Energy
Water
Waste
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySTEmS ANNUAl R EpoRT 2013 39 Survivability & Targeting 
BAE Systems was awarded a contract to support the US Army’s Joint Effects Targeting System 
programme based on the HAMMER™ precision targeting system, which has been designed to 
enhance soldiers’ ability to rapidly identify, precisely locate and accurately mark targets for Global 
positioning System-guided and laser-guided munitions in all weather and lighting conditions. 
Financial performance
Despite US budget pressures, order 
backlog
1,4
 of £3.7bn was up from the start 
of the year, benefiting from production awards 
on the Terminal High-Altitude Area Defence 
programme.
Sales
1
 compared with 2012 decreased by 
2% to £2,466m (2012 £2,507m). The 
commercial areas of the business amount 
to 21%, having seen sales growth in the year 
of 8%. This helped to offset some of the 
pressures on the defence side, which 
reduced by 5% in the year.
The return on sales achieved was 14.0% 
(2012 14.2%). programme execution 
remained strong, with good risk retirement 
and in-year benefit from continued cost 
reduction actions.
Cash flow
3
 conversion of underlying EBITA
2
 
for the year was 68%, but excluding pension 
deficit funding, that conversion rate was 89%.
Operational performance
Electronic Combat
Electronic Systems maintains its leadership 
position in the US electronic warfare market. 
Under the flight test programme for the 
electronic warfare suite on the F-35 l ightning 
II programme, initial design verification testing 
of the system was completed. l ow-Rate Initial 
production (l RIp) l ot 6 deliveries continued 
throughout the year and initial l ot 7 deliveries 
commenced. The business was awarded 
a not-to-exceed contract of $143m (£86m) 
for l RIp l ot 8. 
Under contracts totalling over $0.9bn (£0.5bn), 
the Digital Electronic Warfare System (DEWS) 
will be installed on 84 new F-15 aircraft with 
upgrades to 70 existing F-15 aircraft for the 
Royal Saudi Air Force. Initial flight testing 
began in November. The business continues 
to pursue other export opportunities for the 
DEWS suite.
The business was successful in demonstrating 
the l ong-Range Anti-Ship Missile (l RASM) 
prototype in a direct-hit live missile shot test 
under a joint programme of the Defense 
Advanced Research projects Agency and the 
office of Naval Research. offering capabilities 
not available in current cruise missile systems, 
l RASM is a next-generation, anti-ship missile 
for which the business provides a radio 
frequency sensor used for targeting. l RASM 
is being developed as an advanced prototype 
for rapid transition to the US Navy’s offensive 
Anti-Surface Weapon programme. 
BAE Systems was not awarded the technology 
development contract for the Next-Generation 
Jammer.
Survivability & Targeting
Electronic Systems continues to execute 
its $38m (£23m) technology development 
contract in a competition to provide the 
Common Infrared Countermeasures capability 
for the US Army, meeting or exceeding every 
programme milestone. The programme is now 
in a government-led test phase. 
The Advanced precision Kill Weapon System™ 
continues to demonstrate its versatility, 
completing qualification and successful 
testing on almost a dozen fixed and rotary 
wing platforms for the US armed forces. The 
business continues to execute its $69m 
(£42m) Full-Rate production contract. More 
than 2,000 systems have been delivered, with 
continued positive feedback from performance 
in theatre. 
The Terminal High-Altitude Area Defence 
programme provides a transportable, rapidly 
deployable, ground-based capability to 
intercept and destroy ballistic missiles inside 
or outside the atmosphere during their final 
phase of flight. BAE Systems has received 
orders of $340m (£205m) in combined US 
government and Foreign Military Sales to the 
United Arab Emirates.
BAE Systems was awarded a $15m (£9m) 
contract to support the US Army’s Joint 
Effects Targeting System programme in March 
with its HAMMER™ precision targeting 
system, which has been designed to enhance 
soldiers’ ability to rapidly identify, precisely 
locate and accurately mark targets for Global 
positioning System-guided and laser-guided 
munitions in all weather and lighting 
conditions. The contract initiates a three-year 
engineering and manufacturing development 
phase, and is a key win that advances 
BAE Systems’ market leadership in precision 
targeting systems. 
1  Including share of equity accounted investments.
2  Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items (see page 33).
3  Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets 
contributed to Trust.
4  Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders.
40 BAE SySTEmS ANNUAl R EpoRT 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT ELECTRONIC SySTEmS Commercial Aircraft electronics
The business is well positioned, with robust growth 
forecast in commercial aviation and related products 
and services in an industry expected to grow by 5% 
annually over the next decade. Its position with 
Boeing was enhanced with wins on the 737 MAX 
and by joining the ‘partnering for Success’ initiative 
that will re-inforce its standing as a preferred 
supplier to Boeing.
Communications & Control
The business supplies Active Inceptors for the F-35 l ightning II which are the pilot interface 
in the cockpit, providing tactile feedback through the stick and throttle. 
Communications & Control 
The F-35 l ightning II programme continues 
to be a key platform for the Group’s avionics 
products with deliveries on plan for the 
active inceptor and vehicle management 
systems. The US Air Force has discontinued 
second sourcing efforts for the advanced 
helmet system that was being provided by 
BAE Systems. 
BAE Systems was not selected on the US 
Army’s next-generation Mid-tier Networking 
Vehicular Radio competition. 
Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance 
(ISR)
The business continues to provide Airborne 
Surveillance capability for the US Air Force 
and US Army. These key programmes are 
based on two wide-area, high-resolution 
imaging sensor systems, the Airborne Wide 
Area persistent Surveillance System, which 
has been operational for more than 16,000 
hours in theatre, and the Autonomous 
Real-time Ground Ubiquitous Surveillance – 
Imaging System. 
The business is providing state-of-the-art 
processing capabilities to Boeing for the 
US Navy’s p-8A poseidon programme, which 
has entered Full-Rate production. Sixteen 
production mission computer and display 
systems have been delivered to the US Navy. 
Eight systems have been delivered to the 
Indian Navy, the first international customer. 
In the Identification Friend or Foe market, 
BAE Systems has been awarded a $34m 
(£21m) contract to provide its enhanced 
Combined Interrogator Transponder system 
to the US Air Force and participating European 
air force partners. Deliveries of the Reduced 
Size Transponder have been completed for 
the US Navy’s Triton System Design and 
Development programme and BAE Systems 
is now under contract for l ow-Rate Initial 
production.
In 2013, BAE Systems achieved a cumulative 
equivalent of 7,000 years in space across its 
three generations of space computers. The 
third-generation RAD750® computer has now 
been launched on more than 35 satellites 
supporting civil, national and commercial 
missions. The business is continuing to 
innovate in the space processing market 
with the development of its next-generation 
space computer.
The business continues to provide Signal 
Intelligence (SIGINT) capability for the US 
Army and Special operations Command. 
These programmes are based on the Group’s 
S-3000 family of SIGINT systems and have 
successfully deployed with multiple customers.
Commercial Aircraft electronics
The business continues to expand its market 
opportunities for Full Authority Digital Engine 
Controls (FADEC). FADEC Alliance, a joint 
venture between FADEC International, the 
Group’s joint venture with Sagem, and GE 
Aviation, delivered the l eap FADEC and 
successfully completed testing on GE’s 
passport 20 engine. Entry into service of 
the passport engine, which will power 
Bombardier’s Global 7000 and 8000 jets, 
is scheduled for 2016. The l eap FADEC 
will be used on the Boeing 737 MAX and 
Airbus A320neo.
Following successful first flights of Embraer’s 
mid-size business jet, l egacy, and Bombardier’s 
CSeries regional aircraft, enabled by several 
flight control subsystems provided by 
BAE Systems, efforts are now focused on 
both aircraft entering full revenue service.
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySTEmS ANNUAl R EpoRT 2013 41 BAE Systems is a supplier on the Boeing 
737 MAX, notably with the fly-by-wire spoiler 
controls. Contracts awarded to the Group 
have a total potential value of $1bn (£0.6bn) 
over the life of the aircraft programme.
The business has opened a new office in 
Shanghai which will enable it to expand its 
commercial aftermarket presence in China, 
whilst strengthening existing and developing 
new partnerships with in-country suppliers 
and airframe manufacturers.
HybriDrive® propulsion
Dijon, France, a new customer for the 
business, has taken delivery of 102 buses 
from Iveco powered by HybriDrive® propulsion 
systems, making it the largest hybrid fleet in 
mainland Europe. King County Metro, Seattle, 
Washington, purchased 120 New Flyer buses 
powered by HybriDrive® Series-E systems, the 
county’s latest hybrid product, to add to its 
existing HybriDrive® -powered fleet. 
Sustainability performance
Safety
The business experienced a 21% increase 
in the Recordable Accident Rate, which was 
driven largely by an increase in outside slips, 
trips or falls. Safety remains a key value and 
the business continues to maintain long-term 
injury rates better than benchmarked 
world-class companies. Updated ergonomics 
and injury/illness prevention plans were rolled 
out in 2013.
Diversity and inclusion
The business supported US-wide diversity 
and inclusion activities, including inclusive 
leadership training, the launch of employee 
resource groups, and introducing diverse 
candidate shortlists and interview panels for 
executive roles. l eadership involvement and 
multiple activities within the business have 
advanced the diversity maturity level in 2013.
Environment
BAE Systems, partnering with the City of 
Austin, Texas, installed a new water treatment 
process which uses water from a local waste 
water treatment plant to run the site’s chilled 
water condenser systems, rather than potable 
water. The process is expected to save the 
business $65,000 per year and reduce 
annual potable water consumption in the 
drought-ridden region by an estimated ten 
million gallons.
Engagement
In addition to its successful quarterly ‘one 
Team Award’ programme, Electronic Systems 
introduced a special employee recognition 
award this year, the ‘pathFinder’ award. The 
‘one Team Award’ recognises teams for 
exemplifying one or more of five imperatives 
demonstrated through end-user impact: 
community focus; technology innovation; 
collaboration; best practices; and overall value 
to the business. The quarterly ‘pathFinder’ 
award recognises those teams or individuals 
whose innovative contributions helped to lead 
the way and grow the business.
  For Group sustainability performance, see 
Sustainability section on pages 112 to 119
Looking forward
Efforts to reduce the US government’s budget 
deficit are expected to continue to impact 
government spend. A bipartisan budget 
proposal was approved in December 2013 
that mitigates the full impact of the Sequester 
for 2014 and 2015. The Group expects lower 
defence spending than previously programmed, 
but the cuts are not expected to be as 
significant or indiscriminate as they would 
have been under Sequestration. 
Whilst further funding reductions and the 
resultant slow down or cancellation of 
ongoing and new programmes could impact 
the business, Electronic Systems continues 
to be well-positioned to address the changing 
US Department of Defense priorities with its 
balanced portfolio of programmes and 
customers, and its sustained emphasis on 
cost reduction and research and development.
The business expects to benefit from its 
incumbent positions and ability to provide 
capability upgrades on platforms. The 
business anticipates increased activity on 
international defence programmes and 
continued growth in the commercial 
aviation market.
HybriDrive® propulsion
BAE Systems has delivered 4,200 HybriDrive® propulsion systems since 2004 through six bus 
manufacturers, which are now in service with more than 80 operators. 
42 BAE SySTEmS ANNUAl R EpoRT 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT ELECTRONIC SySTEmS Cyber &  
intelligen Ce Cyber & Intelligence, with 7,700 employees
1
, 
comprises the US-based Intelligence & Security 
business and UK-headquartered Applied 
Intelligence (formerly BAE Systems Detica) 
business, and covers the Group’s cyber, secure 
government, and commercial and financial 
security activities.
 A p p l i e d In t e l l i g enc e 
Detica MobileProtect™ is a 
carrier‑grade cloud ‑ based service for 
enterprises and governments who 
need to secure smart devices. Using 
Applied Intelligence’s unique global 
cleaning hubs, the service scans 
inbound and outbound traffic with 
minimal effect on network speed. 
It filters traffic, scans for malware 
and known security threats, and 
blocks inappropriate, insecure or 
illegal content. 
2013 e Xe CUti Ve COMMittee Ob Je Cti Ve 
Enhance and grow our positions in cyber, intelligence and security
key Chara Cteristi Cs 
Intelligence & Security
 n Delivers real‑ time threat assessments 
that rapidly inform critical security 
actions. The business is a leading 
provider of specialised security and 
intelligence operational support and 
solutions in the US
 n Delivers automated, efficient and 
reliable intelligence processing, data 
management systems and imagery 
mapping tools for the US intelligence 
and defence communities
 n Delivers cost‑ effective IT solutions that 
solve complex problems of collaboration 
and security for the US national security 
community
 
Applied Intelligence
 n Delivers solutions which protect and 
enhance clients’ operations across 
the areas of cyber security, financial 
crime, communications intelligence 
and digital transformation
 n Portfolio of solutions which help 
governments and commercial 
enterprises to address threats to 
national security, detect sophisticated 
cyber attacks, counteract fraud, 
safeguard mobile communications, 
manage risk, ensure compliance and 
derive insight from data
 n Provides managed services to help 
clients optimise and protect both mobile 
and fixed data networks
1  Including share of equity accounted investments.
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EmS Ann UAl R EPoRT 2013 43
St RAt EGIC REPORt 2013 2012 2011
Funded order intake
1
 
KPI £1,247m £1,454m £1,443m
order backlog
1,4
 £0.7bn £1.0bn £1.1bn
Sales
1
  
KPI £1,243m £1,402m £1,399m
Underlying EBITA
2
  
KPI £115m £124m £136m
Return on sales 9.3% 8.8% 9.7%
Cash inflow
3
  
KPI £118m £113m £123m
Finan Cial key p Oints n order backlog
1,4
 reduced by 24% reflecting delayed awards in the US business. order backlog
1
 in Applied Intelligence 
increased by 60%
 n Sales
1
 reduced by 11% reflecting an 18% decrease in Intelligence & Security and a 9% increase in Applied Intelligence
 n Return on sales of 9.3% includes continued high levels of spend to support organic growth in Applied Intelligence
Operati Onal key p Oints Intelligence & Security
 n Awarded a three‑ year follow‑ on contract to the Counter‑ Improvised Explosive Device programme
 n Maintained a leadership position in activity‑ based intelligence
 n Continued to invest in differentiating technologies to support a bid pipeline of $2.4bn (£1.4bn) at the end of 2013
 n US business significantly impacted by US budget pressures and partial government shutdown
Applied Intelligence
 n named as cyber security partner to Vodafone for provision of secure mobile services
 n Achieved launch of new product for detection of sophisticated cyber threats, CyberReveal™, adopted by one major 
investment bank
 n A number of important customer wins for netReveal® onDemand services
 n Awarded framework contracts for IT services to the Foreign & Commonwealth office and network Rail
 n Awarded integrated cyber security services contracts to three Middle Eastern countries
s Ustainability key p Oints n Reduced Recordable Accident Rate by 17%
 n Reduced energy and water usage, and quantity of waste produced
1  Including share of equity accounted investments.
2  Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non‑ recurring items (see page 33).
3  net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets 
contributed to Trust.
4  Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders.
Sales analysis: activity (%)
1
2
3
4
5
1 Global Analysis and Operations 23
2 GEOINT-ISR 22
3 IT Solutions 29
4 Applied Intelligence government 14
5 Applied Intelligence commercial 12
1
2
1 Government 88
2 Commercial 12
Sales analysis: government and commercial (%) Progress on sustainability
Recordable Accident Rate
Water
Waste
17%
Energy
Major injuries
44 BAE SySt EmS Ann UAl R EPoRT 2013
St RAt EGIC REPORt CyBER & INt ELLIGENCE GEOINt-ISR
In continuation of its leadership position in activity‑ based intelligence, in october, the business 
received authorisation to proceed on an Engineering Change Proposal that will include analytics 
automation for complex mission problems across the intelligence community.
Financial performance
order backlog
1,4
 reduced to £0.7bn (2012 
£1.0bn). The US business continued to be 
impacted by budget‑ induced delays to award 
decisions of competitive bids. At 31 December 
2013, there were some $2.4bn (£1.4bn) of 
competitive bids of which more than half were 
overdue against decision timescales. In 
addition, some $320m (£193m) of backlog 
has been removed following customer 
de‑ scoping across a large number of 
programmes. By contrast, order backlog
1
 
in the Applied Intelligence business grew 
by 60%.
Sales
1
 in the year reduced by 11% to 
£1,243m (2012 £1,402m). The US business 
saw an 18% decrease, including the reduction 
from the Counter‑ Improvised Explosive Device 
programme, and the impacts from budget 
reductions were experienced more quickly 
than expected, with competitive award 
decisions continuing to be delayed. Growth 
in the Applied Intelligence business was 
at 9%.
The return on sales achieved of 9.3% 
(2012 8.8%) includes the continued organic 
investment in the Applied Intelligence 
business in support of targeted future growth 
in commercial and international markets.
Cash flow
3
 conversion of underlying EBITA
2
 
for the year was at 103%.
Operational performance
Intelligence & Security
The US‑ based Intelligence & Security 
business delivers a broad range of solutions 
and services, including systems development, 
IT, cyber operations and intelligence analysis 
to enable the US military and government 
to recognise, manage and defeat threats. 
The business is structured into three key 
business areas that provide specific domain 
expertise, whilst working closely together to 
provide enterprise‑ wide support to a range 
of customers and key agencies in the 
intelligence, defence, homeland security 
and civilian markets.
The business has been impacted by 
uncertainty in future programme budget 
levels, driven first by Sequestration and then 
by the partial US government shutdown in 
october, which had greater impacts on 
services and support programmes. Some 
customers have chosen to reduce contractor 
volumes significantly on existing programmes, 
delay award activity on pending programmes 
or simply cancel others. The level of impact 
has been much higher than anticipated. 
Global Analysis and Operations provides 
mission‑ enabled analytic solutions and support 
to operations across the US homeland 
security, law enforcement, defence, intelligence 
and counter‑ intelligence communities.
The business won all task orders competed 
in the market for Full Motion Video Analysis 
during the year and continues to execute 
awarded contracts, which are worth over 
$400m (£242m), with over 300 analysts 
supporting mission critical activities.
In August, the $450m (£272m) 
Counter‑Improvised Explosive Device 
programme ended and the follow‑ on 
programme, Combat Intelligence Augmentation 
Teams, began. orders on the new programme 
totalling approximately $150m (£91m) are 
expected over the next three years. The 
business continues to provide almost 300 
security‑ cleared intelligence analysts working 
alongside forward deployed US defence 
personnel in Afghanistan.
GEOINT-ISR (Geospatial Intelligence – 
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance) 
develops and supports software systems and 
mission applications for geospatial tasking, 
including data collection, processing, 
exploitation and dissemination, as well as 
mission planning, Intelligence, Surveillance 
and Reconnaissance (ISR), precision 
targeting, and command and control for the 
US defence and intelligence communities.
In october, the business received 
authorisation to proceed on a $16m (£10m) 
M151 Engineering Change Proposal (ECP) 
that continues its leadership in activity‑ based 
intelligence. The scope of the ECP includes 
analytics automation for complex mission 
problems across the intelligence community.
In September, the business was awarded the 
first ECP on the Mobility Air Force Automated 
Flight Planning Service programme to develop 
and sustain a new air vehicle flight planning 
and route optimisation capability for the 
US Air Force’s Tanker Airlift Control Center 
under the $62m (£37m) contract awarded in 
April. The ECP focuses on the Aero Advisory 
notification Tool capability in support of the 
Air Force’s transition to a consolidated 
mission planning architecture. 
Global Analysis and Operations
The business is executing the Combat Intelligence 
Augmentation Teams contract, a follow‑ on contract 
to the Counter‑ Improvised Explosive Device 
programme. The business provides almost 300 
security‑ cleared intelligence analysts.
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EmS Ann UAl R EPoRT 2013 45 IT Solutions develops, deploys and maintains 
mission applications focused on information 
sharing, knowledge management and 
enhanced enterprise mission IT solutions 
for the US federal, civilian and defence 
intelligence communities. The business 
also provides analytics, cyber analysis and 
real‑time network forensics.
Work increased on the $70m (£42m) 
next‑Generation Desktop Environment 
programme for the US Defense Intelligence 
Agency by providing global networking 
solutions in US Korea Command and US 
Africa Command, based on virtual desktop 
infrastructure and multiple‑ security‑ level 
access. 
on the Solutions for the Information 
Technology Enterprise Indefinite Delivery, 
Indefinite Quantity contract, with task orders 
worth $344m (£208m), the business has 
transitioned the customer from a costly 
regional support model to an efficient 
enterprise support model. Through the 
implementation of the Global Enterprise 
operation Center, the business has enabled 
the US Defense Intelligence Agency to provide 
reliable, cost‑ effective and highly secure IT 
services to over 50,000 Department of 
Defense personnel worldwide with no impact 
to mission.
Under the $0.5bn (£0.3bn) Centralized 
operations, Maintenance and Management 
Information Technology Indefinite Delivery, 
Indefinite Quantity contract, the business 
won a task order to provide 24/7 monitoring 
support for the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency Security operations 
Center. The award brings total task orders 
under the contract to over $110m (£66m) 
and maintains BAE Systems’ position as the 
largest provider of IT services on the contract.
In January 2013, the business was awarded 
a $127m (£77m) contract to support the US 
national Security Agency’s High Performance 
Computing Infrastructure Group with 
architecture, installation and administration 
for a complex networking environment 
supporting multiple network enclaves and 
high‑ speed data centre access. Under the 
contract, both server and desktop computer 
support will be provided to more than 3,000 
end users.
Applied Intelligence (formerly BAE Systems 
Detica)
The business continues to grow through 
selling its portfolio of products and services 
to domestic and international governments, 
financial institutions, communications service 
providers, energy and utility operators and 
other commercial enterprises.
The business is demonstrating its ability 
to win large, multi‑ year contracts. It has 
extended its portfolio of products and 
services, and is responding to demand for 
solutions which combine capabilities from 
across its portfolio, where client requirements 
are converging. Market awareness and 
recognition continue to grow, evidenced 
through a number of industry analyst and 
association awards during the year. The 
business has opened a Global Delivery Centre 
in Malaysia to augment capability alongside 
existing centres in the UK and Poland.
Cyber Security
new additions to the product portfolio in 2013 
have included: CyberReveal™, an advanced 
cyber threat monitoring solution, already sold 
to a major global financial institution; 
MobileProtect™, a cloud‑ based service for 
securing smart mobile devices, launched 
alongside a five‑ year strategic partnership 
with Vodafone; and IndustrialProtect™, a 
military‑ grade solution to protect organisations’ 
industrial control systems. MobileProtect™ 
subscribers are expected to exceed 100,000 
during 2014.
Managed security services continue to gain 
traction, with the business named as official 
cyber security partner to Mcl aren in April. 
In December, the business won new cyber 
security and services contracts totalling 
£48m in the Middle East. 
Financial Crime
The business continues to provide enterprise 
risk, fraud and compliance solutions 
internationally. 
netReveal® has been selected by CAnATICS 
(Canadian national Insurance Crime Services) 
to provide a five‑ year managed analytics 
service to detect auto insurance claims fraud. 
It has been selected as preferred vendor by 
an Eastern European government to detect 
tax fraud and non‑ compliance, and has been 
selected by HMRC to extend its risk and fraud 
system to cover VAT repayment transactional 
fraud. The business has also broadened its 
offering to tackle emerging risks, such as 
unauthorised trading, including a significant 
sale to the investment banking division of a 
major global banking group. other customer 
wins during the year include Commerzbank 
and Home Trust, contributing to a total order 
intake of £102m.
Communications Solutions
The business is a provider of end‑ to‑ end 
communications intelligence solutions 
internationally. It is addressing changes in 
market conditions which presented operational 
challenges in 2013. However, in 2014, it is 
pursuing opportunities in the Middle East and 
Asia Pacific regions and, in late 2013, won 
strategically important deals with both 
governments and communications service 
providers in Europe and north America.
It Solutions
Based on strong performance providing virtual desktop infrastructure and secure access 
capabilities, work increased on the next‑ Generation Desktop Environment programme for the 
US Defense Intelligence Agency by providing global networking solutions in US Korea Command 
and US Africa Command.
46 BAE SySt EmS Ann UAl R EPoRT 2013
St RAt EGIC REPORt CyBER & INt ELLIGENCE Applied Intelligence – IndustrialProtect
™
Applied Intelligence has launched IndustrialProtect
™
 to the market. The military‑ grade solution 
is designed to protect the industrial control systems of organisations, such as power plants, 
oil refineries or automated manufacturing plants, from cyber attack, allowing them to 
modernise their legacy systems as well as improving their security. 
UK Services
The consulting, systems integration and 
managed services business had a successful 
year. It signed a framework contract with the 
Foreign & Commonwealth office (FCo) to 
deliver service management integration 
services across the FCo’s global IT estate, 
worth around £40m over a five‑ year period. 
The business also signed a framework 
agreement with network Rail to provide 
IT solutions and systems integration over 
a four‑ year period. 
The business continues to expand its 
relationships with communications service 
providers, including Vodafone and EE, 
providing solutions from across its portfolio.
Sustainability performance
Safety
The Intelligence & Security business 
experienced a decrease in its injury rates as 
a result of direct leadership engagement and 
active employee involvement. 
Diversity and inclusion
Applied Intelligence has increasingly focused 
on diversity and inclusion to understand, and 
raise awareness of, the merits of a genuinely 
diverse team and inclusive working 
environment. one example is the introduction 
of diverse panels for employment interviews.
Environment
Intelligence & Security has four l EED 
(l eadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design – US Green Building Council) sites and 
has implemented water reduction measures 
at three facilities. The business also removed 
hundreds of desktop printers across its US 
locations to reduce costs related to paper, ink 
and maintenance.
Engagement
Intelligence & Security launched an internal 
skills and training programme for employees. 
The business benefits from this investment by 
ensuring employees have the skills necessary 
to solve customers’ toughest challenges. 
Around 70 different courses were offered in 
2013 with nearly 2,000 employees completing 
over 22,000 hours of training.
Applied Intelligence conducted an awareness 
campaign in September focused on improving 
understanding about health issues faced by 
individuals within the business, including 
stroke, muscular dystrophy, diabetes and 
cystic fibrosis.
  For Group sustainability performance, see 
Sustainability section on pages 112 to 119
Looking forward
Efforts to reduce the US government’s budget 
deficit are expected to continue to impact 
government spend. A bipartisan budget 
proposal was approved in December 2013 
that mitigates the full impact of the Sequester 
for 2014 and 2015. The Group expects lower 
defence spending than previously programmed, 
but the cuts are not expected to be as 
significant or indiscriminate as they would 
have been under Sequestration. 
The US market continues to experience 
delays in procurement awards. Customers 
will continue to look for opportunities to 
achieve efficiencies in IT services through 
consolidation and cloud computing, areas 
in which the US business has deep domain 
expertise and experience. Big data continues 
to pose a challenge for the US government 
and commercial businesses, which also 
provides an opportunity for growth.
Intelligence & Security is well‑ positioned 
to pursue opportunities in cyber, special 
operations and Intelligence, Surveillance 
and Reconnaissance, which remain priority 
activities in the US. other avenues for growth 
exist across the intelligence analysis 
spectrum. The US business is also exploring 
international opportunities where its IT, cyber 
and analysis capabilities can be implemented 
by governments or in commercial markets.
Applied Intelligence expects continued growth 
both in the UK and internationally, with 
increasing demand from government and 
commercial sector customers for products 
and services which protect and enhance 
operations in the areas of cyber security, 
financial crime, communications intelligence 
and digital transformation.
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EmS Ann UAl R EPoRT 2013 47 Platforms &  
s ervices 
(
Us )
Platforms & Services (US), with 19,200 
employees
1
, comprises the US‑headquartered 
Land & Armaments business, with operations in 
the US, UK, Sweden and South Africa, and the 
US‑ based services and sustainment activities, 
including ship repair and munitions services.
 I n fr a s t r u c t u r e s e r v i c e s 
The Group continues as an industry 
leader in managing government-owned 
and contractor-operated munitions 
sites for the US military. BAE Systems 
has been the operating contractor of 
the Holston Army Ammunition Plant 
since 1999, developing innovative 
products, such as IMX-101, which 
the US Army approved as the first 
safe and effective replacement to 
TNT in artillery. 
2013 e Xec Utive committee o BJective 
Drive value from our land portfolio and deliver sustainable, profitable growth in the 
services sector
key characteristics 
Land & Armaments
 n Tracked combat vehicles
 n Artillery and naval weapons
 n Ammunition and new directed 
weapon technologies
 n Support and sustainment of original 
equipment manufacturer platforms
 
Support Solutions
 n US naval ship repair and modernisation
 n Complex infrastructure services and 
operations support
 n Aircraft sustainment and modernisation
 n Commercial shipbuilding
 n Soldier survivability products
48 BAE SySt EmS ANNUAl R EPoRT 2013
St RAt EGIC REPORt 2013 2012 2011
Funded order intake
1
 
KPI £3,421m £5,010m £5,077m
order backlog
1,4
 £7.4bn £8.4bn £8.7bn
Sales
1
 
KPI £4,196m £4,539m £5,305m
Underlying EBITA
2
 
KPI £265m £394m £478m
Return on sales 6.3% 8.7% 9.0%
Cash inflow
3
 
KPI £192m £314m £410m
f inancial key Points n Sales
1
 reduced by 17% in l and & Armaments and increased by 2% in Support Solutions
 n Return on sales increased to 9.3% in l and & Armaments and reduced to 3.0% in Support Solutions
oP erational key Points Land & Armaments 
 n Strong operational performance
 n Continued focus on cost reduction actions 
 n Contract for l ow-Rate Initial Production received on the Paladin Integrated Management programme
 n Integration work ceased on Caiman Multi-Terrain Vehicles and Sealy, Texas, facility to close in 2014
Support Solutions 
 n Performance impacted by charges taken on the Radford Army Ammunition Plant contract, commercial 
shipbuilding activity and not being awarded follow-on options on the US Navy aircraft maintenance contract
 n Follow-on awards on US munitions facilities management contracts
 n Significant multi-year contracts to support ballistic missiles in the US
 n l etter of Agreement finalised for upgrades and systems integration for South Korean F-16 aircraft 
s Ustaina Bility key Points n Reduced Recordable Accident Rate by 3%
 n Reduced energy and water usage, and quantity of waste produced
1  Including share of equity accounted investments.
2  Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items (see page 33).
3  Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets 
contributed to Trust.
4  Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders.
Sales analysis: activity (%)
1
2
3
4
5
6
1 Tracked combat vehicles 28
2 Tactical wheeled vehicles 6
3 Artillery/munitions 19
4 Ship repair 22
5 Other support services 22
6 Protection Systems 3
Sales analysis: platforms and services (%)
1
2
1 Military & Technical Services 77
2 Platforms 23
Progress on sustainability
Recordable Accident Rate
Major injuries
Energy
Water
Waste
3%
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EmS ANNUAl R EPoRT 2013 49 US Combat Vehicles 
In october, the business was awarded a contract for the l ow-Rate Initial Production of the 
Paladin Integrated Management (PIM) 155mm self-propelled howitzer system. The PIM is a 
significant upgrade of the M109A6 Paladin self-propelled howitzer, restoring space, weight, 
power and cooling, whilst providing growth potential for emerging technologies. 
Financial performance
order backlog
1,4
 was £7.4bn (2012 £8.4bn). 
At l and & Armaments, order backlog
1,4
 
reduced to £4.3bn (2012 £5.1bn) reflecting 
trading on M777 and long-term UK munitions 
contracts. Disappointingly, the CV90 prospect 
in Canada was cancelled by the customer and 
no procurement decision has yet been taken 
by the Indian authorities with regard to the 
M777 lightweight howitzer acquisition. At 
Support Solutions, order backlog
1,4
 reduced 
to £3.1bn (2012 £3.3bn) as the five-year ship 
repair Multi-Ship, Multi-option contracts are 
traded through.
In aggregate, sales
1
 were £4.2bn (2012 
£4.5bn), representing a like-for-like reduction 
of 5%. At l and & Armaments, sales
1
 declined 
by 10% on a like-for-like basis, taking into 
account exchange translation, the impact 
of last year’s business disposals and the 
transfer of the Combat Vehicles (UK) business 
to Platforms & Services (UK). The sales
1
 
reduction was largely from completion of 
contracts for Mine Resistant Ambush 
Protected vehicle upgrades and lower 
Bradley reset work. In the Support Solutions 
business, sales
1
 were 2% higher than in 
2012. The business benefited from higher 
volumes in the ship repair and munitions 
facilities management businesses.
Underlying EBITA
2
 was £265m (2012 £394m). 
Return on sales reduced to 6.3% (2012 8.7%). 
Return on sales at l and & Armaments of 
9.3% (2012 8.6%) benefited from ongoing 
cost reduction actions and good programme 
execution, and includes the charge taken for 
the closure of the wheeled vehicle facility at 
Sealy. Return on sales at Support Solutions 
of 3.0% (2012 8.8%) includes a charge of 
$46m (£29m) taken against overhead 
under-absorption relating to 2013 and future 
years as the business seeks to restructure 
the Radford Army Ammunition Plant contract. 
In addition, a charge of $30m (£19m) has 
been taken against cost overruns on 
commercial shipbuild activity.
operating cash flow
3
 reduced to £192m 
(2012 £314m). Cash flow
3
 conversion of 
underlying EBITA
2
, excluding pension deficit 
funding, was 86% and 68% at l and & 
Armaments and Support Solutions, 
respectively. operating cash flow
3
 in Support 
Solutions was impacted by short-term US 
government payment delays.
Operational performance
Land & Armaments
US Combat Vehicles
Despite significant down-sizing and ongoing 
uncertainties in the US market, the business 
has continued to maintain key industrial base 
capabilities based on the US Army’s stated 
requirements at the Bradley production line 
in York, Pennsylvania. In addition to domestic 
Bradley reset and conversion programmes, 
the business continues to make progress in 
securing international business, primarily in the 
Middle East. In November, l and & Armaments 
signed a joint venture agreement to pursue 
Bradley opportunities in Saudi Arabia.
Although uncertainty remains with respect to 
the future of the US Army’s Ground Combat 
Vehicle programme, the business continues 
to support the US Army and execute its 
technology maturation and risk reduction 
contract. The Hybrid Electric Drive system 
successfully completed 2,000 miles of 
testing four months ahead of schedule. 
In october, the Paladin Integrated 
Management (PIM) programme received a 
$195m (£118m) contract to begin l ow-Rate 
Initial Production. During this phase, 
BAE Systems will produce 18.5 vehicle sets, 
comprising 19 PIM howitzers and 18 PIM 
Carrier Ammunition Tracked vehicles. 
Through future options, the US Army intends 
to purchase a total of 66.5 vehicle sets, plus 
spares, kits and technical documentation for 
a total contract value of $688m (£416m).
During 2013, l and & Armaments continued 
to streamline its US business. The sale of 
the Commercial Armored Vehicles business 
completed in February and the Fayette, 
Pennsylvania, facility closed in December.
Whilst l and & Armaments remains a 
committed member of the l ockheed Martin 
Joint l ight Tactical Vehicle (Jl TV) programme, 
in August, the business received a notice of 
termination for convenience from the US 
government, ceasing all integration work on 
Caiman Multi-Terrain Vehicles. Following this 
notice, the business announced closure of 
the Sealy, Texas, facility by the end of June 
2014. Work under the Jl TV programme is in 
the process of transitioning to the York, 
Pennsylvania, facility.
Weapon Systems
The business was awarded a $40m (£24m) 
contract to produce vertical launching system 
canisters for the US Navy. If all options under 
the contract are exercised, the total value 
could exceed $400m (£242m).
The business secured a $57m (£34m) 
contract with the Royal Malaysian Navy for 
six naval guns that will equip the country’s 
second-generation patrol vessels, l ittoral 
Combat Ships.
The first five pre-serial Archer artillery systems 
were delivered to the Swedish Defence 
Materiel Administration (FMV). In December, 
Norway announced its intent to end its 
co-operation with Sweden on the Archer 
system. BAE Systems remains committed to 
the programme and continues to work with its 
customer, the FMV, to deliver the system to 
the Swedish armed forces. 
Weapon Systems
BAE Systems was awarded a contract to develop the 
Electromagnetic Railgun, which is a revolutionary, 
long-range weapon technology that uses high-power 
electromagnetic energy instead of explosive chemical 
propellants to launch hypervelocity projectiles.
1  Including share of equity accounted investments.
2  Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items (see page 33).
3  Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets 
contributed to Trust.
4  Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders.
50 BAE SySt EmS ANNUAl R EPoRT 2013
St RAt EGIC REPORt PLAt FORmS & SERVICES (US) BAE Systems Hägglunds
The business continues to have success 
with its CV90 programme. Work on the 
$750m (£453m) contract for the Norwegian 
Army remains on schedule, with delivery of 
pre-series vehicles in February 2013 and 
series manufacture starting in September. 
A CV90 vehicle was delivered to the Danish 
Army to participate in a competitive evaluation 
to meet the requirement for future armoured 
personnel vehicles. The business signed a 
teaming agreement in May with Polish Defence 
Holdings to offer a new family of armoured 
vehicles based on CV90 technology. 
In December, the business was notified of the 
Canadian government’s decision to cancel its 
proposed Close Combat Vehicle programme.
In December, the Swedish government 
exercised its option to buy 102 more 
BvS10 all-terrain vehicles in an order worth 
approximately $120m (£72m). This order 
follows its January 2012 purchase of 48 
BvS10 vehicles that are under delivery to 
the Swedish Army.
FNSS
FNSS, BAE Systems’ Turkish joint venture, 
continues to produce and upgrade tracked 
and wheeled military vehicles for international 
customers.
Production has commenced under the 
$559m (£338m) programme to produce 
259 8x8 wheeled armoured vehicles for the 
Royal Malaysian Army and the first vehicles 
were delivered in 2013.
In December, FNSS received a $360m 
(£217m) contract from the land forces of a 
Middle Eastern country for the upgrade of 
M113 tracked armoured personnel carriers. 
The business is pursuing other armoured 
vehicle prospects elsewhere in the region.
Munitions
A pricing proposal for the next five years 
(2018 to 2022) of the Munitions Acquisition 
Supply Solution partnering agreement was 
submitted to the UK Ministry of Defence in 
September. orders totalling £105m were 
received from the UK Ministry of Defence, 
US Navy, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
government and the French Ministry 
of Defence in the year.
The Munitions business will be reported in the 
financial results of the Platforms & Services 
(UK) reporting segment from 1 January 2014.
Support Solutions
Whilst strategic contracts were won during 
the period, the US-based services businesses 
were impacted materially by budget 
uncertainties and operational challenges. 
There were operational challenges in 
commercial shipbuilding and on start-up 
activity on the Radford Army Ammunition Plant 
contract. In addition, the business was not 
awarded follow-on options under the US Navy 
training aircraft maintenance and logistics 
support contract, under which work continued 
until 1 December.
The conditional Worker Adjustment and 
Retraining Notification (WARN) Act notices 
issued in February to nearly 3,600 ship repair 
employees were largely mitigated by the 
funding legislation passed in March.
The US-based ship repair business achieved 
its commitments under Multi-Ship, Multi-option 
contract vehicles with the US Navy, receiving 
orders totalling $1.2bn (£0.7bn) for the repair, 
maintenance and modernisation of various 
vessels during the year.
BAE Systems continues to co-operate with 
ongoing government investigations regarding 
the employee fatality at the Mobile, Alabama, 
shipyard that occurred on 4 April when the 
Carnival Triumph cruise ship came free from its 
moorings during unexpected severe weather.
The business continues to manage the 
operations of the Holston Army Ammunition 
Plant in the US. In March, the US Army 
awarded an Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite 
Quantity contract valued at up to $780m 
(£471m) over five years to operate and 
manage the Holston Army Ammunition Plant, 
as well as purchase explosives from the plant.
South Korea down-selected BAE Systems 
to upgrade avionics and electronic systems, 
as well as perform systems integration for 
its fleet of more than 130 F-16 aircraft. The 
US Congressional Notification process was 
completed with the l etter of Acceptance put 
in place in December.
In August, BAE Systems was awarded an 
eight-year, $534m (£323m) contract from 
the US Air Force to maintain the readiness 
of Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic 
missiles in the US. The Group will provide 
systems engineering, integration, testing, 
logistics and other services to support the 
missile, ground and launch systems for 450 
deployed missiles. In December, the US Navy 
awarded BAE Systems a three-year, $171m 
(£103m) contract to continue providing 
engineering and integration support to 
Trident II D-5 submarine-launched ballistic 
missiles.
The US Army awarded Support Systems 
Associates, Inc., with BAE Systems as a 
subcontractor, the l ogistics Support Facilities 
Management Activity contract to provide 
flexible, timely and cost-effective facilities, 
personnel and expertise to support aircraft 
modifications and other support services. 
In protection systems, BAE Systems 
produced its one millionth combat helmet 
since the 1980s. A $28m (£17m) order from 
the US Marine Corps for the production of 
lightweight combat helmets was received 
in February 2013.
Ship repair and commercial shipbuilding 
The US-based ship repair business continues to serve the US Navy as a leading provider of 
non-nuclear ship repair, maintenance and modernisation services. Concurrently, the business 
continues to grow its commercial shipbuilding operations, with a diverse US customer base 
including offshore energy support vessels, oil exploration and transport vessels, cargo ships, 
vessels supporting dredging operations, cruise ships and international carriers.
BAE Systems Hägglunds
BAE Systems Hägglunds is to supply an additional 
102 BvS10 armoured all-terrain vehicles to the 
Swedish Ministry of Defence. This award follows 
the 2012 contract for delivery of 48 BvS10 vehicles. 
Multiple variants, including troop carrier, command 
vehicle, ambulance and logistic carrier vehicle, will 
be used by the Swedish Army.
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EmS ANNUAl R EPoRT 2013 51 Sustainability performance
Safety
In April, Support Solutions held its first 
Safety Stand Down, engaging more than 
12,000 employees across the business 
in interactive discussions regarding 
workplace safety. The employee response 
was positive, with more than 200 suggestions 
for improvement implemented across the 
organisation. The success of these activities 
is reflected in a 7% reduction in the 
Recordable Accident Rate.
Diversity and inclusion
l and & Armaments has made progress in 
bringing diversity and inclusion awareness 
to its employees. The Diversity & Inclusion 
Council, Multi-Cultural Network, Women’s 
l eadership Network and the formation of 
numerous Employee Resource Groups have 
fostered awareness, respect and inclusion 
across the organisation. In addition to the 
annual Diversity & Inclusion Conference, 
these groups hosted many open forums, 
conferences and workshops that provided 
a deeper understanding about the diversity 
that exists in the workforce.
Environment
The ship repair business in Norfolk, Virginia, 
has been certified by the Virginia Department 
of Environmental Quality as an ‘Extraordinary 
Environmental Enterprise’ for its leadership 
and commitment to environmental 
stewardship.
Engagement
l and & Armaments’ leadership has put 
significant emphasis on retaining and 
attracting key talent within the organisation, 
as well as communicating more frequently 
and in more transparent ways with employees. 
In 2013, the president of the business 
instituted a bi-annual ‘State of the Sector’ 
address. Participation in the employee 
engagement survey of 76% represented 
an increase from 58% in 2012.
  For Group sustainability performance, see 
Sustainability section on pages 112 to 119
In october, the business was awarded a 
$60m (£36m) order from the US Defense 
l ogistics Agency to produce additional tactical 
vests equipped with body armour and 
incorporating a number of benefits for the 
soldier, including a 10% weight reduction in 
the armour system.
In the maritime defence solutions business, 
BAE Systems was awarded an $80m 
(£48m) contract to continue providing 
systems engineering and other technical 
services to support the operational readiness 
of US Navy submarine torpedoes and other 
weapons systems.
Under the Concepts and operations for Space 
and Missile Defence Integration Capabilities 
contract, the business was awarded an $85m 
(£51m), two-year extension to continue its 
support of the US Army in providing services 
for developing and understanding missile 
defence methods and technologies.
Looking forward
Efforts to reduce the US government’s budget 
deficit are expected to continue to impact 
government spend. A bipartisan budget 
proposal was approved in December 2013 
that mitigates the full impact of the Sequester 
for 2014 and 2015. The Group expects lower 
defence spending than previously programmed, 
but the cuts are not expected to be as 
significant or indiscriminate as they would 
have been under Sequestration. 
In the near term, l and & Armaments 
continues to operate in a challenging 
environment. To remain viable in the future, 
the business is investing to protect franchise 
programmes, including Bradley modernisation 
and the CV90 family, and establish new 
franchise programmes, such as Paladin 
Integrated Management. In addition, the 
business continues to offer export products 
to international markets and invest in new 
technology fast lanes, such as directed 
energy weapons and hybrid electric drives 
for combat vehicles. The business continues 
to drive rationalisation efforts to maximise 
efficiency and remain competitive.
Whilst potential cancellations and delays in 
new programmes could affect the business, 
Support Solutions may be able to offset the 
impact through additional opportunities to 
sustain and modernise existing platforms.
52 BAE SySt EmS ANNUAl R EPoRT 2013
St RAt EGIC REPORt PLAt FORmS & SERVICES (US) Platforms &  
s ervices 
(
UK
)
Platforms & Services (UK), with 28,300 
employees
1
, comprises the Group’s UK-based 
air, maritime, combat vehicle, munitions and 
certain shared services activities.
 M a rit i me 
The third of seven Astute Class 
submarines, Artful, a 7,400 tonne, 
97-metre long, nuclear-powered 
attack submarine, was officially 
named in September and is expected 
to be launched in early 2014 for 
further tests and commissioning. 
The programme supports thousands 
of small and medium-size enterprises 
in the supply chain. 
2013 e Xec Utive committee o BJective 
Deliver sustainably profitable through-life businesses in the air, maritime and combat 
vehicles sectors
Key characteristics 
Military Air & Information
 n Multi-year through-life programmes
 n Military aircraft capabilities include 
design, development, manufacture, 
in-service support and training for 
combat and trainer aircraft, and 
design and development of 
Unmanned Air Systems
 n Defence information systems, such 
as the Falcon secure deployable 
communication system
 n Managed solutions for aircraft support 
services and engineering
 
Maritime
 n Maritime capabilities include design, 
build, integration and commissioning, 
in-service support and training for 
naval ships, submarines, radar and 
combat management systems, and 
underwater systems
Combat Vehicles (UK)
 n Design, build, demonstration and 
through-life support of armoured vehicles
Munitions
 n Design, test, qualification, production, 
supply and through-life support of 
general munitions and the cased 
telescopic ammunition system
1  Including share of equity accounted investments.
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EMS Ann UAl Repo RT 2013 53
St RAt EGIC REPORt 2013 2012
1
2011
Funded order intake
2
 
KpI £5,979m £8,160m £4,355m
order backlog
2
£20.3bn £21.3bn £18.7bn
Sales
2
 
KpI £6,890m £5,717m £6,258m
Underlying eBITA
3
 
KpI £879m £695m £658m
Return on sales 12.8% 12.2% 10.5%
Cash inflow
4
 
KpI £59m £1,717m £69m
f inancial Key Points n Sales
2
 increased by 21% on resumption of Salam Typhoon aircraft deliveries and trading of price escalation
 n Return on sales of 12.8% benefited from the trading of price escalation and strong programme execution
 n operating cash flow
4
 reflects the utilisation of advances and provisions
oP erational Key Points n 34 Typhoon Tranche 2 and the first Tranche 3 aircraft delivered to the european partner nations
 n First Hawk jets delivered to the Indian navy
 n naval sector restructuring agreement reached with the UK Ministry of Defence
 n Two Khareef Class corvettes for the Royal navy of oman achieved interim acceptance 
 n Sixth and final Type 45 destroyer accepted off-contract
 n Third and final offshore patrol Vessel delivered to the Brazilian navy
 n £0.1bn of funding for ongoing design and development of the Royal navy’s Successor submarine
 n Increased funding for the fifth, sixth and seventh Astute Class submarines
s Ustaina Bility Key Points n Reduced Recordable Accident Rate by 43%
 n Reduced energy and water usage, and quantity of waste produced
1 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7 to the Group accounts). 
2  Including share of equity accounted investments.
3  earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (eBITA) excluding non-recurring items (see page 33).
4  net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets 
contributed to Trust.
Sales analysis: activity (%)
1
2
3
1 Military Air & Information 63
2 Maritime 34
3 Combat Vehicles (UK) 3
Sales analysis: platforms and services (%)
1
2
1 Military & Technical Services 32
2 Platforms 68
Progress on sustainability
43%
Recordable Accident Rate
Energy
Water
Waste
Major injuries
54 BAE SySt EMS Ann UAl Repo RT 2013
St RAt EGIC REPORt PLAt FORMS & SERVICES (UK) Military Air & Information
Work is progressing on the contract received from the Sultanate of oman to purchase 
12 Typhoon and eight Hawk trainer aircraft at the end of 2012. As well as supplying 
aircraft, BAe Systems will provide in-service support to the Royal Air Force of oman’s 
operational activities. 
Financial performance
order backlog
2
 reduced to £20.3bn (2012 
£21.3bn) on trading of aircraft deliveries 
under the contracts for european and Saudi 
Typhoon aircraft and the Indian Hawk contract.
The year’s sales
2
 of £6.9bn (2012 £5.7bn) 
were 21% higher than 2012, benefiting from 
the ten aircraft deliveries made on the Salam 
Typhoon programme and trading of the price 
escalation. There were no Salam aircraft 
deliveries made in 2012.
The return on sales of 12.8% (2012 12.2%) 
was strong, benefiting from not only the 
trading of the Salam Typhoon price escalation, 
but also another year of strong programme 
execution and risk reduction across the 
business.
There was a cash inflow
4
 of £59m (2012 
£1,717m) in the year reflecting the consumption 
of customer advances on the omani Typhoon 
and Hawk programme, the european Typhoon 
contract and the Saudi training aircraft 
contract. In addition, provisions were utilised 
against costs incurred on rationalisation, on 
the oman offshore patrol Vessel programme 
and for the Trinidad and Tobago termination 
settlement payment.
Operational performance
Military Air & Information
In the year, deliveries of Typhoon Tranche 2 
aircraft to the four partner nations totalled 
34, bringing the total number of Tranche 2 
aircraft delivered to 203 of the contracted 
236. Sixteen Tranche 3 front fuselage 
sub-assemblies were manufactured in the 
year and the first Tranche 3 aircraft was 
delivered to the Royal Air Force (RAF).
Initial mobilisation under the omani Typhoon 
and Hawk aircraft contract, awarded in 
December 2012, has commenced with the 
first aircraft deliveries scheduled for 2017.
The business continues to support its UK and 
european customers’ Typhoon and Tornado 
aircraft and their operational commitments. 
The business supports its UK customer 
through availability-based service contracts.
on the F-35 l ightning II programme, the 
business has continued to deliver aircraft 
fuselages for the sixth l ow-Rate Initial 
production (l RIp) contract, delivering 26 
aircraft sets to l ockheed Martin in 2013. 
production for the seventh l RIp contract 
has commenced. A bid proposal for l RIp 8 
has been submitted and negotiations have 
commenced.
Support continues to be provided to users 
of Hawk trainer aircraft around the world. The 
Indian navy has received its first five Hawk 
aircraft from Hindustan Aeronautics l imited, 
built under the Batch 2 licence for 57 aircraft. 
Commercial discussions continue on the 
proposal for an additional 20 Hawk aircraft.
A response to the competitive proposal to 
supply eight Hawk trainer aircraft, support and 
training to poland was submitted in november. 
Following evaluation by the polish Ministry of 
Defence, the Group has been informed that it 
will not be down-selected for the next phase 
of this competition.
Working with UK industry partners and 
the Ministry of Defence, BAe Systems has 
designed and built a stealthy unmanned 
combat air vehicle demonstrator named 
Taranis. The aircraft made its maiden flight 
in August 2013 and has undertaken a 
number of successful trial flights.
progress continued, to plan, on the joint 
BAe Systems and Dassault Aviation Future 
Combat Air System demonstration 
programme preparation contract to mature 
and demonstrate critical technology and 
operational aspects for an Unmanned 
Combat Air System.
In January 2014, it was announced that 
there would be further joint UK/French Future 
Combat Air System technology development 
under a two-year feasibility study worth £120m.
In the defence information domain, final 
deliveries of the Falcon secure deployable 
communication system for the British Army 
and RAF were completed in 2013, and the 
business continues to provide support for 
the system.
In the Regional Aircraft business, engineering 
revenues have remained under pressure 
reflecting the current trading conditions. This 
has been offset by a good performance within 
the support business.
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EMS Ann UAl Repo RT 2013 55 Maritime
Following detailed discussions about how best 
to sustain the long-term capability to deliver 
complex warships, BAe Systems has proposed 
and agreed with the UK Ministry of Defence 
that Glasgow would be the most effective 
location for the manufacture of the future 
Type 26 frigates. Subject to consultation with 
trade union and employee representatives, 
the Group announced in november that it 
proposes to consolidate its shipbuilding 
operations in Glasgow and that shipbuilding 
operations at portsmouth will cease in the 
second half of 2014. Consultation has 
commenced on a total employee reduction of 
up to 1,775, including up to 940 in portsmouth 
in 2014 and up to 835 across Filton, Glasgow 
and Rosyth, progressively through to 2016. 
The relevant cost of the restructuring will be 
borne by the Ministry of Defence.
A significant reduction in workload will follow 
the peak of activity on the aircraft carrier 
programme, the six Type 45 destroyers and 
two export contracts. The anticipated Type 26 
programme will, in future years, address 
some of that workload reduction. In the 
interim period, a proposed contract for the 
manufacture of three offshore patrol Vessels 
was announced in november, which, as well 
as providing interim shipbuilding workload, will 
provide additional capability for the Royal navy 
and sustain key shipbuilding skills.
Cumulative savings of £457m have been 
reported to the Ministry of Defence against 
commitments made under the Terms of 
Business Agreement (ToBA), which remains 
ahead of target. The agreements announced 
in november, together with the anticipated 
contract for the design and manufacture of 
the Type 26, will progressively replace the 
ToBA.
progress continues on assembly of the first 
aircraft carrier, HMS Queen elizabeth, whilst 
block build for the second ship, HMS prince 
of Wales, is underway. BAe Systems, with 
the other participants in the Aircraft Carrier 
Alliance, announced in november that it 
had agreed changes to the contract to 
accommodate both programme changes 
and activities previously excluded. Under the 
new target cost arrangements, the industrial 
participants’ fee includes a 50:50 risk share 
arrangement providing greater cost 
performance incentives.
HMS Duncan, the sixth and final Type 45 
destroyer, was accepted by the Ministry of 
Defence in March. The Type 45 support 
contract met all ship deployment dates in 
the year.
The assessment phase contract for the Type 
26 is proceeding and there are now over 600 
employees working on the contract, which will 
complete in 2014.
Following the agreement in December 2011 
for the sale of offshore patrol Vessels to the 
Brazilian navy, the third and final vessel was 
delivered on schedule in June.
progress continues on the Khareef Class 
corvettes for oman, with the first two ships 
achieving interim acceptance in 2013 and 
the final ship scheduled for interim 
acceptance in 2014.
The Warship Support Modernisation Initiative 
contract, for delivery of services at portsmouth 
naval Base, was extended for one year in 
April, while discussions continue on the new 
Maritime Support Delivery Framework.
The Advanced Radar Target Indication 
Situational Awareness navigation (ARTISAn) 
3D radar programme continues towards full 
qualification, with the first of class now fitted 
to HMS Iron Duke, a Type 23 frigate, and 
further installations underway in line with 
the production plan.
The Maritime Composite Training System, a 
shore-based warfare operator training solution 
for the Royal navy, has now achieved full 
operating capability. Training has been 
delivered to over 2,000 personnel and to 
warfare teams from every major warship.
HMS Astute and HMS Ambush, the first and 
second of class attack submarines for the 
Royal navy, achieved operational handover 
in 2013. Artful, the third of class, is planned 
to launch in 2014, and a further £441m of 
orders have been secured for Boats 5, 6 
and 7.
progress continues on the design and 
development phase of the Successor 
submarine programme, the replacement to 
the Vanguard Class fleet. over 1,300 people 
are now employed on this programme. 
Maritime
In november, the Ministry of Defence announced that it planned to acquire three offshore 
patrol Vessels (op Vs) for the Royal navy based on the Amazonas Class op Vs delivered to Brazil. 
The ships will sustain key shipbuilding skills in the UK’s warship-building industry.
56 BAE SySt EMS Ann UAl Repo RT 2013
St RAt EGIC REPORt PLAt FORMS & SERVICES (UK) Munitions
As part of the Munitions Acquisition Supply Solution partnering agreement, the Group has 
invested in a number of facility improvements across the Munitions business, including new 
plant and processes at its Radway Green site, which will help to save money for its customers 
and reduce carbon emissions. The site is Munitions’ centre of excellence for the design, 
manufacture, proofing and supply of small arms ammunition.
Combat Vehicles (UK)
The Terrier® combat engineer vehicle was declared 
‘in service’ by the Ministry of Defence in April. It is 
the first UK combat vehicle to enter service designed 
with an integrated electronic architecture which 
facilitates ‘drive-by-wire’ and remote control.
Combat Vehicles (UK)
The Terrier® combat engineer vehicle was 
declared ‘in service’ by the Ministry of Defence 
in April, with 43 of the 60 contracted vehicles 
delivered in 2013. Final vehicle deliveries are 
expected during the first half of 2014.
The newcastle facility will close in the second 
half of 2014 following completion of final 
vehicle deliveries. 
Munitions
The Munitions business will be reported in the 
financial results of the platforms & Services 
(UK) reporting segment from 1 January 2014. 
The business is reported in platforms & 
Services (US) in 2013. 
Sustainability performance
Safety
naval Ships and Maritime Services both 
picked up International Safety Awards during 
2013 from the British Safety Council, which 
is a reflection of a collective commitment to 
high standards of safety.
Diversity and inclusion
BAe Systems in the UK works in partnership 
with opportunity now, the gender campaign 
from Business in the Community. The 
campaign’s three priorities are a better gender 
balance for leadership progression; unbiased 
recognition and reward for all; and agile work 
cultures that are fit for the future. This supports 
the Group’s diversity and inclusion strategic 
goals, including strengthening its competitive 
position as an attractive employer.
Environment
At Military Air & Information’s Warton and 
Samlesbury sites in the UK, a campaign 
to reduce energy usage and minimise 
environmental impacts used floor art to 
get the message across to employees. 
Spray-painted with biodegradable chalk, the 
innovative artworks highlighted how much 
gas and electricity the business uses and 
encouraged employees to think about how 
they could help to reduce energy consumption.
Engagement
Mental health conditions cost UK employers 
billions of pounds each year. Fear of stigma 
and discrimination can also make people with 
mental health conditions unwilling to disclose 
their illness and thus prevent them from being 
adequately supported at work. Military Air & 
Information won a Gold BAe Systems 
Chairman’s Award for the work it has done in 
developing a suite of tools, self-help material, 
website content and support to improve the 
way it deals with mental health issues.
  For Group sustainability performance, see 
Sustainability section on pages 112 to 119
Looking forward 
platforms & Services (UK) has a strong order 
backlog of long-term committed programmes 
and an enduring support business.
In Military Air & Information, sales are 
underpinned by combat aircraft production on 
Typhoon and F-35 l ightning II, and in-service 
support for existing and legacy combat and 
Hawk trainer aircraft. There are a number 
of significant opportunities to secure future 
Typhoon export contracts, including to Saudi 
Arabia, Malaysia and Bahrain.
In Maritime, sales are underpinned by the 
Queen elizabeth Class aircraft carrier and 
Astute Class submarine manufacturing 
programmes, the Warship Support 
Modernisation Initiative contract, and the 
design and future manufacture of the 
Successor submarine and Type 26 frigate. 
Support of these platforms and Type 45, 
together with their associated command 
and combat systems, is expected to provide 
sustainable business in technical services 
and mid-life upgrades.
In Combat Vehicles (UK), following completion 
of deliveries on the Terrier® programme, sales 
are expected to be derived from through-life 
support of legacy platforms.
The Munitions business is underpinned by 
the 15-year Munitions Acquisition Supply 
Solution partnering agreement with the UK 
Ministry of Defence, together with a number 
of international contracts and potential 
opportunities.
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EMS Ann UAl Repo RT 2013 57 Platforms &  
s ervices 
(
i nternational )
Platforms & Services (International), with 
14,600 employees
1
, comprises the Group’s 
businesses in Saudi Arabia, Australia, India 
and Oman, together with its 37.5% interest 
in the pan-European MBDA joint venture.
Saudi Arabia 
In June, BAe Systems received a 
follow-on order for support on the 
Salam Typhoon programme covering 
a five-year period to the end of 2017. 
At the end of December, the Royal 
Saudi Air Force fleet had flown a total 
of over 9,000 hours. 
2013 e Xec Utive committee o BJective 
Grow our platforms & Services (International) business
Key characteristics 
Saudi Arabia
 n l ong-term contracts from the Royal 
Saudi Air Force for equipment, training 
and support, including Salam Typhoon 
aircraft
 n Support to the Royal Saudi navy 
minehunter programme
Australia
 n Strategic capability and sustainment 
provider to the Australian Defence Force
 n Delivering defence contracts across 
the air, land, maritime and electronics 
domains
 
India
 n l ong-standing military aircraft 
relationships
Oman
 n In-service base across air, land 
and maritime products
MBDA
 n pan-european guided weapons 
joint venture
58 BAE SySt EMS Ann UAl Repo RT 2013
St RAt EGIC REPORt 2013 2012 2011
Funded order intake
1
 
KpI £7,221m £5,266m £3,319m
order backlog
1
 £12.3bn £9.3bn £8.3bn
Sales
1
 
KpI £4,063m £4,071m £3,794m
Underlying eBITA
2
 
KpI £429m £417m £449m
Return on sales 10.6% 10.2% 11.8%
Cash (outflow)/inflow
3
 
KpI £(189)m £506m £80m
f inancial Key Points n order backlog
1
 increased by 32% on multi-year support awards and weapons procurement in Saudi Arabia
 n operating cash outflow
3
 of £189m on utilisation of customer advances and pending receipt of Salam 
settlement proceeds
oP erational Key Points n Salam Typhoon price escalation negotiations concluded
 n Resumption of Typhoon aircraft deliveries to Saudi Arabia under the Salam programme
 n Five-year, £1.8bn output-based Salam Typhoon support contract received
 n £1.5bn of orders received for Tornado aircraft upgrades and weapons procurement under the Saudi British 
Defence Co-operation programme
 n Integration and trials of the first l anding Helicopter Dock (l HD) in Australia ongoing
 n Second l HD hull arrived in Australia for consolidation to commence in the first quarter of 2014
 n Five-year, A$342m (£185m) support contract for Royal Australian Air Force Hawk training aircraft received
 n MBDA secured significant contracts with its UK and French government customers
s Ustaina Bility Key Points n Reduced Recordable Accident Rate by 22%
 n Reduced energy and water usage, and quantity of waste produced
1  Including share of equity accounted investments.
2  earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (eBITA) excluding non-recurring items (see page 33).
3  net cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and 
assets contributed to Trust.
Sales analysis: activity (%)
1
2
3
1 Saudi Arabia 60
2 Australia 21
3 Other 19
Sales analysis: platforms and services (%)
1
2
1 Military & Technical Services 61
2 Platforms 39
Progress on sustainability
22%
Recordable Accident Rate
Major injuries
Energy
Water
Waste
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EMS Ann UAl Repo RT 2013 59 Australia
In 2013, a new training facility was opened for future crews of the two l anding Helicopter 
Docks currently under construction by BAe Systems. The ships are the largest ever to be built 
for the Royal Australian navy. A 4,000 square metre warehouse has been transformed into a 
purpose-built, state-of-the-art base. 
Saudi Arabia 
Under the Tornado Sustainment programme, weapon deliveries were 
completed in 2013. orders worth £1.5bn for the upgrade of Tornado 
aircraft and additional weapons procurement were received under 
the programme.
Financial performance
order backlog
1
 has increased to £12.3bn 
(2012 £9.3bn) following awards in Saudi 
Arabia for five years of support on Typhoon 
and further weapons packages on Tornado, 
together with renewal of the Australian Hawk 
support programme.
Sales
1
 of £4.1bn were almost unchanged 
from 2012. The deferred trading arising from 
the Salam price escalation and increased 
levels of support for Typhoon aircraft now in 
service were offset by reductions in the 
Australian business as the l anding Helicopter 
Dock build programme ramps down.
Underlying eBITA
2
 of £429m (2012 £417m) 
generated a return on sales of 10.6% 
(2012 10.2%).
The operating cash outflow
3
 reflects the 
utilisation of advances received in 2012 on 
the Saudi Tornado upgrade programme.
Operational performance
Saudi Arabia
Through the entry into service of Typhoon and 
the continued development of the in-country 
industrial base, the Group remains committed 
to developing a greater indigenous capability 
in Saudi Arabia.
on the Salam Typhoon programme, UK final 
assembly of 72 Typhoon aircraft continues. 
Aircraft deliveries re-commenced in April. At 
31 December 2013, 34 aircraft had been 
delivered to the customer. Work is progressing 
to schedule on the provision of a multi-role 
capability for the aircraft. 
A five-year, £1.8bn output-based contract was 
received to support the Royal Saudi Air Force 
(RSAF) Typhoon aircraft as they progressively 
enter into service. In addition, a four-year 
contract to deliver scheduled maintenance 
and upgrade to 30 Typhoon aircraft by the 
end of 2017 was received.
Discussions on Typhoon price escalation 
reached agreement with the Saudi Arabian 
government. 
Under the Saudi British Defence Co-operation 
programme (SBDCp), the business continues 
to support the operational capability of both 
the RSAF and Royal Saudi naval Forces 
(RSnF). Under a £1.6bn contract awarded 
in 2012 to upgrade the RSAF’s aircrew 
training aircraft, the production of Hawk 
and pilatus pC-21 training aircraft continues 
to programme. Under contracts totalling 
£3.4bn awarded in 2012 for support to the 
RSAF to the end of 2016, the first graduation 
ceremony of cadets from the King Faisal Air 
Academy took place in May.
Weapon deliveries were completed and orders 
worth £1.5bn for the upgrade of Tornado 
aircraft and additional weapons procurement 
were received. 
Work was completed on the first ship re-fit 
on the RSnF minehunter mid-life update 
programme. The ship was accepted back into 
the RSnF fleet during the second half of 2013 
and the second ship has entered the update 
programme. 
Australia
Consolidation of the first of two l anding 
Helicopter Docks (l HD) was completed at the 
Williamstown shipyard following the arrival of 
the hull from subcontractor navantia in Spain. 
Integration and test of the ship’s systems and 
the initial stages of ship acceptance trials are 
progressing. Consolidation of the second l HD 
hull will begin in Melbourne in the first quarter 
of 2014. In April, the business opened a new 
simulation and training facility in Sydney for 
training future l HD crew.
Under the Air Warfare Destroyer programme, 
all 11 hull blocks have been accepted by the 
customer and nine delivered. Seven additional 
blocks have now been contracted for A$69m 
(£37m) and are under construction. 
Under the initial AnZAC frigate anti-ship 
missile defence system contract awarded 
in 2004, the operational trials process was 
concluded on HMAS perth. Under the 
follow-on contract awarded in 2012, the 
second frigate, HMAS Arunta, is continuing 
its refurbishment and construction to fit the 
new masts and systems, and the third frigate, 
HMAS AnZAC, is progressing through its own 
refurbishment and upgrade programme. 
The business was awarded a five-year, 
A$342m (£185m) contract, with options to 
extend through to 2026, to continue to 
support the Royal Australian Air Force Hawk 
l ead-In Fighter aircraft fleet. 
The first upgraded Ap-3C orion maritime 
surveillance aircraft to be fitted with a new 
electronic Support Measures system was 
delivered in november, marking a significant 
milestone in the delivery of the project to the 
Royal Australian Air Force. 
Tigerair Australia awarded BAe Systems a 
five-year contract to provide base maintenance 
services for its fleet of Airbus A320 aircraft. 
The business continues to examine 
opportunities to expand further its commercial 
aviation maintenance footprint in Australia.
The business incurred operating losses on 
the Jp 2008 phase 3F programme which 
provides strategic and tactical satellite 
communications capabilities to support 
Australian Defence Force operations.
The business was not down-selected for the 
Defence l ogistics Transformation programme.
India
The business sold its 26% shareholding in 
Defence l and Systems India to Mahindra & 
Mahindra, the holder of the other 74% of the 
shares in the joint venture.
In March, the US government issued a l etter 
of Acceptance to the Indian government under 
the US Foreign Military Sales (FMS) process 
for the supply of 145 M777 howitzers to the 
1  Including share of equity accounted investments.
2  earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (eBITA) excluding non-recurring items (see page 33).
3  net cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and 
assets contributed to Trust.
60 BAE SySt EMS Ann UAl Repo RT 2013
St RAt EGIC REPORt PLAt FORMS & SERVICES (INt ERNAt IONAL) India
India is the largest operator of the Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer with 123 aircraft ordered to date, 
of which over 70 have been delivered to the Indian Air Force. In 2013, the Indian navy received 
the first of 17 Hawk trainer aircraft. 
MBDA
In 2013, the Royal navy of oman conducted an 
operational naval Vl MICA missile firing from the 
Al Shamikh offshore patrol Vessel constructed by 
BAe Systems. The missile successfully intercepted 
and destroyed the target at very low altitude.
Indian Army. The Indian government has yet 
to progress the M777 FMS case through all 
levels of its procurement process. As a result 
of this and with no other new orders for 
M777, in october, the business took the 
decision to suspend M777 manufacture 
in Barrow-in-Furness, UK. 
A fixed-price proposal has been submitted 
to Hindustan Aeronautics l imited (HAl ) for 
a third batch of Hawk trainer aircraft for 
the Indian Air Force and discussions with 
HAl  continue.
Whilst the Indian government deemed 
Dassault to be the lowest priced compliant 
bidder in the Medium Multi-Role Combat 
Aircraft competition, contract negotiations 
that began in early 2012 have not been 
concluded. The Group continues to monitor 
the competition and stands ready to support 
the Indian government’s procurement process.
Oman
Following the signature of the contract to 
supply 12 Typhoon and eight Hawk aircraft in 
2012, initial mobilisation has commenced. 
The business continues to focus on 
strengthening its close relationship with the 
Royal oman Air Force, navy and Army, and 
to address their future requirements.
MBDA
Following publication of the 2013 l ivre Blanc 
in France, a €433m (£360m) contract was 
secured from the French customer for the 
development and production of the Missile 
Milieu de Trame system. In January 2014, 
the UK and French governments signed an 
agreement worth €500m (£416m) for the 
joint development and production of the 
MBDA Future Anti-Ship Guided Weapon – 
Anti-navire l éger (FASGW-Anl ) missile for 
their armed forces.
In export markets, significant orders have been 
awarded in the Middle east and Far east. 
MBDA continues to support the various 
aircraft procurement campaigns around the 
world and is well placed to respond to any 
associated weapon requirements.
Sustainability performance
Safety
Two employee-driven initiatives highlight the 
positive changes in Australia’s safety culture 
and performance that contributed to a 29% 
reduction in the Recordable Accident Rate 
during 2013. The first was the introduction 
of aircraft protective edge padding and use 
of bump caps across the aerospace business. 
The second involved the development of a 
safety device for handling cut steel in shipyards.
Diversity and inclusion
In 2011, the Saudi business opened a 
female business support centre employing 
locally-recruited Saudi national women for the 
first time. The business plans to increase the 
number of Saudi female employees in 2014.
In 2013, the Indian business was recognised 
by the Indian national Human Resource 
Development network as exhibiting best 
practice in its programme to support career 
development for female employees.
Environment
The Australian business has implemented 
initiatives to improve energy efficiency. At a 
programme office in Cairns, a 7% reduction 
in electricity consumption was observed in 
2013 after implementing initiatives, including 
installing improved temperature controls to 
reduce the use of air conditioning. Similarly, 
at the Williamtown fast jet maintenance base, 
an 8% reduction in electricity consumption was 
observed in 2013 following improvements, 
including modifications to the air conditioning 
system.
Engagement
BAe Systems Saudi Arabia increased further 
the Saudisation of its workforce in 2013, 
achieving a level of 62%. Initiatives in this 
area were recognised by an award from the 
Saudi Ministry of l abour.
The Mustakbal Management Development 
programme provides leadership development 
and management qualifications preparing 
high-potential employees for executive roles 
within the business. In 2013, 13 employees 
were enrolled onto the programme.
  For Group sustainability performance, see 
Sustainability section on pages 112 to 119
Looking forward
In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Group 
expects to sustain its long-term presence 
through delivering current programmes and 
industrialisation, and developing new 
business in support of the Saudi military 
and paramilitary forces. 
In Australia, the change of government 
following a federal election in September is 
not anticipated to affect materially the future 
outlook for defence spending. The new 
administration has committed to the release 
of a revised white paper and to make, within 
18 months of the election, the decisions 
necessary to ensure that Australia has no 
submarine capability gap. The Group is 
continuing to explore and secure opportunities 
in adjacent markets, particularly in the oil and 
gas industry in Western Australia.
In India, aircraft and artillery opportunities 
continue to be pursued.
In oman, following signature of the Typhoon 
and Hawk contract in 2012, the Group will 
work with the customer to strengthen further 
its close ties and to address their future 
requirements.
MBDA continues to build on the effective 
partnerships it has established with its 
domestic customers and is actively pursuing 
a significant number of export opportunities.
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EMS Ann UAl Repo RT 2013 61 Business model – page 9
BAE Systems manages the current impacts of its operations and products, 
and anticipates the future global business environment to ensure that it has 
processes in place to support the long-term sustainability of the Group.
Sustainability of our reputation and our 
licence to operate is an integral part of the 
Group’s business model. It is focused on 
embedding responsible business behaviours 
and placing emphasis not just on what the 
Group does, but how it is done.
The Group focuses on the areas identified by 
internal and external stakeholders as having 
the greatest potential to affect the long-term 
sustainability of the business, by directly 
impacting the Group’s reputation or ability 
to operate. The areas identified that shape 
the Group’s sustainability objectives and 
programmes are high priorities for the Group.
A culture of integrity
BAE Systems continues to embed its ethics 
programme globally, driving the right behaviours 
by supporting employees in making ethical 
decisions and embedding responsible 
business practices. 
The Group’s Code of Conduct sets out the 
principles and standards of business conduct 
expected of all employees. It provides them 
with practical guidance on how to deal with 
situations that may arise in their day-to-day 
activities.
Clear governance structures and visible 
leadership play a vital role in embedding 
corporate responsibility.
The Group’s governance framework, as 
described in the Operational Framework, 
covers the products we make and export. 
The Group’s Responsible Trading Principles, 
Product Trading Policy and Pursuit of Export 
Opportunities Policy help employees make 
informed decisions about the business 
opportunities the Group pursues and to 
address any responsible trading risks, 
including risks associated with the product 
and its intended end use, the country of 
origin and delivery, and the customer. 
The Group is committed to respecting 
human rights in its operations, within its 
sphere of influence. 
An inspired workforce
BAE Systems recognises that its employees 
are key to delivering the Group’s strategy 
successfully and sustaining future business. 
People development
The Group’s people strategy of through-career 
capability development and emphasis on high 
levels of employee engagement seeks to 
maximise the contribution that its workforce 
makes to the performance of the business.
The success of this strategy is measured 
ultimately in the success of the business 
as a whole.
Diversity and inclusion
BAE Systems is committed to creating an 
inclusive work environment where a diverse 
range of talented people can work together to 
ensure business delivery. Diversity amongst 
the Group’s workforce is a significant force for 
innovation and assists the Group in responding 
to customer requirements. 
At the end of 2013, three (27%) and two 
(17%) of the Board and Executive Committee 
members, respectively, were women. Globally, 
59 (15%) and 15,000
1
 (20%) of the Group’s 
senior managers
2
 and total workforce are 
women, respectively.
Employee safety
Safety of the Group’s employees, and anybody 
who works on its sites, is a key priority. The 
Group continues to embed a safety first 
approach by providing training and tools that 
help employees understand the importance of 
a safe workplace, and encouraging employees 
to take responsibility for their own safety and 
the safety of those around them. The senior 
leadership of the Group plays a key role in 
maintaining the focus on safety and leading 
through example. 
Responsible environmental 
management
Operational 
The Group’s goal is to reduce the 
environmental impact of its operations 
and products by using energy, water and 
waste more efficiently.
Businesses across the Group have 
environmental management systems in place 
that monitor and manage impacts from 
greenhouse gas emissions, material and 
solvent use, waste products, and emissions 
to the atmosphere.
Product 
Environmental considerations are taken into 
account throughout a product’s lifecycle from 
concept, design and manufacture through to 
use and disposal via the Group’s Lifecycle 
Management (LCM) process (see page 69). 
This includes reducing the environmental 
impacts of the Group’s products during 
research and development, minimising waste 
materials during manufacturing, and helping 
to reduce the impact of our products when 
they are used, upgraded or disposed of.
Product stewardship
The Group’s Research & Development (R&D) 
activities cover a wide range of programmes, 
and include technological innovations and 
techniques to improve the manufacturing and 
service of products. In 2013, R&D expenditure 
was £1,051m (2012 £1,138m) of which £171m 
(2012 £150m) was funded by the Group.
It is critical that the Group’s products perform 
as designed without harm to the people using 
them. No complex and innovative product, 
whether used in defence or civilian markets 
or both, is without risk. It is essential that 
the Group achieves an appropriate balance 
between the benefits they provide to customers 
and the risks associated with their use.
Community investment
BAE Systems’ Global Community Investment 
Strategy is defined through the support it 
provides both financial and through 
volunteering. BAE Systems aims to align its 
resources in support of primary areas of 
focus – the needs of the Group’s customers, 
education and skills, heritage and the 
communities in which the Group operates.
1 Excluding equity accounted investments and rounded to the nearest thousand employees.
2  Senior managers are defined as employees who have responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the Group or a strategically significant part 
of the Group and/or who are directors of subsidiary undertakings.
STRATEGIC REPORT
62 BAE SySt EmS ANNuAL REPORT 2013
Su Stainability 
Summary Unconscious bias training 
unconscious bias training was rolled out during 
2013. The concept of unconscious bias is an 
important component of an inclusive culture because 
it alters the way people think, both positively and 
negatively, and how they view and evaluate others. 
Employees participated in discussions on video 
workplace scenarios.
Safety
SHEZINE is a tool that has been launched on the 
uK intranet site in order that employees across 
the uK can share best practice in safety, health 
and environment, and highlight areas of concern 
in the workplace.
FOr a m Or E DEtail ED r EVi EW OF Su Stainability , GO t O Pa GES 112 t O 119 OF t HE Dir ECt Or S’ r EPOrt 2013 priorities 2013 progress 2014 priorities
Ethics and governance
 n Continue to improve and evolve the 
Group’s business conduct programme.
 n Network of Ethics Officers established 
across all operations.
 n Training provided for all senior employees 
on export control procedures, and 
anti-bribery and corruption. 
 n Employee survey confirmed that the 
senior leadership of the Group is 
committed to ethical business practices 
and conduct.
 n Continue to improve and evolve the 
Group’s business conduct programme.
 n undertake external assessment of 
ethical culture and environment.
Employee safety and wellbeing
 n Demonstrate improvements against key 
safety indicators, including a 10% 
improvement in the Recordable Accident 
Rate. 
 n The Group achieved a 17% reduction in 
the Recordable Accident Rate in 2013.
 n The number of major accidents 
increased compared with 2012, 
prompting detailed reviews and 
investigation by senior management.
 n Health and wellbeing initiatives were 
rolled out across the uS, uK and 
Australian businesses focusing on 
both physical and mental issues.
 n Continue the drive towards a world-class 
level of safety.
 n use benchmarking against leading 
companies to identify key areas for 
improvement and focus.
Diversity and inclusion
 n Increase diversity and inclusion within 
the organisation in accordance with 
business goals.
 n unconscious bias training rolled out for 
all employees through online training 
and management-led engagement 
sessions.
 n BAE Systems’ progress in increasing 
female representation has been 
recognised by external organisations.
 n Increase diversity and inclusion within 
the organisation in accordance with 
business goals.
 n Diversity and inclusion plans to be 
aligned with business plans and Key 
Performance Indicators identified for 
monitoring and tracking against plans.
Operational environmental impacts
 n Set environmental improvement targets 
to include energy, water and waste.
 n All businesses set, and the majority 
met, improvement targets for energy, 
water and waste. 
 n The Group developed a more mature 
approach to capturing carbon emissions 
data across the business.
 n Set environmental improvement targets 
to include energy, water and waste.
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EmS ANNuAL REPORT 2013 63 GOVErnan CE 
Summary “ Every company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively 
responsible for the long-term success of the company.”
UK Corporate Governance Code
Board appointments
The Nominations Committee is responsible 
for managing the orderly succession of 
appointments to the Board. In discharging 
this role, it reviews the balance of skills and 
experience on the Board regularly, and 
manages the process of identifying suitable 
candidates for appointment.
 See Nominations Committee report on page 79
During 2013, the Board appointed Sir Roger 
Carr to succeed Sir Richard Olver as Chairman. 
The search for a suitable candidate to succeed 
Sir Richard was led by the Nominations 
Committee, which for this purpose was 
chaired by the Company’s Senior Independent 
Director, Nick Rose. He engaged with key 
stakeholders, including major shareholders, 
throughout the process.
Sir Roger Carr is an experienced company 
director, having served as chairman on a 
number of large listed company boards, 
most recently as chairman of Centrica plc. 
At present, he is also deputy chairman and 
senior independent director of the Court of 
the Bank of England and a member of the uK 
Prime Minister’s Business Advisory Group. In 
accordance with the requirements of the uK 
Corporate Governance Code, Sir Roger was 
independent as at the date of his appointment.
Jerry DeMuro was appointed to the Board on 
1 February 2014 having succeeded Linda 
Hudson as President and Chief Executive 
Officer of the Group’s uS business. Mr DeMuro 
is an experienced uS executive who has 
worked in the national security, technology 
and aerospace industry for over 30 years. 
Most recently, he served as executive vice 
president and corporate vice president of 
General Dynamics’ Information Systems and 
Technology Group.
Two independent non-executive directors, 
Ian Tyler and Chris Grigg, also joined the 
Board during the year.
In line with best governance practice, all the 
members of the Board will seek re-election 
by shareholders at the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting.
The above changes to the Board had a 
negative impact on its gender diversity. At 
present, 18% of directors are women (2013 
27%). However, the Board remains committed 
to an aspirational target of at least 25% of its 
members being women by 2015.
 See Corporate governance report on page 69
Accountability
The uK government introduced new 
requirements for company reporting during 
2013. These changes provide an opportunity 
for boards to improve the quality of reporting 
on their stewardship of the company. In line 
with the new requirements, the Board has 
taken the opportunity to revise its reporting 
with greater emphasis on producing a focused 
analysis of the performance of the Company 
in the Strategic Report. In addition, it has 
considered the requirement in the uK 
Corporate Governance Code for narrative 
reports to be ‘fair, balanced and 
understandable’, and how directors can 
ensure that they are in a position to make a 
timely and well-informed determination on this 
matter. The Board has reviewed the process 
for the drafting of the Annual Report and the 
assurance process used to verify its accuracy 
and completeness. All Board members have 
participated in reviewing and commenting on 
drafts of the report to help ensure that the 
final publication meets the ‘fair, balanced 
and understandable’ requirement.
Remuneration
After a wide-ranging debate in 2013 that 
engaged many stakeholders, the uK 
government enacted regulations that have 
changed significantly the requirements 
concerning directors’ remuneration and the 
role that shareholders play in agreeing a policy 
on directors’ pay and the maximum payable. 
The policy agreed and proposed by the 
Board’s Remuneration Committee is the 
result of a detailed review that began with a 
wide-ranging discussion and analysis of what 
it wished to achieve regarding executive pay 
and the various remuneration structures 
that could be employed. The views of the 
Company’s major shareholders were sought 
during this process.
As required by the new regulations, the 
directors’ remuneration policy as detailed in 
this Annual Report will be put to shareholders 
for their approval at this year’s Annual General 
Meeting.
  See Remuneration Committee report on 
page 80
Corporate responsibility
In 2013, five years after the publication 
of Lord Woolf’s Report on ethical business 
conduct in BAE Systems plc, the Board 
and the Corporate Responsibility Committee 
both reviewed the status of ethical business 
matters across the Company. It was 
recognised that a great deal had been 
achieved in that period through positive 
leadership from the Board downwards. 
However, it was recognised that the Board 
needed to remain vigilant in its oversight 
of ethical business conduct matters so as 
to ensure that standards are maintained 
over the long term and that the Company 
continues to be at the forefront in this area. 
The Corporate Responsibility Committee 
agreed additional activities to help secure 
a lasting legacy of leadership in the area of 
responsible business behaviour.
  See Corporate Responsibility Committee report 
on page 77
Board performance evaluation
Each year, the Board uses an external facilitator 
to assist in reviewing its effectiveness. 
Directors discuss the feedback from this 
process and agree objectives aimed at 
ensuring that the Board remains effective 
and at the forefront in developing and applying 
best practice in the boardroom. A review of 
performance against 2013 objectives is 
presented opposite.
Code compliance
The Company was compliant with the 
provisions of the uK Corporate Governance 
Code throughout 2013 and the Board has 
applied its principles in its governance 
structure and operations.
 See Corporate governance report on page 69
Business model – page 9
STRATEGIC REPORT
64 BAE SySt EmS ANNuAL REPORT 2013 Our Values are Trusted, Innovative and Bold
Our Mission is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value  
through our commitment to Total Performance
Customer Focus  |  Programme Execution  |  Financial Performance  |  Responsible Behaviour
Our Strategy
 Support our customers in safeguarding their vital interests 
 Inspire and develop our people to drive our success 
 Drive shareholder value by improving nancial performance 
and competitive positions across the business
Integrated Business Plans
Improve prot and 
cash generation 
Grow our Cyber, 
Intelligence 
and Security
business
Grow Electronic 
Systems 
Drive value  
from our Platform 
and Services 
positions
Increase our 
international 
business 
Strategic Actions
Our Vision is to be the premier global defence, aerospace and security company
FOr a m Or E DEtail ED r EVi EW OF GOVErnan CE, GO t O Pa GES 69 t O 81 OF t HE GOVErnan CE SECti On 2013 objectives 2013 achievements 2014 objectives
Strategy
 n Continue the strategic review of the 
business portfolio, focusing on the 
services businesses.
 n Work with the executive team in the 
development of a comprehensive 
narrative of the Company’s strategy.
 n The Board undertook a detailed review 
of the business portfolio at a strategy 
meeting held in June and again in 
November as part of its annual 
Integrated Business Planning process.
 n The Company developed its strategic 
narrative further during the year.
 n Focus on developing a more detailed 
strategic understanding of the 
Company’s businesses and markets.
 n Ensure that the strategy for the 
Company’s Applied Intelligence business 
is optimised to access fully the growth 
potential of the cyber security market.
Succession planning
 n The Nominations Committee to 
complete the recruitment of two 
additional non-executive directors and 
identify a world-class candidate to 
succeed Sir Richard Olver as Chairman. 
 n Ian Tyler and Chris Grigg were appointed 
to the Board as non-executive directors. 
Sir Roger Carr was appointed to succeed 
Sir Richard Olver as Chairman.
 n Engage with all directors on executive 
development and succession planning.
 n Increase the levels of diversity and 
bench strength in key roles and make 
progress against the Company’s 
diversity objectives. 
Risk and risk management
 n The Board to continue to review cyber 
security protection, the management 
of risk in major programmes and crisis 
management. 
 
 
 n Ensure that the Company remains at the 
forefront of developing and embedding 
best practice in responsible business 
behaviour.
 n The Board spent time with the 
Company’s Chief Information Officer 
reviewing cyber security protection. 
Directors also reviewed risk management 
on a major programme and Board 
communications were included as part 
of a crisis management exercise.
 n The Board and Corporate Responsibility 
Committee reviewed responsible 
business conduct and agreed a number 
of actions, including a survey of 
employee opinions, similar to that 
undertaken by the Ethical Leadership 
Group in 2011.
 n The Board to continue reviewing the 
level of risk it is willing to take in 
achieving its strategic objectives. 
Board development
 n Enhance the Board’s strategic 
understanding of geo-political and 
economic risks in international markets.
 n use Board visits to promote 
understanding of markets and the 
business development opportunities 
they offer.
 n One of the Board’s meetings in 2013 
was held in India. Meetings with 
members of our local advisory board 
and local industrial partners were used 
to develop directors’ understanding of 
the market.
 n Develop a wider understanding by all 
directors of the use and management 
of commercial offset arrangements.
 n use site visits by individual 
non-executive directors to help develop 
a deeper understanding of the Company.  
The Nominations Committee and the Board reviewed 
the Group’s management resource plans, including 
the strategy and actions being pursued to achieve 
greater diversity across the Group’s workforce.
As part of its annual strategy review, the Board 
reviewed the significant risks that could affect the 
achievement of the strategy and business plan.
 See Group Strategic Framework on page 7
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EmS ANNuAL REPORT 2013 65 GOVERNANCE
Wh At y Ou Will fi Nd i N this s ECti ON 
67
  B OA R d O f 
di RECt ORs Biographical details of each director, 
including their skills and experience, 
and other appointments.
69
  C OR P OR A t E G O V E R N A NC E 
REPORt A report on compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, including 
how the Company has applied the 
principles in the Code.
77
  C O R P O R A t E R E s P O N s i B i lit y 
COmmitt EE REPORt A report describing how the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee has discharged 
its responsibilities.
92
  A NN u A l R E mu NE R A t i O N 
REPORt Information on the remuneration paid 
to the directors during 2013, including 
a single total figure in respect of each 
director.
74
  A u dit C O m m it t E E  
REPORt A report describing how the Audit 
Committee has discharged its 
responsibilities.
82
  d i RE C t O R s ’ RE m u N E R A t i O N 
POli Cy The policy in respect of directors’ 
remuneration as proposed by the Board 
for approval by shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting.
80
  R E mu NE R A t i O N C O mmi t t E E  
REPORt A report by the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee summarising 
governance arrangements, key decisions 
and the context in which they were made.
79
  N O m i N A t i ON s C O m m i t t E E 
REPORt A report describing how the Nominations 
Committee has discharged its 
responsibilities.
66 BAE SySt EmS ANNUAl Repo RT 2013 BOARd Of  
d i RECt ORs Chairman
Sir Roger Carr Chairman
Appointed to the Board: 2013
Nationality: British
Skills and experience: Appointed to the Board on 
1 october 2013 as Chairman designate, Sir Roger 
succeeded Sir Richard olver as Chairman on 
1 February 2014. He was chairman of the Board of 
Centrica plc from 2004 until he stepped down from 
that role on 31 December 2013. He has previously 
held a number of senior appointments including 
chairman of Cadbury plc, Thames Water plc and 
Mitchells & Butlers plc, and president of the 
Confederation of British Industry. Throughout his 
career, he has served on a number of external 
committees, including the Higgs Committee on 
Corporate Governance and Business for New europe. 
Other appointments: He remains deputy chairman and 
senior independent director of the Court of the Bank of 
england and is a member of the UK prime Minister’s 
Business Advisory Group. He is also a senior adviser 
to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and a trustee of the 
l andau Forte Charitable Trust. He is a fellow of the 
Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, 
Manufactures and Commerce, and a visiting fellow 
to the Said Business School, oxford. 
Committee membership: Chairman of the Nominations 
Committee and the Non-executive Directors’ Fees 
Committee 
Executive directors
Ian King Chief executive
Appointed to the Board: 2007
Nationality: British
Skills and experience: Appointed as Chief executive 
in 2008 having been originally appointed to the Board 
as Chief operating officer, UK and Rest of the World. 
He was previously Group Managing Director of the 
Company’s Customer Solutions & Support business 
and, prior to that, Group Strategy and planning 
Director. prior to the BAe/MeS merger he was 
Chief executive of Alenia Marconi Systems, having 
previously served as Finance Director of Marconi 
electronic Systems. 
Other appointments: Non-executive director and Senior 
Independent Director of Rotork p.l.c.
Committee membership: Non-executive Directors’ Fees 
Committee 
Jerry Demuro president and Chief executive officer of 
BAe Systems, Inc.
Appointed to the Board: 2014
Nationality: US
Skills and experience: Appointed to the Board on 
1 February 2014 as president and Chief executive 
officer of BAe Systems, Inc. following the retirement 
of l inda Hudson, Jerry DeMuro is an experienced 
US executive who has worked in the national security, 
technology and aerospace industry for over 30 years. 
Most recently he served as executive vice president 
and corporate vice president of General Dynamics’ 
Information Systems and Technology Group, leading 
a diverse portfolio focused on secure mobile 
communication systems, information technology 
solutions and mission support services, and 
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems. 
earlier in his career, he spent almost a decade as an 
acquisition official at the US Department of Defense.
Committee membership: Non-executive Directors’ Fees 
Committee 
Peter Lynas Group Finance Director
Appointed to the Board: 2011
Nationality: British
Skills and experience: peter l ynas, a qualified 
accountant, was appointed to the Board as Group 
Finance Director in 2011. He previously served for 
a number of years as Director, Financial Control, 
Reporting & Treasury. He joined GeC-Marconi in 1985 
having previously worked for other companies in the 
UK and europe. After progressing through a number 
of positions he was appointed Finance Director of 
GeC’s Marconi electronic Systems business, which 
was subsequently acquired by British Aerospace in 
1999 to become BAe Systems.
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EmS ANNUAl Repo RT 2013 67 Non-executive directors
Paul Anderson Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: 2009
Nationality: US
Skills and experience: paul Anderson has extensive 
global business experience in the energy and mining 
sectors. He spent more than 20 years in two spells 
at Duke energy Corporation and its predecessor 
companies, culminating in his appointment as 
Chairman, president and Chief executive officer. 
He was subsequently Chairman of Spectra energy 
Corporation until 2009 and in the intervening period 
he served as Managing Director and Chief executive 
officer of BHp and, subsequently, of the newly merged 
BHp Billiton.
Other appointments: Non-executive director of Bp p.l.c.
Other past appointments: Non-executive director of 
BHp Billiton plc, Qantas Airways l imited and Spectra 
energy Corporation
Committee membership: Chairman of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee and member of the 
Nominations Committee
Harriet Green OBE Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: 2010
Nationality: British
Skills and experience: Appointed as Chief executive 
officer and executive director of Thomas Cook Group 
plc in 2012. She was previously Chief executive officer 
and executive director of premier Farnell plc, a leading, 
high service, multi-channel technology distribution 
group. Harriet Green has significant global business 
experience having run volume distribution businesses 
in four continents for premier Farnell and volume 
distributor, Arrow electronics, Inc. She is a member 
of the UK prime Minister’s Business Advisory Group.
Other appointments: Non-executive director of emerson 
electric Co.
Committee membership: Corporate Responsibility 
Committee
Chris Grigg Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: 2013
Nationality: British
Skills and experience: Chris Grigg was appointed to 
the Board as a non-executive director on 1 July 2013. 
He is Chief executive of The British l and Company pl C 
and has more than 30 years’ experience in the 
financial and real estate industries in a range of 
leadership roles. prior to joining British l and as its 
Chief executive in 2009, he was an executive with 
Barclays Bank and previously spent over 20 years 
at Goldman Sachs where he rose to the position 
of partner.
Committee membership: Remuneration Committee
Paula Rosput Reynolds Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: 2011
Nationality: US
Skills and experience: paula Rosput Reynolds is 
Chief executive officer and president of the business 
advisory group, preferWest, ll C. She had previously 
spent over 20 years in the energy sector in a variety 
of operational roles, culminating in her appointment 
as president and Chief executive officer of AGl 
Resources in 2002. She subsequently served as 
president and Chief executive officer of Safeco 
Corporation, an insurance company located in Seattle, 
Washington, until its acquisition by l iberty Mutual 
Group in 2008. She was then appointed as Vice 
Chairman and Chief Restructuring officer of American 
International Group, Inc. (AIG) from october 2008 to 
September 2009, overseeing AIG’s divestiture of 
assets and serving as chief liaison with the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York.
Other appointments: Non-executive director of Delta 
Air l ines, Inc., Anadarko petroleum Corporation and 
TransCanada Corporation
Other past appointments: Non-executive director of 
Coca-Cola enterprises, Inc. and Air products and 
Chemicals, Inc.
Committee membership: Audit Committee
Nick Rose Non-executive director and Senior 
Independent Director
Appointed to the Board: 2010
Nationality: British
Skills and experience: Nick Rose held the position of 
Chief Financial officer of Diageo plc for over ten years 
until october 2010 where, in addition to his finance 
responsibilities, he was also responsible for supply, 
procurement, strategy and IT on a global basis. His 
financial experience has encompassed a number of 
roles since joining Diageo’s predecessor company, 
Grand Metropolitan, in 1992, including group treasurer 
and group controller, having spent his earlier career 
with Ford Finance. He assumed the chairmanship of 
the Company’s Audit Committee in 2011 and was 
appointed as the Company’s Senior Independent 
Director in January 2013.
Other appointments: Chairman of Williams Grand prix 
Holdings pl C. Non-executive director of BT Group plc
Other past appointments: Non-executive director of 
edwards Group l imited, Moët Hennessy SNC and 
Scottish power plc
Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, and member of the Nominations 
Committee and Remuneration Committee 
Carl Symon Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: 2008
Nationality: British/US
Skills and experience: Carl Symon has an extensive 
background in global business operations and 
management, retiring in 2001 after a long career at 
IBM during which he held senior executive positions 
in the US, Canada, l atin America, Asia and europe, 
including that of Chairman and Chief executive officer 
of IBM UK.
Other appointments: Non-executive director of Thomas 
Cook Group plc
Other past appointments: Non-executive director of 
BT Group plc, Rexam pl C and Rolls-Royce Group plc, 
and Chairman of HMV Group plc
Committee membership: Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee 
Ian tyler Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: 2013
Nationality: British
Skills and experience: Ian Tyler was appointed to the 
Board as a non-executive director on 8 May 2013. 
He served as Chief executive of Balfour Beatty plc 
for a period of eight years stepping down from that 
position in 2013. A Chartered Accountant, he joined 
Balfour Beatty as Finance Director in 1996 having 
spent his earlier career in a variety of finance roles.
Other appointments: Chairman of Bovis Homes Group 
pl C and Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and a 
non-executive director of Cairn energy pl C and 
Cable & Wireless Communications plc 
Other past appointments: Non-executive director of 
VT Group plc
Committee membership: Audit Committee and 
Corporate Responsibility Committee
Company Secretary
David Parkes
68 BAE SySt EmS ANNUAl Repo RT 2013
GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECt ORS Business model – page 9
CORPORAt E  
GOVERNANCE REPORt Independence
The Board considers all of the non-executive 
directors, with the exception of the Chairman, 
to be independent for the purposes of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the Code). each 
of these directors has been identified on 
pages 67 and 68 of this report.
The Board appointed Nick Rose to succeed 
Sir peter Mason as its Senior Independent 
Director with effect from 21 January 2013. 
During the year, Mr Symon was appointed a 
non-executive director of Thomas Cook Group 
plc of which Ms Green is Chief executive 
officer and executive director. The directors 
have examined the effect of this appointment 
on their roles as non-executive directors of 
BAe Systems plc and are satisfied that at this 
time Mr Symon and Ms Green are 
independent for the purposes of paragraph 
B.1.1 of the Code. The directors will review 
this position annually to ensure the passage 
of time and deeper engagement in either 
business does not undermine the 
independence criteria. 
The Company’s Articles of Association require 
that all new directors seek re-election to the 
Board at the following Annual General Meeting 
(AGM). In addition, the Board has agreed that 
in compliance with the Code, all directors 
shall seek re-election on an annual basis. 
Risk management and internal control 
The Board has conducted a review of the 
effectiveness of the Group’s system of risk 
management and internal control processes, 
including financial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management 
systems, in accordance with the Code and 
Turnbull guidance (as revised).
BAe Systems has developed a system of 
internal control that was in place throughout 
2013 and to the date of this report, that 
encompasses, amongst other things, the 
policies, processes, tasks and behaviours 
that, taken together, seek to:
 – facilitate the effective and efficient 
operation of the Company;
 – enable it to respond appropriately to 
significant operational, financial, 
compliance and other risks that it faces in 
carrying out its business;
 – assist in ensuring that internal and external 
reporting is accurate and timely, and based 
on the maintenance of proper records 
supported by robust information-gathering 
processes; and
 – assist in ensuring that the Company complies 
with applicable laws and regulations at all 
Reporting within the Company is structured 
so that key issues are escalated through the 
management team, ultimately to the Board 
if appropriate. The operational Framework 
provides a common framework across the 
Company for operational and financial 
controls, and is reviewed on a regular basis 
by the Board. The business policies and 
processes detailed within the operational 
Framework draw on global best practice and 
their application is mandated across the 
organisation. l ifecycle Management (l CM) is 
such a process, and promotes the application 
of best practice programme execution and 
facilitates continuous improvement across the 
Group. It considers the whole life of projects 
from inception to delivery into service and 
eventual disposal, and its application is 
critical to the Group’s capability in delivering 
projects to schedule and cost.
Further key processes are Integrated Business 
planning (IBp), Quarterly Business Reviews 
(QBR) and Total performance l eadership 
(Tpl ). The IBp, approved annually by the 
Board, results in a five-year business plan 
for each business, together with detailed 
near-term budgets. The QBRs evaluate 
progress against the IBp, and business 
performance against objectives, measures 
and milestones. Tpl drives business success 
by linking individual goals to those of the 
organisation, enabling employees to 
understand how their own success contributes 
to the success of the whole business. 
Whilst the quality of the control processes 
is fundamental to the overall control 
environment, the consistent application of 
these processes is equally important. The 
consistent application of world-class control 
processes is a key management objective. 
The Company is committed to the protection 
of its assets, which include human, 
intellectual and physical property, and financial 
resources, through an effective risk 
management process, underpinned where 
appropriate by insurance. 
The Internal Audit team, which is managed 
independently from management functions, 
reviews the risk identification procedures 
and control processes implemented by the 
Company. It provides assurance as to the 
operation and validity of the systems of 
internal control through a programme of 
cyclical reviews making recommendations 
for business and control improvements 
as required. 
times, and also internal policies in respect 
of the standards of behaviour and conduct 
mandated by the Board.
on pages 29 and 30 of this report, you will 
find details of the processes the Company 
has put in place to manage risk. For the 
Board, the key requirements are that the 
Company has robust processes to identity, 
evaluate and manage risk, and that the 
directors have visibility of the major risks.
Risks are identified on a ‘bottom-up’ basis as 
part of the Company’s operational Assurance 
Statement (oAS) process. This process is 
mandated across the Group, and requires that 
the heads of all businesses and functions 
identify their key risks. As part of this process, 
an assessment is made of the probability of 
the risk arising and its potential impact on 
the Group’s business plan. All risks have an 
owner who is responsible for preparation and 
implementation of plans aimed at mitigating 
the risk.
The key financial and non-financial risks 
identified by the businesses from the risk 
assessment processes are collated and 
reviewed by the executive Committee to 
identify those issues where the cumulative 
risk, or possible reputational impacts, could 
be significant. 
Management responsibility for the 
management of the Group’s most significant 
non-financial risks is determined by the 
executive Committee. The oAS and 
Non-financial Risk registers are reviewed 
regularly by the executive Committee to 
monitor the status and progression of 
mitigation plans, and these key risks are 
reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The Audit Committee is responsible for 
reviewing the ongoing effectiveness of the 
Company’s risk management processes as 
part of its review of the effectiveness of 
internal controls. Also, twice a year, the Audit 
Committee receives reports on the output 
from the oAS process, details of the changes 
in the risks identified by it and the status of 
mitigation plans. The Corporate Responsibility 
Committee undertakes a similar role in respect 
of the Non-financial Risk Register. The Board 
receives reports from the chairmen of these 
two committees, providing details of the work 
they have undertaken.
each year, the Board specifically reviews 
the risks identified by the risk management 
processes. This is aimed at providing the 
Board with an appreciation of the key risks 
within the business and oversight of how 
they are being managed. 
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EmS ANNUAl Repo RT 2013 69 The Board has delegated to the Audit 
Committee responsibility for reviewing in detail 
the effectiveness of the Company’s system 
of internal controls. Having undertaken such 
reviews, the Audit Committee reports to the 
Board on its findings so that the Board as a 
whole can take a view on this matter. In order 
to assist the Audit Committee and the Board 
in this review, the Company has developed 
the oAS process. 
The oAS process is formed of two parts: a 
self-assessment of compliance with mandated 
policies and processes; and a report showing 
key risks for each business and function. 
Managed by the Group’s Internal Audit 
function, an oAS return must be completed 
every six months by each operational and 
functional business head, recording their 
formal review against such matters as 
compliance with law and regulation, ethical 
business conduct, financial controls, risk 
management, compliance with business 
planning processes, health and safety, 
conflicts of interest, delegated authorities, 
appointment of advisers and product safety. 
Where simple yes/no answers are not 
appropriate, an assessment of compliance 
is required to be made against structured 
qualitative guidance.
A separate oAS is required to be completed 
by the most senior BAe Systems employee 
responsible for joint ventures and BAe Systems 
employees on the boards of these companies 
are required to exert such influence as the 
Company may have to encourage the adoption 
of a governance structure that is substantially 
equivalent to that mandated for wholly owned 
or controlled parts of the Group. 
The Audit and the Corporate Responsibility 
committees review the output from the oAS 
process with the head of Internal Audit. It is 
also shared in detail with the Company’s 
auditors.
The overall responsibility for the system of 
internal control within BAe Systems rests with 
the directors of the Company. Responsibility 
for establishing and operating detailed control 
procedures lies with the line leaders of each 
operating business.
In line with any system of internal control, the 
policies and processes that are mandated in 
the operational Framework are designed to 
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives, and can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
The responsibility for internal control 
procedures with joint ventures and other 
collaborations rests, on the whole, with the 
senior management of those operations.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together 
with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position are 
set out in the Segmental performance section 
on pages 36 to 61. The financial position of 
the Group, including information on cash flow, 
can be found in the Group financial 
performance section on pages 32 to 35. 
principal risks are detailed on pages 106 to 
111. In addition, the financial statements 
include, amongst other things, notes on 
finance costs (page 135), loans and overdrafts 
(page 160), and financial risk management, 
including treasury policies on interest rate, 
liquidity, credit and currency risks (page 175).
After making due enquiries, the directors have 
a reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its committees in 2013
Director Board
Audit 
Committee
Corporate 
Responsibilty 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
paul Anderson – –
Sir Roger Carr – – – –
Harriet Green – – –
Chris Grigg – – –
l inda Hudson – – – –
Ian King – – – –
peter l ynas – – – –
Sir peter Mason –
l ee McIntire – – –
Sir Richard olver – – –
paula Rosput Reynolds – – –
Nick Rose –
Carl Symon – – –
Ian Tyler – –
 Meetings attended
 Meetings eligible to attend but not attended
70 BAE SySt EmS ANNUAl Repo RT 2013
GOVERNANCE CORPORAt E GOVERNANCE REPORt Whilst the Board is ultimately responsible for 
the success of the Company, given the size 
and complexity of its operations, all but the 
most important matters are managed on a 
delegated basis by the Chief executive and 
the executives working for him. The Board 
appoints the Chief executive and monitors 
his performance in leading the Company, 
and providing operational and performance 
management in delivering the agreed strategy. 
The Board and its committees monitor 
the application of values, standards and 
processes. This includes a range of activities 
such as the formal review of the effectiveness 
of internal controls. To ensure that 
non-executive directors can constructively 
challenge and help develop proposals on 
strategy, the Board has adopted a process 
of reviewing the development of strategy and 
formally approving the agreed strategy for 
the Company on an annual basis. In 2013, 
the Board members were provided with 
opportunities to engage in strategy 
development through informal meetings and 
workshops as well as formal Board meetings.
Effectiveness
Principles 
 – Board and committees having an 
appropriate balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the 
company to enable them to discharge 
their respective duties and 
responsibilities effectively 
 – A formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for the appointment of new 
directors 
 – All directors to be able to allocate 
sufficient time to the company to 
discharge their responsibilities effectively 
 – All directors to receive induction on 
joining and should regularly update and 
refresh skills and knowledge 
 – The board should be supplied in a timely 
manner with information in a form and 
of a quality appropriate to enable it to 
discharge its duties 
 – The board should undertake a formal 
and rigorous annual evaluation of its 
performance, and that of its committees 
and individual directors 
 – All directors should be submitted for 
re-election at regular intervals, subject 
to continued satisfactory performance
Applying the principles of the UK’s Corporate 
Governance Code 
The following report details how the Board 
has applied the main principles in the 
Financial Reporting Council’s UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code), as required 
by the UK l isting Rules. 
Leadership
Principles 
 – An effective board collectively 
responsible for the long-term success 
of the company 
 – A clear division of responsibilities at 
the head of the company between the 
running of the board and the executive. 
No one individual should have unfettered 
powers of decision 
 – The chairman is responsible for the 
leadership of the board and ensuring its 
effectiveness in all aspects of its role 
 – Non-executive directors should 
constructively challenge and help develop 
proposals on strategy
The Company’s governance structure is based 
on the leadership principles in the Code. The 
core activities of the Board and its committees 
are documented and planned on an annual 
basis, and this forms the basic structure 
within which the Board operates. The Board 
has adopted a document, the Board Charter, 
in which there is a statement of governance 
principles that reflect principles contained in 
the Code, and covers the following: 
Strategy – reviewing and agreeing strategy; 
Performance – monitoring the performance 
of the Group and also evaluating its own 
performance; 
Standards and values – setting standards 
and values to guide the affairs of the Group; 
Oversight – ensuring an effective system 
of internal controls is in place, ensuring 
that the Board receives timely and accurate 
information on the performance of the Group 
and the proper delegation of authority; and 
People – ensuring the Group is managed 
by individuals with the necessary skills and 
experience, and that appointments to the 
Board are managed effectively.
The Board Charter details the separate and 
distinct roles of the Chairman and the Chief 
executive, and also those of the Senior 
Independent Director and Company Secretary. 
It also states that the following matters are 
reserved specifically for the Board:
1.  Approving the Company’s vision, values, 
principles of ethical conduct, delegated 
authorities and overall governance 
structure. 
2.  Approving all financial and commercial 
matters that it has reserved for its 
decision. 
3.  Approval of the Company’s strategy and 
business plan. 
4.  Approval of the Company’s Annual Report 
and Accounts, and the preliminary and 
interim statements. 
5.  Approval of any distributions to 
shareholders, including the approval of 
any interim dividend payments and any 
recommendations to shareholders 
concerning final dividends. 
6.  Approval of any significant changes to 
accounting policies or practices. 
7.  Appointment or removal of any director 
or the Company Secretary. 
8.  Approval of all circulars, prospectuses and 
other documents sent to shareholders 
(except for documents of a routine nature). 
9.  Approving the issuing and allotment of 
shares, changes to the capital structure 
of the Company, its legal status as a 
public company, the listing of its shares 
and its name. 
10.  Recommending to shareholders the 
appointment, re-appointment or removal 
of the Company’s auditors. 
11.  Forming committees of the Board and 
approving their terms of reference. 
12.  Approval of the Board Charter (including 
this schedule of reserved matters) and 
the operational Framework (a document 
detailing the Company’s vision, values, 
delegated authorities and overall 
governance structure).
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EmS ANNUAl Repo RT 2013 71 Succession planning is used by the Board to 
deliver two key responsibilities, firstly to ensure 
that the Group is managed by executives with 
the necessary skills, experience and 
knowledge, and secondly to ensure that the 
Board itself has the right balance of individuals 
to be able to effectively discharge its 
responsibilities. The Nominations Committee 
has specific responsibilities in this area but the 
Board as a whole is also involved in overseeing 
the development of management resources in 
the Group with the aim of ensuring it has the 
individuals with the right skills to meet the 
needs of an increasingly complex and global 
business. The procedures for the appointment 
of non-executive and executive directors are 
detailed in the Nominations Committee report.
Following review by the Nominations and 
Corporate Responsibility committees, the 
Board adopted the statement shown below 
to act as a guide to future Board succession 
planning activity and to make a clear public 
statement of its support for greater diversity 
in the boardroom. 
 – The Board has an aspirational target of 
at least 25% of the Board being women 
by 2015.
 – In seeking candidates for appointment to 
the Board, the Nominations Committee 
will only engage the services of search 
consultants who have open and inclusive 
recruitment processes that draw from an 
appropriately diverse pool of candidates.
 – The Board will report progress against 
targets and actions taken in the Annual 
Report and Accounts. 
There are currently two women on the Board 
(2013 three), 18% (2013 27%) of the total 
membership. There are two women on the 
executive Committee (2013 three), 17% of its 
total membership (2013 25%), and 20% of the 
Group’s employees are women (2013 20%).
Further information on diversity can be found 
on page 114. 
For a number of years, the Board’s annual 
effectiveness evaluation has been undertaken 
by an external facilitator, Sheena Crane. She is 
an experienced board performance consultant, 
whose only interest with BAe Systems is her 
work with the Board. She was appointed to 
perform this work in consultation with the 
Nominations Committee. The evaluation 
process is based on the facilitator interviewing 
each of the directors and recording their views 
on how the Board and its committees work, 
and on the performance of individual directors. 
Feedback on Board performance is presented 
to a meeting of the Board, which agrees 
actions and objectives for the following year 
based on the information the facilitator 
provides and the conclusions that the 
Board derives from this.
Individual directors are also subject to annual 
performance evaluation, and the Chairman 
meets with each director and provides 
feedback on a one-to-one basis. Committee 
chairmen also receive feedback on committee 
performance. Feedback on the Chairman’s 
performance is provided directly by the 
facilitator to the Senior Independent Director, 
who discusses this with other non-executive 
directors before holding a one-to-one with the 
Chairman. Subject to continued satisfactory 
performance, directors seek re-election on 
an annual basis.
on appointment, all non-executive directors 
are advised of the likely time commitments 
and are asked to seek approval from the 
Nominations Committee if they wish to 
take on additional external appointments. 
The ability of individual directors to allocate 
sufficient time to the discharge of their 
responsibilities is, where necessary, 
considered as part of the directors’ annual 
evaluation process overseen by the Chairman. 
An induction programme is agreed for all new 
directors aimed at ensuring that they are able 
to develop an understanding and awareness 
of the Company’s core processes, its people 
and businesses. In addition, as part of the 
induction process, new directors will typically 
visit the Group’s principal operations in order 
to meet employees, and gain an understanding 
of the Group’s products and services. ongoing 
training is provided for the Board and individual 
directors as required.
The Chairman, with the assistance of the 
Chief executive and Company Secretary, is 
responsible for ensuring that directors are 
supplied with information in a timely manner 
that is in a form and of a quality appropriate to 
enable them to discharge their duties. In the 
normal course of business, such information 
is provided by the Chief executive in a regular 
report to the Board that includes information 
on operational matters, strategic 
developments, reports on the performance 
of Group operations, financial performance 
relative to the business plan, business 
development, corporate responsibility and 
investor relations. 
Accountability
Principles 
 – The board to present a balanced and 
understandable assessment of the 
company’s position and prospects 
 – The board is responsible for determining 
the nature and extent of the significant 
risks it is willing to take in achieving its 
strategic objectives. The board should 
maintain sound risk management and 
internal control systems 
 – The board should establish formal and 
transparent arrangements for considering 
how they should apply the corporate 
reporting and risk management and 
internal control principles, and for 
maintaining an appropriate relationship 
with the company’s auditor
Through this report and, as required, through 
other periodic financial statements, the Board 
is committed to providing shareholders with a 
clear assessment of the Company’s position 
and prospects. The arrangements established 
by the Board for the application of risk 
management and internal control principles 
are detailed on page 69. The Board has 
delegated to the Audit Committee oversight of 
the management of the relationship with the 
Company’s auditors, further details of which 
can be found in the Audit Committee report 
on page 74.
72 BAE SySt EmS ANNUAl Repo RT 2013
GOVERNANCE CORPORAt E GOVERNANCE REPORt Remuneration
Principles 
 – l evels of remuneration should be 
sufficient to attract, retain and motivate 
directors of the quality required to run the 
company successfully, but a company 
should avoid paying more than is 
necessary for this purpose. A significant 
proportion of executive directors’ 
remuneration should be structured so 
as to link rewards to corporate and 
individual performance 
 – There should be a formal and transparent 
procedure for developing policy on 
executive remuneration, and for fixing 
the remuneration packages of individual 
directors. No director should be involved 
in deciding his or her own remuneration
The Board has delegated to the 
Remuneration Committee responsibility 
for agreeing remuneration policy, and the 
individual remuneration of the executive 
directors, the Chairman, members of the 
executive Committee and the Company 
Secretary (see Remuneration Committee 
report on pages 80 and 81). The Committee 
is formed exclusively of independent 
non-executive directors.
Relations with shareholders
Principles 
 – There should be a dialogue with 
shareholders based on the mutual 
understanding of objectives 
 – The board as a whole has responsibility 
for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue 
with shareholders takes place 
 – The board should use the AGM to 
communicate with investors and to 
encourage their participation
The Company has a well-developed investor 
relations programme managed by the Chief 
executive, Group Finance Director and 
Investor Relations Director. In addition, the 
Chairman is available to meet with major 
shareholders and is in regular contact with 
them so as to keep them informed of progress 
on corporate governance matters. In order to 
assist in developing an understanding of the 
views of major shareholders, each year the 
Company commissions a survey of investors 
undertaken by external consultants. The results 
of the survey are presented to the Board.
The Company maintains a comprehensive 
Investor Relations website that provides, 
amongst other things, information on 
investing in BAe Systems and copies of 
the presentation materials used for key 
shareholder presentations. This can be 
accessed via the Company’s website,  
www.baesystems.com. The Company’s AGM 
provides all shareholders with the opportunity 
to vote on the resolutions put to shareholders 
either electronically via the Company’s 
website or by post. All resolutions detailed in 
the Notice of Meeting are voted on by way of a 
poll so as to ensure that all votes are counted 
on the basis of one vote for every share held. 
The result of the voting on all resolutions is 
published on the Company’s website.
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EmS ANNUAl Repo RT 2013 73 Audit committee 
report Nick Rose
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Members
Nick Rose (Chairman) 
Paula Rosput Reynolds 
Ian Tyler 
Governance
The Audit Committee was in place throughout 2013 and held six meetings, plus one joint 
meeting with the Corporate Responsibility Committee. All its members are independent in 
accordance with the provisions of the Code. Sir Peter Mason served as a member of the 
Committee until 8 May 2013 when he retired from the Board; Ian Tyler joined the Committee 
on the same date on his appointment to the Board; and Nick Rose and Paula Rosput 
Reynolds served throughout the year. 
Summary of responsibilities
 – Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s financial reporting, internal control policies, 
and procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk
 – Monitoring the integrity of the Group’s financial statements and Interim Management 
Statements
 – Monitoring the role and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function
 – Approving an annual programme of internal audit work
 – Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the Auditors
 – Agreeing the scope of the Auditors’ annual audit programme and reviewing the output
 – Keeping the relationship with the Auditors under review
 – Assessing the effectiveness of the audit process
 – Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the Auditors to supply 
non‑audit services
The Committee’s full Terms of Reference, which are reviewed each year by the Board, 
are available on the Company’s website.
Attendance at meetings
The Committee invites the following to its regular meetings:
 – Chief Executive; Group Finance Director; and Director, Financial Control and Reporting;
 – Internal Audit Director;
 – other representatives from businesses and functions, as appropriate; and
 – the senior KPMG partner responsible for the BAE Systems audit, together with other 
senior audit partners, as appropriate.
The Committee holds private sessions with the Auditors and Internal Audit Director without 
management present, and the Committee Chairman meets privately with both internal and 
external audit.
Reporting to the Board
The Committee Chairman provides regular updates to the Board on the key issues discussed 
at the Committee’s meetings.
Dear Shareholders,
The composition of the Audit Committee 
changed during the year when, as part of the 
Board’s succession planning strategy, Ian Tyler 
was appointed as a member of the Board 
and Audit Committee on Sir Peter Mason’s 
retirement from the Board in May 2013.
Ian is a chartered accountant and until recently 
served for eight years as Chief Executive of 
Balfour Beatty plc, an integrated infrastructure 
services group with operations in over 80 
countries. Along with his international operating 
and financial skills, Ian brings a wealth of 
experience in long‑ term contracting, and is 
well placed to add valuable insight to the 
Committee’s deliberations.
Financial reporting
The Committee reviews all significant issues 
concerning the financial statements. The 
principal matters we considered concerning 
the 2013 financial statements were:
 – Goodwill: We considered an analysis of 
goodwill held on the Group’s balance sheet 
in respect of a number of past major 
transactions and assumptions made in 
respect of the relevant cash‑ generating 
units to which goodwill has been attributed. 
The methodology for impairment testing 
used by the Group is set out in note 11 to 
the Group accounts on page 146. The 
Group has incurred a goodwill impairment 
of £865m relating to the US Intelligence 
& Security and Land & Armaments 
businesses as a result of an increase in 
the Group’s post‑ tax weighted average 
cost of capital and an estimate of 
reductions in US defence spending. 
 – Pensions: The Group’s retirement benefit 
obligation is significant (£3.5bn) compared 
with the Group’s net assets (£3.4bn). We 
challenged the key assumptions supporting 
the valuation of the retirement benefit 
obligation. This included a comparison of 
the discount and inflation rates used against 
externally derived data. We reviewed the 
methodology used to allocate a proportion 
of the retirement benefit obligation to equity 
accounted investments and other 
participating employers, and concluded 
that this was appropriate with reference 
to agreements between the Company and 
those companies. We also considered the 
adequacy of disclosures in respect of the 
sensitivity of the deficit to changes in these 
key assumptions. 
The principal accounting policy change in 
2013 was the adoption of International 
Accounting Standard 19 relating to Employee 
Benefits. In particular, we reviewed the 
impact that it would have on pension 
GOVERNANCE
74 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPoRT 2013 liability disclosures and the resultant 
requirement to restate earnings per share 
for 2012 to ensure that a meaningful 
comparison could be made with 2013 
earnings. Further details of the accounting 
policy change can be found on page 126.
 – Recognition of profit and provisioning: We 
reviewed key estimates and judgements prior 
to publication of the financial statements. 
our review included the key estimates and 
assumptions applied in determining the 
financial status of the more significant 
programmes, including Saudi Typhoon 
aircraft, Radford Army Ammunition Plant 
and Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers.
 – taxation: We reviewed the Group’s tax 
strategy as set out on page 120. on a 
twice‑ yearly basis, we reviewed the Group’s 
tax charge and tax provisions. 
The Committee agreed the parameters of, 
and reviewed a report to support, the going 
concern statement.
An intrinsic requirement of a group’s financial 
statements is for the report and accounts to 
be fair, balanced and understandable. The 
co‑ordination and review of the Group‑wide 
input into the Annual Report is a sizeable 
exercise performed within an exacting 
timeframe which runs alongside the formal 
audit process undertaken by the Auditors.
The process to ensure that the Committee, 
and then the Board, are satisfied with the 
overall fairness, balance and clarity of the 
document has been underpinned by:
 – comprehensive guidance issued to 
contributors at operational level;
 – a verification process dealing with the 
factual content of the reports;
 – comprehensive reviews undertaken at 
different levels in the Group that aim to 
ensure consistency and overall balance; and
 – comprehensive review by the directors 
and the senior team.
Internal control and risk management
Effective management of risks and 
opportunities is essential to the delivery of the 
Group’s strategic objectives, achievement of 
sustainable shareholder value, protection of 
its reputation and meeting the requirement of 
good corporate governance. The way in which 
the Company manages risk is set out on pages 
29 and 30, with the principal risks facing the 
Group set out on pages 106 to 111.
The Committee has reviewed the ongoing 
effectiveness of the Company’s risk 
management processes as part of its wider 
review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
our review of internal controls has also 
encompassed a review of the reports relating 
to the six‑ monthly operational Assurance 
Statements, which are submitted by each 
business or function as a mandated policy 
under the Group‑ wide operational Framework, 
and controls reports and audit reports from 
both internal and external auditors.
A key controls focus for the Committee is the 
controls environment surrounding Lifecycle 
Management (LCM), LCM being integral to the 
successful execution of the Group’s projects 
and programmes, and of particular importance 
in the early identification of programme risk 
and the determination of profit recognition or 
provisioning. We have discussed the outputs 
of general financial and LCM controls testing, 
and any required improvement actions, with 
management, and internal and external audit, 
with a view to ensuring the ongoing robustness 
of programme execution and risk mitigation.
External audit
our former KPMG audit engagement partner, 
Tony Cates, rotated off the BAE Systems’ 
audit account at the conclusion of the 2012 
audit having completed his permitted tenure of 
five years, and was succeeded by Ian Starkey. 
The latter attended a number of audit closure 
meetings and Committee meetings prior to 
the handover to ensure a smooth transition.
Continuity and consistency of audit quality 
are important, however the Committee is also 
mindful of ongoing debate about the operation 
of the audit market, audit tenure and the 
longevity of audit firm relationships with the 
companies they audit. KPMG Audit Plc, and 
their legacy predecessors, have been in place 
as the Company’s Auditors since 1981 
without re‑ tender and it is our present 
intention to initiate an audit re‑ tendering 
process not later than 2017 prior to the 
rotation of the current audit engagement 
partner. The Committee will keep this 
re‑ tendering timeframe under review and 
will use our regular reviews of auditor 
effectiveness to assess whether an earlier 
date for a re‑ tender would be desirable. There 
are no contractual obligations that would 
restrict the selection of a different auditor.
The Committee’s policy is to initiate an annual 
review of audit effectiveness at the conclusion 
of each year‑ end audit and to supplement this 
with an in‑ depth review of audit effectiveness 
on a triennial basis. 
Having assessed the output of the annual 
review undertaken at the close of the 2013 
year‑ end audit, taken account of the 
Committee’s own interactions with KPMG 
throughout the year, and satisfied itself on the 
continuing independence of the Auditors, the 
Auditor independence – Non-Audit Services 
Policy
The Committee has a formal policy governing 
the engagement of the Auditors to provide 
non‑ audit services which we review on an 
annual basis. The Policy prohibits certain 
activities from being undertaken by the 
Auditors such as book‑ keeping and work 
relating to the preparation of accounting 
records and financial statements that will 
ultimately be subject to external audit; 
financial information system design and 
implementation; internal auditing; and any 
work where a mutuality of interest is created 
that could compromise the independence 
of the Auditors. The Policy also places 
restrictions on the employment of former 
employees of the Auditors.
Recognising that the Auditors are best 
placed to undertake certain work of a 
non‑ audit nature, the Policy permits the 
provision of Audit‑ Related Services and 
Permitted Non‑ Audit Services up to limits 
that are pre‑ approved by the Committee, 
with specific approvals required beyond such 
limits by the Committee. A copy of the policy 
is available on the Company’s website. 
Details of fees payable to the Auditors are 
set out on page 133. In 2013, non‑ audit 
fees represented 24% of the audit fee. The 
principal non‑ audit services provided by the 
Auditors related to tax compliance and 
advisory services, and the interim review.
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPoRT 2013 75 Committee proposed to the Board that it 
recommend that shareholders support the 
appointment of KPMG at the 2014 Annual 
General Meeting. The review was based on 
a Group‑ wide evaluation at management 
and functional level, together with input from 
each of the Audit Committee members. 
The evaluation covered areas such as 
understanding of the Group’s risks and 
opportunities to facilitate the development 
of an appropriate audit plan; the robustness 
of audit processes; objectivity; the quality 
of communications; and the ability to 
provide a seamless service across differing 
jurisdictions. We provided feedback to the 
Auditors from the evaluation, discussed 
areas where enhancements could be made 
and will assess how these actions have been 
incorporated into the 2014 audit plan when 
the latter has been formulated.
We will undertake our triennial review later 
in 2014 which will encompass management 
performance evaluation, an independent 
client service review, future audit strategy 
and fee benchmarking.
Internal Audit
Internal Audit plays an important role in 
assessing the effectiveness of internal 
controls by a programme of reviews based 
on a continuing assessment of business 
risk across the Group. 
The annual internal audit programme is 
agreed jointly by the Audit and Corporate 
Responsibility committees to ensure that 
the over‑ arching internal audit programme 
includes the assessment of the effectiveness 
of policies and processes relating to key 
areas of ethical and reputational risk, as well 
as financial risk. The Committee considered 
the output from the 2013 annual internal 
audit programme of assurance work on a 
six‑ monthly basis. 
An External Quality Assessment (EQA) of the 
Internal Audit function was undertaken in 
2013 by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) 
which considered all key aspects of the 
function’s operation. The review was positive 
with PwC confirming that the function 
operated in conformance with the International 
Standards on Internal Auditing. PwC also 
commended the Board, Audit Committee and 
senior executives on the strength of their 
support for the Internal Audit function. 
Recommendations to enhance effectiveness 
further were made and are being addressed 
through the normal planning process for the 
Internal Audit function. 
Nick Rose 
Chairman – Audit Committee
Meetings with business unit management 
in 2013
The Committee places importance on direct 
contact with local operational and financial 
management as these meetings enable us 
to gain a more in‑ depth view of the strategic 
and operational issues pertaining to those 
businesses, an overview of their controls 
environment, and a better understanding 
of their risk management processes.
In 2013, we focused our attention on the 
Group’s Cyber & Intelligence segment, the 
underlying businesses in which have different 
risk profiles from those in the Platforms & 
Services businesses. The Committee met 
locally with senior management in both the 
Intelligence & Security business in the US 
and at Applied Intelligence in the UK. Issues 
discussed by local management included:
Intelligence & Security (US)
 – Challenges of growing the business in a 
market where the impact of Sequestration 
was unknown; and
 – maturity of assurance processes over 
internal financial controls, including 
internal audit work.
Applied Intelligence (UK)
 – Progress on the implementation of an 
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) 
system to integrate business information 
management systems;
 – maturity of assurance processes over 
internal financial controls, including 
internal audit work; and
 – enhancements made to the business’ 
reporting processes under the Group’s 
operational Assurance Statement.
Other key areas of work undertaken by the 
Committee in 2013
During the year, the Committee has:
 – reviewed and challenged the external 
audit plan to gauge whether it was 
appropriately focused;
 – considered the accounting, financial 
control and audit issues reported by the 
Auditors that flowed from the audit work;
 – reviewed the confirmation and information 
received from KPMG on the arrangements 
that it has in place to safeguard its 
independence and objectivity;
 – agreed the rotation sequence for key 
audit partners below the lead audit 
engagement partner;
 – reviewed and agreed the audit fee;
 – reviewed and discussed on a quarterly 
basis the nature and level of non‑ audit 
fees, and undertaken an annual review 
of the Non‑ Audit Services Policy which 
we concluded was still appropriate 
(see page 75); 
 – reviewed the effectiveness of the 
Company’s helpline procedures in respect 
of the reporting of possible accounting, 
financial control or other financial 
irregularities, and concluded that the 
procedures continue to work effectively; 
 – reviewed on a twice‑ yearly basis the 
procedures for the identification, 
assessment and reporting of risk; and 
 – considered corporate governance and 
accounting developments.
76 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPoRT 2013
GOVERNANCE AUDIt COMMItt EE REPORt Corporate r esponsibility 
Committee report Dear Shareholders,
It is now over five years since the publication 
of the Woolf Committee Report. This 
independent report on ethical business 
conduct in BAE Systems provided very clear 
guidance on what was required. Subsequently, 
the rigour and whole-hearted nature in which 
the recommendations have been 
implemented by senior management has 
provided the Company with robust controls 
and a culture that leaves no doubt as to what 
is expected of all employees in terms of their 
conduct. In 2013, as Lord Gold, the Corporate 
Monitor appointed by the US Department of 
Justice, ended his three-year appointment, 
the Committee spent time with him reflecting 
on how the Committee can best assure that 
progress in the area of ethical business 
conduct will continue into the future. Having 
taken time to reflect on this, as well as the 
other responsibilities of the Committee, we 
agreed the following:
 – A rolling three-year programme of activity 
has been developed for the Committee 
that ensures that it is able to fulfil all of 
its responsibilities, including the provision 
of comprehensive oversight of ethical 
business conduct based on the priorities 
and structures identified by Lord Woolf back 
in 2008, and re-emphasised more recently 
by Lord Gold.
 – As conduct is often driven by organisational 
culture, this year we will engage an 
independent third party to undertake a 
survey of employee opinions across the 
Group, similar to that undertaken by the 
Ethical Leadership Group in 2011.
 – Training and employee engagement is an 
important facilitator of the right employee 
behaviours and we will be meeting with the 
Group HR Director on a regular basis to 
develop our understanding of how such 
activity is being managed across the Group.
 – To assist in discharging its responsibilities, 
the Corporate Responsibility Committee will 
meet five times a year and one of these 
meetings will be for a full day and held at 
one of the Company’s sites – providing an 
opportunity for directors to gain first-hand 
experience of the application of corporate 
responsibility-related matters. 
 – We will benchmark our Code of Conduct 
and policies and processes regularly to 
ensure that we remain at the leading edge 
of managing business conduct.
Paul Anderson
Chairman of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee
Members
Paul Anderson (Chairman) 
Harriet Green 
Ian Tyler 
Ian Tyler replaced Sir Peter Mason as a member on 8 May 2013.
Governance
The Corporate Responsibility Committee was in place throughout 2013, and held five 
meetings. All its members are independent in accordance with the provisions of the Code. 
Summary of responsibilities
 – Assisting the Board in overseeing the development of strategy, and policy on social, 
environmental and ethical matters 
 – Keeping under review the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control policies and 
procedures for the identification, assessment, management and reporting of reputational 
and other non-financial risks 
 – Monitoring and reviewing the role and effectiveness of the Company’s Internal Audit 
function in relation to corporate responsibility 
 – Providing oversight of the Company’s compliance with corporate responsibility-related 
policies and procedures
 – Reviewing audit and assurance reports produced by the corporate responsibility assurer
 – Overseeing and supporting key stakeholder engagement on social, environmental and 
ethical issues 
 – Making proposals to the Remuneration Committee regarding appropriate corporate 
responsibility-related performance objectives for executive directors 
 – Reviewing the Company’s arrangements for employees to obtain further advice on ethical 
issues in confidence 
 – Ensuring that the Code of Conduct is regularly reviewed and reflects best practice for 
such codes
 – Ensuring the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts includes an examination of ethical 
business conduct within the Company
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS Ann UAL REPORT 2013 77 We also agreed that we will review the 
reporting of corporate responsibility matters 
in our Annual Report to ensure that it 
accurately reflects the importance placed 
on such matters, not only by the members 
of the Committee, but the Board as a whole.
In addition to ethical business conduct, the 
Corporate Responsibility Committee also 
focuses on safety, diversity and inclusion, 
and environment. Reporting on these can 
be found on pages 62 and 63 and also 
pages 112 to 119. 
In respect of safety, as also reported by the 
Chief Executive, there were two work-related 
fatalities in 2013. The details of these 
fatalities and the Company’s responses to 
them were reviewed in detail by the Committee 
to ensure that lessons were learnt and, where 
necessary, action was taken.
The Committee uses Recordable Accident 
Rate and major injuries as its basic measures 
of performance. In 2013, whilst there was an 
improvement in the Recordable Accident Rate 
across the Group, there was an increase in 
major injuries (as defined by the UK Health 
and Safety Executive, and includes fractures, 
injuries to eyes and loss of consciousness). 
Management is addressing the issues that 
should drive improvements in safety 
performance, and will be focused on this 
during 2014. The targets set by the Committee 
are designed to be stretching and encourage 
an approach to safety management that will, 
over time, deliver performance for the 
Company that is in line with the best. Parts of 
the Group are already performing at this level 
and we see good examples of businesses 
working together to share learning and 
adoption of a more integrated approach to 
developing safety management. However, our 
approach to safety is more than just targets; 
the Committee also monitors how safety is 
managed, looking at how we can embed safer 
ways of working regarding personal, process 
and product safety. 
Progress is being made in diversity and 
inclusion with senior management paying a 
good level of attention to the diversification 
of our leadership and talent pipelines. We 
recognise that culture change takes time 
but to make a difference we need to continue 
to see the right leadership behaviours and 
programmes of activities that will drive 
change, both in absolute numbers and also 
in employee perceptions of how inclusive a 
Company we are. The all-employee training 
on unconscious bias undertaken across the 
Group in 2013, and aimed at developing an 
inclusive working environment, is a good 
example of such an activity. One of the areas 
that the Committee is focusing on is our 
human resource programmes and their 
performance in ensuring that diversity and 
inclusion goals are progressed. The Group 
HR Director is asked to attend Committee 
meetings regularly to report on this matter.
Our approach to environmental matters is to 
require each of the Company’s businesses 
to target efficiencies for energy, water and 
waste. Overall, our processes for setting 
targets and reporting on environmental 
matters are not as mature as those we 
see for the other areas that the Committee 
focuses on. However, we are seeing a good 
level of engagement from businesses in 
achieving targets that promote a more 
environmentally sustainable approach to 
business and one where cost savings from 
efficiencies enhance the performance of 
our businesses.
Finally, one of the most useful and informative 
activities that the Committee undertakes is 
to visit different sites across the Company 
and use these visits to dig a bit deeper into 
corporate responsibility matters. One such 
visit in 2013 was to the Submarines business 
in Barrow-in-Furness where we spent time 
looking at the management of product safety, 
nuclear regulation, and health and safety 
management in a complex industrial 
environment. 
Paul Anderson 
Chairman – Corporate Responsibility 
Committee
Other key areas of work undertaken by the 
Committee in 2013
During the year, the Committee has:
 – reviewed the Company’s performance 
against the corporate responsibility 
objectives set for 2012 and made 
recommendations to the Remuneration 
Committee to assist it in agreeing the 
level of award to be made under the annual 
incentive plan. Made recommendations 
on corporate responsibility-related metrics 
for the 2013 annual incentive plan;
 – received reports and presentations 
from the head of Internal Audit on audit 
work undertaken during the year, 
particularly with regards to corporate 
responsibility-related matters;
 – reviewed the Company’s offset 
commitments and the controls in place 
regarding the approval and acceptance 
of such commitments and their ongoing 
management;
 – considered the outputs from the 
non-financial risk reviews undertaken by 
the Executive Committee and the status 
of associated mitigation activity;
 – reviewed the operation and effectiveness 
of the Company’s Ethics Helpline and the 
nature of matters reported;
 – agreed the scope of the work to be 
undertaken by Deloitte LLP pursuant to 
their assurance statement included in 
this Annual Report;
 – reviewed the Company’s anti-bribery 
compliance processes, including those 
for the appointment of advisers; 
 – met with the Group HR Director, and 
discussed and reviewed the Company’s 
programme aimed at developing a more 
diverse and inclusive workforce; and
 – reviewed the Company’s Product Trading 
Policy, dealing with the products and 
services developed and sold by the 
Company, and ensuring that they reflect 
the Company’s standards of integrity.
78 BAE SySt EMS Ann UAL REPORT 2013
GOVERNANCE CORPORAt E RESPONSIBILIty COMMItt EE REPORt n ominations  
Committee report Summary of activity 
 – The search for a suitable candidate to 
succeed Sir Richard Olver as Chairman 
of the Board was undertaken by the 
Committee in 2013. Throughout this 
process, the Committee was chaired by 
the Board’s Senior Independent Director, 
nick Rose. The Committee was assisted 
in its process by the executive search 
consultants, Spencer Stuart*. During the 
search process, Mr Rose engaged with 
important stakeholders – including major 
shareholders – and also consulted with all 
members of the Board on a regular basis.
 – The Committee nominated Sir Roger Carr 
for appointment and he was duly appointed 
a non-executive director of the Company 
with effect from 1 October 2013, and 
succeeded Sir Richard Olver as Chairman 
on 1 February 2014. Sir Roger serves as 
Chairman in a non-executive capacity and 
was independent at the time of his 
appointment in accordance with Code 
provision B.1.1.
 – The Committee undertook a search for two 
non-executive directors during the year. The 
Committee appointed the executive search 
consultants, Zygos Partners*, to assist 
with this activity. This work resulted in the 
appointment of Ian Tyler and Chris Grigg 
with effect from 8 May and 1 July 2013, 
respectively.
 – The Company’s executive development 
and succession planning processes were 
reviewed by the Committee during 2013. 
 – Following the announcement that Linda 
Hudson, President and Chief Executive 
Officer of the Company’s US operations, 
would be retiring this year, the Committee 
worked with the Chief Executive and the 
BAE Systems, Inc. board to identify the right 
candidate to replace her. As a result of this, 
Jerry DeMuro, a former senior executive at 
General Dynamics, was appointed to 
succeed Ms Hudson as President and Chief 
Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. and 
a member of the BAE Systems plc Board 
with effect from 1 February 2014.
Sir Roger Carr
Chairman of the nominations  
Committee
Members
Sir Roger Carr (Chairman) 
Paul Anderson  
nick Rose 
Sir Richard Olver was chairman of the Committee throughout 2013 and was succeeded 
by Sir Roger Carr on 1 February 2014. Sir Peter Mason was a member of the Committee 
up to 8 May 2013. 
Governance
The nominations Committee was in place throughout 2013 and held nine meetings. It is 
chaired by the Chairman of the Company. The Chairman was independent when appointed 
to the Board and the other two members of the Committee are independent non-executive 
directors in accordance with the provisions of the Code. 
Summary of responsibilities
 – Reviewing regularly the structure, size and composition of the Board, and making 
recommendations to the Board on any appropriate changes 
 – Identifying and nominating for the Board’s approval suitable candidates to fill any vacancies 
for non-executive and, with the assistance of the Chief Executive, executive directors 
 – Planning for the orderly succession of directors to the Board 
 – Recommending to the Board the membership and chairmanship of the Audit, Corporate 
Responsibility and Remuneration committees
*  Spencer Stuart provide other recruitment services 
to the Company. The recruitment services that 
Zygos Partners provided directly to the Chairman 
and nominations Committee in respect of 
non-executive recruitment were the only services 
they provided to the Company during the year. 
Both firms are signatories to the Voluntary Code 
of Conduct for Executive Recruitment Firms 
(as recommended by the Davies Report).
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS Ann UAL REPORT 2013 79 Remune Ration C ommittee 
Repo Rt Carl Symon
Chairman of the  
Remuneration Committee
Members
Carl Symon (Chairman) 
Chris Grigg 
Nick Rose
Governance
The Remuneration Committee was in place throughout 2013 and held eight meetings. 
Chris Grigg joined the Committee on 1 July 2013 and Lee McIntire served on the Committee 
until he stepped down from the Board on 20 August 2013. All its members are independent 
in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
The Chief Executive and the Company’s Chairman attend Committee meetings by invitation 
only. They do not attend where their individual remuneration is discussed and no director is 
involved in deciding his own remuneration.
Summary of responsibilities
 – Agreeing a policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors, members of 
the Executive Committee (EC), the Company Secretary and other senior executives
 – Within the agreed policy, determining individual remuneration packages for the Chairman, 
executive directors and EC members
 – Agreeing the policy on terms and conditions to be included in service agreements for the 
Chairman, executive directors, EC members, the Company Secretary and other senior 
executives, including termination payments and compensation commitments, where 
applicable
 – Approving any employee share-based incentive schemes and any performance conditions 
to be used for such schemes
 – Determining any share scheme performance targets
“ We believe that it is of the 
utmost impo Rtan Ce to ensu Re 
a st Rong link bet Ween a Ctual 
Remune Ration Re Ceived and the 
a Chievement of ou R st Rategi C 
and business obje Ctives.”
Dear Shareholders,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to 
present the Remuneration Committee’s 
report for 2013, for which we will be seeking 
shareholders’ approval at the 2014 AGM. 
Since I last reported to you on the work 
undertaken by the Remuneration Committee, 
there has been a good deal of change in the 
regulations concerning directors’ remuneration. 
The changes were preceded by a wide-ranging 
debate, which engaged many stakeholders 
and considered important issues, including 
the impact that executive incentives can have 
on the creation of sustainable long-term value 
for shareholders and the wider economy, the 
balance of risk and reward between 
shareholders and executives and, closer to 
home, the effectiveness of remuneration 
committees. All members of the Remuneration 
Committee have followed this debate and the 
evolution of the new regulations closely. We 
are therefore keenly aware of the important 
governance role that the Committee plays and 
the regulatory and governance requirements 
to which we are required to adhere. 
The remuneration policy that we have set out 
in this report is the result of a detailed review 
that began with a broad discussion and 
analysis of what we wished to achieve and 
the various remuneration structures that could 
be employed. The views of our shareholders 
informed us throughout our deliberations 
and the views of our major shareholders 
were sought directly once the policy had 
taken shape. Ultimately, the work of the 
Remuneration Committee is informed by the 
wider role we have as non-executive directors 
in understanding and overseeing the 
performance of the Company, including the 
markets in which it operates and the strategy 
agreed by the Board. 
BAE Systems’ remuneration philosophy
The Committee’s overall approach remains 
unchanged: we aim to recognise the challenging 
business environment in which we operate, 
whilst fostering a Total Performance culture 
at all levels of the Group. Our remuneration 
strategy provides incentives for executives to 
deliver on the Company goals and rewards 
them for the achievement of the Group’s 
strategy through a combination of short-term 
incentives targeted at Group, business 
segment and personal performance as well 
as leadership behaviours, and long-term 
incentives which are targeted at Group 
performance. We ensure that executive pay 
is aligned with Company results and that the 
interests of our executives are strongly aligned 
to those of our shareholders by delivering 
long-term reward in shares. Our aim is to 
provide a total remuneration package that 
GOVERNANCE
80 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 is fair and transparent and which balances 
overall commonality of design with appropriate 
tailoring to ensure competitiveness in our 
different principal markets.
Context to the Committee’s decisions 
Our remuneration strategy is to ensure we 
are able to attract, retain and reward the 
key talent we need to realise the Company’s 
strategic objectives, deliver on customer 
commitments, lead and inspire employees 
and to drive value for our shareholders. 
It recognises the need to be competitive 
in those markets in which we operate and 
compete for talent. A core design objective 
is an appropriate balance of short-term and 
long-term incentives, focused on Group 
performance, business segment performance 
and leadership behaviours that underpin a 
Total Performance culture. 
The focus of changes to our reward framework 
in recent years has been to improve alignment 
with shareholder value creation and address 
the perceived complexity of our long-term 
incentive arrangements by simplifying our 
arrangements. The Committee believes that 
the introduction of share options in 2012 
(without increasing the expected value of 
the overall package) has created a direct 
relationship with absolute share price 
performance and a clear line of sight for 
executives. And with approval at the AGM in 
May 2013, we simplified our framework by 
eliminating our Share Matching Plan (SMP) 
which was regarded as overly complex. The 
pay-out experience under our incentive plans 
provides confidence that the choice and 
weighting of the performance metrics in our 
incentive plans are appropriately rewarding our 
executive team only when their performance 
delivers tangible business results in line with 
the Group’s strategy. Against this background, 
the Committee has continued to consider 
whether more can be done to reduce 
complexity and provide even greater clarity 
and transparency for shareholders.
In 2013, our performance against annual 
incentive targets was as follows: Our adjusted 
underlying earnings per share (EPS) of 42.1p 
was between threshold and target, driven 
predominantly by the impacts of Sequestration 
on the performance of BAE Systems, Inc. 
and the contract losses in our US Support 
Solutions business. Order intake was in line 
with target and the performance for both 
year-end and average net debt was between 
target and stretch. The reported diluted 
underlying EPS of 41.8p was below the level 
required for any vesting against the EPS 
metric applicable to any long-term incentives 
awarded in 2011. This result of 41.8p will 
form the baseline figures against which the 
EPS performance metric for 2014 Performance 
Share Plan (PSP) awards will be assessed.
Key Committee decisions 
During 2013, the Committee continued to 
focus on tackling complexity and ensuring 
alignment with key drivers of business 
performance. Key decisions made by the 
Committee during the year were:
 – The salaries of the Chief Executive and the 
Group Finance Director remain unchanged in 
2014. For the second successive year, there 
will be no increase in base compensation 
and no increase in earnings opportunity 
flowing through to the rest of the package. 
The President and Chief Executive Officer of 
BAE Systems, Inc. has been newly appointed 
effective 1 February 2014 and the detail of 
his remuneration package is set out in the 
Annual remuneration report.
 – Annual bonus pay-outs for the executive 
directors under the annual incentive plan 
ranged from 48.9% to 54.6% of maximum.
 – EPS performance over the three-year 
period for awards made in 2011 under 
the long-term incentive plans was below 
the minimum 5% per annum average 
growth requirement. Consequently:
 – the SMP award granted in 2011 earned 
a nil match; and
 – of the 50% of the awards of shares granted 
in May 2011 under the EPS portion of 
the PSP , none will vest. The performance 
outcome against the Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR) condition which applies to 
the other 50% of PSP awards granted in 
May 2011 cannot be tested until after 
the date of publication of this report.
 – Whilst the Committee considers the award 
of performance shares, share options and 
restricted stock as essential to provide 
incentives and reward executives 
appropriately and ensure competitiveness 
of design in our different major markets, 
we are proposing the introduction of a 
single umbrella plan. If this is approved by 
shareholders at the 2014 AGM, it will 
replace the three current separate 
long-term incentive plans with a single 
long-term incentive framework with flexibility 
of delivery vehicles such that Long-Term 
Incentive (LTI) awards may be granted using 
a mix of performance shares, share options 
and restricted stock, underpinned by a 
common set of rules and terms relating to 
eligibility and participation, treatment on 
leaving, change of control and exercise of 
discretions by the Committee – which in 
turn will be clearer for shareholders when 
considering our remuneration policy.
In implementing this umbrella plan, there 
is no intention to change how the total LTI 
quantum is determined, how the various 
LTI elements are used by geography or the 
underlying design or operation of the 
different types of equity award. The current 
LTI opportunity applicable to each of the 
executive directors remains unchanged. 
Subject to formal shareholder approval 
of the new umbrella plan at the AGM in 
May 2014, the Committee intends to 
make awards under this new plan for the 
first time in Spring 2015. LTI awards in 
2014 will continue to be delivered under the 
current incentive framework and plan rules 
previously approved by shareholders.
 – In the case of the President and Chief 
Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc., 
50% of the PSP has previously been based 
on a measure relating to operating cash 
performance of the US businesses (with 
the other 50% being subject to the same 
EPS performance condition as applies to 
other executive directors). In order to create 
stronger alignment of focus and reward 
outcomes across the entire executive 
leadership team, awards of performance 
shares will be based 50% on EPS growth 
and 50% on relative TSR for all executive 
directors, irrespective of geography.
 – The Remuneration Committee has 
maintained the EPS performance conditions 
for PSP awards in 2014 at a challenging 
growth target of 5% to 11% per annum. 
 – We are retaining our requirement for 
executive directors to build up a meaningful 
personal shareholding, which was increased 
in 2013 for the Chief Executive from 200% 
to 300% of salary and now stands at 350% 
for the President and Chief Executive 
Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. and at 200% 
for the Group Finance Director.
We intend in practice to operate the Directors’ 
remuneration policy from the 2014 AGM. For 
the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, the 
legally binding restrictions under such policy 
will only take legal effect from 1 January 2015 
subject to shareholder approval.
On behalf of the Board
Carl Symon 
Chairman – Remuneration Committee
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 81 di Re Cto Rs ’ Remune Ration 
poli CY
It is intended in practice to operate the 
Directors’ remuneration policy (‘the Policy’)
from the 2014 AGM. For the purposes of the 
Companies Act 2006, the Policy will only take 
legal effect on 1 January 2015 subject to 
shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM. 
The Policy will be displayed in the ‘Investors’ 
section of the Company’s website, immediately 
after the 2014 AGM.
The Committee considers remuneration policy 
annually to ensure that it remains aligned 
with business needs and is appropriately 
positioned relative to the market. However, 
in the absence of exceptional or unexpected 
circumstances which may necessitate a 
change to the Policy, there is currently no 
intention to revise the Policy more frequently 
than every three years. We use target 
performance to estimate the total potential 
reward and benchmark it against reward 
packages paid by BAE Systems’ competitors.
Our Policy is to set base salary with reference 
to the relevant market-competitive level. 
Actual total direct reward reflects the 
performance of the individual and the 
Company as a whole. The aim is to deliver an 
overall remuneration package for executive 
directors which provides an appropriate 
balance between short-term and long-term 
reward and between fixed and variable reward 
as described in the table below.
Whilst our long-term incentive plans provide 
the Committee with discretion in respect of 
vesting outcomes that affect the actual level 
of reward payable to individuals, such 
discretion would only be used in exceptional 
circumstances and, if exercised, disclosed 
at the latest in the report on implementation 
of the remuneration policy (i.e. the Annual 
remuneration report) for the year in question.
Element
Base salary
Purpose and link to strategy
Recognise market value of role and individual’s skills, experience and performance to 
ensure the business can attract and retain talent.
 
Operation
Salaries are reviewed annually. Business and individual 
performance, skills, the scope of the role and the 
individual’s time in the role are taken into account when 
assessing salaries, as is market data for similar roles in 
the relevant market comparator group.
The comparator group for UK executive directors is 
comprised of selected companies from the top 70 of the 
FTSE 100 and is constructed to position BAE Systems 
around the median in terms of market capitalisation. For 
the President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, 
Inc., the comparator group is drawn from companies in 
the US aerospace and defence sectors, together with 
similar organisations in the general industry sector 
where BAE Systems, Inc. is positioned at the median 
of the comparator group by reference to revenue size.
 
Maximum opportunity
When considering salary increases for the 
executive directors in their current roles, the 
Committee considers the general level of salary 
increase across the Group and in the relevant 
external market.
Actual increases for the executive directors in 
their current roles will generally not exceed the 
average percentage increase for employees as a 
whole, taking account of the level of movement 
within the relevant UK/US comparator group.
As a maximum, in exceptional circumstances (such 
as a material increase in job size or complexity, or 
a recently appointed executive director where the 
salary is positioned low against the market), the 
increase will not exceed 10% in any single year.
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
None.
Executive directors’ policy table
GOVERNANCE
82 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Element
Annual incentive
Purpose and link to strategy
Drive and reward annual performance of individuals and teams on both financial and 
non-financial metrics, including leadership behaviours in order to deliver sustainable 
growth in shareholder value. 
Compulsory deferral into shares increases alignment with shareholder interests.
 
Operation
75–80% of the annual incentive is driven off in-year 
financial performance, and 20–25% is based on driving 
performance and improvement in the area of corporate 
responsibility and other non-financial objectives 
supporting the Group’s strategy. 
One-third of the total annual incentive amount is subject 
to compulsory deferral for three years in BAE Systems 
shares without any matching.
A clawback mechanism exists under which part or all of 
the deferred bonus can be recovered if performance for 
which the bonus was awarded is subsequently restated 
or shown to be materially inaccurate or misleading or 
where the executive’s employment can be terminated 
for cause.
Cash dividends are payable to the participants on the 
shares during this three-year deferral period.
 
Maximum opportunity
Chief Executive and the President and Chief 
Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc.: 225% 
of salary
Group Finance Director: 
160% of salary
The pay-out for maximum performance is 200% 
of on-target. The pay-out for achieving a threshold 
performance is 40% of the target, with no pay-out 
for achieving less than this. Pay-out for performance 
between targets is calculated on a straight-line basis.
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
Metrics and weightings applicable 
in 2014: 
Group earnings per share (EPS)  
– 40% 
Group cash – 25% 
Order intake – 15% 
Safety – 5% 
Personal objectives – 15%
Performance is assessed on an 
annual basis, using a combination 
of the Group’s main performance 
indicators for the year. The measures 
include financial and non-financial 
metrics as well as the achievement 
of personal objectives. Measures will 
be weighted each year according to 
business priorities.
See notes 4 and 5 on page 87 
regarding the selection and weighting 
of performance metrics.
Notwithstanding performance 
against the above metrics, all bonus 
payments are at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee, which will 
be based on an assessment of the 
individual’s personal contribution to 
business performance over the 
relevant year and leadership 
behaviours demonstrated in making 
that contribution, relative to others.
Executive directors’ policy table continued
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 83 Element
Long-term Incentives (Lt I)
 
Operation
All awards are granted based on a percentage of salary 
and share price at the date of grant.
Dividend equivalents in respect of vested shares are 
paid at the time of vesting and are not taken into 
account when determining individual limits.
Pre-vesting clawback provisions apply to all awards and 
are intended to cover situations, for example, where 
results are restated or otherwise turn out to be materially 
inaccurate or where the executive’s employment can be 
terminated for cause.
The Committee will establish the targets for each measure 
at the start of each performance period based on Group 
projections and market expectations for the business. 
The performance conditions for previous awards are 
described in the Annual remuneration report.
Awards and performance conditions can be adjusted 
to take account of variations of share capital and other 
transactions or events.
On a change of control or similar transaction, awards 
generally will vest to the extent performance conditions 
are then satisfied (if applicable) and then be pro-rated to 
reflect the acceleration of vesting unless the Committee 
decides otherwise. Alternatively, awards may be 
exchanged for equivalent awards over shares in the 
acquiring company.
The share plan rules may be amended from time-to-time 
by the Committee in certain circumstances including 
minor changes for administrative, tax or other regulatory 
purposes.
Subject to this Policy, performance conditions may be 
amended in other circumstances if the Committee 
considers it appropriate.
 
Maximum opportunity
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
See notes 4 and 5 on page 87 
regarding the selection and weighting 
of performance metrics.
 
Operation
It is proposed to consolidate the three long-term 
incentive plans described below into a single umbrella 
plan with effect from 1 January 2015, subject to 
shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
 
Maximum opportunity
Subject to shareholder approval of the proposed 
umbrella plan at the 2014 AGM, over the lifetime 
of this remuneration policy, the Committee will 
have discretion to vary the weighting and mix of 
different types of awards within the following limits:
(a) Performance Shares: 
UK executive directors: 
Between 50% and 75% of overall LTI Expected 
Value (EV)
US executive directors: 
Between 25% and 50% of overall LTI EV
(b) Share Options:
Between 25% and 50% of overall LTI EV
(c) Restricted Shares:
Applicable to US executive directors only. No more 
than one-third of overall LTI EV
The maximum opportunity in respect of each 
element is as set out below.
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable 
See below in relation to Performance 
Shares and Share Options. 
See notes 4 and 5 on page 87.
Executive directors’ policy table continued
84 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
GOVERNANCE DIRECt ORS’ REMUNERAt ION POLICy Element
Long-term Incentives continued
Performance Shares
Purpose and link to strategy
Drive and reward delivery of sustained long-term EPS and Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) performance aligned to the interests of shareholders.
 
Operation
Awards, typically in the form of nil-cost options, vest and 
become exercisable in three tranches on the third, 
fourth and fifth anniversary of grant, subject to 
performance conditions.
For US participants, awards are delivered as conditional 
share awards (RSUs) which vest automatically on the 
third, fourth and fifth anniversary of grant, subject to 
performance conditions.
 
Maximum opportunity
Chief Executive: 250% of salary
Group Finance Director: 215% of salary
President and Chief Executive Officer of 
BAE Systems, Inc.: 242% of salary
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
Metrics and weightings applicable 
to 2014 awards: 
50% of award based on TSR growth 
relative to a comparator group of 
at least 12 companies over the 
three-year performance period. 
Nil vesting if TSR ranked below 
median in the peer group; 25% 
exercisable if TSR ranked at the 
median; 100% exercisable if TSR 
ranked in the upper quintile; pro-rata 
vesting for performance between 
median and upper quintile. Award 
subject to a secondary financial 
measure as set out on page 100.
50% of award based on average 
annual EPS growth over the three 
years with nil vesting at average 
annual EPS growth of 5% and 100% 
vesting at 11% growth.
Pro-rata vesting for intermediate 
performance.
50% of awards made in 2012 and 
2013 for US participants were based 
on long-term operating cash 
performance measured at the level 
of the US businesses in place of 
TSR growth.
See notes 4 and 5 on page 87.
Element
Long-term Incentives continued
Share Options
Purpose and link to strategy
Drive and reward delivery of TSR performance and sustained improvement in the 
Company’s share price.
 
Operation
Subject to a TSR performance condition. Market value 
options are normally exercisable between the third and 
tenth anniversary of their grant.
 
Maximum opportunity
Chief Executive: 300% of salary
Group Finance Director: 300% of salary
President and Chief Executive Officer of 
BAE Systems, Inc.: 390% of salary
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
For share option awards made to 
the executive directors only, exercise 
is subject to a TSR performance 
condition as set out above.
See notes 4 and 5 on page 87.
Element
Long-term Incentives continued
Restricted Shares
Purpose and link to strategy
Provide long-term reward through time-vesting awards principally in the Company’s 
US market.
 
Operation
The shares are subject only to the condition that the 
participant remains employed by the Group on the vesting 
date (three years after the award date). These awards are 
not subject to a performance condition as it is designed 
to address retention issues principally in the US.
 
Maximum opportunity
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director: 
Not eligible
President and Chief Executive Officer of 
BAE Systems, Inc.: 100% of salary
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable 
None.
See notes 4 and 5 on page 87.
Executive directors’ policy table continued
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 85 Element
Benefits
Purpose and link to strategy
Provide employment benefits which ensure that the overall package is market competitive 
when these elements are taken into account.
 
Operation
Benefits include provision of a company car (or cash 
equivalent), life assurance and ill-health benefit cover 
which are provided directly or through membership of 
the Company’s pension schemes.
Opportunity for UK executive directors to participate in 
the Share Incentive Plan, a tax approved all-employee 
plan.
Additional benefits such as relocation assistance may 
also be provided in certain circumstances if considered 
reasonable and appropriate by the Committee.
 
Maximum opportunity
Benefits are set at a level which the Remuneration 
Committee considers to be appropriate against 
comparable roles in companies of similar size in 
the relevant market.
Relocation assistance comprises reimbursement 
for direct items of expenditure, such as legal, estate 
agency, removals and temporary accommodation, 
based on actual costs incurred which are linked to 
the size and value of the property, plus a 
maximum relocation allowance of £2,500.
Benefits are as reported and itemised within the 
single total figure shown as part of the Annual 
remuneration report on page 93. The main benefits 
in the UK include a car allowance (£16,000 per 
annum) and private use of a chauffeur-driven car, 
plus life assurance and ill-health benefit cover 
provided through membership of the Company’s 
pension schemes. In the US, the benefits include 
a cash allowance for car and parking ($20,900 per 
annum) and private use of a chauffeur-driven car, 
medical and dental benefits, and insured life and 
disability benefits. The maximum cost of such 
benefits will reflect the associated market-
competitive cost of provision.
Participation limits for the Share Incentive Plan are 
those set by the UK tax authorities from time-to-time.
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
None.
Element
Pension
Purpose and link to strategy
Provide competitive post-retirement benefits or cash allowance equivalent.
 
Operation
For any new externally appointed executive directors in 
the UK, membership of the Company’s executive defined 
contribution plan is offered with Company contributions 
set as a percentage of base salary. Individuals may elect 
to receive some or all of their pension contribution as a 
cash allowance.
Current UK executive directors are members of the 
BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme and members 
of the underlying employee pension plan, which provide 
a target benefit for executive directors payable at normal 
retirement age (62) of 1/30th of final pensionable 
earnings (FPE) for each year of service up to a maximum 
of two-thirds of FPE. Member contributions are currently 
8%. Further detail is provided on page 96 as part of the 
Annual remuneration report.
Any new externally appointed US executive directors 
would be offered membership of the US defined 
contribution plan.
 
Maximum opportunity
Company contribution of 19% (in addition to 
employee contribution of 6%) of base salary only.
Under the existing defined benefit scheme, a 
maximum of two-thirds of FPE accrued at 1/30th 
for each year of service.
The US defined contribution plan provides 
100% company matching contributions up to 
a maximum of 6% of base salary, subject 
to US statutory limits.
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
Executive directors’ policy table continued
86 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
GOVERNANCE DIRECt ORS’ REMUNERAt ION POLICy Element
Pension continued
 
Operation
Where executive directors’ pension entitlement or 
accrual is restricted to the Lifetime Allowance and/or 
the Annual Allowance under the relevant pension 
scheme the Company may offer an unfunded pension 
promise to offset the impact of these restrictions.
 
Maximum opportunity
The difference between the value of the registered 
pension scheme benefits as restricted to the 
Lifetime Allowance and Annual Allowance and the 
full value of those registered pension scheme 
benefits that would be payable if there were no 
Annual Allowance or Lifetime Allowance 
restrictions.
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
Notes to the executive directors’ policy table 
Remuneration policy for other employees
1  The Company’s approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the scope of the role, level of experience, 
performance and market data for similar roles in other companies.
2  All leaders may participate in an annual bonus scheme with similar metrics to those used for the executive directors. Other employees may participate in 
performance-based incentive plans which vary by organisational level and with relevant metrics for the particular area of the business.
3  Long-Term Incentive grants may be made to the most senior managers in the business (approximately 250 individuals globally). The nature of the awards depends 
on the individuals’ location, roles and responsibilities, in particular:
 – performance measures and targets for performance share grants are made in line with those applying to executive directors; 
 – there are no performance conditions attached to share option grants below executive director level; and
 – Restricted Share grants are currently made to the most senior managers in the US reflecting competitive market practice.
Performance measures and targets
4  The Committee selected the performance conditions because these are central to the Company’s overall strategy and are the key metrics used by the executive 
directors to oversee the operation of the business. The non-financial performance targets are determined by the Committee in consultation with the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee.
5  The performance measures and targets are determined annually by the Committee, taking account of the Group’s strategic objectives, the internal business 
plan and budgets, as well as external market expectations and general economic conditions. The Committee is of the view that the performance targets for the 
annual bonus are commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose them before the start of the financial year. 
The targets will be disclosed retrospectively after the end of the relevant financial year.
Minimum Shareholding Requirement (MSR)
6  The Committee has agreed a policy whereby the executive directors are required to establish and maintain a minimum personal shareholding equal to a set 
percentage of base salary. An Initial Value must be achieved as quickly as possible using shares vesting or options exercised through the executive share option 
schemes and other Long-Term Incentive schemes by retaining 50% of the net value (i.e. the value after deduction of exercise costs and tax) of shares acquired 
under these schemes. Once the Initial Value is achieved, a Subsequent Value must be achieved in the same way, except that a minimum of 25% of the net value 
must be retained on each exercise or acquisition. Shares owned beneficially by the director and his/her spouse count towards the MSR. The MSR does not apply 
after the individual has ceased to be a director. Any case of non-compliance would be dealt with by the Committee.
The following table sets out MSR Initial Value and Subsequent Value: 
Initial Value Subsequent Value
Chief Executive 150% 300%
Group Finance Director 100% 200%
President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. 175% 350%
Executive directors’ policy table continued
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 87 Illustration of application of remuneration policy
The following charts show the value of the package each of the executive directors would receive based on 2014 base salaries, remuneration 
and 2014 LTI awards assuming the following scenarios: minimum fixed pay (including salary, benefits and pension as provided in the single 
figure table on page 93); pay receivable assuming on-target performance is met; and maximum pay assuming variable elements pay out in full. 
The scenarios below exclude any share price appreciation and dividends.
UK legislation requires that these charts are given in relation to the first year in which the remuneration policy takes legal effect. Rather than 
providing further charts for assumed 2015 remuneration and awards, we invite shareholders to assume similar levels for 2015 and we will 
report on actual levels in 2015.
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
Fixed elements of remuneration
Annual bonus
PSP and ExSOP
4,000 6,000 8,000 2,000 0
20%
38%
33%
100% 1,346
31% 31% 3,513
47% 6,643
Chief Executive (£’000)
Value of package (£’000)
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
Fixed elements of remuneration
Annual bonus
PSP and ExSOP
2,000 3,000 4,000 1,000 0
35%
57%
23%
100% 1,289
19% 24% 2,268
42% 3,746
Group Finance Director (£’000)
Value of package (£’000)
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
Fixed elements of remuneration
Annual bonus
PSP and ExSOP
4,000 6,000 8,000 2,000 0
27%
47%
29%
100% 1,959
26% 27% 4,121
44% 7,321
Value of package ($’000)
President and Chief Executive Ofcer of 
BAE Systems, Inc. ($’000)
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
Fixed elements of remuneration Annual bonus PSP and Share options
4,000 6,000 8,000 2,000 0
20%
38%
33%
100% 1,346
31% 31% 3,513
47% 6,643
Chief Executive (£’000)
Value of package (£’000)
Non-executive directors (NEDs) policy table
Element
Fees
Purpose and link to strategy
To attract NEDs who have a broad range of experience and skills to provide independent 
judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
 
Operation
NEDs fees are set by the Non-Executive Directors’ 
Fees Committee.
NEDs receive a basic fee with an additional fee for those 
who are chairmen of committees and/or undertake the 
role of Senior Independent Director.
NEDs also receive a travel allowance per meeting on each 
occasion that a scheduled Board meeting necessitates 
air travel of more than five hours (one way) to the 
meeting location, subject to a maximum of six travel 
allowances per year. 
Fees are typically reviewed annually, taking into account 
time commitment requirements and responsibility of the 
individual roles, and after reviewing practice in other 
comparable companies. 
The Chairman’s fees are set by the Remuneration 
Committee on a three-year basis and not normally 
subject to review during that period. 
 
Maximum opportunity
Actual fee levels are disclosed in the Annual 
remuneration report for the relevant financial year.
The current Chairman’s fee has been set at 
£650,000 and fixed at this level for three years 
from the date of appointment (1 February 2014).
The aggregate cost of fees and benefits paid to 
NEDs (including the Chairman) will not exceed an 
annual limit of £2.5m.
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
None.
Element
Benefits
Purpose and link to strategy
Reimbursement for reasonable and documented expenses incurred in the performance 
of duties.
 
Operation
NEDs are not eligible to participate in any pension benefits 
provided by the Company, nor do they participate in any 
performance-related incentives.
The Chairman is provided with a chauffeur-driven car. 
This may be used for non-Company business, but the 
cost of the benefit of such usage shall be paid by the 
Chairman. 
Reimbursement of travel and subsistence costs 
(including payment of the associated tax cost) incurred 
by the director or his/her spouse whilst undertaking 
duties on behalf of the Company that may be assessed 
as a benefit for tax purposes. 
 
Maximum opportunity
See the aggregate limit under ‘Fees’ above. 
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
88 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
GOVERNANCE DIRECt ORS’ REMUNERAt ION POLICy Prior commitments 
The Company will honour any commitments made in respect of executive director and non-executive director remuneration before the date on 
which either: (i) the Directors’ remuneration policy becomes effective or (ii) an individual becomes a director, even where such commitments are 
not consistent with the policy prevailing at the time any such commitment is fulfilled. This includes (without limitation) all existing share awards 
as detailed on page 102 under the PSP , SMP , RSP , ExSOP and ExSOP
2012
, Linda Hudson’s leaving arrangements as detailed on page 98 and 
Peter Lynas’ second residence allowance as detailed on page 93. 
Approach to recruitment remuneration
The recruitment policy provides an appropriate framework within which to attract individuals of the required calibre to lead a company of 
BAE Systems’ size, scale and complexity. The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration package for any appointment to 
an executive director position, either from within or outside BAE Systems. 
Operation The Remuneration Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors, including overall total remuneration, the type of 
remuneration being offered and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited, and will operate in order to ensure that 
arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders without paying more than is necessary to secure the 
individual of the required calibre.
The fees and benefits applicable to the appointment of any new non-executive directors will be in accordance with the policy table 
on page 88.
Opportunity The Committee seeks to align the remuneration package offered with the policy set out in the executive directors’ policy table above 
recognising that participation under the policy above varies by geography. 
 – For UK and other non-US executive director appointments, participation in annual incentive plans will not exceed 225% of annual 
salary and long-term awards under this policy will not exceed 550% of annual salary. 
 – For US executive director appointments, participation in annual incentive plans will not exceed 225% of annual salary and long-term 
awards under this policy will not exceed 750% of annual salary.
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to ‘buy-out’ existing equity or, in exceptional circumstances, 
other elements of remuneration forfeited on leaving the previous employer. In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant 
factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted (e.g. cash or shares) and 
the time over which they would have vested. Buy-out awards would be capped to be no higher, on recruitment, than the fair value of 
those forfeited. Full details will be disclosed in the next Annual remuneration report following recruitment which will include details 
of the need to grant a buy-out award. 
Fixed 
elements 
(base salary, 
retirement 
and other 
benefits)
The salary level will be set in accordance with the policy described in the executive directors’ policy table above.
The executive director shall be eligible to participate in applicable BAE Systems’ employee benefit plans, including coverage under 
applicable executive and employee pension and benefit programmes in accordance with the terms and conditions of such plans, 
as may be amended by the Company in its sole discretion from time to time.
In the case of promotion of an existing Group employee to an executive directorship on the Board, commitments made before such 
promotion will continue to be honoured whether or not they are consistent with the remainder of this policy. 
Annual 
Incentive  
Plan
The appointed executive director will be eligible to earn a discretionary annual bonus in accordance with the Annual Incentive 
framework as described in the executive directors’ policy table above.
The level of opportunity will be consistent with the policy disclosed in the executive directors’ policy table in this report and subject 
to the maximums referred to therein.
Long-term 
Incentive 
Plans
The executive director will be eligible for equity awards in such amounts as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion, 
subject to this policy and the rules of the Long-Term Incentive Plans.
The level of opportunity will be consistent with the policy set out in the executive directors’ policy table above and subject to the 
maximums referred to therein.
Other For internal and external appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses 
in accordance with the provisions described under the Benefits section of the policy table on page 86.
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 89 Service contracts 
Executive directors
Operation In accordance with long-established policy, all executive directors have rolling service agreements which may be terminated in 
accordance with the terms of these agreements. 
Dates of appointment for executive directors
Name
Ian King
Peter Lynas
Jerry DeMuro
Date of appointment
27 June 2008 
1 April 2011
1 February 2014
Notice period
12 months either party
12 months either party
90 days either party
1
Notice period The Committee’s policy is that the service contracts of executive directors will not exceed 12 months. In exceptional circumstances, 
in relation to newly recruiting an executive director operating in a US environment, the notice period may be extended to a maximum 
of 24 months and structured such that it automatically reduces to 12 months at the end of the first complete year of service. 
Change of 
control
No executive director has provisions in his service contract that relate to a change of control of the Company.
1  Jerry DeMuro’s contract of employment automatically renews for one-year periods from 31 December each year, unless one party gives at least 90 days’ notice 
of non-renewal.
Chairman
The Chairman’s appointment is documented in a letter of appointment and he is required to devote no fewer than two days a week to his duties 
as Chairman. His appointment as Chairman will automatically terminate if he ceases to be a director of the Company. His appointment is for a 
term of three years from 1 February 2014 unless terminated earlier in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association or by the Company 
or the Chairman giving not less than six months’ notice. The Chairman’s appointment is to be reviewed by the Nominations Committee prior to 
the end of the three-year term and the Chairman may be invited to serve for an additional period.
Non-executive directors
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but do have letters of appointment detailing the basis of their appointment. The dates 
of their original appointment are shown below:
Name Date of appointment
Expiry of current 
three-year term
Paul Anderson 08.10.2009 07.10.2015
Harriet Green 01.11.2010 30.06.2014
Chris Grigg 01.07.2013 30.06.2016
Paula Rosput Reynolds 01.04.2011 30.06.2014
Nick Rose 08.02.2010 07.02.2016
Carl Symon 11.06.2008 10.06.2014
Ian Tyler 08.05.2013 07.05.2016
The non-executive directors are normally appointed for an initial three-year term that, subject to review, may be extended subsequently for 
further such terms. Any third term of three years is subject to rigorous review, taking into account the need progressively to refresh the Board. 
They do not have periods of notice and the Company has no obligation to pay compensation when their appointment terminates.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors are subject to annual election or re-election at the Company’s AGM.
90 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
GOVERNANCE DIRECt ORS’ REMUNERAt ION POLICy Policy on payment for loss of office
Operation The policy on payment for loss of office provides a clear set of principles that govern the payments that will be made for loss of office, 
and take account of the need to ensure a smooth transition for leadership roles during times of change. The policy that will apply for 
a specific executive director’s payment for loss of office will be the policy that was in place at the point when the payment for loss of 
office was agreed for the executive director in question.
Notice and 
pay in lieu 
of notice
Executive directors’ contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from either party or termination by way of payment in lieu 
of notice, at the Company’s discretion. Neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct. 
In the event of the termination of an executive director’s contract, it is the Committee’s policy to seek to limit any payment made in 
lieu of notice to a payment of not more than one year’s base salary.
Any compensation payment made in connection with the departure of an executive director will be subject to approval by the 
Remuneration Committee, having regard to the terms of the service contract and the specific circumstances surrounding the termination, 
including whether the scenario aligns to an example under the approved leaver criteria, performance, service and health or other 
circumstances that may be relevant. 
Jerry DeMuro’s contract of employment automatically renews for one-year periods from 31 December each year, unless one party 
gives at least 90 days’ notice of non-renewal. If the employment is (a) terminated by the Company (other than for cause as defined 
in the contract) or (b) he resigned for a ‘Good Reason’ (as defined in his contract), he is entitled to a termination payment equal to 
(i) one year’s base salary and (ii) a pro-rated bonus for the relevant financial year. He will also be entitled to a continuation of medical 
benefits for 18 months (or a cash payment in lieu).
Retirement 
benefits
As governed by the rules of the relevant pension plan. No enhancement for leavers will be made.
Annual 
Incentive  
Plan
The Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to make an annual incentive payment as part of the termination package. 
Where an executive director’s employment is terminated after the end of a performance year but before the payment is made, the 
executive director will remain eligible for an annual incentive award for that performance year subject to an assessment based on 
performance achieved over the period. No award will be made in the event of gross misconduct.
Where an executive director leaves by reason of death, ill-heath, retirement, a transfer of business or redundancy, the Remuneration 
Committee may use its discretion to determine that an executive director is entitled to receive a bonus (subject to an assessment 
based on performance over the period and pro-rated for time) in respect of the financial year in which the individual ceased 
employment. 
If the Remuneration Committee regards it necessary to use their discretion, it must be shown how this is in the interests of the 
Company and its shareholders.
The Committee’s policy is not to award an annual incentive for any portion of the notice period not served.
Long-term  
Incentive 
Plans
The treatment of outstanding share awards in the event that an executive director leaves is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
Under the Long-Term Incentive Plans, awards and options generally vest and/or become exercisable where an executive director 
leaves by reason of ill-health, injury, disability, retirement with the agreement of the Company, redundancy or leaving in such 
circumstances as the Committee determines (each an ‘approved leaver’). Awards and options generally continue and vest on the 
normal vesting date (or, in the case of Performance Shares, the first normal vesting date), unless the Committee determines that 
the awards should vest on cessation. Any performance conditions will be applied at the time of vesting.
In the event of death, awards generally vest at the time of death subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that 
time. Awards are then pro-rated as set out below.
On the vesting and/or exercise of awards and/or options as set out above, the number of shares received will, unless the Committee 
decides otherwise, be reduced pro-rata to reflect the period in which the executive director was in employment as a proportion of 
the relevant vesting or performance period (as applicable).
Where an executive director’s employment is terminated for any other reason, his awards and options will lapse.
If the Remuneration Committee regards it necessary to exercise its discretion as permissible under the share plan rules, then 
disclosure will include an explanation of how the application of discretion was in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. 
Where an executive director’s employment is terminated or an executive director is under notice of termination for any reason at the 
date of award of any Long-Term Incentive awards, no Long-Term Incentive awards will be made. 
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company
The Remuneration Committee does not consult directly with employees as part of the process for reviewing executive pay. When considering 
salary increases for the executive directors, the Remuneration Committee considers the general level of salary increase across the Group and 
in the external market.
Stakeholder considerations
The Remuneration Committee conducts an annual programme of consultation with major shareholders in order to seek their input to the 
development of remuneration policy or plans.
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 91 a nnual Remune Ration 
Repo Rt Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2013
This section details the remuneration of the executive and 
non-executive directors (including the Chairman) during the 
financial year ended 31 December 2013 and will, together with 
the annual statement of the Committee Chairman on pages 80 
and 81, be proposed for an advisory vote by shareholders at 
the 2014 AGM. It has been prepared on the basis prescribed 
in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. 
Page
Single total figure of remuneration:
 – for the Chairman and non-executive directors
 – for the executive directors
92 
93
Annual bonus and Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) outturn, 
Total Shareholder Return performance and spend on pay
 
94
Pension entitlements 96
Chairman and executive director changes 98
Share interests:
 – scheme interests awarded in 2013
 – share plans and related performance conditions
 – directors’ shareholdings and share interests
99 
100 
101
Voting on the 2012 Remuneration report, and Committee 
composition and advisers 103
Policy statement for the year ending 31 December 2014 104
Single total figure of remuneration for the Chairman and non-executive directors
Fees Benefits Other Total
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Chairman
Sir Richard Olver
1
725 725 15 20 n/a n/a 740 745
Non-executive directors
P M Anderson 95 95 – – 23 23 118 118
Sir Roger Carr
2
19 n/a – n/a – n/a 19 n/a
H Green 75 75 – – 9 14 84 89
C M Grigg
3
38 n/a – n/a – n/a 38 n/a
M J Hartnall
4
n/a 25 n/a – n/a – n/a 25
Sir Peter Mason
5
28 95 – – 5 9 33 104
L A McIntire
6
47 75 – – 18 18 65 93
P Rosput Reynolds 75 75 – – 23 23 98 98
N C Rose 119 100 – – 14 14 133 114
C G Symon 95 95 – – 23 23 118 118
I P Tyler
7
49 n/a – n/a 5 n/a 54 n/a
1 Retired from the Board on 1 February 2014.
2 Appointed on 1 October 2013.
3 Appointed on 1 July 2013.
4 Retired in 2012. 
5 Retired on 8 May 2013.
6 Resigned on 20 August 2013. 
7 Appointed on 8 May 2013.
The above table has been subject to audit.
The fee structure for 2013 for the non-executive directors on a per annum basis was as follows: (i) Chairman, Audit Committee: £100,000; 
(ii) Chairman, Corporate Responsibility Committee: £95,000; (iii) Chairman, Remuneration Committee: £95,000; (iv) Other non-executive directors: 
£75,000; and (v) Additional fee for Senior Independent Director: £20,000. These amounts are shown in the ‘Fees’ column above. A travel 
allowance of £4,500 per meeting is also paid on each occasion that a non-executive director’s travel necessitates air travel of more than five hours 
(one way) to the meeting location, subject to a maximum of six travel allowances per year. These amounts are shown in the ‘Other’ column.
The benefits received by the Chairman, Sir Richard Olver, include the private use of a chauffeur-driven car (2013 £14k; 2012 £20k) and spousal 
attendance at corporate events.
There were no payments made to former directors in the year under review.
GOVERNANCE
92 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Single total figure of remuneration for the executive directors 
Base salary
1
Taxable benefits
2
Bonus
3
LTIP
4
Pension
5
Other
6
Total
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
I G King 963 963 41 34 1,156 1,205 – – 338 371 1 1 2,499 2,574
P J Lynas 546 546 64 16 477 482 – – 698 791 1 – 1,786 1,835
L P Hudson
7
668 660 143 120 735 1,012 – – 56 170 686 660 2,288 2,622
1  Linda Hudson’s base salary throughout 2012 and 2013 was $1,045,350 per annum and the variance in base salary relates to foreign 
exchange movement.
2  The benefits received by Ian King include the provision of a car allowance and the private use of a chauffeur-driven car (2013 £41k; 
2012 £34k). The benefits received by Peter Lynas include the provision of a car allowance and the private use of a chauffeur-driven car 
(2013 £17k; 2012 £16k). In addition, during 2013, he received a second residence allowance of £47k which, as reported in the prior year, 
is a more cost-effective option for the Company than requiring the relocation of his principal residence from outside London. This comprises 
a lump sum of £22,200, together with a monthly allowance totalling £33,300 in year one (commencing 1 April 2013), declining on a uniform 
basis to £6,660 in year five (such monthly allowances over the five-year period totalling £99,900), and zero thereafter. Clawback provisions 
operate during years one and two of this arrangement whereby he would be required to repay these monies on a pro-rata basis should he 
leave the Company in certain circumstances, e.g. resignation or termination. Linda Hudson’s benefits include the provision of a cash allowance 
for a car and parking and the private use of a chauffeur-driven car (2013 £48k; 2012 £42k); medical and dental benefits (2013 £4k; 2012 £3k); 
and insured life and disability benefits (2013 £8k; 2012 £9k). In addition, her benefit figures also include £83k for the private use of a 
company aircraft (2012 £66k).
3  Further detail on bonus payments is provided on page 94. 
4  This column relates to estimated or actual value of Long-Term Incentive Plans for which the performance period ended in the relevant 
financial year. The 2011 PSP
EPS
 and the 2011 SMP awards (for which the performance periods ended on 31 December 2013) did not meet 
their performance conditions and lapsed (see page 95 for more detail). As reported in the prior year, the 2010 PSP and SMP awards (for 
which the performance periods ended on 31 December 2012) also lapsed.
5  The figures in this column have been calculated in line with the method set out in section 229 of the Finance Act 2004 using a capitalisation 
factor of 20 to assess the increase in the value of the pension promise over the year, net of inflation. Therefore, these figures are sensitive 
to salary increases and Consumer Prices Index (CPI) inflation as follows: 
 – Salary increase: As pensionable salary is averaged over three years, the figures for Peter Lynas still show the effect of the promotional 
increase following his appointment as Group Finance Director.
 – CPI inflation: In a year with high CPI inflation, the increase in the value of the pension promise would be lower than in a year with lower 
CPI inflation.
Linda Hudson’s 2013 pension figure is impacted by the change in accrual rate as detailed on page 97.
6  This column includes (i) for Ian King, the value of Free Share awards under the UK all-employee Share Incentive Plan (SIP) and Matching 
Shares under voluntary investment in the SIP; (ii) for Peter Lynas, Free Share awards under the SIP and tax-exempt health-screening; and 
(iii) for Linda Hudson, the value of the 2013 grant under the Restricted Share Plan (RSP) (and corresponding prior year figure). This award 
formed part of Linda Hudson’s 2013 LTIP allocation but is required to be reported under ‘Other’ as it has no performance conditions 
attached (see page 99 for calculation of the RSP figure).
7  Retired from the Board on 1 February 2014.
The above table has been subject to audit. 
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 93 Annual bonus
Bonuses for the 2013 year are paid in March 2014. The breakdown of bonus measures, achievement and pay-out for each executive director is 
shown below. One-third of the bonus payment is subject to compulsory deferral into BAE Systems shares for a three-year period, for which there 
is no additional performance condition.
Chief Executive
Measures
Weight (as a 
percentage of 
target)
Actual performance against targets set
Target for 
2013
Actual 
performance
3
Percentage  
of maximum 
opportunity Below Threshold Target Stretch
Financial Group EPS 40.0 44.1p 42.1p 38.4%
Group cash 25.0 £(757)m £(420)m 64.5%
Group order intake 15.0 £19.0bn £19.0bn 50.0%
Personal Environment 2.5
See note 1 below
100.0%
Safety 5.0 50.0%
Key strategic objectives 12.5 See note 2 below 75.0%
total bonus (as a percentage of maximum)
53.4%
Group Finance Director
Measures
Weight (as a 
percentage of 
target)
Actual performance against targets set
Target for 
2013
Actual 
performance
3
Percentage  
of maximum 
opportunity Below Threshold Target Stretch
Financial Group EPS 40.0 44.1p 42.1p 38.4%
Group cash 25.0 £(757)m £(420)m 64.5%
Group order intake 15.0 £19.0bn £19.0bn 50.0%
Personal Environment 2.5
See note 1 below
100.0%
Safety 5.0 50.0%
Key strategic objectives 12.5 See note 2 below 85.0%
total bonus (as a percentage of maximum)
54.6%
President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc.
Measures
Weight (as a 
percentage of 
target)
Actual performance against targets set
Target for 
2013
Actual 
performance
3
Percentage  
of maximum 
opportunity Below Threshold Target Stretch
Financial Group EPS 13.3 44.1p 42.1p 38.4%
Group cash 8.3 £(757)m £(420)m 64.5%
Group order intake 5.0 £19.0bn £19.0bn 50.0%
BAE Systems, Inc. profit 26.7 $1,726m $1,119m 20.5%
BAE Systems, Inc. cash 16.7 $(3,942)m $(3,547)m 100.0%
BAE Systems, Inc. order intake 10.0 $12.5bn $11.6bn 0.0%
Personal Environment 2.5
See note 1 below
100.0%
Safety 5.0 50.0%
Key strategic objectives 12.5 See note 2 below 70.0%
total bonus (as a percentage of maximum)
48.9%
1  The Group exceeded the 15% stretch target for reduction in Recordable Accident Rate (see page 28). However, the overall Group rating was reduced as a result of 
performance in the US business. All businesses demonstrated commitment to and met the stretch improvement targets set in respect of environmental performance.
2  Outcome determined by the Committee based on performance against a combination of base and premier objectives relating to delivery of the Group’s strategic 
objectives and demonstration of leadership behaviours.
3  Adjusted to be on a like-for-like basis with the targets. 
The above table has been subject to audit.
For bonus deferrals made in 2013 in respect of 2012 performance, the UK executive directors were granted a conditional award of matching shares 
against the gross value of the compulsory and voluntary element of annual incentive invested. Details of these awards are set out on page 99.
94 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REMUNERAt ION REPORt Long-term Incentive Plans (Lt IPs)
Outcome of performance conditions ending on 31 December 2013 Target Maximum Actual
Percentage of  
target achieved
Annual average EPS growth (%) 46.6p 53.9p 41.8p 0%
The following awards had performance periods that ended on 31 December 2013:
2011 Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
 – Performance conditions: half on relative TSR against comparator group, half on EPS growth of 5% to 11% per annum. As the EPS growth rate 
was not achieved, the related half of the award lapsed. The TSR performance condition ends on 31 March 2014 and has therefore not yet 
been tested. TSR performance to 31 December 2013 is shown in the chart below. 
2011 Share Matching Plan (SMP)
 – 2:1 match on shares deferred from 2010 annual incentive based on a performance condition of EPS growth of 5% to 11% per annum. As this 
growth was not achieved, the 2011 SMP earned a nil match and the award will accordingly lapse.
Current position on outstanding LTIP awards
A summary of TSR performance to 31 December 2013 is illustrated in the chart below.
The coloured boxes show the range of TSR required for 25% vesting to full vesting and the diamonds show BAE Systems’ TSR. The proportion 
that would vest is shown in the boxes at the top of the chart.
TSR performance under the PSP (to 31 December 2013) (%)
0
25
18 May
2011
7 September
2011
29 March
2012
12 October
2012
25 March
2013
50
75
100
125
Median to top 20% TSR BAE Systems’ TSR
0.0% vesting 0.0% vesting 0.0% vesting 0.0% vesting 39.4% vesting
Five-year t SR performance
The graph below shows the value by 31 December 2013, on a Total Shareholder Return basis, of £100 invested in BAE Systems on 
31 December 2008 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 100 index. The FTSE 100 is considered to be an appropriate 
comparator for this purpose as it is a broad equity index of which BAE Systems is a constituent member. The equivalent data is shown for 
the PSP comparator group.
Value at 31 December 2013 of £100 investment at 31 December 2008 (£)
£0
£50
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
£100
£150
£200
£250
BAE Systems FTSE 100 PSP comparator group
Change in Chief Executive’s remuneration over five years
Chief Executive’s single figure (£’000) 4,030 4,810 4,613 2,574 2,499
Bonus paid as a percentage of maximum 83.0% 71.0% 68.6% 55.6% 53.4%
LTI as a percentage of maximum vesting 65.5% 57.6% 44.3% nil nil
Note: Total remuneration includes the value of share plans vesting that were granted prior to appointment as Chief Executive.
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 95 Percentage change from 2012 to 2013 in remuneration of director undertaking the role of Chief Executive
Change in 
Chief Executive’s 
remuneration 
%
Change in
average UK employee
1
remuneration
%
Salary – +2
Benefits
2
+21 +2
Bonus -4 +9
1  The UK population has been chosen as this employee comparator group reflects the local employment conditions of the Chief Executive for the purpose of 
this comparison.
2 The increase in Chief Executive benefits reported represents an increased usage of a chauffeur-driven car during 2013.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following charts set out underlying EBITA
1
, amounts paid in returns to shareholders, total employee costs and average headcount for 
the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2013.
Underlying EBITA
1
 (£m)
2012 1,862
2013 1,925
+3%
Returns to shareholders (£m)
2012 620
2013 850
2
+37%
Total employee costs (£m)
2012 5,300
2013 5,054
-5%
Average headcount (’000)
2012 84
2013 80
-5%
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items (see page 33).
2 Includes £212m share buyback.
total pension entitlements 
Figures in the remuneration table on page 93
Director Age
Normal  
retirement date
Accrued  
benefit at
1 January 2013
1,2
£ per annum
Accrued  
benefit at 
31 December 2013
1,2
£ per annum
Added pension  
value received  
in the year from
defined benefit
scheme
2
£
Added pension 
value received 
in the year from  
defined contribution  
scheme 
£
Total 
£
Ian King 57 01.05.18 722,675 759,728 338,335 – 338,335 
Peter Lynas 55 01.04.20 333,662 378,285 697,601 – 697,601 
Linda Hudson
3
63 01.09.15 892,405 941,286 46,654 9,240 55,894 
1  Accrued benefits are reduced if they are taken before the normal retirement age of the scheme. In addition, a longevity adjustment factor applies to UK pension 
accrued after 5 April 2006.
2  The defined benefit figure includes both funded and unfunded arrangements for Ian King and Peter Lynas; and includes both Qualified and Non-Qualified plans 
for Linda Hudson.
3  Linda Hudson is a member of a US retirement plan which provides a cash sum at retirement equal to a percentage of career average pay. The accrued benefit 
shown above is a cash lump sum payable at normal retirement age. In addition, Linda Hudson participates in a Section 401(k) defined contribution arrangement 
set up for US employees in which the company will match employee contributions up to a limit. In 2013, the company paid contributions of £9,780 into this 
401(k) arrangement.
The above table has been subject to audit.
Current UK executive directors are members of the BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme (ExPS) and the BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan 
(2000 Plan) which together provide a pension for executive directors payable at 62 of 1/30th of three-year final average salary for each year of 
service subject to the payment of members’ contributions (currently 8%). Benefits paid prior to age 62 will be subject to actuarial reduction.
The ExPS tops up the underlying employee plan to provide a target benefit for executive directors payable from normal retirement age of 1/30th 
of Final Pensionable Pay (FPP) for each year of ExPS pensionable service (subject to a maximum of two-thirds of FPP). FPP is defined as annual 
base salary averaged over the last 12 months prior to leaving service in respect of service accrued to 5 April 2006 and 36 months prior to 
leaving in respect of service from 6 April 2006. The ExPS also provides a lump sum death-in-service benefit equal to four times base salary 
at date of death, and a spouse’s death-in-service pension equal to two-thirds of the prospective pension at normal retirement age. Children’s 
allowances are also payable, usually up to the age of 18. Spouses’ pensions and children’s allowances are also payable upon death in 
retirement and death after leaving the Company’s employment with a deferred pension. Once in payment, pensions are increased annually 
by the rise in the Retail Prices Index subject to a maximum increase of 5% per year in respect of pre-6 April 2006 service and 2.5% per year 
in respect of service from 6 April 2006.
96 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REMUNERAt ION REPORt The review of pension policies carried out in 2010 by the Committee concluded that the pension benefits should continue to be based on 
the Company’s registered pension schemes and that, in appropriate circumstances, the Company will continue to have the option to offer an 
unfunded pension promise so as to mitigate the impact of further reductions to the Lifetime Allowance (introduced in 2006) and the impact of 
the reduced Annual Allowance. The current executive directors were given the choice to remain in the current arrangement and pay the increased 
tax or to take an unfunded promise: they both elected for the latter. The Committee has decided that in cases where the Company is to pay 
an unfunded promise, executives will be given the choice to commute some or all of the benefit for a taxable lump sum, or take it as pension. 
Where an unfunded pension is taken, ten years after retirement, the executive will be given a further opportunity to commute the residual 
value of the unfunded pension for a lump sum.
As stated above, Ian King and Peter Lynas already have an unfunded promise from the Company arising from the 2006 changes to the taxation 
of pension benefits, which has been extended to cover the reduced Annual Allowance at no additional cost to the Company.
Ian King and Peter Lynas are both members of the 2000 Plan, applicable to former employees of Marconi Electronic Systems (MES), and 
members of the ExPS with a normal retirement age of 62. The 2000 Plan provides a pension of 1/50th of Final Pensionable Earnings (FPE) for 
each year of pensionable service, payable from a normal retirement age of 65 and members pay contributions of 8% of Pensionable Earnings. 
FPE under the 2000 Plan is the best consecutive three-year average of base salary and bonus in the ten Plan Years prior to leaving, less an 
offset for State pensions. The Company decided in 2006 to limit pensionable bonuses in the 2000 Plan in the 2006/07 Plan Year to 20% of 
base salary and to 10% of base salary for the 2007 /08 Plan Year and thereafter. However, there is a guarantee that the FPE figure for benefits 
in respect of service prior to 6 April 2007 will not be less than the FPE figure at 5 April 2007 to ensure that employees do not lose the benefit 
of contributions paid on past bonuses. Ian King and Peter Lynas joined the ExPS in 1999. Therefore, their individual total pensions are the sum 
of their 2000 Plan benefits plus the top up from the ExPS, most of which is provided through the unfunded promise referred to above.
Linda Hudson is a member of the 2006 Plan and a Non-Qualified Plan which provide a cash sum at retirement equal to a percentage of career 
average pay (salary plus bonus subject to a maximum bonus of 150% of salary). The cash accrual rate of the combined plans from 1 January 
2010 was 14.1% of career average pay. From 1 January 2013, future accrual in the US pension arrangements changed for all employees and 
Linda Hudson will now receive a $1,000 annual accrual from the 2006 Plan and, from the Non-Qualified Plan, a $500 annual accrual plus 4.1% 
of salary plus bonus (subject to a maximum bonus of 150% of salary). For benefits commencing prior to age 65, the accrued benefit is reduced 
for interest only from age 65 to the benefit commencement date using the 30-Year Treasury Rate from the October prior to commencement. 
Linda Hudson also receives a company match on her contributions to her 401(k) plan up to a maximum contribution of 6% of salary, up to 
regulatory limits (for 2014 $260,000). From 1 January 2013, the company match is 100%.
Jerry DeMuro is a member of the 2006 Plan and a Non-Qualified Plan which provide a cash sum at retirement equal to the sum of the annual 
accruals of $1,000 from the 2006 Plan and a $500 annual accrual from the Non-Qualified Plan. For benefits commencing prior to age 65, the 
accrued benefit is reduced for interest only from age 65 to the benefit commencement date using the 30-Year Treasury Rate from the October 
prior to commencement. Jerry DeMuro also receives a company match on his contributions to his 401(k) plan up to a maximum contribution 
of 6% of salary, up to regulatory limits (for 2014 $260,000). From 1 January 2013, the company match is 100%. As at the date of this Annual 
Report, he has not made an election to contribute to the 401(k) plan and is therefore not eligible for any company match.
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 97 Chairman and executive director changes
With effect from 1 February 2014, Sir Roger Carr succeeded Sir Richard Olver as Chairman. To assist in completing handover activities and 
as agreed pursuant to the notice period under his letter of appointment, Sir Richard’s services are being retained by the Company up to 
16 May 2014. For these services, he will continue to be paid his current fee of £725,000 (pro-rata) and retain use of a chauffeur-driven car.
Sir Roger Carr was appointed to the Board as Chairman designate on 1 October 2013 at a fee of £75,000 per annum (pro-rata) until 1 February 
2014 when he succeeded Sir Richard Olver as Chairman. His annual fee thereafter was £650,000 per annum (pro-rata). This fee will not be 
reviewed during his initial three-year term as Chairman.
Jerry DeMuro was appointed to succeed Linda Hudson as President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. on 1 February 2014 and 
joined the Board as an executive director on the same date. His salary on appointment was $950,000, with a maximum bonus opportunity of 
225% of salary, of which one-third will be deferred in shares for a period of three years. He will also receive LTIP awards at the levels contained 
within the executive directors’ policy table. His pension arrangements are set out on page 97.
As previously announced, Linda Hudson retired as President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. and as an executive director of 
BAE Systems plc with effect from 1 February 2014. As a consequence, the following arrangements apply:
 –  For a period of 120 days from 1 February 2014, Linda Hudson shall be employed as Senior Vice President and Chief Executive Officer 
Emeritus for BAE Systems, Inc. on her existing terms performing transition activities to the new President and Chief Executive Officer of 
BAE Systems, Inc. and supporting handover with customers and external relationships. At the end of this 120-day period, 31 May 2014 
(the ‘Termination Date’), Linda Hudson shall retire from BAE Systems, Inc. and cease to be employed by BAE Systems, Inc. 
 –  On ceasing to be employed by BAE Systems, Inc., in accordance with the terms of her employment agreement, Linda Hudson will be entitled 
to receive:
 –  one year’s base salary of $1,045,350 to be paid six months after the Termination Date;
 –  her bonus payment for the 2013 performance year of $1,149,585, due in March 2014 as detailed on page 94. A bonus payment for 2014 
of $490,008 will be calculated on a pro-rata basis up to the Termination Date determined on an ‘on-target’ basis to be paid within 30 days 
of the Termination Date;
 – payment for all accrued but unused vacation as at the Termination Date; and
 – a lump sum payment equivalent to 18 months’ medical premiums, including gross up, of $17,741, to be paid six months after the 
Termination Date. 
 –  Outstanding awards made under the Company’s Long-Term Incentive Plans (as disclosed on page 102) will vest on the normal vesting dates 
subject to meeting the requirements of any applicable performance conditions. Awards shall be time pro-rated as specified in the relevant 
plan rules. 
External directorships
Fees retained by executive directors in 2013 in respect of non-executive directorships were: Ian King £47,000 in respect of his non-executive 
directorship of Rotork p.l.c.; and Linda Hudson $80,000 plus a $160,000 stock award in respect of her non-executive directorship of Bank of 
America. These amounts are not included in the remuneration table on page 93. 
98 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REMUNERAt ION REPORt Scheme interests awarded during the financial year 
Scheme Type of interest
Date  
of grant
Number  
of shares Basis of award
Face value 
of award
1
£
Exercise 
price
£
Date to which 
performance  
is measured
Performance 
condition
Percentage 
of interests 
receivable  
if minimum 
performance 
achieved
Ian King
PSP
TSR
Performance  
Shares/nil  
cost option
25.03.13 154,771 62.5%  
of salary
601,904 nil Three years  
to 31.12.15
TSR/ 
secondary 
financial 
measure
25%
PSP
EPS
Performance  
Shares/nil  
cost option
25.03.13 154,771 62.5%  
of salary
601,904 nil Three years  
to 31.12.15
EPS 0%
2
ExSOP
2012
Share option 25.03.13 742,903 300%  
of salary
2,889,150 3.89 Three years  
to 31.12.15
TSR 25%
SMP
3
Deferred bonus 
matching award
25.03.13 206,412 Compulsory  
1
⁄3 of annual 
incentive
802,736 n/a Three years  
to 31.12.15
EPS 0%
2
Peter Lynas
PSP
TSR
Performance  
Shares/nil  
cost option
25.03.13 87,747 62.5%  
of salary
341,248 nil Three years  
to 31.12.15
TSR/ 
secondary 
financial 
measure
25%
PSP
EPS
Performance  
Shares/nil  
cost option
25.03.13 87,747 62.5%  
of salary
341,248 nil Three years  
to 31.12.15
EPS 0%
2
ExSOP
2012
Share option 25.03.13 421,187 300%  
of salary
1,637,996 3.89 Three years  
to 31.12.15
TSR 25%
SMP
3
Deferred bonus 
matching award
25.03.13 82,468 Compulsory  
1
⁄3 of annual 
incentive
320,718 n/a Three years  
to 31.12.15
EPS 0%
2
Linda Hudson
PSP
OCF
Performance  
Shares
25.03.13 127,907 72.5%  
of salary
497,430 n/a Three years  
to 31.12.15
Long-term  
US operating 
cash
25%
PSP
EPS
Performance  
Shares
25.03.13 127,908 72.5%  
of salary
497,434 n/a Three years  
to 31.12.15
EPS 0%
2
ExSOP
2012
Share option 25.03.13 688,056 390%  
of salary
2,675,850 3.89 Three years  
to 31.12.15
TSR 25%
SMP
3
Deferred bonus 
matching award
25.03.13 180,324 Compulsory  
1
⁄3 of annual 
incentive
701,280 n/a Three years  
to 31.12.15
EPS 0%
2
RSP Retention 25.03.13 176,424 100%  
of salary
686,113 n/a n/a n/a n/a
The table above has been subject to audit.
1 The value of the award is calculated on the date of grant by reference to the middle market quotation at the close of the preceding day.
2 A sliding scale operates – further detail is provided in the summary of performance conditions overleaf.
3  Awards granted under the SMP in March 2013 relate to matching shares in respect of the bonus deferral for the year ended 31 March 2012. These awards were 
calculated on a 2:1 match on the gross value of one-third of the individual director’s Annual Incentive for the 2012 financial year – further detail is provided in the 
summary of performance conditions overleaf. No further awards will be made under the SMP.
Note: PSP – Shares under award attract dividends prior to vesting. The nil cost options under the PSP are intended to be free share awards and are structured as an 
option to give the participant more flexibility as to the timing of the benefit. For the US executive director, grants under the PSP are classified as contingent awards 
(rather than share options) and are deliverable on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of grant, subject to attainment of the performance condition.
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EmS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 99 Description of share plans and summary of performance conditions 
PSP 
Shares under award vest after satisfaction of the three-year performance condition. Shares under award attract dividends prior to vesting. 
Awards that vest are exercisable in three tranches between the third and seventh anniversary of vesting (being capable of exercise on a phased 
basis from the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of grant). For US participants, the awards are automatically delivered at the end of years three, 
four and five, subject to the performance condition being achieved.
Awards made to the UK executive directors since 2008 have been weighted 50% on the PSP
EPS
 performance condition and 50% on the PSP
TSR
 
performance condition. Awards made to the US executive director were weighted in the same way until 2011. In 2012 and 2013, the weighting 
for the US executive director was 50% on the PSP
EPS
 performance condition and 50% on the PSP
OCF
 performance condition. The TSR comparator 
groups are shown below.
Plan Performance condition
PSP
EPS
Rate of average annual EPS growth over the three-year performance period, with nil vesting at 5% average growth per annum 
and 100% vesting at 11% average growth per annum, with vesting on a straight-line basis between these two parameters.
PSP
TSR
The proportion of the award capable of exercise is determined by:
(i)  the Company’s TSR (share price growth plus dividends) ranking relative to a comparator group of 12 other international 
defence companies over a three-year performance period. No shares vest if the Company’s TSR is outside the top 50% of 
TSRs achieved by the sectoral comparator group, with 25% vesting at median, 100% vesting if it is in the top quintile and 
vesting on a straight-line basis between these two parameters; and
(ii)  whether there has been a sustained improvement in the Company’s underlying financial performance. In taking such a view, 
the Committee may consider (but not exclusively) the following financial metrics: net cash/debt; EBITA
1
; order book; turnover; 
risk; and underlying project performance. 
PSP
OCF
Long-term operating cash performance at the level of the US businesses over a three-year performance period. The Committee 
is of the view that cash performance figures are commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the 
Company to disclose them in advance.
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense.
The TSR comparator group referred to above comprises: The comparator group for PSP
TSR
 awards from 2008 to 2011 comprises:
Cobham 
Finmeccanica 
General Dynamics 
ITT Exelis
L-3 Communications 
Lockheed Martin 
Meggitt 
Northrop Grumman
Raytheon 
SAIC 
Thales 
United Technologies
Boeing 
Cobham 
Dassault Aviation 
EADS 
Embraer PN 
Finmeccanica
General Dynamics 
GKN 
Goodrich
1
 
Honeywell International 
Lockheed Martin 
Northrop Grumman
Raytheon 
Rockwell Collins 
Rolls-Royce 
Smiths Group 
Thales 
United Technologies
1 Goodrich is now part of United Technologies.
SMP 
The SMP was a standalone investment plan linked to the award under the Annual Incentive Plan. It operated for the final time in 2013 in relation 
to the annual incentive relating to 2012 performance. Executive directors were required to invest at least one-third (and maximum 50%) of their 
annual incentive into the SMP and were granted a conditional award of matching shares against the gross value of the annual incentive 
invested. The matching shares attract dividends during the three-year deferral period, released on vesting of any matching shares.
Plan Performance condition
SMP In respect of a three-year performance period, nil match for average EPS growth of 5% per annum increasing uniformly to a 
maximum 2:1 match at 11% growth per annum.
ExSOP
2012
 
Options granted are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of their grant, subject to the performance condition being achieved.
Plan Performance condition
ExSOP
2012
The proportion of the award capable of exercise is determined by the Company’s TSR (share price growth plus dividends) 
ranking relative to a comparator group of 12 other international defence companies over a three-year performance period. 
No shares vest if the Company’s TSR is outside the top 50% of TSRs achieved by the sectoral comparator group, with 25% 
vesting at median, 100% vesting if it is in the top quintile and vesting on a straight-line basis between these two parameters.
RSP 
The RSP is not subject to a performance condition as it is designed to address retention issues principally in the US. The shares are subject 
only to the condition that the participant remains employed by the Group at the end of the vesting date (three years after the award date).
100 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REMUNERAt ION REPORt Statement of directors’ shareholdings and share interests
Minimum Shareholding Requirement (MSR)
Executive directors are compulsorily required to establish and maintain a minimum personal shareholding equal to a set percentage of base 
salary. An Initial Value must be achieved as quickly as possible using shares vesting or options exercised through the executive share option 
schemes and Long-Term Incentive schemes by retaining 50% of the net value (i.e. the value after deduction of exercise costs and tax) of shares 
acquired under these schemes. Once the Initial Value is achieved, a Subsequent Value must be achieved in the same way, except that a minimum 
of 25% of the net value must be retained on each exercise or acquisition. Shares owned beneficially by the director and his/her spouse count 
towards the MSR. The MSR does not apply after the individual has ceased to be a director. Any case of non-compliance would be dealt with by 
the Committee. 
The following table sets out MSR Initial Value and Subsequent Value: 
Director Initial Value Subsequent Value
Ian King 150% 300%
Peter Lynas 100% 200%
Linda Hudson 175% 350%
Ian King and Peter Lynas were both in excess of their ‘Subsequent Value’ MSR at 31 December 2013. Following the announcement in 2013 of 
Linda Hudson’s forthcoming retirement, the Committee agreed to reduce her MSR to 175% and she subsequently retained a holding to that level.
There are no shareholding requirements for the Chairman or the non-executive directors.
Share interests as at 31 December 2013 (or on ceasing to be a director of the Company)
The interests of the directors who served during the year ended 31 December 2013 (or earlier date of cessation as a director) in the shares of 
BAE Systems plc, or scheme interests in relation to those shares, were as follows:
Shares Scheme interests: Options and awards over shares
Share awards 
with performance
Share awards 
without performance
Share options  
with performance
Share options  
with performance: 
Vested but 
unexercised
Total 
scheme 
interests
P M Anderson 60,000 – – – – –
Sir Roger Carr – – – – – –
H Green – – – – – –
C M Grigg – – – – – –
L P Hudson
1
264,846 1,490,991 515,227 1,542,390 133,740 3,682,348
I G King 1,600,741 1,111,337 – 3,152,058 573,916 4,837,311
P J Lynas 311,400 217,176 – 1,649,336 162,795 2,029,307
Sir Peter Mason
2
5,283 – – – – –
L A McIntire
3
– – – – – –
Sir Richard Olver
1
 53,343 – – – – –
P Rosput Reynolds 21,200 – – – – –
N C Rose 55,000 – – – – –
C G Symon 20,000 – – – – –
I P Tyler – – – – – –
1  Retired from the Board on 1 February 2014. 2 Retired from the Board on 8 May 2013. 3  Resigned from the Board on 20 August 2013.
The above table has been subject to audit.
The interests of directors include those of their connected persons. The shares held by Paula Rosput Reynolds are represented by 300 
American Depositary Shares. Details of the share interests in options and awards held by the executive directors as at 31 December 2013 
are given on page 102, together with details of share options exercised in 2013.
Awards under the PSP are classified as share awards with performance for the US executive director and as share options with performance 
for the UK executive directors.
Changes to the interests of the current directors listed in the table above since 31 December 2013 comprise: (i) Ian King who has acquired an 
additional 86 shares under the partnership and matching shares elements of the Share Incentive Plan so that his beneficial shareholding at the 
date of this report stood at 1,600,827; (ii) Sir Roger Carr who has acquired 50,246 shares; and Chris Grigg who has acquired 24,555 shares. 
Jerry DeMuro, who was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2014, did not have an interest in the Company’s shares at the date of this report. 
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 101 Breakdown of scheme interests: Options and awards held as at 31 December 2013
Ian King
31 December 
2013
Date of 
grant
Exercise 
price  
£
Date from which 
exercisable or part 
exercisable
PSP
EPS
32,610
1
08.09.08 nil 08.09.13
PSP
EPS
46,412
2
24.03.09 nil 24.03.14
PSP
TSR
346,707
3
18.05.11 nil 18.05.14
PSP
EPS
346,707
4
18.05.11 nil 18.05.14
PSP
TSR
199,968
3
29.03.12 nil 29.03.15
PSP
EPS
199,969
3
29.03.12 nil 29.03.15
PSP
TSR
154,771
3
25.03.13 nil 25.03.16
PSP
EPS
154,771
3
25.03.13 nil 25.03.16
1,481,915
ExSOP 221,903
1
24.03.05 2.64 24.03.08
ExSOP 145,443
1
12.04.06 4.28 12.04.09
ExSOP 173,960
1
30.03.07 4.57 30.03.10
ExSOP
2012
959,850
3
29.03.12 3.01 29.03.15
ExSOP
2012
742,903
3
25.03.13 3.89 25.03.16
2,244,059
SMP 425,877
4
18.05.11 n/a 18.05.14
SMP 479,048
3
29.03.12 n/a 29.03.15
SMP 206,412
3
25.03.13 n/a 25.03.16
1,111,337
Linda Hudson
31 December 
2013
Date of 
grant
Exercise 
price  
£
Date from which 
exercisable or part 
exercisable
PSP
EPS
14,821
2
24.03.09 nil 24.03.14
PSP
TSR
147,376
3
18.05.11 nil 18.05.14
PSP
EPS
147,376
4
18.05.11 nil 18.05.14
PSP
OCF
158,818
3
29.03.12 nil 29.03.15
PSP
EPS
158,819
3
29.03.12 nil 29.03.15
PSP
OCF
127,907
3
25.03.13 nil 25.03.16
PSP
EPS
127,908
3
25.03.13 nil 25.03.16
883,025
ExSOP 133,740
1
30.03.07 4.57 30.03.10
ExSOP
2012
854,334
3
29.03.12 3.01 29.03.15
ExSOP
2012
688,056
3
25.03.13 3.89 25.03.16
1,676,130
SMP 219,610
4
18.05.11 n/a 18.05.14
SMP 208,032
3
29.03.12 n/a 29.03.15
SMP 180,324
3
25.03.13 n/a 25.03.16
607,966
RSP 119,743 18.05.11 n/a 18.05.14
RSP 219,060 29.03.12 n/a 29.03.15
RSP 176,424 25.03.13 n/a 25.03.16
515,227
1 Share options vested but unexercised.
2 Exercisable on the fifth anniversary of grant.
3 Performance condition yet to be tested.
4  The outstanding award will lapse after the end of the financial year having not 
met the performance condition.
Peter Lynas
31 December 
2013
Date of 
grant
Exercise 
price  
£
Date from which 
exercisable or part 
exercisable
PSP
EPS
9,025
2
24.03.09 nil 24.03.14
PSP
TSR
136,350
3
18.05.11 nil 18.05.14
PSP
EPS
136,350
4
18.05.11 nil 18.05.14
PSP
TSR
113,372
3
29.03.12 nil 29.03.15
PSP
EPS
113,372
3
29.03.12 nil 29.03.15
PSP
TSR
87,747
3
25.03.13 nil 25.03.16
PSP
EPS
87,747
3
25.03.13 nil 25.03.16
683,963
ExSOP 13,386
1
22.12.05 3.56 22.12.08
ExSOP 75,887
1
12.04.06 4.28 12.04.09
ExSOP 73,522
1
30.03.07 4.57 30.03.10
ExSOP
2012
544,186
3
29.03.12 3.01 29.03.15
ExSOP
2012
421,187
3
25.03.13 3.89 25.03.16
1,128,168
SMP 33,552
4
18.05.11 n/a 18.05.14
SMP 101,156
3
29.03.12 n/a 29.03.15
SMP 82,468
3
25.03.13 n/a 25.03.16
217,176
Options exercised during 2013
Ian King
Exercised 
during  
the year
Exercise 
price  
£
Date of 
grant
Date of 
exercise
Market 
price on 
exercise 
£
PSP
EPS
38,463 nil 07.05.08 10.04.13 3.93
PSP
EPS
32,609 nil 08.09.08 10.04.13 3.93
PSP
EPS
46,411 nil 24.03.09 10.04.13 3.93
ExSOP 318,314 1.72 30.09.03 05.03.13 3.64
ExSOP 272,388 2.01 30.03.04 01.08.13 4.51
The three PSP options exercised by Ian King attracted reinvested dividends which 
equated to an additional 15,274 shares.
Peter Lynas
Exercised 
during  
the year
Exercise 
price  
£
Date of 
grant
Date of 
exercise
Market 
price on 
exercise 
£
PSP
EPS
12,660 nil 26.03.08 08.04.13 3.88
PSP
EPS
9,024 nil 24.03.09 08.04.13 3.88
The two PSP options exercised by Peter Lynas attracted reinvested dividends 
which equated to an additional 3,056 shares.
The tables on this page have been subject to audit.
Performance conditions
Performance conditions for the PSP , ExSOP
2012
 and SMP are detailed 
on page 100. The ExSOP (Executive Share Option Plan) was 
established in 2001 and its ten-year life expired in 2011. Options 
granted under this plan are usually exercisable between the third 
and tenth anniversary of grant. The existing options granted between 
2005 and 2007 have met their performance condition (EPS growth of 
5% or more per annum over the three-year performance period).
102 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REMUNERAt ION REPORt Statement of voting
Shareholder voting on the resolution to approve the Remuneration report put to the 2013 AGM was as follows:
Votes 
for %
Votes 
against %
Total
votes 
cast
Votes 
withheld 
(abstentions)
2,205,236,703 92.33 183,202,336 7.67 2,388,439,039 56,898,372
Remuneration Committee details
The Committee members comprise Carl Symon (Chairman), Chris Grigg and Nick Rose. Chris Grigg joined the Committee on 1 July 2013 and 
Lee McIntire served on the Committee until he stepped down from the Board on 20 August 2013. Advisers to the Remuneration Committee 
are shown below.
Adviser Services provided Appointment Governance Fees
Kepler Associates Advises Committee 
members on remuneration 
matters, including 
independent advice on the 
information and proposals 
presented to the Committee 
by Company executives.
Committee 
appointment.
Kepler engage directly with the members 
of the Committee.
Kepler do not undertake any other work 
for the Company.
Kepler are members of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group (RCG) and are 
signatories to the RCG’s code of conduct.
£24,675
Fee basis: 
Hourly
Linklaters Legal services, principally 
the drafting of share plan 
rules in accordance with 
the policy determined by 
the Committee.
By the Company 
with the approval 
of the Committee.
Only provide legal drafting and review 
services, do not advise the Committee.
The Committee is aware that Linklaters 
are one of a number of legal firms that 
provide legal advice and services to the 
Company on a range of matters. 
Linklaters are regulated by the Law Society.
£14,438 
(in respect 
of services 
provided to 
the Committee)
Fee basis: 
Hourly
PricewaterhouseCoopers Information on market 
trends and the competitive 
positioning of packages.
By the Company 
at the request of 
the Committee.
The Committee is aware that 
PricewaterhouseCoopers provide a 
variety of other services to the Company, 
including tax and accounting. 
The nature of the advice provided to 
the Committee is limited to market 
comparator information and does not 
include advice on the design of 
remuneration policy.
PricewaterhouseCoopers are members 
of the Remuneration Consultants Group 
(RCG) and are signatories to the RCG’s 
code of conduct.
£66,300 
(in respect 
of services 
provided to 
the Committee)
Fee basis: 
Hourly
Hewitt New Bridge Street Advice on the TSR outcomes 
as required for assessing 
the performance condition 
under the Performance 
Share Plan.
By the Company. The Committee is aware that Hewitt New 
Bridge Street provide a variety of other 
HR-related services to the Company.
The nature of the advice provided to 
the Committee is limited to factual 
information concerning the performance 
of the Company’s shares.
Hewitt New Bridge Street are members 
of the Remuneration Consultants Group 
(RCG) and are signatories to the RCG’s 
code of conduct.
£12,250 
(in respect 
of services 
provided to 
the Committee)
Fee basis: 
Fixed fee
During the year, the Committee received material assistance and advice on remuneration policy from the Group HR Director, Lynn Minella, and 
the Human Resources Director, Reward, Paul Farley. Sir Richard Olver, in his capacity as Chairman, and Ian King, Chief Executive, also provided 
advice that was of material assistance to the Committee. 
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE Sy St EmS ANNuAL REPORT 2013 103 The non-executive directors’ fees are set by the Non-Executive Directors’ Fees Committee which, during 2013, comprised Sir Richard Olver, 
Philip Bramwell, Linda Hudson and Ian King; from 1 February 2014, this committee comprises Sir Roger Carr, Philip Bramwell, Jerry DeMuro 
and Ian King.
Directors’ remuneration in the year ending 31 December 2014
As stated in the Committee Chairman’s letter on page 81, for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, the Policy will take legal effect on 
1 January 2015. We intend in practice to operate the Directors’ remuneration policy from the 2014 AGM. As detailed in the Committee Chairman’s 
statement on page 81, the salaries of the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director remain unchanged in 2014, and the remuneration 
package for the newly appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. is set out on page 98. The performance measures 
and weightings for 2014 for the Annual Incentive and Long-Term Incentives are set out in the Directors’ remuneration policy on pages 83 to 85. 
The Committee is of the view that bonus targets for the Annual Incentive are commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the 
Company to disclose them before the start of the financial year. The targets will be disclosed retrospectively after the end of the relevant 
financial year.
104 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REMUNERAt ION REPORt DIRECTORS’ 
REPORT
Wha T y Ou WIll f In D In Th IS SECTIOn 
106
  P RI n C I P a l RI S KS 
Details of the Group’s principal risks, 
including a description of how those risks 
are being mitigated.
112
  S u S T a I na B I l I T y 
Further information on how the Group 
ensures that it has the processes to support 
the long-term sustainability of the Group.
120
  OTh ER STa Tu TORy an D 
REGula TORy Inf ORMa TIOn Other information required to be disclosed 
in the Annual Report, including the 
responsibility statements of the directors 
in respect of the report.
BAE SySt EmS Annu Al Rep ORt 2013 105 PRIn CIPal RISKS
t he Group’ s principal risks are identified below, together with 
a description of how the Group mitigates those risks.
RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR MEDIUM IMPACT
CUSTOMER FOCUS
PROGRAMME EXECUTION
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGH IMPACT CUSTOMER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Defence spending
t he Group is dependent on defence spending.
Description
t he Group’s core businesses are primarily 
defence-related, selling products and services 
directly and indirectly, mainly to the uS, uK, 
Saudi Arabian and other national governments. 
Defence spending depends on a complex mix of 
political considerations, budgetary constraints, 
and the ability of the armed forces to meet 
specific threats and perform certain missions, 
and, as such, may be subject to significant 
fluctuations from year to year. With constraints 
on government expenditure in a number of the 
Group’s markets and countries in the eurozone 
area experiencing serious financial difficulties, 
affordability continues to be a key focus for 
customers.
Impact
A decrease in defence spending by the Group’s 
major customers could have a material adverse 
effect on the Group’s future results and financial 
condition.
mitigation
t he Group’s business is geographically spread 
across uK, uS and international markets and its 
products are marketed across a range of defence 
markets. t he Group has a highly sustainable 
services business, which is an area for growth 
as customers’ operations and maintenance 
budgets come under pressure. t he Group 
continues to use realistic assumptions to 
underpin its financial and operational planning.
efforts to reduce the uS government’s budget 
deficit are expected to continue to impact 
government spend. A bipartisan budget proposal 
was approved in December 2013 that mitigates 
the full impact of the Sequester for 2014 and 
2015. t he Group expects lower defence spending 
than previously programmed, but the cuts are not 
expected to be as significant or indiscriminate as 
they would have been under Sequestration.
notwithstanding the continued pressure on 
many areas of government spend in the uK, the 
outlook for the Group’s uK defence business 
remains stable. 
In Saudi Arabia, regional tensions continue to 
dictate that defence remains a high priority.
 For more information on the Group’s multiple markets see page 14
RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR MEDIUM IMPACT
CUSTOMER FOCUS
PROGRAMME EXECUTION
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGH IMPACT CUSTOMER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Government customers
t he Group’s largest customers are governments.
Description
Companies engaged in the supply of defence 
and security-related equipment and services 
to government agencies are subject to certain 
business risks particular to the defence and 
security industries. t hese governments could 
modify contracts or terminate them at short 
notice and at their convenience. For example, 
long-term uS government contracts are normally 
funded annually and are subject to cancellation 
or delay if funding appropriations for subsequent 
performance periods are not made. terms and 
risk sharing agreements can also be amended. 
In addition, the Group, as a government 
contractor, is subject to financial audits and 
other reviews by some of its governmental 
customers with respect to the performance 
of, and the accounting and general practices 
relating to, government contracts. 
As a result of these audits and reviews, costs 
and prices under these contracts may be subject 
to adjustment.
Impact
t he termination of one or more of the contracts 
for the Group’s programmes by governments, 
the failure of the relevant agencies to obtain 
expected funding appropriations for the Group’s 
programmes, or a deterioration in the Group’s 
relationship with any of its key government 
customers and corresponding reduction in 
contract awards, could have a material adverse 
effect on the Group’s future results and 
financial condition.
mitigation
t he Group regularly reviews performance in its 
markets and the executive Committee continues 
to work closely with the government customers 
in these markets to ensure the Group’s strategy 
is aligned with theirs. 
In the event of a customer termination for 
convenience, the Group would typically be paid 
for work done and commitments made at the 
time of termination. Having sovereign 
governments as major customers offers the 
benefits of dealing with mature procurement 
organisations with which the Group can have 
long-standing business relationships, and 
well-established and understood terms of trade.
 For more information on the Group’s strategy see page 7
106 BAE SySt EmS Annu Al Rep ORt 2013
DIRECTORS’ REPORT RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR MEDIUM IMPACT
CUSTOMER FOCUS
PROGRAMME EXECUTION
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CUSTOMER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGH IMPACT
Contract award timing
t he Group is dependent on the timing of award of defence contracts.
Description
t he Group’s profits and cash flows are 
dependent, to a significant extent, on the timing 
of award of defence contracts.
Impact
Amounts receivable under the Group’s defence 
contracts can be substantial and, therefore, the 
timing of awards, or failure to receive anticipated 
awards, could materially affect the Group’s 
profits and cash flows for the periods affected. 
mitigation
t he Board regularly reviews the Group’s 
performance with regard to contract awards, and 
the executive Committee actively manages the 
assets and resources of the Group in line with 
the timing of awards.
 For more information on the Group’s major programmes see page 37
RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR MEDIUM IMPACT
CUSTOMER FOCUS
PROGRAMME EXECUTION
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGH IMPACT CUSTOMER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Large contracts
Certain of the Group’s businesses are dependent on a small number of large contracts.
Description
A significant proportion of the Group’s revenue 
comes from a small number of large contracts. 
each of these contracts, which are primarily in 
the platforms & Services (uK) and platforms & 
Services (International) reporting segments, is 
typically worth or potentially worth over £1bn.
Impact
t he loss, expiration, suspension, cancellation 
or termination of any one of these large 
contracts, for any reason, could have a material 
adverse effect on the Group’s future results 
and financial condition.
mitigation
to mitigate risk on uK Ministry of Defence 
contracts, development programmes are 
normally contracted with appropriate levels 
of risk being initially held by the customer. 
Subsequent production programmes are priced 
when a platform’s development has reached 
sufficient maturity. A variety of contract 
structures are used to mitigate risk on 
production programmes, such as incentive 
arrangements, whereby the customer and 
contractor share cost savings and overruns 
against target prices. 
t he Group has a well-balanced spread of 
programmes and significant order backlog, 
which provides long-term visibility. t he Board 
regularly reviews the Group’s performance 
on these large contracts and the executive 
Committee continues to work closely with 
the relevant customers to ensure the Group’s 
strategy is aligned with theirs.
 For more information on the Group’s order backlog by major programme and reporting segment see page 37
RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR MEDIUM IMPACT
CUSTOMER FOCUS
PROGRAMME EXECUTION
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGH IMPACT CUSTOMER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Global market
t he Group operates in a global market.
Description
BAe Systems is a global company which 
conducts business in a number of regions, 
including the Middle east, and, as a result, 
assumes certain risks associated with 
businesses with a broad geographical reach. In 
some countries, these risks include, and are not 
limited to, the following: political changes could 
lead to changes in the business environment in 
which the Group operates; economic downturns, 
political instability and civil disturbances could 
disrupt the Group’s business activities; 
government regulations and administrative 
policies could change quickly and restraints 
on the movement of capital could be imposed; 
governments could expropriate the Group’s 
assets; and burdensome taxes or tariffs could 
be introduced.
Impact
t he occurrence of any such events could have 
a material adverse effect on the Group’s future 
results and financial condition.
mitigation
t he Group has a balanced portfolio of 
businesses across its markets.
 For more information on the Group’s multiple markets see page 14
Directors’ re Por t DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BAE SySt EmS Annu Al Rep ORt 2013 107 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR MEDIUM IMPACT
CUSTOMER FOCUS
PROGRAMME EXECUTION
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CUSTOMER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGH IMPACT
Fixed-price contracts
t he Group has fixed-price contracts.
Description
A significant portion of the Group’s revenue is 
derived from fixed-price contracts. An inherent 
risk in these fixed-price contracts is that actual 
performance costs may exceed the projected 
costs on which the fixed prices for such 
contracts are agreed. t hese contracts can 
extend over many years and it can be difficult to 
predict the ultimate outturn costs associated 
with the terms on which they are based.
Impact
t he Group’s failure to anticipate technical 
problems, estimate costs accurately or control 
costs during performance of a fixed-price 
contract may reduce the profitability of such 
a contract or result in a loss.
mitigation
t he Group has reduced its exposure to 
fixed-price design and development activity 
which is in general more risk intensive than 
fixed-price production activity. to manage 
contract-related risks and uncertainties, 
contracts are managed under the Group’s 
mandated l ifecycle Management (l CM) process 
at the operational level. 
Robust bid preparation and approvals processes 
are well established throughout the Group, with 
decisions required to be taken at the appropriate 
level in line with clear delegations of authority. 
t he consistent application of metrics is used to 
support the review of individual contract 
performance.
 For more information on l CM which mandates project management processes see page 69
RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR MEDIUM IMPACT
CUSTOMER FOCUS
PROGRAMME EXECUTION
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGH IMPACT CUSTOMER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Laws and regulations
t he Group is subject to risk from a failure to comply with laws and regulations.
Description
t he Group has contracts and operations in many 
parts of the world, operates in a highly regulated 
environment, and is subject to applicable laws 
and regulations of many jurisdictions. t hese 
include, without limitation, regulations relating to 
import-export controls, money laundering, false 
accounting, anti-bribery and anti-boycott 
provisions. non-compliance could expose the 
Group to fines, penalties, suspension or 
debarment, which could have a material adverse 
effect on the Group. From time to time, the 
Group is subject to government investigations 
relating to its operations.
Impact
Failure by the Group or its sales representatives, 
marketing advisers or others acting on its behalf 
to comply with these laws and regulations could 
result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities 
resulting in significant fines and penalties, and/
or result in the suspension or debarment of the 
Group from government contracts for some 
period of time or suspension of the Group’s 
export privileges.
mitigation
During the year, the Group has continued to 
add resources dedicated to legal and regulatory 
compliance in order to enhance further its 
capability to identify and manage the risk of 
compliance failure. Internal and external market 
risk assessments form an important element of 
the ongoing corporate development and training 
processes. 
A uniform global policy and process for the 
appointment of advisers engaged in business 
development is in effect.
pursuant to its commitments concerning ongoing 
regulatory compliance made in the course of the 
2011 settlement with the uS Department of 
State, the Group appointed a Special Compliance 
Official in 2011 for a period of not less than 
three years to monitor the Group’s compliance 
with its commitments under that settlement and 
its compliance obligations going forward. 
 For more information on the Group’s approach to business conduct see page 112
RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR MEDIUM IMPACT
CUSTOMER FOCUS
PROGRAMME EXECUTION
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CUSTOMER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGH IMPACT
Component availability, subcontractor performance and key suppliers
t he Group is dependent upon component availability, subcontractor performance and key suppliers.
Description
t he Group is dependent upon the delivery of 
materials by suppliers, and the assembly of 
components and subsystems by subcontractors 
used in its products in a timely and satisfactory 
manner, and in compliance with applicable terms 
and conditions.
Impact
Some of the Group’s suppliers or subcontractors 
may be impacted by the economic environment 
and constraints on available financing, which 
could impair their ability to meet their obligations 
to the Group. In addition, some products require 
relatively scarce raw materials. t he Group is 
generally subject to specific procurement 
requirements which may, in effect, limit the 
suppliers and subcontractors it may utilise. In 
some instances, the Group is dependent on one 
or a limited number of suppliers. If any of these 
suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet the 
Group’s needs, the Group may not, in the short 
term, have readily available alternatives, thereby 
impacting its ability to complete its customer 
obligations satisfactorily and in a timely manner, 
which could have a negative impact on the 
Group’s future results and financial condition.
mitigation
t he Group’s procurement function, which is led 
by a member of the executive Committee, is 
responsible for establishing and managing 
end-to-end integrated supplier arrangements. 
t he executive Committee continues to monitor 
this risk and the Group has experienced no 
material negative impact to date. t he Group 
reviews the financial health of strategically 
important suppliers globally on an ongoing basis.
 For more information on suppliers see page 118
108 BAE SySt EmS Annu Al Rep ORt 2013
DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECt ORS’ REPORt PRINCIPAL RISKS RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR MEDIUM IMPACT
CUSTOMER FOCUS
PROGRAMME EXECUTION
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGH IMPACT CUSTOMER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Competition
t he Group’s business is subject to significant competition.
Description
t he Group’s businesses are subject to 
competition from national and multi-national 
firms with substantial resources and capital, 
and many contracts are obtained through a 
competitive bidding process, including contracts 
where the Group is the current incumbent.
t he Group’s ability to compete for contracts 
depends in particular on: the strength of its 
intellectual property rights and technical 
know-how; the effectiveness and innovation of 
its research and development programmes; its 
ability to offer better programme performance 
than its competitors at a lower cost to its 
customers; and the readiness of its facilities, 
equipment and personnel to undertake the 
programmes for which it competes.
In some instances, governments direct to 
a single supplier all work for a particular 
programme, commonly known as sole-source 
programmes. Although governments have 
historically awarded certain programmes to 
the Group on a sole-source basis, they may in 
the future determine to open such programmes 
to a competitive bidding process. Government 
contracts for defence and security-related 
products and services can, in certain countries, 
be awarded on the basis of home country 
preference.
Impact
t he Group’s business and future results may 
be adversely impacted if it is unable to compete 
adequately in the markets in which it operates. 
mitigation
t he Group’s global, multi-market presence, 
balanced portfolio of businesses, leading 
capabilities and performance continue to 
address this risk. In particular, the Group invests 
in research and development, continues to 
reduce its cost base and improve efficiencies, 
and has the mandated l ifecycle Management 
process that promotes the application of best 
practice programme execution.
 For more information on the Group’s multiple markets see page 14
RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR MEDIUM IMPACT
CUSTOMER FOCUS
PROGRAMME EXECUTION
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGH IMPACT CUSTOMER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Pension funding
t he Group has an aggregate funding deficit in its defined benefit pension schemes.
Description
t he Group operates certain defined benefit 
and defined benefit/defined contribution hybrid 
pension schemes. At present, in aggregate, 
there is an actuarial deficit between the value 
of the projected liabilities of these schemes 
and the assets they hold.
Impact
t he amount of the deficits may be adversely 
affected by changes in a number of factors, 
including investment returns, long-term interest 
rate and price inflation expectations, and 
anticipated members’ longevity. Further increases 
in pension scheme deficits may require the Group 
to increase the amount of cash contributions 
payable to these schemes, thereby reducing 
cash available to meet the Group’s other 
operating, investing and financing requirements.
mitigation
Following triennial funding valuations of the 
Group’s two largest uK pension schemes in 
2011, revised deficit recovery plans were agreed 
in 2012. t he performance of the Group’s 
pension schemes and deficit recovery plans are 
regularly reviewed by both the Group and the 
trustees of the schemes, taking actuarial and 
investment advice as appropriate. t he results of 
these reviews are discussed with the Board and 
appropriate action taken.
In future, the growth of the defined benefit 
liabilities is expected to be curtailed as follows:
 – With effect from April 2012, new employees 
in the uK are offered defined contribution 
pension benefits rather than the previous 
defined benefit/defined contribution hybrid 
pension benefits;
 – With effect from January 2013, all employees 
in the uS are offered membership of a defined 
contribution scheme (401(k)) and no longer 
accrue salary-related benefits in defined 
benefit schemes; 
 – In February 2013, with the agreement of the 
Company, the trustees of the BAe Systems 
2000 pension plan entered into an 
arrangement with l egal & General to insure 
against longevity risk for the current pensioner 
population, covering £2.7bn of pension 
scheme liabilities. In December 2013, similar 
arrangements were entered into, with l egal & 
General, by the trustees of the Royal Ordnance 
pension Scheme and Shipbuilding Industries 
pension Scheme, covering £0.9bn and £0.8bn 
of pension scheme liabilities, respectively. 
t hese arrangements will reduce the funding 
volatility relating to increasing life expectancy; 
and
 – In August 2013, with the support of the 
trustees of the BAe Systems pension Scheme, 
the Group launched a pension increase 
exchange, offering pensioners the option to 
exchange increases on part of their pensions 
for higher immediate non-increasing pensions. 
For those who take up the offer, all future 
inflation risk to the Group is removed in respect 
of part of their pensions. exchangeable 
pension forms approximately 50% of the 
scheme’s pensions in payment and the option 
was given to approximately 18,000 pensioners 
in 2013. It is expected that, once the exercise 
concludes, the take-up rate amongst this 
group will be approximately one-third.
 For more information on the Group’s pension accounting and funding valuations, and deficit recovery plans see page 162
Directors’ re Por t DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BAE SySt EmS Annu Al Rep ORt 2013 109 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR MEDIUM IMPACT
CUSTOMER FOCUS
PROGRAMME EXECUTION
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CUSTOMER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGH IMPACT
Consortia and joint ventures
t he Group is involved in consortia, joint ventures and equity holdings where it does not have control.
Description
t he Group participates in various consortia, joint 
ventures and equity holdings, exercising varying 
degrees of control. t he risk of failure or the risk 
of disagreement, particularly in those that 
require the unanimous consent of all members 
with regard to major decisions, is inherent in any 
jointly controlled entity. 
Impact
In the event of failure or disagreement within a 
consortium, joint venture or equity holding and 
the business arrangement failing to meet its 
strategic objectives or expected benefits, the 
Group’s business and future results may be 
adversely affected.
mitigation
t he Group seeks to participate only in ventures 
in which its interests are complementary to 
those of its partners, and has formal systems 
and procedures in place to monitor the 
performance of such business arrangements.
 For more information on the Group’s principal joint ventures see page 153
RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR MEDIUM IMPACT
CUSTOMER FOCUS
PROGRAMME EXECUTION
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGH IMPACT CUSTOMER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Acquisitions
t he anticipated benefits of acquisitions may not be achieved.
Description
t he Group considers investment in 
value-enhancing acquisitions where market 
conditions are right and where they deliver on 
its strategy. Whether the Group realises the 
anticipated benefits from these transactions 
depends upon the successful integration of 
the acquired businesses, as well as their 
post-acquisition performance in the markets 
in which they operate.
Impact
t he diversion of management attention to 
integration efforts and the performance of 
the acquired businesses below expectations 
could adversely affect the Group’s business, 
and create the risk of impairments arising on 
goodwill and other intangible assets.
mitigation
t he Group has established policies in place 
to manage the acquisition process, monitor 
the integration and performance of acquired 
businesses, and identify potential impairments.
 For more information on the Group’s recent M&A activity see page 173
RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR MEDIUM IMPACT
CUSTOMER FOCUS
PROGRAMME EXECUTION
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGH IMPACT CUSTOMER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Export controls and other restrictions
t he Group is subject to export controls and other restrictions.
Description
A portion of the Group’s sales is derived from 
the export of its products. t he export of defence 
and security products outside the jurisdictions 
in which they are produced is subject to licensing 
and export controls, and other restrictions. no 
assurance can be given that the export controls 
to which the Group is subject will not become 
more restrictive, that new generations of the 
Group’s products will not also be subject to 
similar or more stringent controls, or that political 
factors or changing international circumstances 
will not result in the Group being unable to obtain 
necessary export licences.
Impact
Reduced access to export markets could have 
a material adverse effect on the Group’s future 
results and financial condition. Failure to comply 
with export controls and wider regulations could 
expose the Group to fines, penalties, suspension 
or debarment, which could have a material 
adverse effect on the Group.
mitigation
t he Group has formal systems and policies in 
place which are mandated under the Operational 
Framework to ensure adherence to regulatory 
requirements and identify any restrictions that 
could adversely impact the Group’s activities.
 For more information on exports see page 14
110 BAE SySt EmS Annu Al Rep ORt 2013
DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECt ORS’ REPORt PRINCIPAL RISKS RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR MEDIUM IMPACT
CUSTOMER FOCUS
PROGRAMME EXECUTION
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CUSTOMER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGH IMPACT
Exchange rates
t he Group is exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates.
Description
t he global nature of the Group’s business 
means it is exposed to volatility in currency 
exchange rates in respect of foreign currency 
denominated transactions, and the translation 
of net assets and income statements of foreign 
subsidiaries and equity accounted investments. 
t he Group is exposed to a number of foreign 
currencies, the most significant being the uS 
dollar, euro and Saudi Riyal.
Impact
Significant fluctuations in exchange rates 
to which the Group is exposed could have a 
material adverse effect on the Group’s future 
results and financial condition.
mitigation
In order to protect itself against currency 
fluctuations, the Group’s policy is to hedge 
all material firm transactional exposures, 
unless otherwise approved as exceptions by 
the treasury Review Management Committee. 
t he Group does not hedge the translation 
effect of exchange rate movements on the 
income statement or balance sheet of foreign 
subsidiaries and equity accounted investments 
it regards as long-term investments. 
 For more information on financial risk management see page 176 
RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR MEDIUM IMPACT
CUSTOMER FOCUS
PROGRAMME EXECUTION
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CUSTOMER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGH IMPACT
Cyber security
t he Group could be negatively impacted by information technology security threats.
Description
As a defence, aerospace and security company, 
the security threats faced by the Group include 
threats to its information technology 
infrastructure, unlawful attempts to gain access 
to its proprietary or classified information and 
the potential for business disruptions associated 
with information technology failures. 
Impact
Failure to combat these risks effectively could 
negatively impact the Group’s reputation among 
its customers and the public, cause disruption 
to its business operations, and could result in 
a negative impact on the Group’s future results 
and financial condition. 
mitigation
t he Group has a broad range of measures 
in place, including appropriate tools and 
techniques, to monitor and mitigate this risk.
 For more information on the Group’s Cyber & Intelligence reporting segment see page 43 
Additional risks and uncertainties currently unknown to the Group, or which the Group currently deems immaterial, may also have an adverse 
effect on the business or financial condition of the Group.
Directors’ re Por t DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BAE SySt EmS Annu Al Rep ORt 2013 111 Su Stainability 
BAE Systems manages the current impacts of its operations and products, 
and anticipates the future global business environment to ensure that it has 
processes in place to support the long-term sustainability of the Group.
During 2013, the Group focused on four 
priorities:
 – Ethics and governance – continue to 
improve and evolve the Group’s business 
conduct programme. 
 – Employee safety and wellbeing – continue 
to improve safety standards across all our 
operations and demonstrate improvements 
against key safety indicators, including a 
10% improvement in the Recordable 
Accident Rate.
 – Diversity and inclusion – increase diversity 
and inclusion within the organisation in 
accordance with business goals.
 – Operational environmental impacts – set 
environmental improvement targets to 
include energy, water and waste. 
Objectives for safety and environment were 
annual incentive-related for senior executives, 
with 5% of total remuneration linked to 
employee safety and 2.5% to progress against 
environmental targets (see page 94 of the 
Annual remuneration report). 
Objectives for diversity and inclusion were set 
within each executive’s personal development 
plan to drive alignment of activity with functional 
and business issues. An assessment of 
progress against these objectives is 
determined by the Chief Executive as part 
of the overall performance review. 
An overview of progress against 2013 
priorities is discussed on the following pages 
and within the reporting segment reviews 
(see pages 38 to 61).
A culture of integrity
Responsible business conduct 
BAE Systems continues to embed its ethics 
programme globally, driving the right behaviours 
by supporting employees in making ethical 
decisions and embedding responsible 
business practices. 
In 2013, Lord Gold, the monitor appointed by 
the US Department of Justice, concluded his 
three-year term. His final report confirmed the 
progress made and the robustness of the 
processes in place to ensure high standards 
of ethical business conduct are maintained. 
The Group’s Code of Conduct sets out the 
principles and standards of business conduct 
expected of all employees. It provides them 
with practical guidance on how to deal with 
situations that may arise in their day-to-day 
activities. Guidance is also included on where 
employees can seek further advice. 
If employees (or third parties) need help or 
guidance in addition to that provided by the 
Code of Conduct, or want to report a concern, 
they can call the Ethics Helpline, which is 
managed by a third party and is available 
24 hours of every day using a freephone 
number from most countries. The caller has 
the option to speak to someone in their own 
language. Employees can also get 
independent advice and support, or report 
concerns via Ethics Officers, now in place 
across the businesses, or via the Ethics 
Helpline e-mail address, which is also made 
available to third parties via the Group’s 
website. 
The Code of Conduct and related policies are 
supported by regular mandatory training for all 
employees. During 2013, the Group provided 
export control training for all senior 
employees, which explained the standards 
required on export control and International 
Traffic in Arms Regulations. Senior executives 
and business leaders completed further 
training on the Advisers, Gifts and Hospitality, 
Facilitation Payments, Community Investment 
and Conflicts of Interest mandated policies in 
the Operational Framework. 
Recognising the increasing use and importance 
of IT and social media, all employees using 
the Group’s IT system completed a number of 
training modules on IT security. BAE Systems 
operates in a heavily regulated and secure 
sector, and it must ensure that employees are 
mindful of the risks that are faced both by the 
organisation and as individuals with access to 
highly confidential and sensitive material. The 
Group’s social media guidelines have been 
developed to help employees and contractors 
understand how to minimise those risks and 
use digital and social media responsibly. 
All employees will participate in Code of 
Conduct refresher training in 2014. This will 
be developed to address current key issues, 
such as the use of social media and security 
of information.
During 2013, 1,043 enquiries were reported 
to Ethics Officers and through the Ethics 
Helpline. The Group has seen a steady 
increase in reports and requests for guidance 
to Ethics Officers as they become more 
established within their businesses.
If employees are found to be in breach of the 
Group’s Code of Conduct or related policies, 
they will potentially be subject to disciplinary 
action. In 2013, 265 employees were 
dismissed for reasons relating to breaches of 
the Group’s standards and policies, primarily 
for personnel and workplace issues.
Governance 
Clear governance structures and visible 
leadership play a vital role in embedding 
corporate responsibility.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility 
for the Group’s ongoing commitment to 
corporate responsibility. He is supported 
by the Board and Corporate Responsibility 
Committee in ensuring that appropriate 
policies, systems, reporting structures 
and metrics are in place to achieve the 
Group’s ethical, social and environmental 
performance objectives.
Business model – page 9
In September 2013, BAE Systems was confirmed 
as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability World 
and European Indices. This reflected improvements 
in external reporting and engagement on 
sustainability issues. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
112 BAE SySt EmS Ann UAL REPORT 2013 The Group’s Corporate Responsibility team 
reports directly to the Chief Executive, and 
supports the Executive Committee in 
embedding and driving processes and 
performance. Performance is measured and 
risk monitored throughout the year via the 
Group’s six-monthly Operational Assurance 
Statement (see page 69) and Quarterly 
Business Review (see page 69) processes.
The Group’s Internal Audit team also 
assesses the effectiveness of policies and 
processes relating to key areas of ethical 
and reputational risk.
The Managing Director, Corporate 
Responsibility is a direct report to the Chief 
Executive and supports the Group’s Corporate 
Responsibility Committee.
The Group’s governance framework, as 
described in the Operational Framework, 
covers the products we make and export. 
The Group’s Responsible Trading Principles, 
Product Trading Policy and Pursuit of Export 
Opportunities Policy help employees make 
informed decisions about the business 
opportunities the Group pursues and to 
address any responsible trading risks, 
including risks associated with the product 
and its intended end use, the country of 
origin and delivery, and the customer.
Improving industry standards
The Group continues to support the 
improvement of ethical standards across 
the defence industry. 
During 2013, the Group participated in the 
International Forum on Business Ethical 
Conduct (IFBEC) for the Aerospace and 
Defence Industry, both as Chair and as Task 
Force members. IFBEC is committed to 
promoting high ethical standards through the 
adoption of Global Principles of Business 
Ethics for the Aerospace and Defence Industry 
(http:/ /ifbec.info/). 
BAE Systems regularly engages with other 
companies to understand progress and the 
latest status of thinking on ethical standards. 
The Group is a corporate member of the UK 
Institute of Business Ethics and the US 
Defense Industry Initiative. 
Stakeholder engagement
The Group’s principal stakeholders include 
investors, customers, employees, business 
partners, suppliers, civil society organisations 
and the communities in which it operates.
BAE Systems aims to communicate openly 
with stakeholders about its business. 
Two-way dialogue helps the Group to 
understand others’ views and concerns, 
and provides an opportunity to explain the 
Group’s approach.
Public policy and lobbying
The Lobbying and Political Support Policy 
sets out the standards to be followed by 
anyone engaged in lobbying or other political 
engagement on behalf of BAE Systems, 
including those from outside the business. 
The principles underpinning this policy are: 
 – BAE Systems engages in lobbying 
activities in the countries in which it 
operates in order to communicate with, 
and inform, legislators and government 
decision-makers on matters relating to 
the Company’s business; 
 – anyone engaged in lobbying activities 
on behalf of BAE Systems conducts 
themselves in a way that conforms with 
the Company’s standards of responsible 
business conduct; and
 – BAE Systems does not make corporate 
contributions or donations to political 
parties. 
Industrial participation
Industrial participation or offset is governed by 
the Group’s Offset Policy which sets out the 
standards to be followed by anyone engaged 
in offset activity on behalf of BAE Systems. 
Customers may use offset as a discriminator 
as part of their procurement process and a 
request for offset may impact on the Group’s 
ability to access international markets. The 
underlying principles applicable to all of the 
Group’s offset activities are that: 
 – they are undertaken in accordance with the 
Code of Conduct; 
 – they have clear line management ownership 
and executive oversight; 
 – they are consistent with the customer’s 
offset policies and proportionate to the 
value of related contracts; and 
 – financial and non-financial risks are clearly 
assessed and mitigated. 
Advisers
BAE Systems has rigorous standards 
concerning the appointment of advisers. 
All appointments must be proposed and 
approved in accordance with the Group’s 
processes and require final authorisation 
through an external panel.
Human rights
The Group is committed to respecting 
human rights in its operations, within its 
sphere of influence. 
taxation
The Group seeks to build constructive working 
relationships with tax authorities while 
following a policy of open disclosure in order 
to achieve early agreement and certainty in 
relation to its tax affairs. Whilst the Group 
aims to maximise the tax efficiency of its 
business transactions, it does not use 
structures in its tax planning that are against 
the spirit of the law and actively considers the 
implications of any planning for the Group’s 
wider corporate reputation. Further information 
on the Group’s tax policies is set out on 
page 120.
Enquiries to Ethics Helpline
ˆ
2010 734
2009 870
All enquiries reported to Ethics Ofcers and via 
the Ethics Helpline were reviewed and reported 
either to the Ethics Review Committee or, in 
BAE Systems, Inc., to the Ethics Review 
Oversight Committee.
2011 1,011
2012 1,024
2013 1,043
2013 enquiries to Ethics Helpline
ˆ
4 89
6 129
5 59
3 189
2 194
1 383
1 Guidance and advice 
2 Employee relations and conduct 
3 Management practices 
4 Accounting charges practices 
5 Open enquiries** 
6 Other 
** US category only
Dismissals for reasons relating 
to unethical behaviour*
2010 355
2009 485
If an employee is found to be in breach of the 
Group’s Code of Conduct or any other relevant 
policies, appropriate disciplinary action, which 
may include dismissal, is taken.
2011 298
2012 292
2013 265
^* See Deloitte LLP assurance statement on page 119.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BAE SySt EmS Ann UAL REPORT 2013 113
Directors’ re Por t An inspired workforce
BAE Systems recognises that its employees 
are key to delivering the Group’s strategy 
successfully and sustaining future business. 
The Group serves the needs of its customers 
by delivering a wide range of advanced 
defence, aerospace and security solutions 
that provide a performance edge. With some 
84,600 employees
1
, BAE Systems relies on 
talented people who are committed to 
delivering these solutions. 
People development
The Group’s people strategy of through-career 
capability development and emphasis on high 
levels of employee engagement seeks to 
maximise the contribution that its workforce 
makes to the performance of the business.
The people strategy assists every member 
of the team to fulfil their personal potential. 
The success of this strategy is measured 
ultimately in the success of the business 
as a whole.
The Group continues to focus on the 
development of its current and future 
employees with structured global programmes 
linked to Total Performance Leadership, an 
integrated performance management and 
leadership development framework. In 2013, 
more than 360 leaders in the UK took part 
in the ‘Leading for Total Performance’ 
development programme, which has been 
designed to be the catalyst for a ‘mind-set’ 
shift in the Group’s leadership population, 
supporting leaders to face the challenging 
and changing business climate with 
confidence and with the right skills to flourish. 
More than 720 leaders have participated 
in the programme since it started at the 
end of 2011.
The Group has continued to demonstrate its 
commitment to the continuous professional 
and personal development of its workforce. 
Development planning is supported by flexible 
training and education programmes that 
encourage a culture of lifelong learning and 
help employees to develop their skills to 
maximise their potential.
In 2013, the Group continued to invest in 
learning programmes for all employees that 
support its culture of responsible business 
conduct. Extensive use is made of e-learning 
media, classroom training and partnerships 
with academic institutions to provide 
development and learning offerings. Over 200 
courses are made available to employees and 
their families. 
Sustaining and developing capability relies on 
developing the existing workforce and hiring 
talented people to meet current and future 
skills requirements.
Employee engagement
The Group recognises the importance of 
engaging its employees to help them make 
their fullest contribution to the business. 
Through a variety of media, the Group’s 
leadership seeks to listen to employees’ 
views and opinions, and keep them informed 
about developments and prospects for the 
business. In 2013, there continued to be 
more frequent use of leadership blogs and 
other e-enabled communication channels.
In the fourth quarter of 2013, employees 
were invited to take part in an engagement 
survey. The overall participation rate 
compared with the previous engagement 
survey increased by 11 percentage points 
to 58%. Across BAE Systems, there were 
increases reported in the survey questions 
on engagement, creating an environment 
of openness and trust, and pride in working 
for BAE Systems. This reflects the Group’s 
ongoing commitment to creating an 
environment in which employees can 
contribute to the success of the Group.
Regular internal communication, including 
e-Cards, newsletters, management and team 
meetings, monthly team briefs and the 
intranet, keeps employees informed, involved 
and inspired.
The Group welcomes employees becoming 
shareholders in BAE Systems and offers 
a number of employee share plans to 
support this.
When redundancies have been necessary to 
align with customer requirements for products 
and services, management works with 
employees, trade unions, and local and 
national bodies to mitigate the impact on the 
people and communities affected.
The Group has constructive relationships with 
trade unions, and regularly communicates and 
discusses business developments which 
impact the Group and its employees. 
Diversity and inclusion
BAE Systems is committed to creating an 
inclusive work environment where a diverse 
range of talented people can work together to 
ensure business delivery. Diversity amongst 
the Group’s workforce is a significant force for 
innovation and assists the Group in responding 
to customer requirements. 
The Group focuses on its goal of building a 
diverse workforce which reflects that of the 
populations it recruits from. A particular current 
focus is increasing female representation in the 
pipeline for senior roles where this is possible. 
A standard Management Resource Review, 
which includes succession and development 
planning, is conducted annually at Group and 
business level. The 2013 review showed that 
20% of the high-potential population are female. 
Across the Group, businesses have put in 
place plans to 2015 to support and progress 
this aim. Activities include a focus on 
succession planning, development and 
leadership programmes and mentoring 
initiatives. 
In 2013, the Executive Committee progressed 
actions to grow the female talent pipeline at 
senior executive levels:
Fostering a culture of inclusion – unconscious 
bias training for all employees was rolled out 
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
* See Deloitte LLP assurance statement on page 119.
2013 gender diversity* (%)
1 Electronic Systems 
2 Cyber & Intelligence 
3 Platforms & Services (US) 
4 Platforms & Services (UK) 
5 Platforms & Services (International) 
6 Total 
4 16
5 9
3 22
2 26
84
6 20 80
91
78
74
1 70 30
Male
Female
2013 age diversity* (%)
1
2
3
4
5
1 25 years and younger 7
2 26 – 35 years 19
3 36 – 49 years 33
4 50 – 59 years 32
5 60 years and older 9
114 BAE SySt EmS Ann UAL REPORT 2013
DIRECt ORS’ REPORt SUStAINABILIty during 2013. The objective of the training is to 
enhance talent management by raising 
awareness of unconscious and conscious 
bias that can influence decisions.
Accelerating the development of high-potential 
women – an Executive Committee mentoring 
programme, launched during 2012 to leverage 
the readiness of high-potential women across 
the organisation, continued during 2013. Of 
the first cohort of 24 women, over 70% were 
promoted or moved roles. A second cohort 
was launched in November 2013. 
Increasing leadership diversity – to ensure 
diverse candidate lists for leadership roles, 
where possible, executive search firms were 
employed with a track record of open and 
inclusive recruitment processes, and drawing 
from an appropriately diverse pool of 
candidates, with the overall aim of appointing 
the best person for the role. During 2013, the 
percentage of external female candidates 
hired was 26%. 
Measuring performance – on a national basis, 
defined aspirational objectives and actions 
have been put in place to increase gender 
diversity. Gender diversity in leadership 
positions and succession plans is monitored.
At the end of 2013, three (27%) and two 
(17%) of the Board and Executive Committee 
members, respectively, were women. Globally, 
59 (15%) and 15,000
1
 (20%) of the Group’s 
senior managers
2
 and total workforce are 
women, respectively.
BAE Systems is proud to have received 
recognition for the progress it is making on 
diversity. The Group regularly benchmarks 
itself against external organisations and 
uses expert groups to provide inputs to 
diversity programmes.
Achievements during 2013 included:
 – BAE Systems India’s programme to support 
women employees to develop their careers 
was recognised as best practice by the 
National Human Resource Development 
Network, a national level association of 
human resources professionals.
 – In the UK, BAE Systems was awarded 
the Large Companies award at the Mail 
on Sunday’s ‘Breaking the Mould’ awards 
for its work in providing opportunities for 
women at all levels of the UK business 
and “attracting and retaining women to 
an engineering company”.
 – For the seventh consecutive year, 
BAE Systems was listed in the top 50 UK 
companies in which women want to work 
by The Times newspaper.
 – BAE Systems won an Opportunity Now 
Excellence In Practice Award. The ‘Inspiring 
the Workforce of the Future’ award was 
presented for the innovative work 
BAE Systems does in providing 
opportunities for female apprentices.
The Group is committed to giving full and fair 
consideration to applications for employment 
from disabled people who meet the 
requirements for roles, and making available 
training opportunities and appropriate 
accommodation to disabled people employed 
by the Group.
Education and early careers
The Group works with the education sectors 
in each of its home markets to help shape 
the workforce of the future with a particular 
emphasis on encouraging young people to 
pursue careers in science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics.
In the US, BAE Systems is partnering with 
several organisations, such as the National 
Math and Science Initiative and the 
Aerospace Industries Association, to support 
the development of science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics curricula 
and engage young students, with the goal 
of inspiring them to become future 
engineers. For example, the business 
supports organisations such as Team 
America Rocketry Challenge.
In the UK, the Group has again teamed with 
the Royal Air Force in staging a Schools Road 
Show, taking a theatre-based class to over 
250 schools, engaging 25,000 pupils in 
2013 about careers in engineering.
In 2013, BAE Systems Saudi Arabia graduated 
30 students from its annual Summer Training 
Programme which provides key training in 
business, computer and interpersonal 
communication skills. More than 500 
students from various universities, colleges 
and schools join the programme annually.
In Australia, the business sponsors school 
pupils to participate in the FIRST (Foundation 
for Inspiration and Recognition of Science and 
Technology) LEGO League and FIRST Robotics 
Competition, both aimed at encouraging 
more young people to engage in science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics.
In India, BAE Systems has a long-term 
partnership agreement with Smile Foundation, 
a national level development organisation with 
an outreach of over 200,000 underprivileged 
children, women and youth across 25 states. 
In 2013, BAE Systems launched a mobile 
hospital called ‘Smile on Wheels’ that provides 
primary healthcare services to underserved 
communities in the city of Bengaluru in India. 
Diversity and inclusion
In August, a group of employees in the UK became the first from a major engineering business 
to take part in the Manchester Pride parade. The Pride festival is an annual ten-day event for 
the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community.
1 Excluding equity accounted investments and rounded to the nearest thousand employees.
2  Senior managers are defined as employees who have responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the Group or a strategically significant part 
of the Group and/or who are directors of subsidiary undertakings.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 115
Directors’ re Por t minimum wage
BAE Systems complies fully with its obligations 
under minimum wage regulations.
Employee safety
Safety of the Group’s employees, and anybody 
who works on its sites, is a key priority. The 
Group continues to embed a safety first 
approach by providing training and tools that 
help employees understand the importance of 
a safe workplace, and encouraging employees 
to take responsibility for their own safety and 
the safety of those around them. The senior 
leadership of the Group plays a key role in 
maintaining the focus on safety and leading 
through example. 
During 2013, the Group’s global Safety, 
Health and Environment (SHE) Steering Group 
focused on reviewing high-risk manufacturing 
activities which could lead to major accidents. 
The SHE Steering Group also monitored 
safety performance, including progress 
against the Safety Maturity Matrix (SMM), 
which was introduced in 2008. The SMM has 
helped drive consistent standards of safety 
across the Group.
The metric used by the Group to measure 
workplace injuries is the Recordable Accident 
Rate which, along with the number of major 
accidents, is used to determine an element 
of executive bonus. During 2013, the 
Recordable Accident Rate* decreased by 17%, 
ahead of improvement targets set. This 
progress represents a sixth consecutive year 
of improvement. The number of major injuries 
increased compared with 2012 prompting 
detailed reviews and investigation by senior 
management. The chart above shows that 
over half of the major injuries in 2013 were 
due to slips, trips or falls. 
Regrettably, there were two work-related 
employee fatalities in 2013. Each accident 
is thoroughly investigated and lessons learnt 
are applied across the Group.
Employee health and wellbeing
The Group recognises that a healthy 
workforce is a more engaged and productive 
one and, during 2013, promoted an 
enterprise-wide campaign to make employee 
wellbeing a top priority.
In the US, thousands of employees embraced 
a new ‘wellness challenge’ through the 
BAE Systems, Inc. Health Council’s ‘Be 
ProActive’ initiative, which gives access to 
programmes, tools and resources to help 
them take charge of their health.
A UK-wide working group has introduced a 
new Employee Assistance Programme (EAP), 
produced a common suite of occupational 
health standards and processes, co-ordinated 
UK-wide health and lifestyle promotions and 
awareness campaigns, and re-tendered and 
consolidated all third-party occupational 
health service provision across the Group’s 
UK sites.
The EAP, launched in 2012, is a confidential 
service available 24 hours a day, 365 days 
a year. It provides counsellors and legal and 
medical advisers who offer confidential advice 
on topics such as personal finances, 
relationships, bereavement, stress and 
anxiety. The EAP service had over 11,000 
interactions with employees in 2013, including 
telephone and face-to-face counselling, 
calls to the telephone advice helpline and 
use of the online health portal.
In Australia, BAE Systems offers health 
awareness programmes, including the 
‘Weightwatchers @ Work’ programme, 
which encourages healthy eating and 
lifestyle choices.
Responsible environmental 
management
Operational
The Group’s primary operational impacts 
on the environment are through the use 
of energy used for heating and lighting 
workspaces. The Group has relatively few 
energy-intensive processes. Water use is 
also linked to employee numbers apart from 
in the Munitions business (steam and cooling) 
and shipyards where water use fluctuates 
significantly if a dry dock is used. In the 
majority of businesses, waste is of high value 
and they seek to recycle wherever possible.
The Group’s goal is to reduce the 
environmental impact of its operations 
and products by using energy, water and 
waste more efficiently.
Businesses across the Group have 
environmental management systems in place 
that monitor and manage impacts from 
greenhouse gas emissions, material and 
solvent use, waste products and emissions 
to the atmosphere.
During 2013, businesses set targets to 
reduce the amount of energy and water used, 
and the amount of waste generated. In total 
during the year, energy use reduced by 7%
1
, 
water consumption reduced by 16%
2
 and 
waste generated reduced by 17%
2
.
The majority of the Group’s greenhouse gas 
emissions come from energy use and 
business travel. 
Whilst the business has achieved a reduction 
in energy use on a like-for-like basis, the 
Group’s reported carbon footprint
3
 for 2013 
has increased by 31%. This is the result of an 
increasingly mature approach to capturing 
emissions data across the global business. 
The carbon footprint
3
 now includes some 
Major injuries recorded*
2010 53
2009 77
Major injuries recorded increased during 2013 
prompting detailed reviews and investigation by 
senior management.
2011 59
2012 44
2013 65
1  Data is derived from internal recording systems on a like-for-like basis with 2012 and is not subject to external verification or audit.
2  Data is derived from internal recording systems and is not subject to external verification or audit.
3  The footprint was externally compiled by the Coefficient Company.
4 Excluding share of joint ventures.
* See Deloitte LLP assurance statement on page 119.
2013 causes of major injuries recorded* (%)
1 Slips, trips or falls on same level 34
2 Struck by moving/falling object 10
3 Injured while handling, lifting or carrying 7
4 Fall from height 5
5 Strike against something xed/stationary 3
6 Contact with moving machinery 3
7 Trapped by something collapsing/overturning 1
8 Contact with re 1
9 Struck by moving vehicle 1
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
116 BAE SySt EmS Ann UAL REPORT 2013
DIRECt ORS’ REPORt SUStAINABILIty significant additional sites and fuel sources 
not present in the 2012 calculation. The 2013 
footprint
3
 also incorporates changes to CO 2e 
conversion factors that increase reported 
emissions from certain business activities.
Product
Environmental considerations are taken into 
account throughout a product’s lifecycle from 
concept, design and manufacture through to 
use and disposal via the Group’s Lifecycle 
Management (LCM) process (see page 69). 
This includes reducing the environmental 
impacts of the Group’s products during 
research and development, minimising waste 
materials during manufacturing, and helping 
to reduce the impact of our products when 
they are used, upgraded or disposed of.
Engineers are given training and guidance 
via the Group-wide Environmental Policy 
and Product Environmental Management 
handbook to promote understanding of 
environmental product design.
The Group works with suppliers to reduce the 
environmental impact of the products and 
services they supply, reducing costs and the 
Group’s environmental footprint. To support 
this, the Group has a Sustainable Procurement 
handbook to help purchasing teams understand 
and embed environmental standards into the 
supplier management process.
Working in partnership with a variety of 
organisations, the Group helps improve the 
environmental impacts of its business and 
the wider defence industry. BAE Systems is 
a corporate member of the Institute of 
Environmental Management and Assessment 
(IEMA). In the UK, this is used to develop the 
competencies of both environmental and 
non-environmental specialists. Elsewhere, 
BAE Systems is working with IEMA on the 
up-skilling and professional development of 
individuals across the environmental arena.
The Group monitors and reports greenhouse 
gas emissions, primarily from energy use, on 
a Group-wide basis. This supports the Group 
in meeting the requirements of legislation, 
such as the UK government’s Carbon 
 
†
 The sources of greenhouse gas emissions fall within 
the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 
Emissions from joint ventures and pension scheme 
properties not occupied by the Group are not included.
The greenhouse gas emissions data is in line with 
the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard (revised version) and 
emission factors for fuels and electricity from the 
2013 Government GHG Conversion Factors for 
Company Reporting. 
The CO
2
e associated with carbon dioxide, methane 
and nitrous oxide is reported. Greenhouse gas 
emissions associated with hydrofluorocarbons, 
perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride are 
estimated to be immaterial to total emissions.
The reporting year for greenhouse gas emissions 
is offset from the financial reporting year. The 
Australian carbon data included relates to the most 
recent reporting year for the National Greenhouse 
and Energy Reporting Scheme regulations ended 
June 2013.
The principal record of the Group’s worldwide facilities 
is its legal department’s Global Property Database.
Greenhouse gas emissions are primarily calculated 
from energy consumption records reported via the 
Group’s global environmental database. Where 
actual usage data is not available for facilities and 
residences within the Global Property Database, an 
estimated consumption is used based on floor areas 
and usage type. 
Greenhouse gas emissions related to business 
travel include air travel data for the majority of the 
global business, hire car and rail data for business 
units operating in the UK and US, and executive car 
data and hotel bookings for businesses in the UK 
only. These data are taken from suppliers’ 
procurement records.
Reduction Commitment and the Australian 
National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting 
Act.
Product stewardship
Innovation
Innovation is both BAE Systems’ heritage 
and key to the sustainability of the Group in 
meeting the rapidly changing and diverse 
military and civil requirements of customers. 
The Group’s Research & Development (R&D) 
activities cover a wide range of programmes, 
and include technological innovations and 
techniques to improve the manufacturing and 
service of products. In 2013, R&D expenditure 
was £1,051m (2012 £1,138m) of which £171m 
(2012 £150m) was funded by the Group.
Intellectual property is important to the 
Group’s success in obtaining and maintaining 
a competitive advantage.
Like any industrial concern, BAE Systems, in 
producing products and providing services, 
creates intellectual property which often has a 
value to the Group far greater than is reflected 
in the value of the particular contract or 
programme of work. It takes many forms, 
including products, processes and know-how.
The Group’s Operational Framework mandates 
a policy to protect the Group’s intellectual 
property (including patents, registered 
designs, and registered trade and service 
marks) through appropriate use and 
observance of intellectual property law, so 
that returns made from the investment in 
research and development and technological 
innovation are protected, and commercial 
and business innovations are adequately 
safeguarded.
In 2013, the Group filed patent applications 
covering approximately 250 new inventions. 
At 31 December 2013, BAE Systems had 
a total portfolio of patents and patent 
applications covering more than 2,000 
inventions internationally.
Global greenhouse gas emissions data for the
period 1 November 2012 to 31 October 2013 
(tonnes of CO
2
e)
†
3 243,710
2 679,750
19
1 535,370
1 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities
 (Scope 1) 
2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased
 for own use (Scope 2) 
3 Business travel (Scope 3) 
Emissions per employee
4
 
Water consumption
2
–16%
Waste generated
2
–17%
Energy usage
1
–7%
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 117
Directors’ re Por t Innovation – ultra low noise CmOS imaging 
The Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor (CMOS) image sensor 
has brought the world of shadows into sharp focus and is a solution 
that brings together wide dynamic range, high speed, low noise, wide 
field of view and increased sensitivity in a single innovation. 
Product integrity
It is critical that the Group’s products perform 
as designed without harm to the people using 
them. no complex and innovative product, 
whether used in defence or civilian markets 
or both, is without risk. It is essential that 
the Group achieves an appropriate balance 
between the benefits they provide to customers 
and the risks associated with their use.
The Group’s Product Safety Policy is 
principles-based (Accountability; Level of 
Safety; Conforming Products; and Learning 
and Sharing Information) and these principles 
apply throughout a product’s life from design 
and manufacture through use to disposal. It is 
recognised that some product responsibilities 
may extend beyond the contractual life of 
customer contracts.
The safety of the Group’s products relies on 
the considered application of its Product 
Safety Policy, adherence to the Product Safety 
Management Systems, and the responsible 
attitudes and behaviours of the many 
individuals who are alert to the safety 
implications of their own actions and those 
of others.
Across the Group’s businesses, there are a 
number of working groups that consider 
product safety issues, different approaches 
(which reflect the different legal and regulatory 
environments in which the Group operates), 
research, best practice and knowledge sharing. 
These working groups continue to inform the 
Group’s approach to product safety.
Management of product safety risks remained 
a focus during 2013. The Group continues to 
work with its customers to agree the level of 
safety required that is both ethical and lawful. 
The Group aims to ensure that accountabilities 
are clearly defined and that it delivers 
conforming products. The businesses 
continued to learn and share information on 
product safety-related matters, both internally 
and externally to the Group. 
Adherence to international conventions
BAE Systems plc and its subsidiaries are 
compliant with the global conventions, 
Oslo and Ottawa, on cluster munitions and 
anti-personnel devices, respectively. The 
Group does not manufacture biological or 
chemical weapons, or those containing white 
phosphorous or depleted uranium.
Unmanned Autonomous Systems
BAE Systems has developed and continues 
to develop a number of autonomous systems 
which are under the control of highly-trained 
human operators at all times. 
Autonomous systems can access terrain 
and atmospheric situations inaccessible 
to humans.
Autonomous surveillance systems are 
designed to flag abnormal or criminal patterns 
of behaviour – highly important in identifying 
threats from terrorists or suicide bombers.
BAE Systems’ Taranis unmanned aircraft has 
integrated stealth technologies, propulsion 
systems and advanced mission systems, all 
of which are relevant to the next generation of 
military aerospace capabilities. Taranis was 
designed to demonstrate the Group’s ability 
to create a system capable of undertaking 
sustained surveillance, marking targets, 
gathering intelligence and carrying out 
strikes in hostile territory.
managing the supply chain
Robust and effective supplier management 
is critical to the Group to help to deliver the 
products and systems its customers need, 
on time and to the quality they expect. Poor 
performance or unethical conduct by a 
supplier could affect the Group’s reputation 
or its ability to operate effectively.
The Group requires its suppliers to comply 
with local legislation and to apply standards 
on issues such as ethical conduct, health and 
safety, environment, civil liberties and human 
rights that are equivalent to those mandated 
across BAE Systems. The Group also requires 
them to have an ethical Code of Conduct for 
Responsible Trading of similar standard to its 
own, and to apply these standards in their 
own supply chains. Compliance to required 
standards is evaluated during the supplier 
selection process, and for existing suppliers 
as part of ongoing quality and approvals 
assurance.
Supplier payment policy
It is Group policy that suppliers should be paid 
in accordance with the payment terms and 
conditions stated in the applicable purchase 
order. In the UK, the Group is a signatory to 
the government’s Prompt Payment Code (see 
www.promptpaymentcode.org.uk), under which 
it has undertaken to pay suppliers on time, 
give clear guidance on payment procedures 
and encourage the adoption of the code 
throughout its supply chain. The average 
number of days’ credit provided in 2013 by 
suppliers was 27 days (2012 30 days). 
Responsible trading characteristics for 
procurement
Assessing major suppliers for their potential 
responsible trading risk is a key part of the 
Group’s procurement processes and this 
extends from initial market analysis and 
sourcing, through to tendering, supplier 
selection and contract award. This becomes 
particularly important for suppliers of products 
to projects of significant value and/or those 
suppliers which are critical to the delivery of 
a programme. 
Innovation – information at your fingertips
Pilots of the Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer aircraft will have vital information at their fingertips 
thanks to new tablet computers fitted by BAE Systems. The computers allow training pilots to 
view everything from technical publications, landing trajectories, conversion applications and 
weather forecasts at the tap of a touch-screen.
118 BAE SySt EmS Ann UAL REPORT 2013
DIRECt ORS’ REPORt SUStAINABILIty To facilitate such an assessment, 
BAE Systems has created a set of 
Responsible Trading Characteristics for 
Procurement. These characteristics are 
captured in six questions which should be 
asked throughout the procurement lifecycle. 
1.  Do the major suppliers have a code of 
conduct or responsible trading policy of 
a comparable standard to BAE Systems?
2.  Does the product or service being procured 
create a significant lasting adverse 
environmental or health impact over and 
above that reasonably necessary in its 
manufacture, storage, deployment, use 
or disposal?
3.  Does the product or service being procured 
conform to BAE Systems’ Product Safety 
Policy?
4.  Is the product or service being procured 
subject to export control, and if so, are the 
appropriate clearances or licences in place 
or planned?
5.  Is it likely that the production of this 
product or service will violate civil liberties 
or human rights?
6.  Is the product being procured likely to be 
controlled or prohibited by legislation in the 
foreseeable future?
Community investment
BAE Systems is committed to effecting 
change. This commitment is demonstrated 
through work with local and national 
organisations with an objective to make a 
difference in the communities in which the 
Group operates. BAE Systems’ Global 
Community Investment Strategy is defined 
through the support it provides both financial 
and through volunteering. BAE Systems aims 
to align its resources in support of primary 
areas of focus – the needs of the Group’s 
customers, education and skills, heritage and 
the communities in which the Group operates.
As BAE Systems is a global company, each 
of its key markets has also created its own 
strategy in support of the Global Community 
Investment Strategy which is relevant to 
specific local issues, charitable needs 
and culture.
Charitable contributions
Globally, the Group and its employees through 
the Community Investment programme 
contributed over £10m* during 2013 to local, 
national and international charities and 
not-for-profit organisations, including:
 – £1.0m given to the UK Defence and 
national Rehabilitation Centre;
 – £4.5m given to armed forces charities, 
including Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and 
Families Association (SSAFA), the Royal 
navy and Royal Marines Charity and the 
United Service Organizations (USO); and
 – £2.5m donated to education charities 
and programmes, including:
 – the Queen Elizabeth Prize for Engineering 
and The Prince’s Trust in the UK;
 – the national Math and Science Initiative 
in the US; and
 – FIRST (Foundation for Inspiration and 
Recognition of Science and Technology) 
in Australia. 
Deloitte LLP assurance statement
This year, Deloitte LLP assured the following 
performance indicators at Group level:
Ethics and governance – employee and 
third-party enquiries to Ethics Helpline^ 
(total number and number by category) 
and dismissals for reasons relating to 
unethical behaviour*;
Safety – Recordable Accident Rate*, the 
number of major injuries recorded* and 
causes of major injuries recorded*;
Diversity and inclusion – employees split 
by gender* and age*; and
Community – total Community Investment 
programme donations*. 
Deloitte LLP has provided limited assurance 
on performance indicators marked with a * 
and reasonable assurance on performance 
indicators marked with a ^.
To see Deloitte LLP’s unqualified assurance 
statement go to: www.baesystems.com/
deloitteassurancestatement
To see the Group’s basis of reporting 2013 
go to: www.baesystems.com/2013crdata
Environment – saving water
Severe drought and a 68% empty water reservoir in central Texas, US, prompted the 
facilities team in Austin to seek innovative ways to conserve potable water. Working with 
the City of Austin, BAE Systems piped reclaimed sewage water to its chiller plants for use 
in the plant’s cooling towers, which is expected to cut the business’ annual utility expenses 
by $65,000 by saving an estimated ten million gallons of potable water a year.
Environment – fuel efficiency
The BAE Systems Ship Energy Assessment System (SEAS) 
enables ship operators to save fuel by dynamically tracking the 
fuel performance profile of a ship. SEAS builds and maintains 
performance trends, allowing the crew to predict and manage 
fuel consumption, optimise efficiency and reduce operating cost.
The product has been successfully trialled at sea by the Royal 
navy, demonstrating up to a 28% fuel saving, where it continues 
to support current operations.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BAE SySt EmS Ann UAL REPORT 2013 119
Directors’ re Por t OTHER STATUTORY AND 
REGULATORY INFORMATION
Company registration
BAE Systems plc is registered in England and 
Wales with the registered number 1470151.
Directors
The current directors who served during the 
2013 financial year are listed on pages 67 
and 68. Of those directors, Ian Tyler was 
appointed to the Board on 8 May 2013, 
Chris Grigg on 1 July 2013 and Sir Roger Carr 
on 1 October 2013. Sir Peter Mason and 
Lee McIntire served as directors during the 
period, with Sir Peter Mason retiring from the 
Board on 8 May 2013 and Lee McIntire 
resigning from the Board on 20 August 2013. 
Sir Richard Olver and Linda Hudson also 
served as directors during the period until 
their retirement from the Board on 1 February 
2014. In addition, Jerry DeMuro joined the 
Board on 1 February 2014.
Dividend
An interim dividend of 8.0p per share was 
paid on 2 December 2013. The directors 
propose a final dividend of 12.1p per ordinary 
share. Subject to shareholder approval, the 
final dividend will be paid on 2 June 2014 
to shareholders on the share register on 
22 April 2014.
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The Company’s AGM will be held on 7 May 
2014. The Notice of Annual General Meeting 
is enclosed with this Annual Report and 
details the resolutions to be proposed at 
the meeting.
Certain information in the Strategic Report
Particulars of important events affecting 
the Group which have occurred since 
31 December 2013 and an indication of 
likely future developments in the business 
of the Group are set out in the Strategic 
Report on pages 6 to 65.
Office of Fair Trading undertakings
As a consequence of the merger between 
British Aerospace and the former Marconi 
Electronic Systems businesses in 1999, 
the Company gave certain undertakings to 
the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry 
(now the Secretary of State for Business, 
Innovation and Skills). In February 2007 , 
the Company was released from the majority 
of these undertakings and the remainder 
have been superseded and varied by a new 
set of undertakings. Compliance with the 
undertakings is monitored by a compliance 
officer. Further information regarding the 
undertakings and the contact details of 
the compliance officer may be obtained 
through the Company Secretary at the 
Company’s registered office or through 
the Company’s website.
Taxation
The Group’s tax strategy is to:
 – ensure compliance with all applicable tax 
laws and regulations; and
 – manage the Group’s tax expense in a way 
that is consistent with its values and its 
legal obligations in all relevant jurisdictions.
The Group seeks to build constructive working 
relationships with tax authorities while 
following a policy of open disclosure in order 
to achieve early agreement and certainty in 
relation to its tax affairs. Whilst the Group 
aims to maximise the tax efficiency of its 
business transactions, it does not use 
structures in its tax planning that are against 
the spirit of the law and actively considers the 
implications of any planning for the Group’s 
wider corporate reputation. Arm’s length 
principles are applied in the pricing of all 
intra-group transactions of goods and 
services in accordance with Organisation for 
Economic Co-operation and Development 
guidelines. Where appropriate, the Group 
engages with governments to help shape 
proposed legislation and tax policy. The Group 
endorses the statement of tax principles 
issued by the Confederation of British Industry 
in May 2013 (http:/ /www.cbi.org.uk/
media/2051390/statement_of_principles.pdf).
BAE Systems operates internationally and is 
subject to tax in many different jurisdictions. 
The Group employs professional tax 
managers and takes appropriate advice from 
reputable professional firms. The Group is 
routinely subject to tax audits and reviews 
which can take a considerable period of time 
to conclude. Provision is made for known 
issues based on management’s interpretation 
of country-specific legislation and the likely 
outcome of negotiations or litigation. The 
assessment and management of tax risks are 
regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Political donations
No political donations were made in 2013.
Issued share capital
As at 31 December 2013, BAE Systems’ 
issued share capital of £88,404,817 
comprised 3,536,192,674 ordinary shares 
of 2.5p each and one Special Share of £1.
Share buyback
During the year, 51,595,000 ordinary shares of 
2.5p each were repurchased under the buyback 
programme announced on 21 February 2013 
and such repurchased shares have been 
cancelled. The total consideration for the 
purchase of the shares, including commission 
and stamp duty, was £212,359,150.
Profit forecast
In its half-year results announcement on 
1 August 2013, the Group made the following 
statement, which is regarded as a profit 
forecast for the purposes of the Financial 
Services Authority’s Listing Rule 9.2.18 
(and which replaced the profit forecast made 
in the Group’s full-year results announcement 
on 21 February 2013 and in the Annual 
Report 2012):
“In aggregate, including both the benefit 
from the share repurchase programme and 
downside arising from reductions to US 
defence budgets, double-digit growth in 
underlying earnings per share is anticipated 
for 2013. This outlook assumes the 
satisfactory conclusion to Salam pricing 
negotiations this year.”
Underlying earnings per share was 38.7p in 
2012 as re-presented on classification of the 
Regional Aircraft line of business as a 
continuing operation and restated on adoption 
of the revised International Accounting 
Standard 19, Employee Benefits. In 2013, 
underlying earnings per share was 42.0p.
Financial instruments
The Group uses financial instruments for 
risk management purposes. The Group’s 
objectives and policies relating to financial 
risk management are summarised below 
and set out in more detail in note 28 to the 
Group accounts on pages 175 and 176.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s objective is to manage its 
exposure to interest rate fluctuations on 
borrowings through varying the proportion 
of fixed rate debt relative to floating rate 
debt with derivative instruments, mainly 
interest rate swaps.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s objective is to maintain adequate 
undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
Credit risk
The Group’s objective is to monitor and 
control counterparty credit risk and credit limit 
utilisation. The Group adopts a conservative 
approach to the investment of its surplus cash.
The Group has material receivables due from 
the UK, US and Saudi Arabian governments 
where credit risk is not considered an issue.
Currency risk
In order to protect itself against currency 
fluctuations, the Group’s policy is to hedge 
all material firm transactional exposures.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
120 BAE SySTEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Treasury shares
As at 1 January 2013, the number of shares 
held in treasury totalled 336,813,996 
(having a total nominal value of £8,420,350 
and representing 9.4% of the Company’s 
called up share capital at 1 January 2013). 
During 2013, the Company used 9,169,044 
treasury shares (having a total nominal value 
of £229,226 and representing 0.3% of the 
Company’s called up share capital at 
31 December 2013) to satisfy awards under 
the Free and Matching elements of the 
Share Incentive Plan (5,337,173 shares 
in aggregate), awards vested under the 
Performance Share Plan (364,445 shares) 
and the Restricted Share Plan (1,809,975 
shares), and options exercised under the 
Executive Share Option Plan (1,657 ,451 
shares). The treasury shares utilised in 
respect of the Share Incentive Plan, the 
Performance Share Plan and the Restricted 
Share Plan were disposed of by the Company 
for nil consideration. The 1,657 ,451 shares 
disposed of by the Company in respect of the 
Executive Share Option Plan were disposed of 
by the Company for an aggregate consideration 
of £3,928,802. As at 31 December 2013, 
the number of shares held in treasury totalled 
327,644,952 (having a total nominal value 
of £8,191,124 and representing 9.3% of 
the Company’s called up share capital at 
31 December 2013). 
The rights to treasury shares are restricted in 
accordance with the Companies Act and, in 
particular, the voting rights attaching to these 
shares are automatically suspended.
Rights and obligations of ordinary shares
On a show of hands at a general meeting 
every holder of ordinary shares present in 
person and entitled to vote shall have one 
vote, and every proxy entitled to vote shall 
have one vote (unless the proxy is appointed 
by more than one member in which case the 
proxy has one vote for and one vote against 
if the proxy has been instructed by one or 
more members to vote for the resolution and 
by one or more members to vote against the 
resolution; or if the proxy has been instructed 
by one or more shareholders to vote either for 
or against a resolution and by one or more of 
those shareholders to use his discretion how 
to vote). On a poll, every member present in 
person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall 
have one vote for every ordinary share held. 
Subject to the relevant statutory provisions 
and the Company’s Articles of Association, 
holders of ordinary shares are entitled to a 
dividend where declared or paid out of profits 
available for such purposes. Subject to the 
relevant statutory provisions and the 
Company’s Articles of Association, on a return 
of capital on a winding-up, holders of ordinary 
shares are entitled, after repayment of the £1 
Special Share, to participate in such a return. 
There are no redemption rights in relation to 
the ordinary shares.
Rights and obligations of the Special Share
The Special Share is held on behalf of the 
Secretary of State for Business, Innovation 
and Skills (the ‘Special Shareholder’). Certain 
provisions of the Company’s Articles of 
Association cannot be amended without the 
consent of the Special Shareholder. These 
provisions include the requirement that no 
foreign person, or foreign persons acting in 
concert, can have more than a 15% voting 
interest in the Company, the requirement that 
the majority of the directors are British, and 
the requirement that the Chief Executive and 
any executive Chairman are British.
The holder of the Special Share is entitled 
to attend a general meeting, but the Special 
Share carries no right to vote or any other 
rights at any such meeting, other than to 
speak in relation to any business in respect 
of the Special Share. Subject to the relevant 
statutory provisions and the Company’s 
Articles of Association, on a return of capital 
on a winding-up, the holder of the Special 
Share shall be entitled to repayment of the 
£1 capital paid up on the Special Share in 
priority to any repayment of capital to any 
other members.
The holder of the Special Share has the right 
to require the Company to redeem the Special 
Share at par or convert the Special Share into 
one ordinary share at any time.
Restrictions on transfer of securities
The restrictions on the transfer of shares in 
the Company are as follows:
 – the Special Share may only be issued to, 
held by and transferred to the Special 
Shareholder or his successor or nominee;
 – the directors shall not register any allotment 
or transfer of any shares to a foreign person, 
or foreign persons acting in concert, who 
at the time have more than a 15% voting 
interest in the Company, or who would, 
following such allotment or transfer, have 
such an interest;
 – the directors shall not register any person 
as a holder of any shares unless they have 
received: (i) a declaration stating that upon 
registration, the share(s) will not be held by 
foreign persons or that upon registration 
the share(s) will be held by a foreign person 
or persons; (ii) such evidence (if any) as the 
directors may require of the authority of the 
signatory of the declaration; and (iii) such 
evidence or information (if any) as to the 
matters referred to in the declaration as 
the directors consider appropriate;
 – the directors may, in their absolute 
discretion, refuse to register any transfer 
of shares which are not fully paid up 
(but not so as to prevent dealings in listed 
shares from taking place);
 – the directors may also refuse to register any 
instrument of transfer of shares unless the 
instrument of transfer is in respect of only 
one class of share and it is lodged at the 
place where the register of members is 
kept, accompanied by a relevant certificate 
or such other evidence as the directors may 
reasonably require to show the right of the 
transferor to make the transfer;
 – the directors may refuse to register an 
allotment or transfer of shares in favour 
of more than four persons jointly;
 – where a shareholder has failed to provide 
the Company with certain information 
relating to their interest in shares, the 
directors can, in certain circumstances, 
refuse to register a transfer of such shares;
 – certain restrictions may from time to time 
be imposed by laws and regulations (for 
example, insider trading laws);
 – restrictions may be imposed pursuant to 
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority whereby certain of the Group’s 
employees require the Company’s approval 
to deal in shares; and
 – awards of shares made under the 
Company’s Share Incentive Plan are subject 
to restrictions on the transfer of shares 
prior to vesting.
The Company is not aware of any 
arrangements between its shareholders that 
may result in restrictions on the transfer of 
shares and/or voting rights.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BAE SySTEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 121
Directors’ re Por t Significant direct and indirect holders 
of securities
As at 19 February 2014, the Company had 
been advised of the following significant direct 
and indirect interests in the issued ordinary 
share capital of the Company:
Name of shareholder
Percentage 
notified
AXA S.A. and its group of companies 5.00%
Barclays PLC 3.98%
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 4.06%
Franklin Resources Inc., and affiliates 4.92%
Invesco Limited 13.02%
Silchester International Investors LLP 3.01%
Exercise of rights of shares in employee 
share schemes
The Trustees of the employee trusts do 
not seek to exercise voting rights on shares 
held in the employee trusts other than on 
the direction of the underlying beneficiaries. 
No voting rights are exercised in relation to 
shares unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
Restrictions on voting deadlines
The notice of any general meeting shall 
specify the deadline for exercising voting 
rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to 
vote in relation to resolutions to be proposed 
at the general meeting. The number of proxy 
votes for, against or withheld in respect of 
each resolution are publicised on the 
Company’s website after the meeting.
Appointment and replacement of directors
Subject to certain nationality requirements 
mentioned below, the Company may by 
ordinary resolution appoint any person to 
be a director.
The majority of directors holding office must 
be British. Otherwise, the directors who are 
not British shall vacate office in such order 
that those who have been in office for the 
shortest period since their appointment shall 
vacate their office first, unless all of the 
directors otherwise agree among themselves. 
Any director who holds the office of either 
Chairman (in an executive capacity) or Chief 
Executive shall also be British.
The Company must have six directors holding 
office at all times. If the number is reduced 
to below six, then such number of persons 
shall be appointed as directors as soon as 
is reasonably practicable to reinstate the 
number of directors to six. The Company 
2014. A special resolution will be proposed 
at the 2014 AGM to renew the Company’s 
authority to acquire its own shares.
At the 2013 AGM, the directors were given 
the power to issue new shares up to a 
nominal amount of £27,047,828. This power 
will expire on the earlier of the conclusion of 
the 2014 AGM or 30 June 2014. Accordingly, 
a resolution will be proposed at the 2014 
AGM to renew the Company’s authority to 
issue further new shares. At the 2013 AGM, 
the directors were also given the power to 
issue new issue shares up to a further 
nominal amount of £27,047,828 in 
connection with an offer by way of a rights 
issue. This authority too will expire on the 
earlier of the conclusion of the 2014 AGM 
or 30 June 2014, and a resolution will be 
proposed at the 2014 AGM to renew this 
additional authority.
Conflicts of interest
As permitted under the Companies Act 2006, 
the Company’s Articles of Association contain 
provisions which enable the Board to authorise 
conflicts or potential conflicts that individual 
directors may have.
To avoid potential conflicts of interest the 
Board requires the Nominations Committee 
to check that any individuals it nominates for 
appointment to the Board are free of potential 
conflicts. In addition, the Board’s procedures 
and the induction programme for new 
directors emphasise a director’s personal 
responsibility for complying with the duties 
relating to conflicts of interest. The procedure 
adopted by the Board for the authorisation 
of conflicts reminds directors of the need to 
consider their duties as directors and not 
grant an authorisation unless they believe, 
in good faith, that this would be likely to 
promote the success of the Company. As 
required by law, the potentially conflicted 
director cannot vote on an authorisation 
resolution or be counted in the quorum. 
Any authorisation granted may be terminated 
at any time and the director is informed of 
the obligation to inform the Company without 
delay should there be any material change in 
the nature of the conflict or potential conflict 
so authorised. The Nominations Committee 
has been asked to review on an annual basis 
any authorisations granted and to make 
recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
may by ordinary resolution from time to time 
vary the minimum number of directors.
At each AGM of the Company, any director 
who was elected or last re-elected at or before 
the AGM held in the third calendar year before 
the then current calendar year must retire by 
rotation and such further directors must retire 
by rotation so that in total one-third of the 
directors retire by rotation each year. A retiring 
director is eligible for re-election. It is the 
Board’s intention that all directors will stand 
for election or re-election in 2014 in 
compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
Amendment of the Company’s Articles 
of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may 
only be amended by a special resolution at a 
general meeting of shareholders. Where class 
rights are varied, such amendments must be 
approved by the members of each class of 
shares separately.
In addition, certain provisions of the Articles 
of Association cannot be amended without 
the consent of the Special Shareholder. 
These provisions include the requirement that 
no foreign person, or foreign persons acting 
in concert, can have more than a 15% voting 
interest in the Company, the requirement that 
the majority of the directors are British, and 
the requirement that the Chief Executive and 
any executive Chairman are British.
Powers of the directors
The directors are responsible for the 
management of the business of the Company 
and may exercise all powers of the Company 
subject to applicable legislation and 
regulation, and the Articles of Association.
At the 2013 AGM, the directors were given 
the power to buy back a maximum number of 
324,606,396 ordinary shares at a minimum 
price of 2.5p each. The maximum price was 
the higher of (i) an amount equal to 105% of 
the average of the middle market quotations 
of the Company’s ordinary shares as derived 
from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official 
List for the five business days immediately 
preceding the day on which such ordinary 
shares are contracted to be purchased, 
and (ii) the higher of the price of the last 
independent trade and the highest current 
independent bid on the London Stock 
Exchange as stipulated in Article 5(1) of 
the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation. 
This power will expire at the earlier of the 
conclusion of the 2014 AGM or 30 June 
122 BAE SySTEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
DIRECTORS’ REPORT OTHER STATUTORy AND REGULATORy INFORMATION Directors’ indemnities
The Company has entered into deeds of 
indemnity with all its current directors and 
those persons who were directors for any 
part of 2013 which are qualifying indemnity 
provisions for the purpose of the Companies 
Act 2006.
The directors of BAE Systems Pension Funds 
Trustees Limited, BAE Systems 2000 Pension 
Plan Trustees Limited, BAE Systems Executive 
Pension Scheme Trustees Limited and Alvis 
Pension Scheme Trustees Limited benefit from 
indemnities in the governing documentation 
of the BAE Systems Pension Scheme, the 
BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan, the 
BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme 
and the Alvis Pension Scheme, respectively, 
which are qualifying indemnity provisions for 
the purpose of the Companies Act 2006.
All such indemnity provisions are in force as 
at the date of this Directors’ Report.
Change of control – significant agreements
The following significant agreements contain 
provisions entitling the counterparties to 
exercise termination, alteration or other 
similar rights in the event of a change of 
control of the Company:
 – The Group has entered into a £2bn 
Revolving Credit Facility dated 12 December 
2013 which provides that, in the event of 
a change of control of the Company, the 
lenders are entitled to renegotiate terms, 
or if no agreement is reached on negotiated 
terms within a certain period, to call for the 
repayment or cancellation of the facility. 
The Revolving Credit Facility was undrawn 
as at 31 December 2013. 
 – The Company has entered into a Restated 
and Amended Shareholders Agreement 
with European Aeronautic Defence and 
Space Company EADS N.V. (EADS) and 
Finmeccanica S.p.A. (Finmeccanica) relating 
to MBDA S.A.S. dated 18 December 2001 
(as amended). In the event that control of 
the Company passes to certain specified 
third-party acquirors, the agreement allows 
EADS and Finmeccanica to exercise an 
option to terminate certain executive 
management level nomination and voting 
rights, and certain shareholder information 
rights of the Company in relation to the 
MBDA joint venture. Following the exercise 
of this option, the Company would have 
the right to require the other shareholders 
to purchase its interest in MBDA at fair 
market value.
The Company and EADS have agreed that if 
Finmeccanica acquires a controlling interest 
in the Company, EADS will increase its 
shareholding in MBDA to 50% by 
purchasing the appropriate number of 
shares in MBDA at fair market value.
 – The Company, BAE Systems, Inc., 
BAE Systems (Holdings) Limited and 
BAE Systems Holdings Inc. entered into 
a Special Security Agreement dated 
8 November 2010 with the US Department 
of Defense regarding the management of 
BAE Systems, Inc. in order to comply with 
the US government’s national security 
requirements. In the event of a change 
of control of the Company, the Agreement 
may be terminated or altered by the US 
Department of Defense.
 – In July 2009, BVT Surface Fleet Limited 
(now BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited) 
and the UK Ministry of Defence (MoD) 
entered into a definitive Terms of Business 
Agreement (ToBA) which sets out a 15-year 
partnering arrangement, including lead 
roles for the BVT business on defined 
surface shipbuilding and support 
programmes. Where the MoD considers 
that a proposed change of control of 
BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited would 
be contrary to the defence, national security 
or national interest of the UK, then the 
change of control shall not proceed until 
agreement with the MoD is established. In 
the event that there is a change of control 
of BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited, 
notwithstanding the objection of the MoD 
on such grounds, the MoD shall be entitled 
to terminate the ToBA immediately without 
compensation or termination charges.
On 6 November 2013, BAE Systems 
and the MoD entered into a non-binding 
Commercial Principles Agreement which 
set out a programme for the entering into 
of future contracts which would result in the 
progressive amendment and termination 
of the ToBA. These future contracts have 
not yet been entered into.
 – In August 2008, BAE Systems Land 
Systems (Munitions & Ordnance) Limited 
(now BAE Systems Global Combat Systems 
Munitions Limited) and the UK MoD entered 
into a 15-year partnering agreement for the 
provision of ammunition to UK Forces (the 
Munitions Acquisition Supply Solution 
(MASS) partnering agreement). Where the 
UK MoD considers that a proposed change 
of control of BAE Systems Global Combat 
Systems Munitions Limited would be 
contrary to the defence, national security 
or national interest of the UK, then the 
change of control shall not proceed until 
agreement with the UK MoD is established. 
In the event that there is a change of 
control of BAE Systems Global Combat 
Systems Munitions Limited, notwithstanding 
the objection of the UK MoD on such 
grounds, the UK MoD may, having followed 
the dispute resolution process, terminate 
the MASS agreement for default.
 – In November 2012, BAE Systems Marine 
Limited entered into a contract with the 
MoD for the design, construction, testing 
and commissioning of Boat 4 of the Astute 
Class programme (the ‘Agreement’). Where 
the MoD considers that a proposed change 
of control of BAE Systems Marine Limited 
would be contrary to the defence, national 
security or national interest of the UK, then 
the change of control shall not proceed until 
agreement is established with the MoD. In 
the event that there is a change of control 
of BAE Systems Marine Limited, 
notwithstanding the objection of the MoD 
on such grounds, the MoD shall be entitled 
to terminate the Agreement immediately.
In addition, the Company’s share plans 
contain provisions as a result of which options 
and awards may vest and become exercisable 
on a change of control of the Company in 
accordance with the rules of the plans.
Auditors
KPMG LLP have indicated their willingness to 
be appointed as the auditors for the Company 
and a resolution proposing their appointment 
will be put to the AGM.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in 
respect of the Annual Report and financial 
statements
The directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report, and the Group and parent 
company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare 
Group and parent company financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law they 
are required to prepare the Group financial 
statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the EU and applicable law, and 
have elected to prepare the parent company 
financial statements in accordance with UK 
accounting standards and applicable law 
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BAE SySTEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 123
Directors’ re Por t Under company law the directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent 
company, and of their profit or loss for that 
period. In preparing each of the Group and 
parent company financial statements, the 
directors are required to:
 – select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently;
 – make judgements and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent;
 – for the Group financial statements, 
state whether they have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 
the EU;
 – for the parent company financial statements, 
state whether applicable UK accounting 
standards have been followed, subject to 
any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the parent company financial 
statements; and
 – prepare the financial statements on the 
going concern basis unless it is inappropriate 
to presume that the Group and the parent 
company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are sufficient 
to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions, and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the parent company and enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply 
with the Companies Act 2006. They have 
general responsibility for taking such steps 
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group, and to prevent and 
detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the 
directors are also responsible for preparing 
a strategic report, directors’ report, directors’ 
remuneration report and corporate governance 
statement that comply with that law and 
those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the 
directors in respect of the Annual 
Report and financial statements
Each of the directors listed below confirms 
that to the best of their knowledge:
 – the financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with the applicable set of 
accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit or loss of the Company, 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
 – the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report, 
taken together, include a fair review of the 
development and performance of the 
business, and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
In addition, each of the directors considers 
that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is 
fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
Sir Roger Carr Chairman
Ian King Chief Executive
Jerry DeMuro President and Chief 
Executive Officer of 
BAE Systems, Inc.
Peter Lynas Group Finance Director
Paul Anderson Non-executive director
Harriet Green Non-executive director
Chris Grigg Non-executive director
Paula Rosput 
Reynolds
Non-executive director
Nick Rose Non-executive director
Carl Symon Non-executive director
Ian Tyler Non-executive director
On behalf of the Board
Sir Roger Carr, Chairman 
19 February 2014
Statement of disclosure of information 
to auditors
The directors who held office at the date 
of approval of this Directors’ Report confirm 
that, so far as they are each aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware; and each 
director has taken all the steps that he/she 
ought to have taken to make himself/herself 
aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information.
On behalf of the Board
David Parkes, Company Secretary 
19 February 2014
124 BAE SySTEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
DIRECTORS’ REPORT OTHER STATUTORy AND REGULATORy INFORMATION FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
Page Group accounts Note
126 Preparation
128 Consolidated income statement
129 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
130 Segmental analysis 1
133 Operating costs 2
134 Employees 3
134 Other income 4
135 Finance costs 5
136 Taxation expense 6
139 Assets held for sale and discontinued operations 7
140 Earnings per share 8
141 Consolidated cash flow statement
142 Cash flow analysis 9
143 Net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) 10
144 Consolidated balance sheet
145 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
146 Intangible assets 11
149 Property, plant and equipment 12
152 Investment property 13
153 Equity accounted investments 14
154 Trade and other receivables 15
155 Other financial assets and liabilities 16
156 Deferred tax 17
159 Inventories 18
159 Cash and cash equivalents 19
159 Geographical analysis of assets 20
160 Loans and overdrafts 21
161 Trade and other payables 22
162 Retirement benefit obligations 23
170 Provisions 24
171 Share capital and other reserves 25
Other information
173 Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries 26
174 Fair value measurement 27
175 Financial risk management 28
177 Share-based payments 29
179 Related party transactions 30
180 Contingent liabilities and commitments 31
181 Group entities 32
181 Events after the balance sheet date 33
Page Company accounts
182 Company balance sheet
183 Notes to the Company accounts
189 Independent auditor’s report to the 
members of BAE Systems plc
192 Five-year summary
Accounting policies
Within the Group accounts, the accounting policies are included 
within the relevant note.
BAE SySTEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 125
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
126 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Group accounts  
Preparation 
The consolidated financial statements of BAE Systems plc have been prepared on a going concern basis as discussed in the Directors’ 
Report on page 70, and in accordance with EU-endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and, unless stated otherwise, rounded to the nearest million. 
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and 
other relevant financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments).  
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. These exchange 
differences are recognised in the income statement. 
Principal accounting policies  
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out in the relevant notes. 
These policies have been applied consistently to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
Certain of the Group’s principal accounting policies are considered by the directors to be critical because of the level of complexity, 
judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the consolidated financial statements. The directors believe 
that the consolidated financial statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates, and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s 
financial performance and position. The critical accounting policies are listed below and explained in more detail in the relevant notes to 
the Group accounts.  
Critical accounting policy Description Notes
Revenue and profit recognition 
– The recognition of revenue and profit on 
long-term contracts. 
 
The majority of long-term contracts are accounted for under IAS 11, Construction 
Contracts. Revenue on long-term contracts is recognised when performance 
milestones have been completed.  
The ultimate profitability of long-term contracts is estimated based on estimates of 
revenue and costs, including allowances for technical and other risks, which are 
reliant on the knowledge and experience of the Group’s project managers, 
engineers, and finance and commercial professionals. Material changes in these 
estimates could affect the profitability of individual contracts. 
Revenue and cost estimates are reviewed and updated at least quarterly, and more 
frequently as determined by events or circumstances. 
Profit is recognised progressively as risks have been mitigated or retired. 
1
Valuation of retirement benefit obligations 
– The determination of assumptions 
underpinning the valuation of retirement 
benefit obligations for defined benefit 
pension schemes; and 
– the determination of the share of the 
pension deficit allocated to the Group’s 
equity accounted investments and other 
participating employers. 
 
Pension scheme accounting valuations are prepared by independent actuaries. For 
each of the actuarial assumptions used to measure the Group’s pension scheme 
liabilities, there is a range of possible values and management exercises judgement 
in deciding the point within that range that most appropriately reflects the Group’s 
circumstances. Small changes in these assumptions can have a significant impact 
on the size of the deficit.  
The Group has allocated a share of the pension deficit to its equity accounted 
investments and other participating employers using a consistent allocation method 
intended to reflect a reasonable approximation of their share of the deficit. 
23
Carrying value of intangible assets 
– The valuation of acquired intangible 
assets; and 
– the determination of assumptions 
underpinning goodwill impairment  
testing. 
 
Acquired intangible assets, excluding goodwill, are valued in line with internationally 
used models, which require the use of estimates that may differ from actual 
outcomes. These assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives. Future 
results are impacted by the amortisation periods adopted and, potentially, any 
differences between estimated and actual circumstances related to individual 
intangible assets. 
Goodwill is not amortised, but is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost 
less accumulated impairment losses. The impairment review calculations require the 
use of estimates related to the future profitability and cash-generating ability of the 
acquired businesses and the pre-tax discount rate used in discounting these 
projected cash flows. 
11
Changes in accounting policies 
With effect from 1 January 2013, the Group has adopted the following amendment to an existing standard and new standard: 
– International Accounting Standard (IAS) 19 (revised 2011), Employee Benefits, replaces interest cost on gross pension liabilities and 
expected return on gross pension assets with a finance cost on the net pension deficit calculated using the rate currently used to 
discount defined benefit pension liabilities. The discount rate is lower than the expected return on plan assets, increasing finance 
costs recognised in the income statement and correspondingly reducing remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income. 
In addition, certain costs associated with the administration of the Group’s pension schemes are now reported within operating costs 
rather than finance costs. The net pension deficit is not affected by these changes. 
 
  
Preparation (continued) 
These changes have been applied retrospectively to the comparative financial information for 2012 and have had the following impact 
on the financial statements compared with the previous version of IAS 19: 
 
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Operating costs (34) (39)
Share of results of equity accounted investments (2) (2)
Operating profit (36) (41)
Finance costs (166) (132)
Profit before taxation (202) (173)
Taxation expense 61 53
Net decrease in profit for the year (141) (120)
Remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes  203 174
Tax on items that will not be reclassified to the income statement  (62) (54)
Total comprehensive income for the year – –
  
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share (4.4)p (3.7)p
Diluted earnings per share (4.3)p (3.7)p
Underlying earnings
1
 per share  
Underlying earnings
1
 per share (0.2)p (0.4)p
The reduction in underlying earnings
1
 per share mainly reflects the reclassification of certain costs associated with the administration of 
the Group’s pension schemes from finance movements on pensions, which are excluded from underlying earnings
1
, to underlying EBITA
2
. 
In addition, during 2013, longevity swap arrangements were entered into by the trustees of certain UK schemes (see page 163). Under 
the revised IAS 19, these swaps are required to be valued in accordance with IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement. The valuation under the 
previous version of IAS 19 would have reduced total comprehensive income for the year by £177m. 
1  Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring 
items (see note 8).  
2  Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items.  
– IFRS 13 aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair 
value measurement disclosure requirements for use across other standards within IFRSs. IFRS 13 does not extend the use of fair 
value accounting and has not impacted the fair value measurements carried out by the Group other than in relation to longevity swaps 
as above. IFRS 13 requires specific disclosures on fair values, which are provided in the relevant notes to the Group accounts.  
A number of new EU-endorsed standards and amendments to existing standards, which are listed below, are effective for periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. With the 
exception of new disclosure requirements, none of these are expected to have an impact on the consolidated financial statements of 
the Group and as such they have not been early adopted. 
New standards and amendments to existing standards 
Effective for periods 
beginning on or after
IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014
IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements 1 January 2014
IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities  1 January 2014
IAS 27, Separate Financial Statements (revised 2011) 1 January 2014
IAS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (revised 2011) 1 January 2014
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that are expected to have a material impact on the Group. 
Consolidation 
The financial statements of the Group consolidate the results of the Company and its subsidiary entities, and include its share of its 
joint ventures’ results accounted for under the equity method, all of which are prepared to 31 December. 
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group. Control is the power to govern the operating and financial policies of an entity so as to 
obtain benefits from its activities.  
The results of subsidiaries are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition. 
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in 
preparing the consolidated financial statements. 
Joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method where the consolidated income statement includes the Group’s share of their 
profits and losses, and the consolidated balance sheet includes its share of their net assets within equity accounted investments.  
The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries and equity accounted investments are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the 
balance sheet date. The income statements of such entities are translated at average rates of exchange during the year. All resulting 
exchange differences are recognised directly in a separate component of equity. 
Translation differences that arose before the transition date to IFRS (1 January 2004) are presented in equity, but not as a separate 
component. When a foreign operation is sold, the cumulative exchange differences recognised in equity since 1 January 2004 are 
recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on sale. 
WORD_Background.indd   126 3/7/2014   1:59:15 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 127
Group accounts  
Preparation 
The consolidated financial statements of BAE Systems plc have been prepared on a going concern basis as discussed in the Directors’ 
Report on page 70, and in accordance with EU-endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and, unless stated otherwise, rounded to the nearest million. 
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and 
other relevant financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments).  
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. These exchange 
differences are recognised in the income statement. 
Principal accounting policies  
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out in the relevant notes. 
These policies have been applied consistently to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
Certain of the Group’s principal accounting policies are considered by the directors to be critical because of the level of complexity, 
judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the consolidated financial statements. The directors believe 
that the consolidated financial statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates, and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s 
financial performance and position. The critical accounting policies are listed below and explained in more detail in the relevant notes to 
the Group accounts.  
Critical accounting policy Description Notes
Revenue and profit recognition 
– The recognition of revenue and profit on 
long-term contracts. 
 
The majority of long-term contracts are accounted for under IAS 11, Construction 
Contracts. Revenue on long-term contracts is recognised when performance 
milestones have been completed.  
The ultimate profitability of long-term contracts is estimated based on estimates of 
revenue and costs, including allowances for technical and other risks, which are 
reliant on the knowledge and experience of the Group’s project managers, 
engineers, and finance and commercial professionals. Material changes in these 
estimates could affect the profitability of individual contracts. 
Revenue and cost estimates are reviewed and updated at least quarterly, and more 
frequently as determined by events or circumstances. 
Profit is recognised progressively as risks have been mitigated or retired. 
1
Valuation of retirement benefit obligations 
– The determination of assumptions 
underpinning the valuation of retirement 
benefit obligations for defined benefit 
pension schemes; and 
– the determination of the share of the 
pension deficit allocated to the Group’s 
equity accounted investments and other 
participating employers. 
 
Pension scheme accounting valuations are prepared by independent actuaries. For 
each of the actuarial assumptions used to measure the Group’s pension scheme 
liabilities, there is a range of possible values and management exercises judgement 
in deciding the point within that range that most appropriately reflects the Group’s 
circumstances. Small changes in these assumptions can have a significant impact 
on the size of the deficit.  
The Group has allocated a share of the pension deficit to its equity accounted 
investments and other participating employers using a consistent allocation method 
intended to reflect a reasonable approximation of their share of the deficit. 
23
Carrying value of intangible assets 
– The valuation of acquired intangible 
assets; and 
– the determination of assumptions 
underpinning goodwill impairment  
testing. 
 
Acquired intangible assets, excluding goodwill, are valued in line with internationally 
used models, which require the use of estimates that may differ from actual 
outcomes. These assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives. Future 
results are impacted by the amortisation periods adopted and, potentially, any 
differences between estimated and actual circumstances related to individual 
intangible assets. 
Goodwill is not amortised, but is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost 
less accumulated impairment losses. The impairment review calculations require the 
use of estimates related to the future profitability and cash-generating ability of the 
acquired businesses and the pre-tax discount rate used in discounting these 
projected cash flows. 
11
Changes in accounting policies 
With effect from 1 January 2013, the Group has adopted the following amendment to an existing standard and new standard: 
– International Accounting Standard (IAS) 19 (revised 2011), Employee Benefits, replaces interest cost on gross pension liabilities and 
expected return on gross pension assets with a finance cost on the net pension deficit calculated using the rate currently used to 
discount defined benefit pension liabilities. The discount rate is lower than the expected return on plan assets, increasing finance 
costs recognised in the income statement and correspondingly reducing remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income. 
In addition, certain costs associated with the administration of the Group’s pension schemes are now reported within operating costs 
rather than finance costs. The net pension deficit is not affected by these changes. 
 
  
Preparation (continued) 
These changes have been applied retrospectively to the comparative financial information for 2012 and have had the following impact 
on the financial statements compared with the previous version of IAS 19: 
 
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Operating costs (34) (39)
Share of results of equity accounted investments (2) (2)
Operating profit (36) (41)
Finance costs (166) (132)
Profit before taxation (202) (173)
Taxation expense 61 53
Net decrease in profit for the year (141) (120)
Remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes  203 174
Tax on items that will not be reclassified to the income statement  (62) (54)
Total comprehensive income for the year – –
  
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share (4.4)p (3.7)p
Diluted earnings per share (4.3)p (3.7)p
Underlying earnings
1
 per share  
Underlying earnings
1
 per share (0.2)p (0.4)p
The reduction in underlying earnings
1
 per share mainly reflects the reclassification of certain costs associated with the administration of 
the Group’s pension schemes from finance movements on pensions, which are excluded from underlying earnings
1
, to underlying EBITA
2
. 
In addition, during 2013, longevity swap arrangements were entered into by the trustees of certain UK schemes (see page 163). Under 
the revised IAS 19, these swaps are required to be valued in accordance with IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement. The valuation under the 
previous version of IAS 19 would have reduced total comprehensive income for the year by £177m. 
1  Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring 
items (see note 8).  
2  Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items.  
– IFRS 13 aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair 
value measurement disclosure requirements for use across other standards within IFRSs. IFRS 13 does not extend the use of fair 
value accounting and has not impacted the fair value measurements carried out by the Group other than in relation to longevity swaps 
as above. IFRS 13 requires specific disclosures on fair values, which are provided in the relevant notes to the Group accounts.  
A number of new EU-endorsed standards and amendments to existing standards, which are listed below, are effective for periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. With the 
exception of new disclosure requirements, none of these are expected to have an impact on the consolidated financial statements of 
the Group and as such they have not been early adopted. 
New standards and amendments to existing standards 
Effective for periods 
beginning on or after
IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014
IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements 1 January 2014
IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities  1 January 2014
IAS 27, Separate Financial Statements (revised 2011) 1 January 2014
IAS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (revised 2011) 1 January 2014
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that are expected to have a material impact on the Group. 
Consolidation 
The financial statements of the Group consolidate the results of the Company and its subsidiary entities, and include its share of its 
joint ventures’ results accounted for under the equity method, all of which are prepared to 31 December. 
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group. Control is the power to govern the operating and financial policies of an entity so as to 
obtain benefits from its activities.  
The results of subsidiaries are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition. 
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in 
preparing the consolidated financial statements. 
Joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method where the consolidated income statement includes the Group’s share of their 
profits and losses, and the consolidated balance sheet includes its share of their net assets within equity accounted investments.  
The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries and equity accounted investments are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the 
balance sheet date. The income statements of such entities are translated at average rates of exchange during the year. All resulting 
exchange differences are recognised directly in a separate component of equity. 
Translation differences that arose before the transition date to IFRS (1 January 2004) are presented in equity, but not as a separate 
component. When a foreign operation is sold, the cumulative exchange differences recognised in equity since 1 January 2004 are 
recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on sale. 
WORD_Background.indd   127 3/7/2014   1:59:15 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
128 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Consolidated income statement 
for the year ended 31 December 
 2013  
Restated
1
 
2012
2
 
 Notes £m
Total 
£m  £m
Total
£m
Continuing operations   
Combined sales of Group and share of equity accounted investments 1 18,180  17,905
Less: share of sales of equity accounted investments 1 (1,316)  (1,214)
Revenue 1 16,864  16,691
Operating costs 2 (16,297)  (15,459)
Other income 4 128  282
Group operating profit 695  1,514
Share of results of equity accounted investments 1 111  91
   
Underlying EBITA
3
  1,925  1,862
Non-recurring items
4
 6  103
EBITA 1,931  1,965
Amortisation 11 (189)  (226)
Impairment  11 (887)  (86)
Financial expense of equity accounted investments 5 (8)  (7)
Taxation expense of equity accounted investments (41)  (41)
Operating profit 1 806  1,605
   
Financial income 216  452
Financial expense (600)  (855)
Finance costs 5 (384)  (403)
Profit before taxation 422  1,202
Taxation expense 6 (246)  (243)
Profit for the year 176  959
   
Attributable to:   
Equity shareholders 168  948
Non-controlling interests 8  11
 176  959
   
Earnings per share 8  
Basic earnings per share 5.2p  29.3p
Diluted earnings per share 5.2p  29.1p
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
2 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7). 
3 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items.  
4 Comprises profit on disposal of businesses of £6m (2012 £103m). 
 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 December 
  
 2013  
Restated
1
 
2012 
 Notes
Other 
reserves
2
£m 
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
£m  
Other  
reserves
2
 
£m  
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total
£m
Profit for the year – 176 176  –  959 959
Other comprehensive income      
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement:      
Remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes:    
Subsidiaries  – 918 918  –  (625) (625)
Equity accounted investments  – 8 8  –  (81) (81)
Tax on items that will not be reclassified to the income 
statement  6 – (421) (421)  –  119 119
Items that may be reclassified to the income statement:      
Currency translation on foreign currency net investments:      
Subsidiaries (246) – (246)  (164)  – (164)
Equity accounted investments (3) – (3)  (25)  – (25)
Reclassification of cumulative currency translation reserve 
on disposal 26 (8) – (8)  (97)  – (97)
Amounts credited/(charged) to hedging reserve 16 53 – 53  (21)  – (21)
Tax on items that may be reclassified to the income 
statement 6 (14) – (14)  5  – 5
Total other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax) (218) 505 287  (302)  (587) (889)
Total comprehensive income for the year (218) 681 463  (302)  372 70
      
Attributable to:      
Equity shareholders (212) 673 461  (302)  361 59
Non-controlling interests (6) 8 2  –  11 11
 (218) 681 463  (302)  372 70
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
2 An analysis of other reserves is provided in note 25. 
 
WORD_Background.indd   128 3/7/2014   1:59:16 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 129
Consolidated income statement 
for the year ended 31 December 
 2013  
Restated
1
 
2012
2
 
 Notes £m
Total 
£m  £m
Total
£m
Continuing operations   
Combined sales of Group and share of equity accounted investments 1 18,180  17,905
Less: share of sales of equity accounted investments 1 (1,316)  (1,214)
Revenue 1 16,864  16,691
Operating costs 2 (16,297)  (15,459)
Other income 4 128  282
Group operating profit 695  1,514
Share of results of equity accounted investments 1 111  91
   
Underlying EBITA
3
  1,925  1,862
Non-recurring items
4
 6  103
EBITA 1,931  1,965
Amortisation 11 (189)  (226)
Impairment  11 (887)  (86)
Financial expense of equity accounted investments 5 (8)  (7)
Taxation expense of equity accounted investments (41)  (41)
Operating profit 1 806  1,605
   
Financial income 216  452
Financial expense (600)  (855)
Finance costs 5 (384)  (403)
Profit before taxation 422  1,202
Taxation expense 6 (246)  (243)
Profit for the year 176  959
   
Attributable to:   
Equity shareholders 168  948
Non-controlling interests 8  11
 176  959
   
Earnings per share 8  
Basic earnings per share 5.2p  29.3p
Diluted earnings per share 5.2p  29.1p
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
2 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7). 
3 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items.  
4 Comprises profit on disposal of businesses of £6m (2012 £103m). 
 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 December 
  
 2013  
Restated
1
 
2012 
 Notes
Other 
reserves
2
£m 
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
£m  
Other  
reserves
2
 
£m  
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total
£m
Profit for the year – 176 176  –  959 959
Other comprehensive income      
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement:      
Remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes:    
Subsidiaries  – 918 918  –  (625) (625)
Equity accounted investments  – 8 8  –  (81) (81)
Tax on items that will not be reclassified to the income 
statement  6 – (421) (421)  –  119 119
Items that may be reclassified to the income statement:      
Currency translation on foreign currency net investments:      
Subsidiaries (246) – (246)  (164)  – (164)
Equity accounted investments (3) – (3)  (25)  – (25)
Reclassification of cumulative currency translation reserve 
on disposal 26 (8) – (8)  (97)  – (97)
Amounts credited/(charged) to hedging reserve 16 53 – 53  (21)  – (21)
Tax on items that may be reclassified to the income 
statement 6 (14) – (14)  5  – 5
Total other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax) (218) 505 287  (302)  (587) (889)
Total comprehensive income for the year (218) 681 463  (302)  372 70
      
Attributable to:      
Equity shareholders (212) 673 461  (302)  361 59
Non-controlling interests (6) 8 2  –  11 11
 (218) 681 463  (302)  372 70
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
2 An analysis of other reserves is provided in note 25. 
 
WORD_Background.indd   129 3/7/2014   1:59:16 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
130 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — income statement 
1. Segmental analysis  
Revenue and profit recognition 
Sales include the Group’s share of sales of equity accounted investments. Revenue represents sales made by the Company and its 
subsidiary undertakings, excluding the Group’s share of sales of equity accounted investments. 
Long-term contracts 
The majority of the Group’s long-term contract arrangements are accounted for under IAS 11, Construction Contracts. Sales are 
recognised when the Group has obtained the right to consideration in exchange for its performance. This is usually when title passes or 
a separately identifiable phase (milestone) of a contract or development has been completed. 
No profit is recognised on contracts until the outcome of the contract can be reliably estimated. Profit is calculated by reference to 
reliable estimates of contract revenue and forecast costs after making suitable allowances for technical and other risks related to 
performance milestones yet to be achieved. Profit is recognised progressively as risks have been mitigated or retired.  
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately as an 
expense. 
Goods sold and services rendered 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns, rebates and other similar allowances.  
Revenue from the sale of goods not under a long-term contract is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and 
rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, recovery of the consideration is probable, there is no continuing management 
involvement with the goods, and the amount of revenue and costs can be measured reliably. Profit is recognised at the time of sale. 
Revenue from the provision of services not under a long-term contract is recognised in the income statement in proportion to the stage 
of completion of the contract at the reporting date. The stage of completion is measured on the basis of direct expenses incurred as a 
percentage of total expenses to be incurred for material contracts and labour hours delivered as a percentage of total labour hours to be 
delivered for time contracts. 
Sales and profits on intercompany trading are determined on an arm’s length basis. 
Research and development 
The Group undertakes research and development activities either on its own behalf or on behalf of customers.  
Where the research and development activity is performed on behalf of customers, the revenue arising is recognised in the income 
statement in accordance with the Group’s revenue recognition policy. 
 
Key Performance Indicator – Underlying EBITA 
Management uses an underlying profit measure to monitor the year-on-year profitability of the Group, which is defined as earnings before 
amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items. This 
definition is referred to as underlying EBITA. Underlying EBITA is the measure of profit on which segmental performance is monitored by 
management. As such, underlying EBITA is disclosed on page 132 on a segmental basis and reconciled to the reporting segment result 
and operating profit in the consolidated financial statements.  
Reporting segments 
The Group has six reporting segments which align with the Group’s strategic direction:  
– Electronic Systems comprises the US and UK-based electronics activities, including electronic warfare systems and electro-optical 
sensors, military and commercial digital engine and flight controls, next-generation military communications systems and data links, 
persistent surveillance capabilities, and hybrid electric drive systems;  
– Cyber & Intelligence comprises the US-based Intelligence & Security business and UK-headquartered Applied Intelligence business, 
and covers the Group’s cyber, secure government, and commercial and financial security activities; 
– Platforms & Services (US) comprises the US-headquartered Land & Armaments business, with operations in the US, UK, Sweden and 
South Africa, and the US-based services and sustainment activities, including ship repair and munitions services; 
– Platforms & Services (UK) comprises the Group’s UK-based air, maritime, combat vehicle, munitions and certain shared services 
activities; 
– Platforms & Services (International) comprises the Group’s businesses in Saudi Arabia, Australia, India and Oman, together with its 
37.5% interest in the pan-European MBDA joint venture; and 
– HQ comprises the Group’s head office activities, together with a 49% interest in Air Astana.  
Management monitors the results of these reporting segments to assess performance and make decisions about the allocation of 
resources. Segment performance is evaluated based on combined sales of the Group and its share of equity accounted investments, 
and underlying EBITA. Finance costs and taxation expense are managed on a Group basis.  
  
 
  
1. Segmental analysis (continued) 
Sales and revenue by reporting segment  
 
Combined sales of  
Group and share of equity 
accounted investments 
Less:  
sales by equity  
accounted investments 
Add: 
sales to equity  
accounted investments  Revenue 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
1
£m 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m 
2012  
£m   
2013
£m
2012
1
£m 
Electronic Systems 2,466 2,507 (61) (52) 61 52   2,466 2,507 
Cyber & Intelligence 1,243 1,402 – – – –   1,243 1,402 
Platforms & Services (US) 4,196 4,539 (75) (70) 1 1   4,122 4,470 
Platforms & Services (UK) 6,890 5,717 (1,169) (1,430) 1,077 1,346   6,798 5,633 
Platforms & Services (International) 4,063 4,071 (873) (830) – –   3,190 3,241 
HQ  306 267 (306) (267) – –   – – 
 19,164 18,503 (2,484) (2,649) 1,139 1,399   17,819 17,253 
Intra-group sales/revenue (984) (598) – 2 29 34   (955) (562) 
 18,180 17,905 (2,484) (2,647) 1,168 1,433   16,864 16,691 
 
 Intra-group revenue  
Revenue from  
external customers 
 
2013 
£m 
2012  
£m   
2013
£m
2012
1
£m 
Electronic Systems 100 102   2,366 2,405 
Cyber & Intelligence 21 22   1,222 1,380 
Platforms & Services (US) 72 54   4,050 4,416 
Platforms & Services (UK) 756 375   6,042 5,258 
Platforms & Services (International) 6 9   3,184 3,232 
 955 562   16,864 16,691 
Sales and revenue by customer location  
 Sales  Revenue 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
1
 
£m   
2013
£m
2012
1
£m 
UK 3,678 3,689   3,515 3,549 
Rest of Europe
2
 2,361 2,500   1,565 1,751 
Saudi Arabia 3,556 2,411   3,430 2,331 
Rest of Middle East 241 159   130 51 
US 6,686 7,349   6,685 7,345 
Canada 49 57   49 57 
Australia 822 1,119   819 1,117 
Rest of Asia and Pacific 616 381   516 262 
Africa, Central and South America 171 240   155 228 
 18,180 17,905   16,864 16,691 
Revenue by category 
  
2013
£m
2012
1
£m 
Long-term contracts  9,618 8,969 
Sale of goods  3,576 4,020 
Provision of services  3,665 3,686 
Royalty income  5 16 
  16,864 16,691 
Revenue by major customer  
Revenue from the Group’s three principal customers, which individually represent over 10% of total revenue, is as follows: 
 
2013
£m
2012
1
£m 
UK Ministry of Defence
2
 4,196 4,486 
US Department of Defense 4,347 4,986 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Ministry of Defence and Aviation 3,399 2,302 
Revenue from the UK Ministry of Defence and the US Department of Defense was generated by the five principal reporting segments. 
Revenue from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Ministry of Defence and Aviation was generated by the Platforms & Services (UK) and 
Platforms & Services (International) reporting segments. 
1 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation within Platforms & Services (UK) (see note 7). 
2 Includes £1.0bn (2012 £1.3bn) generated under the Typhoon work share agreement with Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH.   
WORD_Background.indd   130 3/7/2014   1:59:16 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 131
Notes to the Group accounts — income statement 
1. Segmental analysis  
Revenue and profit recognition 
Sales include the Group’s share of sales of equity accounted investments. Revenue represents sales made by the Company and its 
subsidiary undertakings, excluding the Group’s share of sales of equity accounted investments. 
Long-term contracts 
The majority of the Group’s long-term contract arrangements are accounted for under IAS 11, Construction Contracts. Sales are 
recognised when the Group has obtained the right to consideration in exchange for its performance. This is usually when title passes or 
a separately identifiable phase (milestone) of a contract or development has been completed. 
No profit is recognised on contracts until the outcome of the contract can be reliably estimated. Profit is calculated by reference to 
reliable estimates of contract revenue and forecast costs after making suitable allowances for technical and other risks related to 
performance milestones yet to be achieved. Profit is recognised progressively as risks have been mitigated or retired.  
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately as an 
expense. 
Goods sold and services rendered 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns, rebates and other similar allowances.  
Revenue from the sale of goods not under a long-term contract is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and 
rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, recovery of the consideration is probable, there is no continuing management 
involvement with the goods, and the amount of revenue and costs can be measured reliably. Profit is recognised at the time of sale. 
Revenue from the provision of services not under a long-term contract is recognised in the income statement in proportion to the stage 
of completion of the contract at the reporting date. The stage of completion is measured on the basis of direct expenses incurred as a 
percentage of total expenses to be incurred for material contracts and labour hours delivered as a percentage of total labour hours to be 
delivered for time contracts. 
Sales and profits on intercompany trading are determined on an arm’s length basis. 
Research and development 
The Group undertakes research and development activities either on its own behalf or on behalf of customers.  
Where the research and development activity is performed on behalf of customers, the revenue arising is recognised in the income 
statement in accordance with the Group’s revenue recognition policy. 
 
Key Performance Indicator – Underlying EBITA 
Management uses an underlying profit measure to monitor the year-on-year profitability of the Group, which is defined as earnings before 
amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items. This 
definition is referred to as underlying EBITA. Underlying EBITA is the measure of profit on which segmental performance is monitored by 
management. As such, underlying EBITA is disclosed on page 132 on a segmental basis and reconciled to the reporting segment result 
and operating profit in the consolidated financial statements.  
Reporting segments 
The Group has six reporting segments which align with the Group’s strategic direction:  
– Electronic Systems comprises the US and UK-based electronics activities, including electronic warfare systems and electro-optical 
sensors, military and commercial digital engine and flight controls, next-generation military communications systems and data links, 
persistent surveillance capabilities, and hybrid electric drive systems;  
– Cyber & Intelligence comprises the US-based Intelligence & Security business and UK-headquartered Applied Intelligence business, 
and covers the Group’s cyber, secure government, and commercial and financial security activities; 
– Platforms & Services (US) comprises the US-headquartered Land & Armaments business, with operations in the US, UK, Sweden and 
South Africa, and the US-based services and sustainment activities, including ship repair and munitions services; 
– Platforms & Services (UK) comprises the Group’s UK-based air, maritime, combat vehicle, munitions and certain shared services 
activities; 
– Platforms & Services (International) comprises the Group’s businesses in Saudi Arabia, Australia, India and Oman, together with its 
37.5% interest in the pan-European MBDA joint venture; and 
– HQ comprises the Group’s head office activities, together with a 49% interest in Air Astana.  
Management monitors the results of these reporting segments to assess performance and make decisions about the allocation of 
resources. Segment performance is evaluated based on combined sales of the Group and its share of equity accounted investments, 
and underlying EBITA. Finance costs and taxation expense are managed on a Group basis.  
  
 
  
1. Segmental analysis (continued) 
Sales and revenue by reporting segment  
 
Combined sales of  
Group and share of equity 
accounted investments 
Less:  
sales by equity  
accounted investments 
Add: 
sales to equity  
accounted investments  Revenue 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
1
£m 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m 
2012  
£m   
2013
£m
2012
1
£m 
Electronic Systems 2,466 2,507 (61) (52) 61 52   2,466 2,507 
Cyber & Intelligence 1,243 1,402 – – – –   1,243 1,402 
Platforms & Services (US) 4,196 4,539 (75) (70) 1 1   4,122 4,470 
Platforms & Services (UK) 6,890 5,717 (1,169) (1,430) 1,077 1,346   6,798 5,633 
Platforms & Services (International) 4,063 4,071 (873) (830) – –   3,190 3,241 
HQ  306 267 (306) (267) – –   – – 
 19,164 18,503 (2,484) (2,649) 1,139 1,399   17,819 17,253 
Intra-group sales/revenue (984) (598) – 2 29 34   (955) (562) 
 18,180 17,905 (2,484) (2,647) 1,168 1,433   16,864 16,691 
 
 Intra-group revenue  
Revenue from  
external customers 
 
2013 
£m 
2012  
£m   
2013
£m
2012
1
£m 
Electronic Systems 100 102   2,366 2,405 
Cyber & Intelligence 21 22   1,222 1,380 
Platforms & Services (US) 72 54   4,050 4,416 
Platforms & Services (UK) 756 375   6,042 5,258 
Platforms & Services (International) 6 9   3,184 3,232 
 955 562   16,864 16,691 
Sales and revenue by customer location  
 Sales  Revenue 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
1
 
£m   
2013
£m
2012
1
£m 
UK 3,678 3,689   3,515 3,549 
Rest of Europe
2
 2,361 2,500   1,565 1,751 
Saudi Arabia 3,556 2,411   3,430 2,331 
Rest of Middle East 241 159   130 51 
US 6,686 7,349   6,685 7,345 
Canada 49 57   49 57 
Australia 822 1,119   819 1,117 
Rest of Asia and Pacific 616 381   516 262 
Africa, Central and South America 171 240   155 228 
 18,180 17,905   16,864 16,691 
Revenue by category 
  
2013
£m
2012
1
£m 
Long-term contracts  9,618 8,969 
Sale of goods  3,576 4,020 
Provision of services  3,665 3,686 
Royalty income  5 16 
  16,864 16,691 
Revenue by major customer  
Revenue from the Group’s three principal customers, which individually represent over 10% of total revenue, is as follows: 
 
2013
£m
2012
1
£m 
UK Ministry of Defence
2
 4,196 4,486 
US Department of Defense 4,347 4,986 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Ministry of Defence and Aviation 3,399 2,302 
Revenue from the UK Ministry of Defence and the US Department of Defense was generated by the five principal reporting segments. 
Revenue from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Ministry of Defence and Aviation was generated by the Platforms & Services (UK) and 
Platforms & Services (International) reporting segments. 
1 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation within Platforms & Services (UK) (see note 7). 
2 Includes £1.0bn (2012 £1.3bn) generated under the Typhoon work share agreement with Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH.   
WORD_Background.indd   131 3/7/2014   1:59:16 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
132 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — income statement continued 
1. Segmental analysis (continued) 
Reporting segment result  
 Underlying EBITA
3
  Non-recurring items
4
 
Amortisation of 
intangible assets 
Impairment of 
intangible assets  
Reporting  
segment result 
 
2013
£m
Restated
1 
2012
2
 
£m   
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m  
2013
£m
Restated
1
2012
2
£m 
Electronic Systems 346 356   – – (15) (22) (4) (2)  327 332 
Cyber & Intelligence 115 124   – – (63) (76) (425) –  (373) 48 
Platforms & Services (US) 265 394   7 103 (21) (92) (458) (84)  (207) 321 
Platforms & Services (UK) 879 695   – – (84) (28) – –  795 667 
Platforms & Services 
(International) 429 417   (1) – (6) (8) – –  422 409 
HQ (109) (124)   – – – – – –  (109) (124) 
 1,925 1,862   6 103 (189) (226) (887) (86)  855 1,653 
Financial expense of equity 
accounted investments      (8) (7) 
Taxation expense of equity 
accounted investments      (41) (41) 
Operating profit      806 1,605 
Finance costs      (384) (403) 
Profit before taxation      422 1,202 
Taxation expense       (246) (243) 
Profit for the year       176 959 
Share of results of equity accounted investments within reporting segments  
 
2013
£m
Restated
1
2012 
£m 
Share of results excluding financial and taxation expense: 
Electronic Systems 3 (2) 
Platforms & Services (US) 4 1 
Platforms & Services (UK) 16 11 
Platforms & Services (International) 112 108 
HQ 25 21 
 160 139 
Financial expense  (8) (7) 
Taxation expense (41) (41) 
 111 91 
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
2 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation within Platforms & Services (UK) (see note 7). 
3 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items. 
4 Comprises profit on disposal of businesses of £6m (2012 £103m).  
  
 
  BAE SYSTEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 133 
2. Operating costs 
Leases 
Payments, including any incentives, made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term.  
Lease incentives granted are charged to the income statement over the term of the lease. 
Research and development 
The Group undertakes research and development activities either on its own behalf or on behalf of customers.  
Group-funded expenditure on both research and development activities not meeting the conditions for capitalisation is written off as 
incurred and charged to the income statement. 
Customer-funded expenditure on research and development activities is held in long-term contract balances as a contract cost within 
trade and other receivables and recognised in the income statement in accordance with the Group’s revenue recognition policy. 
 
2013
£m 
Restated
1
2012
2
£m 
Raw materials, subcontracts and other bought-in items 6,205 6,187 
Change in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress 275 24 
Cost of inventories expensed 6,480 6,211 
Staff costs (note 3) 5,054 5,300 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 1,397 669 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, and investment property 9 5 
Loss on disposal of businesses 4 – 
Other operating charges 3,353 3,274 
Operating costs 16,297 15,459 
 
Included within the analysis of operating costs are the following expenses: 
Lease and sublease expense  185 189 
Research and development expense including amounts funded under contract  1,051 1,138 
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
2 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7). 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates included in operating costs 
 2013  2012 
 
UK
£’000
Overseas
£’000
Total 
£’000  
UK 
£’000 
Overseas
£’000
Total 
£’000 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the 
Company’s annual accounts* 1,621 – 1,621  1,570 – 1,570 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates  
for other services pursuant to legislation:    
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries* 2,628 3,994 6,622  2,524 3,836 6,360 
Interim review* 486 – 486  623 – 623 
Other  41 2 43  103 29 132 
Audit-related assurance services:     
Advice on accounting matters 9 1 10  8 20 28 
Tax compliance services  76 512 588  320 662 982 
Tax advisory services  63 185 248  126 166 292 
Corporate finance services:    
M&A 108 – 108  236 35 271 
Other assurance services:    
Due diligence – 40 40  – 235 235 
IT advisory 77 – 77  56 – 56 
Financial model reviews  169 – 169  – – – 
Other non-audit services 88 93 181  125 73 198 
Total fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates 5,366 4,827 10,193  5,691 5,056 10,747 
* Total fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates 
for audit services and interim review 8,729   8,553 
Fees in respect of BAE Systems pension schemes:    
Audit 146 256 402  147 268 415 
Tax compliance 47 6 53  85 26 111 
Tax advisory 31 – 31  64 – 64 
 224 262 486  296 294 590 
WORD_Background.indd   132 3/7/2014   1:59:16 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 133
Notes to the Group accounts — income statement continued 
1. Segmental analysis (continued) 
Reporting segment result  
 Underlying EBITA
3
  Non-recurring items
4
 
Amortisation of 
intangible assets 
Impairment of 
intangible assets  
Reporting  
segment result 
 
2013
£m
Restated
1 
2012
2
 
£m   
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m  
2013
£m
Restated
1
2012
2
£m 
Electronic Systems 346 356   – – (15) (22) (4) (2)  327 332 
Cyber & Intelligence 115 124   – – (63) (76) (425) –  (373) 48 
Platforms & Services (US) 265 394   7 103 (21) (92) (458) (84)  (207) 321 
Platforms & Services (UK) 879 695   – – (84) (28) – –  795 667 
Platforms & Services 
(International) 429 417   (1) – (6) (8) – –  422 409 
HQ (109) (124)   – – – – – –  (109) (124) 
 1,925 1,862   6 103 (189) (226) (887) (86)  855 1,653 
Financial expense of equity 
accounted investments      (8) (7) 
Taxation expense of equity 
accounted investments      (41) (41) 
Operating profit      806 1,605 
Finance costs      (384) (403) 
Profit before taxation      422 1,202 
Taxation expense       (246) (243) 
Profit for the year       176 959 
Share of results of equity accounted investments within reporting segments  
 
2013
£m
Restated
1
2012 
£m 
Share of results excluding financial and taxation expense: 
Electronic Systems 3 (2) 
Platforms & Services (US) 4 1 
Platforms & Services (UK) 16 11 
Platforms & Services (International) 112 108 
HQ 25 21 
 160 139 
Financial expense  (8) (7) 
Taxation expense (41) (41) 
 111 91 
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
2 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation within Platforms & Services (UK) (see note 7). 
3 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items. 
4 Comprises profit on disposal of businesses of £6m (2012 £103m).  
  
 
   
2. Operating costs 
Leases 
Payments, including any incentives, made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term.  
Lease incentives granted are charged to the income statement over the term of the lease. 
Research and development 
The Group undertakes research and development activities either on its own behalf or on behalf of customers.  
Group-funded expenditure on both research and development activities not meeting the conditions for capitalisation is written off as 
incurred and charged to the income statement. 
Customer-funded expenditure on research and development activities is held in long-term contract balances as a contract cost within 
trade and other receivables and recognised in the income statement in accordance with the Group’s revenue recognition policy. 
 
2013
£m 
Restated
1
2012
2
£m 
Raw materials, subcontracts and other bought-in items 6,205 6,187 
Change in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress 275 24 
Cost of inventories expensed 6,480 6,211 
Staff costs (note 3) 5,054 5,300 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 1,397 669 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, and investment property 9 5 
Loss on disposal of businesses 4 – 
Other operating charges 3,353 3,274 
Operating costs 16,297 15,459 
 
Included within the analysis of operating costs are the following expenses: 
Lease and sublease expense  185 189 
Research and development expense including amounts funded under contract  1,051 1,138 
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
2 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7). 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates included in operating costs 
 2013  2012 
 
UK
£’000
Overseas
£’000
Total 
£’000  
UK 
£’000 
Overseas
£’000
Total 
£’000 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the 
Company’s annual accounts* 1,621 – 1,621  1,570 – 1,570 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates  
for other services pursuant to legislation:    
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries* 2,628 3,994 6,622  2,524 3,836 6,360 
Interim review* 486 – 486  623 – 623 
Other  41 2 43  103 29 132 
Audit-related assurance services:     
Advice on accounting matters 9 1 10  8 20 28 
Tax compliance services  76 512 588  320 662 982 
Tax advisory services  63 185 248  126 166 292 
Corporate finance services:    
M&A 108 – 108  236 35 271 
Other assurance services:    
Due diligence – 40 40  – 235 235 
IT advisory 77 – 77  56 – 56 
Financial model reviews  169 – 169  – – – 
Other non-audit services 88 93 181  125 73 198 
Total fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates 5,366 4,827 10,193  5,691 5,056 10,747 
* Total fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates 
for audit services and interim review 8,729   8,553 
Fees in respect of BAE Systems pension schemes:    
Audit 146 256 402  147 268 415 
Tax compliance 47 6 53  85 26 111 
Tax advisory 31 – 31  64 – 64 
 224 262 486  296 294 590 
WORD_Background.indd   133 3/7/2014   1:59:16 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
134 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — income statement continued 
3. Employees 
The weekly average and year-end numbers of employees, excluding those in equity accounted investments, were as follows: 
 Weekly average  At year end 
 
2013
Number
’000
2012 
Number 
’000  
2013
Number
’000
2012 
Number 
’000 
Electronic Systems 12 13  12 13 
Cyber & Intelligence 8 8  8 8 
Platforms & Services (US) 20 23  19 21 
Platforms & Services (UK) 28 28  28 27 
Platforms & Services (International) 11 11  10 11 
HQ 1 1  1 1 
 80 84  78 81 
The aggregate staff costs of Group employees, excluding employees of equity accounted investments, were: 
 
2013
£m
2012
1
£m 
Wages and salaries 4,367 4,560 
Social security costs 352 368 
Share-based payments (note 29) 21 26 
Pension costs – defined contribution plans (note 23) 130 129 
Pension costs – defined benefit plans (note 23) 183 212 
US healthcare costs (note 23) 1 5 
 5,054 5,300 
1 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7). 
4. Other income 
Lease income 
Rental income is recognised in other income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.  
 
2013
£m
2012
1
£m 
Rental income from operating leases – investment property 21 21 
Rental income from operating leases – other 20 19 
Profit on disposal of investment property 16 14 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 12 10 
Profit on disposal of businesses 10 103 
Management recharges to equity accounted investments (note 30) 17 18 
Pension curtailment gains (note 23) – 26 
US healthcare curtailment gains (note 23) – 16 
Other
2
 32 55 
Other income 128 282 
1 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7).  
2 There are no individual amounts in excess of £10m.  
  
 
  
5. Finance costs 
Borrowing costs 
Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. 
 
2013
£m
Restated
1
2012 
£m 
Interest income 48 39 
Gain on remeasurement of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 51 280 
Foreign exchange gains 117 133 
Financial income 216 452 
Interest expense on bonds and other financial instruments (197) (187) 
Facility fees (11) (7) 
Net present value adjustments (20) (56) 
Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations (note 23) (186) (187) 
Loss on remeasurement of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (146) (250) 
Foreign exchange losses (40) (168) 
Financial expense (600) (855) 
Finance costs (384) (403) 
Additional analysis  
 
2013
£m
Restated
1
2012 
£m 
Finance costs: 
Group (384) (403) 
Share of equity accounted investments  (8) (7) 
 (392) (410) 
Analysed as: 
Underlying interest (expense)/income: 
Group (180) (211) 
Share of equity accounted investments  1 7 
 (179) (204) 
Other: 
Group: 
Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations  (186) (187) 
Fair value and foreign exchange adjustments on financial instruments and investments  (18) (5) 
Share of equity accounted investments  (9) (14) 
 (392) (410) 
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
  
WORD_Background.indd   134 3/7/2014   1:59:17 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 135
Notes to the Group accounts — income statement continued 
3. Employees 
The weekly average and year-end numbers of employees, excluding those in equity accounted investments, were as follows: 
 Weekly average  At year end 
 
2013
Number
’000
2012 
Number 
’000  
2013
Number
’000
2012 
Number 
’000 
Electronic Systems 12 13  12 13 
Cyber & Intelligence 8 8  8 8 
Platforms & Services (US) 20 23  19 21 
Platforms & Services (UK) 28 28  28 27 
Platforms & Services (International) 11 11  10 11 
HQ 1 1  1 1 
 80 84  78 81 
The aggregate staff costs of Group employees, excluding employees of equity accounted investments, were: 
 
2013
£m
2012
1
£m 
Wages and salaries 4,367 4,560 
Social security costs 352 368 
Share-based payments (note 29) 21 26 
Pension costs – defined contribution plans (note 23) 130 129 
Pension costs – defined benefit plans (note 23) 183 212 
US healthcare costs (note 23) 1 5 
 5,054 5,300 
1 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7). 
4. Other income 
Lease income 
Rental income is recognised in other income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.  
 
2013
£m
2012
1
£m 
Rental income from operating leases – investment property 21 21 
Rental income from operating leases – other 20 19 
Profit on disposal of investment property 16 14 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 12 10 
Profit on disposal of businesses 10 103 
Management recharges to equity accounted investments (note 30) 17 18 
Pension curtailment gains (note 23) – 26 
US healthcare curtailment gains (note 23) – 16 
Other
2
 32 55 
Other income 128 282 
1 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7).  
2 There are no individual amounts in excess of £10m.  
  
 
  
5. Finance costs 
Borrowing costs 
Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. 
 
2013
£m
Restated
1
2012 
£m 
Interest income 48 39 
Gain on remeasurement of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 51 280 
Foreign exchange gains 117 133 
Financial income 216 452 
Interest expense on bonds and other financial instruments (197) (187) 
Facility fees (11) (7) 
Net present value adjustments (20) (56) 
Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations (note 23) (186) (187) 
Loss on remeasurement of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (146) (250) 
Foreign exchange losses (40) (168) 
Financial expense (600) (855) 
Finance costs (384) (403) 
Additional analysis  
 
2013
£m
Restated
1
2012 
£m 
Finance costs: 
Group (384) (403) 
Share of equity accounted investments  (8) (7) 
 (392) (410) 
Analysed as: 
Underlying interest (expense)/income: 
Group (180) (211) 
Share of equity accounted investments  1 7 
 (179) (204) 
Other: 
Group: 
Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations  (186) (187) 
Fair value and foreign exchange adjustments on financial instruments and investments  (18) (5) 
Share of equity accounted investments  (9) (14) 
 (392) (410) 
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
  
WORD_Background.indd   135 3/7/2014   1:59:17 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
136 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — income statement continued 
6. Taxation expense 
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current and deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that 
it relates to a business combination or items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income. 
Current tax 
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable profit or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively 
enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial 
reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is not recognised for temporary differences: 
– on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting 
nor taxable profit or loss; 
– related to investments in subsidiaries and equity accounted investments to the extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in 
the foreseeable future; and 
– arising on the initial recognition of goodwill. 
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. 
Taxation expense 
 
2013
£m
Restated
1
2012
2
£m 
Current taxation  
UK:  
Current tax (179) (98) 
Double tax relief 1 1 
Adjustment in respect of prior years (16) 5 
 (194) (92) 
Overseas:  
Current year (106) (170) 
Adjustment in respect of prior years 22 12 
 (84) (158) 
 (278) (250) 
Deferred taxation  
UK: 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 22 20 
Adjustment in respect of prior years 25 2 
Tax rate adjustment
3
 (8) (10) 
 39 12 
Overseas: 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 6 8 
Adjustment in respect of prior years (13) (13) 
 (7) (5) 
 32 7 
Taxation expense (246) (243) 
 
UK  (155) (80) 
Overseas  (91) (163) 
Taxation expense (246) (243) 
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
2 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7). 
3 The UK current tax rate will be reduced from 23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014, and then to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. In line with this change, the 
rate applying to UK deferred tax assets and liabilities has been reduced from 23% to 20%, creating a rate adjustment in 2013, which is partly reflected in the 
consolidated income statement and partly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.  
  
 
  
6. Taxation expense (continued) 
Reconciliation of taxation expense  
The following table reconciles the theoretical income tax expense, using the UK corporation tax rate, to the reported tax expense. The 
reconciling items represent, besides the impact of tax rate differentials and changes, non-taxable benefits or non-deductible expenses 
arising from differences between the local tax base and the reported financial statements. 
 
2013
£m
Restated
1
2012
2
£m 
Profit before taxation 422 1,202 
  
UK corporation tax rate 23.25% 24.5% 
  
Expected income tax expense (98) (294) 
  
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions, including US state taxes (24) (43) 
Expenses not tax effected (9) (15) 
Income not subject to tax 17 12 
Research and development tax credits and patent box benefits  39 24 
Non-deductible goodwill impairment  (201) (14) 
Chargeable gains and non-taxable gains/non-deductible losses on disposal of businesses (1) 17 
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 5 9 
Current year losses not tax effected – (2) 
Recoverable deferred tax asset previously unrecognised 5 20 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 18 6 
Adjustments in respect of equity accounted investments 26 22 
Tax rate adjustment
3
 (8) (10) 
Other (15) 25 
Taxation expense (246) (243) 
Calculation of the effective tax rate 
 
2013
£m
Restated
1
2012
2
£m 
Profit before taxation 422 1,202 
Add back/(deduct): 
Taxation expense of equity accounted investments (note 1) 41 41 
Profit on disposal of businesses (notes 2 and 4) (6) (103) 
Goodwill impairment (note 11) 865 57 
 1,322 1,197 
 
Taxation expense (including equity accounted investments)  (287) (284) 
Represented by: 
Group (246) (243) 
Equity accounted investments (41) (41) 
 
Effective tax rate 22% 24% 
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
2 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7). 
3 The UK current tax rate will be reduced from 23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014, and then to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. In line with this change, the 
rate applying to UK deferred tax assets and liabilities has been reduced from 23% to 20%, creating a rate adjustment in 2013, which is partly reflected in the 
consolidated income statement and partly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.  
  
WORD_Background.indd   136 3/7/2014   1:59:17 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 137
Notes to the Group accounts — income statement continued 
6. Taxation expense 
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current and deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that 
it relates to a business combination or items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income. 
Current tax 
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable profit or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively 
enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial 
reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is not recognised for temporary differences: 
– on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting 
nor taxable profit or loss; 
– related to investments in subsidiaries and equity accounted investments to the extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in 
the foreseeable future; and 
– arising on the initial recognition of goodwill. 
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. 
Taxation expense 
 
2013
£m
Restated
1
2012
2
£m 
Current taxation  
UK:  
Current tax (179) (98) 
Double tax relief 1 1 
Adjustment in respect of prior years (16) 5 
 (194) (92) 
Overseas:  
Current year (106) (170) 
Adjustment in respect of prior years 22 12 
 (84) (158) 
 (278) (250) 
Deferred taxation  
UK: 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 22 20 
Adjustment in respect of prior years 25 2 
Tax rate adjustment
3
 (8) (10) 
 39 12 
Overseas: 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 6 8 
Adjustment in respect of prior years (13) (13) 
 (7) (5) 
 32 7 
Taxation expense (246) (243) 
 
UK  (155) (80) 
Overseas  (91) (163) 
Taxation expense (246) (243) 
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
2 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7). 
3 The UK current tax rate will be reduced from 23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014, and then to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. In line with this change, the 
rate applying to UK deferred tax assets and liabilities has been reduced from 23% to 20%, creating a rate adjustment in 2013, which is partly reflected in the 
consolidated income statement and partly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.  
  
 
  
6. Taxation expense (continued) 
Reconciliation of taxation expense  
The following table reconciles the theoretical income tax expense, using the UK corporation tax rate, to the reported tax expense. The 
reconciling items represent, besides the impact of tax rate differentials and changes, non-taxable benefits or non-deductible expenses 
arising from differences between the local tax base and the reported financial statements. 
 
2013
£m
Restated
1
2012
2
£m 
Profit before taxation 422 1,202 
  
UK corporation tax rate 23.25% 24.5% 
  
Expected income tax expense (98) (294) 
  
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions, including US state taxes (24) (43) 
Expenses not tax effected (9) (15) 
Income not subject to tax 17 12 
Research and development tax credits and patent box benefits  39 24 
Non-deductible goodwill impairment  (201) (14) 
Chargeable gains and non-taxable gains/non-deductible losses on disposal of businesses (1) 17 
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 5 9 
Current year losses not tax effected – (2) 
Recoverable deferred tax asset previously unrecognised 5 20 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 18 6 
Adjustments in respect of equity accounted investments 26 22 
Tax rate adjustment
3
 (8) (10) 
Other (15) 25 
Taxation expense (246) (243) 
Calculation of the effective tax rate 
 
2013
£m
Restated
1
2012
2
£m 
Profit before taxation 422 1,202 
Add back/(deduct): 
Taxation expense of equity accounted investments (note 1) 41 41 
Profit on disposal of businesses (notes 2 and 4) (6) (103) 
Goodwill impairment (note 11) 865 57 
 1,322 1,197 
 
Taxation expense (including equity accounted investments)  (287) (284) 
Represented by: 
Group (246) (243) 
Equity accounted investments (41) (41) 
 
Effective tax rate 22% 24% 
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
2 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7). 
3 The UK current tax rate will be reduced from 23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014, and then to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. In line with this change, the 
rate applying to UK deferred tax assets and liabilities has been reduced from 23% to 20%, creating a rate adjustment in 2013, which is partly reflected in the 
consolidated income statement and partly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.  
  
WORD_Background.indd   137 3/7/2014   1:59:17 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
138 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — income statement continued 
6. Taxation expense (continued) 
Tax recognised in other comprehensive income  
 2013 
Restated
1
 
2012 
 
Before
 tax
£m
Tax benefit/
(expense)
£m
Net of tax
£m
Before 
 tax 
£m 
Tax benefit/
(expense)
£m
Net of tax
£m
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement:  
Remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes:  
Subsidiaries 918 (323) 595 (625) 175 (450)
Equity accounted investments 8 (7) 1 (81) 10 (71)
Share-based payments – 44 – 2 2
Other – 11 – 2 2
Tax rate adjustment
2
 – (96) (96) – (70) (70)
Items that may be reclassified to the income statement:  
Currency translation on foreign currency net investments:  
Subsidiaries (246) – (246) (164) – (164)
Equity accounted investments (3) – (3) (25) – (25)
Reclassification of cumulative currency translation reserve  
on disposal (8) – (8) (97) – (97)
Amounts credited/(charged) to hedging reserve 53 (14) 39 (21) 5 (16)
 722 (435) 287 (1,013) 124 (889)
 
 2013 
Restated
1
 
2012 
 
Other 
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total
£m
Other 
reserves 
£m 
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total
£m
Current tax  
Financial instruments 1 –1 – – –
Pensions – 60 60 – 122 122
Other – 22 – 3 3
 1 62 63 – 125 125
Deferred tax  
Subsidiaries (15) (380) (395) 5 54 59
Tax rate adjustment
2
  – (96) (96) – (70) (70)
Equity accounted investments – pensions – (7) (7) – 10 10
 (15) (483) (498) 5 (6) (1)
Tax on other comprehensive income (14) (421) (435) 5 119 124
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
2 The UK current tax rate will be reduced from 23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014, and then to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. In line with this change, the 
rate applying to UK deferred tax assets and liabilities has been reduced from 23% to 20%, creating a rate adjustment in 2013, which is partly reflected in the 
consolidated income statement and partly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.  
  
 
  
7. Assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
Held for sale 
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale comprise assets and liabilities that are expected to be recovered primarily through 
sale rather than continuing use.  
The non-current assets and disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying value and fair value less costs to sell. 
Discontinued operations 
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of business that has been 
disposed of or meets the criteria as held for sale. When an operation is classified as a discontinued operation, the comparative income 
statement is re-presented as if the operation had been discontinued from the start of the comparative period.  
Assets held for sale 
A residential and office facility in Saudi Arabia is classified as held for sale at 31 December 2013 (net book value £140m). A sale and 
leaseback transaction for the facility was completed on 9 January 2014, with proceeds of £162m.  
Regional Aircraft 
The assets and liabilities of the Regional Aircraft Support & Engineering business were classified as held for sale at 31 December 2012 
and, accordingly, its results were presented within discontinued operations in the Annual Report 2012. 
In 2013, marketing of the business for sale ceased and, accordingly, its assets and liabilities are not classified as held for sale at 
31 December 2013. The results of the business are presented in continuing operations within the Platforms & Services (UK) reporting 
segment in the Annual Report 2013. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   138 3/7/2014   1:59:17 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 139
Notes to the Group accounts — income statement continued 
6. Taxation expense (continued) 
Tax recognised in other comprehensive income  
 2013 
Restated
1
 
2012 
 
Before
 tax
£m
Tax benefit/
(expense)
£m
Net of tax
£m
Before 
 tax 
£m 
Tax benefit/
(expense)
£m
Net of tax
£m
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement:  
Remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes:  
Subsidiaries 918 (323) 595 (625) 175 (450)
Equity accounted investments 8 (7) 1 (81) 10 (71)
Share-based payments – 44 – 2 2
Other – 11 – 2 2
Tax rate adjustment
2
 – (96) (96) – (70) (70)
Items that may be reclassified to the income statement:  
Currency translation on foreign currency net investments:  
Subsidiaries (246) – (246) (164) – (164)
Equity accounted investments (3) – (3) (25) – (25)
Reclassification of cumulative currency translation reserve  
on disposal (8) – (8) (97) – (97)
Amounts credited/(charged) to hedging reserve 53 (14) 39 (21) 5 (16)
 722 (435) 287 (1,013) 124 (889)
 
 2013 
Restated
1
 
2012 
 
Other 
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total
£m
Other 
reserves 
£m 
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total
£m
Current tax  
Financial instruments 1 –1 – – –
Pensions – 60 60 – 122 122
Other – 22 – 3 3
 1 62 63 – 125 125
Deferred tax  
Subsidiaries (15) (380) (395) 5 54 59
Tax rate adjustment
2
  – (96) (96) – (70) (70)
Equity accounted investments – pensions – (7) (7) – 10 10
 (15) (483) (498) 5 (6) (1)
Tax on other comprehensive income (14) (421) (435) 5 119 124
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
2 The UK current tax rate will be reduced from 23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014, and then to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. In line with this change, the 
rate applying to UK deferred tax assets and liabilities has been reduced from 23% to 20%, creating a rate adjustment in 2013, which is partly reflected in the 
consolidated income statement and partly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.  
  
 
  
7. Assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
Held for sale 
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale comprise assets and liabilities that are expected to be recovered primarily through 
sale rather than continuing use.  
The non-current assets and disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying value and fair value less costs to sell. 
Discontinued operations 
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of business that has been 
disposed of or meets the criteria as held for sale. When an operation is classified as a discontinued operation, the comparative income 
statement is re-presented as if the operation had been discontinued from the start of the comparative period.  
Assets held for sale 
A residential and office facility in Saudi Arabia is classified as held for sale at 31 December 2013 (net book value £140m). A sale and 
leaseback transaction for the facility was completed on 9 January 2014, with proceeds of £162m.  
Regional Aircraft 
The assets and liabilities of the Regional Aircraft Support & Engineering business were classified as held for sale at 31 December 2012 
and, accordingly, its results were presented within discontinued operations in the Annual Report 2012. 
In 2013, marketing of the business for sale ceased and, accordingly, its assets and liabilities are not classified as held for sale at 
31 December 2013. The results of the business are presented in continuing operations within the Platforms & Services (UK) reporting 
segment in the Annual Report 2013. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   139 3/7/2014   1:59:17 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
140 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — income statement continued 
8. Earnings per share 
Key Performance Indicator – Underlying earnings per share 
Underlying earnings per share is presented in addition to that required by IAS 33, Earnings per Share, to align the adjusted earnings 
measure with the performance measure reviewed by the directors. The directors consider that this gives a more appropriate indication of 
underlying performance.  
 2013 
Restated
1
 
2012 
 £m
Basic 
pence
per share
Diluted 
pence
per share £m 
Basic 
pence
per share
Diluted 
pence
per share
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 168 5.2 5.2 948 29.3 29.1
(Deduct)/add back:  
Profit on disposal of businesses (6) (103) 
Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations, post tax 153 153 
Fair value and foreign exchange adjustments on financial 
instruments and investments, post tax 14 4 
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, post tax 165 194 
Impairment of goodwill  865 57 
Underlying earnings, post tax 1,359 42.0 41.8 1,253 38.7 38.5
  
Millions Millions Millions Millions
Weighted average number of shares used in calculating basic 
earnings per share 3,234 3,234 3,244 3,244
Incremental shares in respect of employee share schemes 14 14
Weighted average number of shares used in calculating diluted 
earnings per share 3,248 3,258
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
Consolidated cash flow statement 
for the year ended 31 December 
  
 Notes 
2013
£m
Restated
1
2012 
£m 
Profit for the year  176 959 
Taxation expense  6 246 243 
Share of results of equity accounted investments  1 (111) (91) 
Finance costs  5 384 403 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 2 1,397 669 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2,4 (6) (7) 
Profit on disposal of investment property 2,4 (13) (12) 
Profit on disposal of businesses  2,4 (6) (103) 
Cost of equity-settled employee share schemes  49 57 
Movements in provisions  63 (224) 
Decrease in liabilities for retirement benefit obligations  (337) (820) 
(Increase)/decrease in working capital:  
Inventories  (35) 6 
Trade and other receivables  (275) 447 
Trade and other payables  (1,327) 931 
Cash inflow from operating activities  205 2,458 
Interest paid  (177) (170) 
Taxation paid  (138) (115) 
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities  (110) 2,173 
Dividends received from equity accounted investments  14 95 94 
Interest received  11 23 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment, and investment property  (236) (359) 
Purchase of intangible assets  (33) (43) 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, and investment property  93 115 
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets  28 – 
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings (net of cash acquired) 9 (1) (5) 
Equity accounted investment funding 14 (5) (6) 
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary undertakings (net of cash disposed)  9 5 101 
Net cash outflow from investing activities  (43) (80) 
Net purchase of own shares   (212) (16) 
Equity dividends paid 25 (638) (620) 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  (11) (11) 
Cash outflow from matured derivative financial instruments  (47) (119) 
Cash outflow from movement in cash collateral  (10) (2) 
Cash inflow from loans  – 1,863 
Cash outflow from repayment of loans  – (1,975) 
Net cash outflow from financing activities  (918) (880) 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents  (1,071) 1,213 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  3,334 2,136 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents  (41) (15) 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  2,222 3,334 
Comprising:   
Cash and cash equivalents 19 2,222 3,355 
Overdrafts 21 – (21) 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  2,222 3,334 
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
 
WORD_Background.indd   140 3/7/2014   1:59:18 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 141
Notes to the Group accounts — income statement continued 
8. Earnings per share 
Key Performance Indicator – Underlying earnings per share 
Underlying earnings per share is presented in addition to that required by IAS 33, Earnings per Share, to align the adjusted earnings 
measure with the performance measure reviewed by the directors. The directors consider that this gives a more appropriate indication of 
underlying performance.  
 2013 
Restated
1
 
2012 
 £m
Basic 
pence
per share
Diluted 
pence
per share £m 
Basic 
pence
per share
Diluted 
pence
per share
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 168 5.2 5.2 948 29.3 29.1
(Deduct)/add back:  
Profit on disposal of businesses (6) (103) 
Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations, post tax 153 153 
Fair value and foreign exchange adjustments on financial 
instruments and investments, post tax 14 4 
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, post tax 165 194 
Impairment of goodwill  865 57 
Underlying earnings, post tax 1,359 42.0 41.8 1,253 38.7 38.5
  
Millions Millions Millions Millions
Weighted average number of shares used in calculating basic 
earnings per share 3,234 3,234 3,244 3,244
Incremental shares in respect of employee share schemes 14 14
Weighted average number of shares used in calculating diluted 
earnings per share 3,248 3,258
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
Consolidated cash flow statement 
for the year ended 31 December 
  
 Notes 
2013
£m
Restated
1
2012 
£m 
Profit for the year  176 959 
Taxation expense  6 246 243 
Share of results of equity accounted investments  1 (111) (91) 
Finance costs  5 384 403 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 2 1,397 669 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2,4 (6) (7) 
Profit on disposal of investment property 2,4 (13) (12) 
Profit on disposal of businesses  2,4 (6) (103) 
Cost of equity-settled employee share schemes  49 57 
Movements in provisions  63 (224) 
Decrease in liabilities for retirement benefit obligations  (337) (820) 
(Increase)/decrease in working capital:  
Inventories  (35) 6 
Trade and other receivables  (275) 447 
Trade and other payables  (1,327) 931 
Cash inflow from operating activities  205 2,458 
Interest paid  (177) (170) 
Taxation paid  (138) (115) 
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities  (110) 2,173 
Dividends received from equity accounted investments  14 95 94 
Interest received  11 23 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment, and investment property  (236) (359) 
Purchase of intangible assets  (33) (43) 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, and investment property  93 115 
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets  28 – 
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings (net of cash acquired) 9 (1) (5) 
Equity accounted investment funding 14 (5) (6) 
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary undertakings (net of cash disposed)  9 5 101 
Net cash outflow from investing activities  (43) (80) 
Net purchase of own shares   (212) (16) 
Equity dividends paid 25 (638) (620) 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  (11) (11) 
Cash outflow from matured derivative financial instruments  (47) (119) 
Cash outflow from movement in cash collateral  (10) (2) 
Cash inflow from loans  – 1,863 
Cash outflow from repayment of loans  – (1,975) 
Net cash outflow from financing activities  (918) (880) 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents  (1,071) 1,213 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  3,334 2,136 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents  (41) (15) 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  2,222 3,334 
Comprising:   
Cash and cash equivalents 19 2,222 3,355 
Overdrafts 21 – (21) 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  2,222 3,334 
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
 
WORD_Background.indd   141 3/7/2014   1:59:18 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
142 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — cash flow statement 
9. Cash flow analysis  
Operating business cash flow 
 
2013
£m
2012 
£m 
Cash inflow from operating activities 205 2,458 
Add back: Amounts already deducted from net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group)
2
 – 458 
 205 2,916 
Assets contributed to Trust – (25) 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment, and investment property (236) (359) 
Purchase of intangible assets (33) (43) 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, and investment property 93 115 
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 28 – 
Equity accounted investment funding (5) (6) 
Dividends received from equity accounted investments 95 94 
Operating business cash flow 147 2,692  
 
 
2013
£m
2012
1
£m 
Electronic Systems 235 256 
Cyber & Intelligence 118 113 
Platforms & Services (US) 192 314 
Platforms & Services (UK) 59 1,717 
Platforms & Services (International) (189) 506 
HQ (268) (214) 
Operating business cash flow 147 2,692 
1 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation within Platforms & Services (UK) (see note 7).  
2 2012 comprised the £428m contribution from Trust to the UK pension schemes and the £29.5m charitable contribution for the benefit of the people of Tanzania 
in connection with the global settlement with the UK’s Serious Fraud Office in 2010, both made in 2012, as the amounts had been deducted from the Group’s net 
(debt)/cash.  
Cash flows from acquisitions and disposals  
 
2013
£m
2012 
£m 
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary undertakings
3
  7 112 
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of with subsidiary undertakings (2) (11) 
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary undertakings (net of cash disposed) 5 101 
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings (net of cash acquired) (1) (5) 
Acquisitions and disposals 4 96 
3 In 2012, the Group received £108m in respect of the subsidiaries sold during the year (see note 26) and £4m in respect of sales price adjustments relating to 
the sale of the Regional Aircraft Asset Management business in 2011.  
  
 
  
10. Net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) 
Key Performance Indicator – Net (debt)/cash 
Net (debt)/cash comprises cash and cash equivalents, less loans and overdrafts (including debt-related derivative financial instruments) 
and cash received on customers’ account
1
.  
Movement in net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Operating business cash flow (note 9) 147 2,692
Interest  (166) (147)
Taxation (138) (115)
Free cash (outflow)/inflow (157) 2,430
Acquisitions and disposals (note 9) 4 96
Equity dividends paid (638) (620)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (11) (11)
Net purchase of own shares  (212) (16)
Cash outflow from matured derivative financial instruments (47) (119)
Cash outflow from movement in cash collateral (10) (2)
Movement in cash received on customers’ account
1
 1 1
Foreign exchange adjustments  3 92
Other non-cash movements (19) (25)
Movement in net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) (1,086) 1,826
Opening net cash/(debt) (as defined by the Group) 387 (1,439)
Closing net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) (699) 387
Components of net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group)  
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Debt-related derivative financial instrument assets – non-current (note 16) – 22
Debt-related derivative financial instrument assets – current (note 16) 6 –
Cash and cash equivalents (note 19) 2,222 3,355
 2,228 3,377
Loans – non-current (note 21) (2,524) (2,967)
Loans and overdrafts – current (note 21) (402) (21)
Less: Cash received on customers’ account
1
 (note 22) (1) (2)
 (2,927) (2,990)
Net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) (699) 387
1 Cash received on customers’ account is the unexpended cash received from customers in advance of delivery which is subject to advance payment guarantees 
unrelated to Group performance. It is included within trade and other payables in the consolidated balance sheet (see note 22).  
 
WORD_Background.indd   142 3/7/2014   1:59:18 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 143
Notes to the Group accounts — cash flow statement 
9. Cash flow analysis  
Operating business cash flow 
 
2013
£m
2012 
£m 
Cash inflow from operating activities 205 2,458 
Add back: Amounts already deducted from net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group)
2
 – 458 
 205 2,916 
Assets contributed to Trust – (25) 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment, and investment property (236) (359) 
Purchase of intangible assets (33) (43) 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, and investment property 93 115 
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 28 – 
Equity accounted investment funding (5) (6) 
Dividends received from equity accounted investments 95 94 
Operating business cash flow 147 2,692  
 
 
2013
£m
2012
1
£m 
Electronic Systems 235 256 
Cyber & Intelligence 118 113 
Platforms & Services (US) 192 314 
Platforms & Services (UK) 59 1,717 
Platforms & Services (International) (189) 506 
HQ (268) (214) 
Operating business cash flow 147 2,692 
1 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation within Platforms & Services (UK) (see note 7).  
2 2012 comprised the £428m contribution from Trust to the UK pension schemes and the £29.5m charitable contribution for the benefit of the people of Tanzania 
in connection with the global settlement with the UK’s Serious Fraud Office in 2010, both made in 2012, as the amounts had been deducted from the Group’s net 
(debt)/cash.  
Cash flows from acquisitions and disposals  
 
2013
£m
2012 
£m 
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary undertakings
3
  7 112 
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of with subsidiary undertakings (2) (11) 
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary undertakings (net of cash disposed) 5 101 
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings (net of cash acquired) (1) (5) 
Acquisitions and disposals 4 96 
3 In 2012, the Group received £108m in respect of the subsidiaries sold during the year (see note 26) and £4m in respect of sales price adjustments relating to 
the sale of the Regional Aircraft Asset Management business in 2011.  
  
 
  
10. Net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) 
Key Performance Indicator – Net (debt)/cash 
Net (debt)/cash comprises cash and cash equivalents, less loans and overdrafts (including debt-related derivative financial instruments) 
and cash received on customers’ account
1
.  
Movement in net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Operating business cash flow (note 9) 147 2,692
Interest  (166) (147)
Taxation (138) (115)
Free cash (outflow)/inflow (157) 2,430
Acquisitions and disposals (note 9) 4 96
Equity dividends paid (638) (620)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (11) (11)
Net purchase of own shares  (212) (16)
Cash outflow from matured derivative financial instruments (47) (119)
Cash outflow from movement in cash collateral (10) (2)
Movement in cash received on customers’ account
1
 1 1
Foreign exchange adjustments  3 92
Other non-cash movements (19) (25)
Movement in net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) (1,086) 1,826
Opening net cash/(debt) (as defined by the Group) 387 (1,439)
Closing net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) (699) 387
Components of net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group)  
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Debt-related derivative financial instrument assets – non-current (note 16) – 22
Debt-related derivative financial instrument assets – current (note 16) 6 –
Cash and cash equivalents (note 19) 2,222 3,355
 2,228 3,377
Loans – non-current (note 21) (2,524) (2,967)
Loans and overdrafts – current (note 21) (402) (21)
Less: Cash received on customers’ account
1
 (note 22) (1) (2)
 (2,927) (2,990)
Net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) (699) 387
1 Cash received on customers’ account is the unexpended cash received from customers in advance of delivery which is subject to advance payment guarantees 
unrelated to Group performance. It is included within trade and other payables in the consolidated balance sheet (see note 22).  
 
WORD_Background.indd   143 3/7/2014   1:59:18 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
144 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Consolidated balance sheet 
as at 31 December 
 Notes 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Non-current assets  
Intangible assets 11 9,735 10,928
Property, plant and equipment 12 1,936 2,285
Investment property 13 135 122
Equity accounted investments 14 283 265
Other investments  3 5
Other receivables 15 477 254
Other financial assets 16 42 62
Deferred tax assets 17 901 1,375
  13,512 15,296
Current assets  
Inventories 18 680 655
Trade and other receivables including amounts due from customers for contract work 15 3,038 2,873
Current tax  8 11
Other financial assets 16 81 64
Cash and cash equivalents 19 2,222 3,355
Assets held for sale 7 140 20
  6,169 6,978
Total assets 20 19,681 22,274
Non-current liabilities  
Loans 21 (2,524) (2,967)
Trade and other payables 22 (1,160) (1,481)
Retirement benefit obligations 23 (3,665) (4,607)
Other financial liabilities 16 (59) (66)
Deferred tax liabilities 17 (7) (13)
Provisions 24 (403) (449)
  (7,818) (9,583)
Current liabilities  
Loans and overdrafts 21 (402) (21)
Trade and other payables 22 (7,074) (8,067)
Other financial liabilities 16 (81) (88)
Current tax  (497) (422)
Provisions 24 (391) (297)
Liabilities held for sale  – (22)
  (8,445) (8,917)
Total liabilities  (16,263) (18,500)
Net assets  3,418 3,774
  
Capital and reserves  
Issued share capital 25 89 90
Share premium  1,249 1,249
Other reserves 25 4,868 5,079
Retained earnings – deficit  (2,825) (2,698)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent  3,381 3,720
Non-controlling interests  37 54
Total equity  3,418 3,774
Approved by the Board on 19 February 2014 and signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
I G King   P J Lynas 
Chief Executive  Group Finance Director  
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 31 December 
  
 Attributable to equity holders of the parent 
 
Issued
share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Other 
reserves
1
£m 
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Non-
controlling
interests
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 1 January 2013 90 1,249 5,079 (2,698) 3,720 54 3,774
Profit for the year – – – 168 168 8 176
Total other comprehensive income for the year  – – (212) 505 293 (6) 287
Share-based payments – – – 49 49 – 49
Net purchase of own shares (1) – 1 (212) (212) – (212)
Ordinary share dividends – – – (638) (638) (11) (649)
Disposal of non-controlling interest – – – 1 1 (8) (7)
At 31 December 2013 89 1,249 4,868 (2,825) 3,381 37 3,418
   
At 1 January 2012 90 1,249 5,381 (2,480) 4,240 59 4,299
Profit for the year
2
 – – – 948 948 11 959
Total other comprehensive income for the year
2
  – – (302) (587) (889) – (889)
Share-based payments – – – 57 57 – 57
Net purchase of own shares – – – (16) (16) – (16)
Ordinary share dividends – – – (620) (620) (11) (631)
Other – – – – – (5) (5)
At 31 December 2012 90 1,249 5,079 (2,698) 3,720 54 3,774
1 An analysis of other reserves is provided in note 25. 
2 Restated on adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits. 
 
WORD_Background.indd   144 3/7/2014   1:59:18 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 145
Consolidated balance sheet 
as at 31 December 
 Notes 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Non-current assets  
Intangible assets 11 9,735 10,928
Property, plant and equipment 12 1,936 2,285
Investment property 13 135 122
Equity accounted investments 14 283 265
Other investments  3 5
Other receivables 15 477 254
Other financial assets 16 42 62
Deferred tax assets 17 901 1,375
  13,512 15,296
Current assets  
Inventories 18 680 655
Trade and other receivables including amounts due from customers for contract work 15 3,038 2,873
Current tax  8 11
Other financial assets 16 81 64
Cash and cash equivalents 19 2,222 3,355
Assets held for sale 7 140 20
  6,169 6,978
Total assets 20 19,681 22,274
Non-current liabilities  
Loans 21 (2,524) (2,967)
Trade and other payables 22 (1,160) (1,481)
Retirement benefit obligations 23 (3,665) (4,607)
Other financial liabilities 16 (59) (66)
Deferred tax liabilities 17 (7) (13)
Provisions 24 (403) (449)
  (7,818) (9,583)
Current liabilities  
Loans and overdrafts 21 (402) (21)
Trade and other payables 22 (7,074) (8,067)
Other financial liabilities 16 (81) (88)
Current tax  (497) (422)
Provisions 24 (391) (297)
Liabilities held for sale  – (22)
  (8,445) (8,917)
Total liabilities  (16,263) (18,500)
Net assets  3,418 3,774
  
Capital and reserves  
Issued share capital 25 89 90
Share premium  1,249 1,249
Other reserves 25 4,868 5,079
Retained earnings – deficit  (2,825) (2,698)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent  3,381 3,720
Non-controlling interests  37 54
Total equity  3,418 3,774
Approved by the Board on 19 February 2014 and signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
I G King   P J Lynas 
Chief Executive  Group Finance Director  
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 31 December 
  
 Attributable to equity holders of the parent 
 
Issued
share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Other 
reserves
1
£m 
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Non-
controlling
interests
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 1 January 2013 90 1,249 5,079 (2,698) 3,720 54 3,774
Profit for the year – – – 168 168 8 176
Total other comprehensive income for the year  – – (212) 505 293 (6) 287
Share-based payments – – – 49 49 – 49
Net purchase of own shares (1) – 1 (212) (212) – (212)
Ordinary share dividends – – – (638) (638) (11) (649)
Disposal of non-controlling interest – – – 1 1 (8) (7)
At 31 December 2013 89 1,249 4,868 (2,825) 3,381 37 3,418
   
At 1 January 2012 90 1,249 5,381 (2,480) 4,240 59 4,299
Profit for the year
2
 – – – 948 948 11 959
Total other comprehensive income for the year
2
  – – (302) (587) (889) – (889)
Share-based payments – – – 57 57 – 57
Net purchase of own shares – – – (16) (16) – (16)
Ordinary share dividends – – – (620) (620) (11) (631)
Other – – – – – (5) (5)
At 31 December 2012 90 1,249 5,079 (2,698) 3,720 54 3,774
1 An analysis of other reserves is provided in note 25. 
2 Restated on adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits. 
 
WORD_Background.indd   145 3/7/2014   1:59:18 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
146 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet 
11. Intangible assets  
Intangible assets are carried at cost or valuation, less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Cost or valuation 
Intangible assets arising from a business combination are recognised at fair value, amortised over their estimated useful lives and 
subject to impairment testing. The Group’s accounting policy on business combinations is included in note 26. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates is 
included in the carrying value of equity accounted investments. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying 
amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. 
Programme and customer-related 
The most significant intangible assets recognised by the Group are in relation to ongoing programmes within businesses acquired, 
mainly in respect of customer relationships and order backlog.  
Other intangible assets 
Other intangible assets include: 
– Computer software licences acquired for use within the Group are capitalised as an intangible asset on the basis of the costs incurred 
to acquire and bring to use the specific software; 
– Software development costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by 
the Group, and that will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets. 
Group-funded expenditure associated with enhancing or maintaining computer software programs for sale is recognised as an expense 
as incurred; 
– Research and development expenditure funded by the Group on development activities applied to a plan or design for the production of 
new or substantially improved products is capitalised as an internally generated intangible asset if certain conditions are met. The 
expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and related overheads; and  
– Patents, trademarks and licences.  
Amortisation 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets.  
For programme-related intangibles, amortisation is set on a programme-by-programme basis over the life of the individual programme. 
Amortisation for customer-related intangibles is also set on an individual basis. 
The estimated useful lives are as follows: 
Programme and customer-related up to 15 years 
Other intangible assets:  
Computer software licences acquired 2 to 5 years 
Software development costs 2 to 5 years 
Research and development expenditure  up to 10 years 
Patents, trademarks and licences  up to 20 years 
Other intangibles up to 10 years 
The Group has no indefinite life intangible assets other than goodwill. 
Impairment of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property and equity accounted investments 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property and equity accounted 
investments are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment as required by IAS 36, 
Impairment of Assets. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill and intangible assets that 
are not yet available for use, impairment testing is performed annually. 
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.  
The recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate. For an asset that does not generate largely 
independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.  
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. 
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.  
An impairment loss in respect of other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property and equity accounted 
investments is reversed if the subsequent increase in recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the 
impairment loss was recognised or if there has been a change in the estimate used to determine the recoverable amount. 
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have 
been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.  
  
  
11. Intangible assets (continued) 
 
Goodwill
£m
Programme  
and customer-
related 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation  
At 1 January 2012  13,900 2,124 577 16,601
Additions:  
Acquired separately – – 39 39
Internally developed – – 8 8
Adjustment on finalisation of provisional goodwill  2 – – 2
Transfer from property, plant and equipment – – 40 40
Transfer to held for sale
1
 (227) (165) (94) (486)
Disposals  (12) (37) (4) (53)
Foreign exchange adjustments  (305) (63) (15) (383)
At 31 December 2012 13,358 1,859 551 15,768
Additions:  
Acquired separately – – 24 24
Internally developed – – 12 12
Disposals  – (95) (62) (157)
Business disposals (25) (6) (16) (47)
Foreign exchange adjustments  (153) (29) (5) (187)
At 31 December 2013 13,180 1,729 504 15,413
Amortisation and impairment  
At 1 January 2012 3,224 1,545 367 5,136
Amortisation charge – 160 66 226
Impairment charge 57 11 18 86
Transfer from property, plant and equipment – – 6 6
Transfer to held for sale
1
 (227) (155) (81) (463)
Disposals (12) (25) (4) (41)
Foreign exchange adjustments (50) (51) (9) (110)
At 31 December 2012 2,992 1,485 363 4,840
Amortisation charge – 141 48 189
Impairment charge 865 5 17 887
Disposals – (95) (34) (129)
Business disposals (20) (6) (12) (38)
Foreign exchange adjustments (38) (28) (5) (71)
At 31 December 2013 3,799 1,502 377 5,678
Net book value  
At 31 December 2013 9,381 227 127 9,735
At 31 December 2012 10,366 374 188 10,928
At 1 January 2012 10,676 579 210 11,465
1  Represents the intangible assets of the Safariland business subsequently sold during 2012 (net book value £23m). 
Impairment testing 
In order to calculate the recoverable amount of the Group’s goodwill, all goodwill balances have been considered with regard to 
value-in-use calculations.  
The value-in-use calculations use risk-adjusted future cash flow projections based on the Group’s five-year Integrated Business Plan (IBP) 
and include a terminal value based on the projections for the final year of that plan, with growth rate assumptions applied. The IBP 
process includes the use of historic experience, available government spending data and the Group’s order backlog. Pre-tax discount 
rates, derived from the Group’s post-tax weighted average cost of capital of 7.96% (2012 6.72%) (adjusted for risks specific to the 
market in which the cash-generating unit (CGU) operates), have been used in discounting these projected risk-adjusted cash flows. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   146 3/7/2014   1:59:18 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 147
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet 
11. Intangible assets  
Intangible assets are carried at cost or valuation, less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Cost or valuation 
Intangible assets arising from a business combination are recognised at fair value, amortised over their estimated useful lives and 
subject to impairment testing. The Group’s accounting policy on business combinations is included in note 26. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates is 
included in the carrying value of equity accounted investments. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying 
amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. 
Programme and customer-related 
The most significant intangible assets recognised by the Group are in relation to ongoing programmes within businesses acquired, 
mainly in respect of customer relationships and order backlog.  
Other intangible assets 
Other intangible assets include: 
– Computer software licences acquired for use within the Group are capitalised as an intangible asset on the basis of the costs incurred 
to acquire and bring to use the specific software; 
– Software development costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by 
the Group, and that will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets. 
Group-funded expenditure associated with enhancing or maintaining computer software programs for sale is recognised as an expense 
as incurred; 
– Research and development expenditure funded by the Group on development activities applied to a plan or design for the production of 
new or substantially improved products is capitalised as an internally generated intangible asset if certain conditions are met. The 
expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and related overheads; and  
– Patents, trademarks and licences.  
Amortisation 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets.  
For programme-related intangibles, amortisation is set on a programme-by-programme basis over the life of the individual programme. 
Amortisation for customer-related intangibles is also set on an individual basis. 
The estimated useful lives are as follows: 
Programme and customer-related up to 15 years 
Other intangible assets:  
Computer software licences acquired 2 to 5 years 
Software development costs 2 to 5 years 
Research and development expenditure  up to 10 years 
Patents, trademarks and licences  up to 20 years 
Other intangibles up to 10 years 
The Group has no indefinite life intangible assets other than goodwill. 
Impairment of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property and equity accounted investments 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property and equity accounted 
investments are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment as required by IAS 36, 
Impairment of Assets. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill and intangible assets that 
are not yet available for use, impairment testing is performed annually. 
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.  
The recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate. For an asset that does not generate largely 
independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.  
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. 
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.  
An impairment loss in respect of other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property and equity accounted 
investments is reversed if the subsequent increase in recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the 
impairment loss was recognised or if there has been a change in the estimate used to determine the recoverable amount. 
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have 
been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.  
  
  
11. Intangible assets (continued) 
 
Goodwill
£m
Programme  
and customer-
related 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation  
At 1 January 2012  13,900 2,124 577 16,601
Additions:  
Acquired separately – – 39 39
Internally developed – – 8 8
Adjustment on finalisation of provisional goodwill  2 – – 2
Transfer from property, plant and equipment – – 40 40
Transfer to held for sale
1
 (227) (165) (94) (486)
Disposals  (12) (37) (4) (53)
Foreign exchange adjustments  (305) (63) (15) (383)
At 31 December 2012 13,358 1,859 551 15,768
Additions:  
Acquired separately – – 24 24
Internally developed – – 12 12
Disposals  – (95) (62) (157)
Business disposals (25) (6) (16) (47)
Foreign exchange adjustments  (153) (29) (5) (187)
At 31 December 2013 13,180 1,729 504 15,413
Amortisation and impairment  
At 1 January 2012 3,224 1,545 367 5,136
Amortisation charge – 160 66 226
Impairment charge 57 11 18 86
Transfer from property, plant and equipment – – 6 6
Transfer to held for sale
1
 (227) (155) (81) (463)
Disposals (12) (25) (4) (41)
Foreign exchange adjustments (50) (51) (9) (110)
At 31 December 2012 2,992 1,485 363 4,840
Amortisation charge – 141 48 189
Impairment charge 865 5 17 887
Disposals – (95) (34) (129)
Business disposals (20) (6) (12) (38)
Foreign exchange adjustments (38) (28) (5) (71)
At 31 December 2013 3,799 1,502 377 5,678
Net book value  
At 31 December 2013 9,381 227 127 9,735
At 31 December 2012 10,366 374 188 10,928
At 1 January 2012 10,676 579 210 11,465
1  Represents the intangible assets of the Safariland business subsequently sold during 2012 (net book value £23m). 
Impairment testing 
In order to calculate the recoverable amount of the Group’s goodwill, all goodwill balances have been considered with regard to 
value-in-use calculations.  
The value-in-use calculations use risk-adjusted future cash flow projections based on the Group’s five-year Integrated Business Plan (IBP) 
and include a terminal value based on the projections for the final year of that plan, with growth rate assumptions applied. The IBP 
process includes the use of historic experience, available government spending data and the Group’s order backlog. Pre-tax discount 
rates, derived from the Group’s post-tax weighted average cost of capital of 7.96% (2012 6.72%) (adjusted for risks specific to the 
market in which the cash-generating unit (CGU) operates), have been used in discounting these projected risk-adjusted cash flows. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   147 3/7/2014   1:59:18 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
148 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
11. Intangible assets (continued) 
Significant CGUs 
Goodwill allocated to CGUs which are largely dependent on US government spending on defence, aerospace and security represents 
£7.5bn (2012 £8.5bn) of the Group’s total goodwill balance. 
  Allocated goodwill  Pre-tax discount rate  
Cash-generating unit Key assumptions 
2013
£bn
2012 
£bn  
2013
%
2012
%
Electronic Systems Continued demand from the US government for 
electronic warfare systems (where the business 
has a leadership position), other technology-based 
solutions and growth in the commercial avionics 
market 
3.1 3.1  10.8 8.2
Intelligence & Security 
(within Cyber & Intelligence) 
Continued demand in the US for the Group’s 
services in the areas of homeland security, law 
enforcement and counter-intelligence 
0.9 1.3  10.8 8.2
Support Solutions 
(within Platforms & Services (US)) 
Continued demand in the US for complex 
infrastructure, maritime and aviation services, and 
operations support 
0.9 1.0  10.8 8.2
Land & Armaments 
(within Platforms & Services (US)) 
Continued demand in the Group’s principal markets 
for existing and successor military tracked 
vehicles, naval guns, missile launchers, artillery 
systems, munitions, upgrade programmes and 
support 
2.6 3.1  9.6 7.7
The final year growth rate assumption in the value-in-use calculations, after adjusting for assumed 2% inflation, is 0% (2012 0%). 
The Group monitors changes in defence budgets on an ongoing basis. In 2012, there was uncertainty as to the potential impact of 
Sequestration or other budget reductions that could result in indiscriminate cuts to US government spending. The future cash flow 
projections used did not include the potential full impact of Sequestration. In 2013, the future cash flow projections used in the IBP 
assume that, beyond the US 2015 fiscal year, there are defence budget reductions equivalent to Sequestration levels.  
The headroom, calculated as the difference between net assets including allocated goodwill as at 31 December 2013 and the 
value-in-use calculations, for the CGUs listed above, is shown below. The table also shows the headroom assuming a 1% reduction in 
the terminal value growth rate assumption used in the value-in-use calculations. 
 
Headroom as at 
31 December  
Headroom assuming a 1% 
reduction in terminal value
growth rate assumption 
Cash-generating unit 
2013
£bn
2012 
£bn  
2013
£bn
2012
£bn
Electronic Systems 0.3 3.7  (0.2) 2.2
Intelligence & Security – 0.5  (0.1) 0.1
Support Solutions 0.2 1.5  – 0.9
Land & Armaments – 1.8  (0.3) 0.7
Other CGUs 
The remaining goodwill balance of £1.9bn (2012 £1.9bn) is allocated across multiple CGUs, including £0.5bn in the Applied Intelligence 
(formerly BAE Systems Detica) CGU, with no individual CGU exceeding 10% of the Group’s total goodwill balance. The majority of the 
projected cash flows within these CGUs are underpinned by expected levels of primarily UK government spending on defence, aerospace 
and security, and the Group’s ability to capture a broadly consistent market share. In the case of Applied Intelligence, the future cash 
flow projections are based on the expectation of growth in cyber and intelligence, in the UK and overseas government markets, together 
with increasing demand for products and services in commercial markets. 
Impairment – goodwill 
In 2013, the impairment charge of £865m comprises the US Intelligence & Security (£417m) and Land & Armaments (£448m) CGUs. 
The impairments in respect of both of these businesses have arisen as a result of the increase in the Group’s post-tax weighted average 
cost of capital and a reduction in the future cash flow projections which include an estimate of reductions in US defence spending. 
In 2012, the impairment charge of £57m comprised the Safariland (£27m) and Tensylon (£12m) businesses disposed of during 2012 
and the Commercial Armored Vehicles business (£18m) disposed of during 2013, all within the Land & Armaments CGU.  
Impairment – intangible assets 
In 2013, the impairment charge of £22m relates to the Electronic Systems (£4m), Cyber & Intelligence (£8m) and Platforms & Services 
(US) (£10m) reporting segments. 
In 2012, the impairment charge of £29m primarily related to the Land & Armaments business within the Platforms & Services (US) 
reporting segment and included £21m in respect of the Safariland business disposed of during 2012.  
  
  
12. Property, plant and equipment 
Cost 
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of 
self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads. The cost 
of demonstration assets is written off as incurred.  
Assets held for leasing out under operating leases are included in property, plant and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses.  
Depreciation 
Depreciation is provided, normally on a straight-line basis, to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment over their estimated 
useful lives to any estimated residual value, using the following rates: 
Buildings up to 50 years, or the lease term if shorter 
Plant and machinery:  
Computing equipment and motor vehicles  4 to 5 years 
Other equipment  10 to 20 years, or the project life if shorter 
For certain items of plant and equipment in the Group’s US businesses, depreciation is normally provided on a basis consistent with 
cost reimbursement profiles under US government contracts. Typically this provides for a faster rate of depreciation than would 
otherwise arise on a straight-line basis. 
No depreciation is provided on freehold land and assets in the course of construction. 
The assets’ residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet 
date. Where applicable, useful lives reflect the component accounting principle. 
Impairment 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s property, plant and equipment are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there 
is any indication of impairment in accordance with the policy shown on page 146. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   148 3/7/2014   1:59:19 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 149
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
11. Intangible assets (continued) 
Significant CGUs 
Goodwill allocated to CGUs which are largely dependent on US government spending on defence, aerospace and security represents 
£7.5bn (2012 £8.5bn) of the Group’s total goodwill balance. 
  Allocated goodwill  Pre-tax discount rate  
Cash-generating unit Key assumptions 
2013
£bn
2012 
£bn  
2013
%
2012
%
Electronic Systems Continued demand from the US government for 
electronic warfare systems (where the business 
has a leadership position), other technology-based 
solutions and growth in the commercial avionics 
market 
3.1 3.1  10.8 8.2
Intelligence & Security 
(within Cyber & Intelligence) 
Continued demand in the US for the Group’s 
services in the areas of homeland security, law 
enforcement and counter-intelligence 
0.9 1.3  10.8 8.2
Support Solutions 
(within Platforms & Services (US)) 
Continued demand in the US for complex 
infrastructure, maritime and aviation services, and 
operations support 
0.9 1.0  10.8 8.2
Land & Armaments 
(within Platforms & Services (US)) 
Continued demand in the Group’s principal markets 
for existing and successor military tracked 
vehicles, naval guns, missile launchers, artillery 
systems, munitions, upgrade programmes and 
support 
2.6 3.1  9.6 7.7
The final year growth rate assumption in the value-in-use calculations, after adjusting for assumed 2% inflation, is 0% (2012 0%). 
The Group monitors changes in defence budgets on an ongoing basis. In 2012, there was uncertainty as to the potential impact of 
Sequestration or other budget reductions that could result in indiscriminate cuts to US government spending. The future cash flow 
projections used did not include the potential full impact of Sequestration. In 2013, the future cash flow projections used in the IBP 
assume that, beyond the US 2015 fiscal year, there are defence budget reductions equivalent to Sequestration levels.  
The headroom, calculated as the difference between net assets including allocated goodwill as at 31 December 2013 and the 
value-in-use calculations, for the CGUs listed above, is shown below. The table also shows the headroom assuming a 1% reduction in 
the terminal value growth rate assumption used in the value-in-use calculations. 
 
Headroom as at 
31 December  
Headroom assuming a 1% 
reduction in terminal value
growth rate assumption 
Cash-generating unit 
2013
£bn
2012 
£bn  
2013
£bn
2012
£bn
Electronic Systems 0.3 3.7  (0.2) 2.2
Intelligence & Security – 0.5  (0.1) 0.1
Support Solutions 0.2 1.5  – 0.9
Land & Armaments – 1.8  (0.3) 0.7
Other CGUs 
The remaining goodwill balance of £1.9bn (2012 £1.9bn) is allocated across multiple CGUs, including £0.5bn in the Applied Intelligence 
(formerly BAE Systems Detica) CGU, with no individual CGU exceeding 10% of the Group’s total goodwill balance. The majority of the 
projected cash flows within these CGUs are underpinned by expected levels of primarily UK government spending on defence, aerospace 
and security, and the Group’s ability to capture a broadly consistent market share. In the case of Applied Intelligence, the future cash 
flow projections are based on the expectation of growth in cyber and intelligence, in the UK and overseas government markets, together 
with increasing demand for products and services in commercial markets. 
Impairment – goodwill 
In 2013, the impairment charge of £865m comprises the US Intelligence & Security (£417m) and Land & Armaments (£448m) CGUs. 
The impairments in respect of both of these businesses have arisen as a result of the increase in the Group’s post-tax weighted average 
cost of capital and a reduction in the future cash flow projections which include an estimate of reductions in US defence spending. 
In 2012, the impairment charge of £57m comprised the Safariland (£27m) and Tensylon (£12m) businesses disposed of during 2012 
and the Commercial Armored Vehicles business (£18m) disposed of during 2013, all within the Land & Armaments CGU.  
Impairment – intangible assets 
In 2013, the impairment charge of £22m relates to the Electronic Systems (£4m), Cyber & Intelligence (£8m) and Platforms & Services 
(US) (£10m) reporting segments. 
In 2012, the impairment charge of £29m primarily related to the Land & Armaments business within the Platforms & Services (US) 
reporting segment and included £21m in respect of the Safariland business disposed of during 2012.  
  
  
12. Property, plant and equipment 
Cost 
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of 
self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads. The cost 
of demonstration assets is written off as incurred.  
Assets held for leasing out under operating leases are included in property, plant and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses.  
Depreciation 
Depreciation is provided, normally on a straight-line basis, to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment over their estimated 
useful lives to any estimated residual value, using the following rates: 
Buildings up to 50 years, or the lease term if shorter 
Plant and machinery:  
Computing equipment and motor vehicles  4 to 5 years 
Other equipment  10 to 20 years, or the project life if shorter 
For certain items of plant and equipment in the Group’s US businesses, depreciation is normally provided on a basis consistent with 
cost reimbursement profiles under US government contracts. Typically this provides for a faster rate of depreciation than would 
otherwise arise on a straight-line basis. 
No depreciation is provided on freehold land and assets in the course of construction. 
The assets’ residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet 
date. Where applicable, useful lives reflect the component accounting principle. 
Impairment 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s property, plant and equipment are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there 
is any indication of impairment in accordance with the policy shown on page 146. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   149 3/7/2014   1:59:19 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
150 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
12. Property, plant and equipment (continued) 
 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Plant and
machinery
£m
Total
£m
Cost  
At 1 January 2012 2,493 2,691 5,184
Additions 81 256 337
Transfer to other intangible assets – (40) (40)
Transfer to held for sale
1
 (15) (11) (26)
Reclassification between categories (17) 17 –
Disposals (88) (122) (210)
Business disposals (3) (14) (17)
Foreign exchange adjustments (66) (53) (119)
At 31 December 2012 2,385 2,724 5,109
Additions 66 147 213
Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 – 1
Transfer to investment property (22) – (22)
Transfer to held for sale
2
 (215) – (215)
Transfer from held for sale
3
 4 86 90
Reclassification between categories 18 (18) –
Disposals (68) (157) (225)
Business disposals (9) (5) (14)
Foreign exchange adjustments (57) (42) (99)
At 31 December 2013 2,103 2,735 4,838
Depreciation and impairment  
At 1 January 2012 838 1,850 2,688
Depreciation charge for the year 128 191 319
Impairment charge for the year 28 7 35
Transfer to other intangible assets – (6) (6)
Transfer to held for sale
1
 (3) (8) (11)
Reclassification between categories (5) 5 –
Disposals (13) (118) (131)
Business disposals (1) (12) (13)
Foreign exchange adjustments (21) (36) (57)
At 31 December 2012 951 1,873 2,824
Depreciation charge for the year 131 173 304
Impairment charge for the year 9 4 13
Transfer to investment property (11) – (11)
Transfer to held for sale
2
 (75) – (75)
Transfer from held for sale
3
 4 86 90
Disposals (33) (149) (182)
Business disposals (6) (4) (10)
Foreign exchange adjustments (24) (27) (51)
At 31 December 2013 946 1,956 2,902
Net book value   
At 31 December 2013 1,157 779 1,936
At 31 December 2012 1,434 851 2,285
At 1 January 2012 1,655 841 2,496
1 Represents the property, plant and equipment of the Safariland business subsequently sold during 2012 (net book value £15m). 
2 Represents a residential and office facility in Saudi Arabia (net book value £140m). A sale and leaseback transaction was com pleted in January 2014 (see note 7). 
3 Represents the property, plant and equipment of the Regional Aircraft Support & Engineering business, which was reclassified from held for sale in 2013 (net 
book value £nil) (see note 7). 
  
12. Property, plant and equipment (continued) 
Net book value 
 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Plant and
machinery
£m
Total
£m
Freehold property 963 – 963
Long leasehold property 81 – 81
Short leasehold property 113 – 113
Plant and machinery – 689 689
Fixtures, fittings and equipment – 90 90
At 31 December 2013 1,157 779 1,936
Impairment 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Electronic Systems 2 –
Platforms & Services (US) 9 15
Platforms & Services (UK) 2 –
Platforms & Services (International) – 20
 13 35
2013 
The Platforms & Services (US) impairment of £9m mainly reflects a charge in respect of the carrying value of land and buildings at the 
Sealy, Texas, facility due to its planned closure by the end of June 2014. 
2012 
The impairment charge of £35m mainly comprised charges in respect of the carrying value of land and buildings in Saudi Arabia (£20m) 
and assets of US businesses prior to their disposal (£7m).  
Assets in the course of construction  
 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Plant and 
machinery
£m
Total
£m
At 31 December 2013 33 94 127
At 31 December 2012 23 115 138
Operating leases 
The future aggregate minimum lease income from the non-cancellable elements of operating leases for assets capitalised (including 
investment property (note 13)) are as follows: 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Receipts due: 
Not later than one year 23 24
Later than one year and not later than five years 87 96
Later than five years 118 139
 228 259
Under the terms of the lease agreements, no contingent rents are receivable. The leases have varying terms including escalation 
clauses and renewal rights. None of these terms represent unusual arrangements or create material onerous or beneficial rights or 
obligations. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   150 3/7/2014   1:59:19 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 151
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
12. Property, plant and equipment (continued) 
 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Plant and
machinery
£m
Total
£m
Cost  
At 1 January 2012 2,493 2,691 5,184
Additions 81 256 337
Transfer to other intangible assets – (40) (40)
Transfer to held for sale
1
 (15) (11) (26)
Reclassification between categories (17) 17 –
Disposals (88) (122) (210)
Business disposals (3) (14) (17)
Foreign exchange adjustments (66) (53) (119)
At 31 December 2012 2,385 2,724 5,109
Additions 66 147 213
Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 – 1
Transfer to investment property (22) – (22)
Transfer to held for sale
2
 (215) – (215)
Transfer from held for sale
3
 4 86 90
Reclassification between categories 18 (18) –
Disposals (68) (157) (225)
Business disposals (9) (5) (14)
Foreign exchange adjustments (57) (42) (99)
At 31 December 2013 2,103 2,735 4,838
Depreciation and impairment  
At 1 January 2012 838 1,850 2,688
Depreciation charge for the year 128 191 319
Impairment charge for the year 28 7 35
Transfer to other intangible assets – (6) (6)
Transfer to held for sale
1
 (3) (8) (11)
Reclassification between categories (5) 5 –
Disposals (13) (118) (131)
Business disposals (1) (12) (13)
Foreign exchange adjustments (21) (36) (57)
At 31 December 2012 951 1,873 2,824
Depreciation charge for the year 131 173 304
Impairment charge for the year 9 4 13
Transfer to investment property (11) – (11)
Transfer to held for sale
2
 (75) – (75)
Transfer from held for sale
3
 4 86 90
Disposals (33) (149) (182)
Business disposals (6) (4) (10)
Foreign exchange adjustments (24) (27) (51)
At 31 December 2013 946 1,956 2,902
Net book value   
At 31 December 2013 1,157 779 1,936
At 31 December 2012 1,434 851 2,285
At 1 January 2012 1,655 841 2,496
1 Represents the property, plant and equipment of the Safariland business subsequently sold during 2012 (net book value £15m). 
2 Represents a residential and office facility in Saudi Arabia (net book value £140m). A sale and leaseback transaction was com pleted in January 2014 (see note 7). 
3 Represents the property, plant and equipment of the Regional Aircraft Support & Engineering business, which was reclassified from held for sale in 2013 (net 
book value £nil) (see note 7). 
  
12. Property, plant and equipment (continued) 
Net book value 
 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Plant and
machinery
£m
Total
£m
Freehold property 963 – 963
Long leasehold property 81 – 81
Short leasehold property 113 – 113
Plant and machinery – 689 689
Fixtures, fittings and equipment – 90 90
At 31 December 2013 1,157 779 1,936
Impairment 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Electronic Systems 2 –
Platforms & Services (US) 9 15
Platforms & Services (UK) 2 –
Platforms & Services (International) – 20
 13 35
2013 
The Platforms & Services (US) impairment of £9m mainly reflects a charge in respect of the carrying value of land and buildings at the 
Sealy, Texas, facility due to its planned closure by the end of June 2014. 
2012 
The impairment charge of £35m mainly comprised charges in respect of the carrying value of land and buildings in Saudi Arabia (£20m) 
and assets of US businesses prior to their disposal (£7m).  
Assets in the course of construction  
 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Plant and 
machinery
£m
Total
£m
At 31 December 2013 33 94 127
At 31 December 2012 23 115 138
Operating leases 
The future aggregate minimum lease income from the non-cancellable elements of operating leases for assets capitalised (including 
investment property (note 13)) are as follows: 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Receipts due: 
Not later than one year 23 24
Later than one year and not later than five years 87 96
Later than five years 118 139
 228 259
Under the terms of the lease agreements, no contingent rents are receivable. The leases have varying terms including escalation 
clauses and renewal rights. None of these terms represent unusual arrangements or create material onerous or beneficial rights or 
obligations. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   151 3/7/2014   1:59:19 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
152 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
13. Investment property 
Cost 
Land and buildings that are leased to non-Group entities are classified as investment property. The Group measures investment property 
at its cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Depeciation 
Depreciation is provided, on a straight-line basis, to write off the cost of investment property over its estimated useful life of up to 
50 years. 
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. 
Impairment 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s investment property are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any 
indication of impairment in accordance with the policy shown on page 146.  
 £m
Cost 
At 1 January 2012 176
Additions 20
Disposals (25)
At 31 December 2012 171
Additions 24
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 22
Disposals (18)
At 31 December 2013 199
Depreciation and impairment 
At 1 January 2012 46
Depreciation charge for the year 3
At 31 December 2012 49
Depreciation charge for the year 4
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 11
At 31 December 2013 64
Net book value  
At 31 December 2013 135
At 31 December 2012 122
At 1 January 2012 130
 
Fair value  
At 31 December 2013 263
At 31 December 2012 197
The fair values above are based on and reflect current market values as prepared by in-house professionals who have the appropriate 
professional qualifications and recent experience of valuing properties in the location and of the type being valued. 
  
  
14. Equity accounted investments 
An entity is regarded as a joint venture if the Group has joint control over its operating and financial policies.  
Carrying value 
The carrying value of an equity accounted investment comprises the Group’s share of net assets and purchased goodwill, and is 
assessed for impairment as a single asset. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s equity accounted investments are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there 
is any indication of impairment in accordance with the policy shown on page 146. 
Principal equity accounted investments 
Joint ventures Principal activities 
Group interest in  
allotted capital 
Principally 
operates in
Country of 
incorporation
Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH  
(Held by BAE Systems plc) 
Management and control of the 
European Typhoon programme 
33%  
ordinary 
Germany Germany
MBDA SAS  
(Held via BAE Systems Electronics Limited and 
BAE Systems (Overseas Holdings) Limited) 
Development and manufacture 
of guided weapons 
37.5%  
ordinary 
Europe France
Air Astana 
(Held by BAE Systems (Kazakhstan) Limited) 
Carriage by air of passengers 
and cargo 
49%  
common  
Kazakhstan Kazakhstan
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under Section 410(2) of the Companies Act 2006 by providing information only in 
relation to equity accounted investments whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the directors, principally affected the 
financial statements. Accordingly, the equity accounted investments listed in the table above are those that represent more than 5% of 
total Group sales or underlying EBITA
1
 or that represent a significant proportion of the total carrying value of equity accounted 
investments. A full list of subsidiary, equity accounted investments and other associated undertakings as at 31 December 2013 will be 
annexed to the Company’s next annual return filed with the Registrar of Companies. 
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items.  
Carrying value (including goodwill)  
 £m
At 1 January 2012 783
Share of results after tax
2
  91
Equity accounted investment funding 6
Dividends received (94)
Non-cash special dividend from MBDA SAS (424)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes, net of tax
2
 (71)
Adjustment on finalisation of provisional fair values on acquisitions  (1)
Foreign exchange adjustments (25)
At 31 December 2012 265
Share of results after tax  111
Equity accounted investment funding 5
Dividends received (95)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes, net of tax 1
Disposals (1)
Foreign exchange adjustments (3)
At 31 December 2013 283
2 Restated on adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
Share of assets and liabilities  
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Assets 
Non-current assets 821 781
Current assets 2,444 2,278
 3,265 3,059
Liabilities 
Non-current liabilities (486) (443)
Current liabilities (2,496) (2,351)
 (2,982) (2,794)
Carrying value 283 265
Contingent liabilities 
The Group is not aware of any material contingent liabilities in respect of its equity accounted investments. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   152 3/7/2014   1:59:19 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 153
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
13. Investment property 
Cost 
Land and buildings that are leased to non-Group entities are classified as investment property. The Group measures investment property 
at its cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Depeciation 
Depreciation is provided, on a straight-line basis, to write off the cost of investment property over its estimated useful life of up to 
50 years. 
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. 
Impairment 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s investment property are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any 
indication of impairment in accordance with the policy shown on page 146.  
 £m
Cost 
At 1 January 2012 176
Additions 20
Disposals (25)
At 31 December 2012 171
Additions 24
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 22
Disposals (18)
At 31 December 2013 199
Depreciation and impairment 
At 1 January 2012 46
Depreciation charge for the year 3
At 31 December 2012 49
Depreciation charge for the year 4
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 11
At 31 December 2013 64
Net book value  
At 31 December 2013 135
At 31 December 2012 122
At 1 January 2012 130
 
Fair value  
At 31 December 2013 263
At 31 December 2012 197
The fair values above are based on and reflect current market values as prepared by in-house professionals who have the appropriate 
professional qualifications and recent experience of valuing properties in the location and of the type being valued. 
  
  
14. Equity accounted investments 
An entity is regarded as a joint venture if the Group has joint control over its operating and financial policies.  
Carrying value 
The carrying value of an equity accounted investment comprises the Group’s share of net assets and purchased goodwill, and is 
assessed for impairment as a single asset. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s equity accounted investments are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there 
is any indication of impairment in accordance with the policy shown on page 146. 
Principal equity accounted investments 
Joint ventures Principal activities 
Group interest in  
allotted capital 
Principally 
operates in
Country of 
incorporation
Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH  
(Held by BAE Systems plc) 
Management and control of the 
European Typhoon programme 
33%  
ordinary 
Germany Germany
MBDA SAS  
(Held via BAE Systems Electronics Limited and 
BAE Systems (Overseas Holdings) Limited) 
Development and manufacture 
of guided weapons 
37.5%  
ordinary 
Europe France
Air Astana 
(Held by BAE Systems (Kazakhstan) Limited) 
Carriage by air of passengers 
and cargo 
49%  
common  
Kazakhstan Kazakhstan
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under Section 410(2) of the Companies Act 2006 by providing information only in 
relation to equity accounted investments whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the directors, principally affected the 
financial statements. Accordingly, the equity accounted investments listed in the table above are those that represent more than 5% of 
total Group sales or underlying EBITA
1
 or that represent a significant proportion of the total carrying value of equity accounted 
investments. A full list of subsidiary, equity accounted investments and other associated undertakings as at 31 December 2013 will be 
annexed to the Company’s next annual return filed with the Registrar of Companies. 
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items.  
Carrying value (including goodwill)  
 £m
At 1 January 2012 783
Share of results after tax
2
  91
Equity accounted investment funding 6
Dividends received (94)
Non-cash special dividend from MBDA SAS (424)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes, net of tax
2
 (71)
Adjustment on finalisation of provisional fair values on acquisitions  (1)
Foreign exchange adjustments (25)
At 31 December 2012 265
Share of results after tax  111
Equity accounted investment funding 5
Dividends received (95)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes, net of tax 1
Disposals (1)
Foreign exchange adjustments (3)
At 31 December 2013 283
2 Restated on adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
Share of assets and liabilities  
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Assets 
Non-current assets 821 781
Current assets 2,444 2,278
 3,265 3,059
Liabilities 
Non-current liabilities (486) (443)
Current liabilities (2,496) (2,351)
 (2,982) (2,794)
Carrying value 283 265
Contingent liabilities 
The Group is not aware of any material contingent liabilities in respect of its equity accounted investments. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   153 3/7/2014   1:59:19 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
154 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
15. Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less provision for bad debts. A provision for bad debt is established when there is 
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. 
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or 
delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. Receivables with a short-term duration are not 
discounted. 
A loss on provision for bad debt is reversed if the subsequent increase in recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event 
occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. 
Amounts due from customers for contract work includes long-term contract balances and amounts due from contract customers, less 
attributable progress payments. 
Long-term contract balances are stated at cost less provision for any anticipated losses. Provisions for losses on contracts are recorded 
when it becomes probable that total estimated contract costs will exceed total contract revenues. Such provisions are recorded as write 
downs of long-term contract balances for that portion of the work which has already been completed, and the remainder is included as 
amounts due to long-term contract customers within trade and other payables. Losses are determined on the basis of estimated results 
on completion of contracts and are updated regularly. 
Amounts due from contract customers represent unbilled income and are stated at cost, plus attributable profit.  
Progress payments are amounts received from customers in accordance with the terms of contracts which specify payments in advance 
of delivery and are credited, as progress payments, against any expenditure incurred for the particular contract. Any unexpended balance 
in respect of progress payments is held in trade and other payables as customer stage payments or, if the amounts are subject to 
advance payment guarantees unrelated to company performance, as cash received on customers’ account. 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Non-current 
Pension prepayments (note 23) 156 47
Prepayments and accrued income
1
 62 9
US deferred compensation plan assets  211 187
Other receivables 48 11
 477 254
Current 
Long-term contract balances 6,085 6,521
Less: Attributable progress payments (5,526) (5,703)
Amounts due from contract customers 843 472
Amounts due from customers for contract work
2
 1,402 1,290
Trade receivables 1,138 882
Amounts owed by equity accounted investments (note 30) 56 163
Prepayments and accrued income
1
 232 270
Other receivables 210 268
 3,038 2,873
1 Includes £56m non-current and £39m current receivable in respect of a UK Ministry of Defence settlement agreement relating to maritime rationalisation costs 
charged to the income statement in 2013. 
2 There are no retentions against long-term contracts (2012 £nil) and no amounts that are past due within amounts due from cust omers for contract work (2012 £nil). 
The aggregate amount of costs incurred and recognised profits (less recognised losses) to date in respect of contracts in progress at 
31 December 2013 are estimated to be £31.7bn (2012 £31.4bn).  
Trade receivables are disclosed net of a provision for bad debts. Disclosures relating to the ageing of trade receivables and movements 
in the provision for bad debts are provided in note 28. Other receivables do not contain assets which are considered to be impaired.  
  
  
16. Other financial assets and liabilities 
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities 
The global nature of the Group’s business means it is exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates. In order to protect itself against 
currency fluctuations, the Group’s policy is to hedge all material firm transactional exposures. The Group also uses interest rate 
derivative instruments to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its borrowings and deposits by varying the 
proportion of fixed rate debt relative to floating rate debt over the forward time horizon. The Group aims to achieve hedge accounting 
treatment for all derivatives that hedge material foreign currency exposures and those interest rate exposures where hedge accounting 
can be achieved. 
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, derivatives 
that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments. 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, such instruments are stated at fair 
value at the balance sheet date. Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are 
recognised in the income statement for the period. 
Cash flow hedges 
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of cash flows relating to a highly probable forecast transaction (income 
or expense), the effective portion of any change in the fair value of the instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income and 
presented in the hedging reserve in equity. Amounts recognised in equity are reclassified from reserves into the cost of the underlying 
transaction and recognised in the income statement when the underlying transaction affects profit or loss. The ineffective portion of any 
change in the fair value of the instrument is recognised in the income statement immediately.  
Fair value hedges 
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a fair value hedge, changes in the fair value of the underlying asset or liability 
attributable to the hedged risk, and gains and losses on the derivative instrument, are recognised in the income statement for the period.  
 
2013 
Assets 
£m 
2013 
Liabilities 
£m 
2012
Assets
£m
2012
Liabilities
£m
Non-current   
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts 42 (55) 25 (66)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts – (4) 15 –
Debt-related derivative financial instruments – assets
1
 – – 22 –
 42 (59) 62 (66)
Current   
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts 60 (59) 32 (58)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts 15 (22) 32 (30)
Debt-related derivative financial instruments – assets
1
 6 – ––
 81 (81) 64 (88)
1 Includes fair value hedges of £6m (2012 £13m). 
The debt-related derivative financial liabilities are presented as a component of loans and overdrafts (see note 21). 
Cash flow hedges 
The hedged, highly probable forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency are predominantly expected to occur at various 
stages during the next 12 months. The majority of those extending beyond 12 months are expected to have been transacted within five 
years of the balance sheet date. 
Amounts credited to the hedging reserve in respect of cash flow hedges were £53m (2012 debit £21m), including £29m on 
reclassification to profit and loss on maturity and £24m on contracts held at 31 December 2013.  
Fair value hedges 
The loss arising in the income statement on fair value hedging instruments was £7m (2012 £2m). The gain arising in the income 
statement on the fair value of the underlying hedged items was £7m (2012 £2m). There was no ineffective portion recognised in the 
income statement arising from fair value hedges (2012 nil).  
  
WORD_Background.indd   154 3/7/2014   1:59:20 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 155
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
15. Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less provision for bad debts. A provision for bad debt is established when there is 
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. 
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or 
delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. Receivables with a short-term duration are not 
discounted. 
A loss on provision for bad debt is reversed if the subsequent increase in recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event 
occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. 
Amounts due from customers for contract work includes long-term contract balances and amounts due from contract customers, less 
attributable progress payments. 
Long-term contract balances are stated at cost less provision for any anticipated losses. Provisions for losses on contracts are recorded 
when it becomes probable that total estimated contract costs will exceed total contract revenues. Such provisions are recorded as write 
downs of long-term contract balances for that portion of the work which has already been completed, and the remainder is included as 
amounts due to long-term contract customers within trade and other payables. Losses are determined on the basis of estimated results 
on completion of contracts and are updated regularly. 
Amounts due from contract customers represent unbilled income and are stated at cost, plus attributable profit.  
Progress payments are amounts received from customers in accordance with the terms of contracts which specify payments in advance 
of delivery and are credited, as progress payments, against any expenditure incurred for the particular contract. Any unexpended balance 
in respect of progress payments is held in trade and other payables as customer stage payments or, if the amounts are subject to 
advance payment guarantees unrelated to company performance, as cash received on customers’ account. 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Non-current 
Pension prepayments (note 23) 156 47
Prepayments and accrued income
1
 62 9
US deferred compensation plan assets  211 187
Other receivables 48 11
 477 254
Current 
Long-term contract balances 6,085 6,521
Less: Attributable progress payments (5,526) (5,703)
Amounts due from contract customers 843 472
Amounts due from customers for contract work
2
 1,402 1,290
Trade receivables 1,138 882
Amounts owed by equity accounted investments (note 30) 56 163
Prepayments and accrued income
1
 232 270
Other receivables 210 268
 3,038 2,873
1 Includes £56m non-current and £39m current receivable in respect of a UK Ministry of Defence settlement agreement relating to maritime rationalisation costs 
charged to the income statement in 2013. 
2 There are no retentions against long-term contracts (2012 £nil) and no amounts that are past due within amounts due from cust omers for contract work (2012 £nil). 
The aggregate amount of costs incurred and recognised profits (less recognised losses) to date in respect of contracts in progress at 
31 December 2013 are estimated to be £31.7bn (2012 £31.4bn).  
Trade receivables are disclosed net of a provision for bad debts. Disclosures relating to the ageing of trade receivables and movements 
in the provision for bad debts are provided in note 28. Other receivables do not contain assets which are considered to be impaired.  
  
  
16. Other financial assets and liabilities 
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities 
The global nature of the Group’s business means it is exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates. In order to protect itself against 
currency fluctuations, the Group’s policy is to hedge all material firm transactional exposures. The Group also uses interest rate 
derivative instruments to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its borrowings and deposits by varying the 
proportion of fixed rate debt relative to floating rate debt over the forward time horizon. The Group aims to achieve hedge accounting 
treatment for all derivatives that hedge material foreign currency exposures and those interest rate exposures where hedge accounting 
can be achieved. 
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, derivatives 
that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments. 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, such instruments are stated at fair 
value at the balance sheet date. Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are 
recognised in the income statement for the period. 
Cash flow hedges 
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of cash flows relating to a highly probable forecast transaction (income 
or expense), the effective portion of any change in the fair value of the instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income and 
presented in the hedging reserve in equity. Amounts recognised in equity are reclassified from reserves into the cost of the underlying 
transaction and recognised in the income statement when the underlying transaction affects profit or loss. The ineffective portion of any 
change in the fair value of the instrument is recognised in the income statement immediately.  
Fair value hedges 
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a fair value hedge, changes in the fair value of the underlying asset or liability 
attributable to the hedged risk, and gains and losses on the derivative instrument, are recognised in the income statement for the period.  
 
2013 
Assets 
£m 
2013 
Liabilities 
£m 
2012
Assets
£m
2012
Liabilities
£m
Non-current   
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts 42 (55) 25 (66)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts – (4) 15 –
Debt-related derivative financial instruments – assets
1
 – – 22 –
 42 (59) 62 (66)
Current   
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts 60 (59) 32 (58)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts 15 (22) 32 (30)
Debt-related derivative financial instruments – assets
1
 6 – ––
 81 (81) 64 (88)
1 Includes fair value hedges of £6m (2012 £13m). 
The debt-related derivative financial liabilities are presented as a component of loans and overdrafts (see note 21). 
Cash flow hedges 
The hedged, highly probable forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency are predominantly expected to occur at various 
stages during the next 12 months. The majority of those extending beyond 12 months are expected to have been transacted within five 
years of the balance sheet date. 
Amounts credited to the hedging reserve in respect of cash flow hedges were £53m (2012 debit £21m), including £29m on 
reclassification to profit and loss on maturity and £24m on contracts held at 31 December 2013.  
Fair value hedges 
The loss arising in the income statement on fair value hedging instruments was £7m (2012 £2m). The gain arising in the income 
statement on the fair value of the underlying hedged items was £7m (2012 £2m). There was no ineffective portion recognised in the 
income statement arising from fair value hedges (2012 nil).  
  
WORD_Background.indd   155 3/7/2014   1:59:20 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
156 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
17. Deferred tax 
A deferred tax asset is recognised for unused tax losses, tax credits and deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each 
reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they 
relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different taxable entities, but they intend to 
settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously. 
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 
 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities  
Net balance at 
31 December 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012 
£m  
2013
£m
2012
£m
Property, plant and equipment 20 7 (82) (88)  (62) (81)
Intangible assets – – (45) (91)  (45) (91)
Provisions and accruals 308 317 – –  308 317
Goodwill  – – (221) (186)  (221) (186)
Pension/retirement schemes:   
Deficits 692 1,144 – –  692 1,144
Additional contributions and other
1
 124 137 – –  124 137
Share-based payments 19 16 – –  19 16
Financial instruments 7 19 (6) (11)  1 8
Other items 59 62 – –  59 62
Rolled over capital gains – – (13) (15)  (13) (15)
Capital losses carried forward 13 15 – –  13 15
Trading losses carried forward 19 36 – –  19 36
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 1,261 1,753 (367) (391)  894 1,362
Set off of tax (360) (378) 360 378  – –
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 901 1,375 (7) (13)  894 1,362
1 Includes deferred tax assets on US deferred compensation plans.  
  
  
17. Deferred tax (continued) 
Movement in temporary differences during the year 
 
At
1 January 
2013
£m
Foreign 
exchange
adjustments
£m
Acquisitions 
 and 
disposals 
£m 
Recognised 
in income 
£m 
Recognised
in equity
£m
At
31 December
 2013
£m
Property, plant and equipment (81) 1 (1) 19 – (62)
Intangible assets (91) (1) – 44 3 (45)
Provisions and accruals 317 (11) (1) 3 – 308
Goodwill  (186) 6 – (41) – (221)
Pension/retirement schemes:   
Deficits 1,144 8 – 5 (465) 692
Additional contributions and other
1
 137 (2) – 6 (17) 124
Share-based payments 16 – – – 3 19
Financial instruments 8 – – 8 (15) 1
Other items 62 (4) – 1 – 59
Rolled over capital gains (15) – – 2 – (13)
Capital losses carried forward 15 – – (2) – 13
Trading losses carried forward 36 (4) – (13) – 19
 1,362 (7) (2) 32 (491) 894
 
 
At
1 January 
2012
£m
Foreign 
exchange
adjustments
£m
Acquisitions 
 and 
disposals
2
£m 
Recognised 
in income 
£m 
Recognised
in equity
£m
At
31 December
 2012
£m
Property, plant and equipment (106) 4 1 20 – (81)
Intangible assets (176) 4 9 64 8 (91)
Provisions and accruals 367 (13) (2) (35) – 317
Goodwill  (151) 7 (3) (39) – (186)
Pension/retirement schemes:   
Deficits
3
 1,239 (12) – (23) (60) 1,144
Additional contributions and other
1
 101 (5) – 6 35 137
Share-based payments 11 (1) – 4 2 16
Financial instruments 13 (2) – (7) 4 8
Other items 38 (1) – 25 – 62
Rolled over capital gains (16) – – 1 – (15)
Capital losses carried forward 16 – – (1) – 15
Trading losses carried forward 47 (2) (1) (8) – 36
 1,383 (21) 4 7 (11) 1,362
1 Includes deferred tax assets on US deferred compensation plans. 
2 Includes net deferred tax liabilities on disposal of subsidiaries (£6m) and the transfer of net deferred tax assets to held for sale (Safariland £2m). 
3 Restated on adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   156 3/7/2014   1:59:20 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 157
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
17. Deferred tax 
A deferred tax asset is recognised for unused tax losses, tax credits and deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each 
reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they 
relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different taxable entities, but they intend to 
settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously. 
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 
 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities  
Net balance at 
31 December 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012 
£m  
2013
£m
2012
£m
Property, plant and equipment 20 7 (82) (88)  (62) (81)
Intangible assets – – (45) (91)  (45) (91)
Provisions and accruals 308 317 – –  308 317
Goodwill  – – (221) (186)  (221) (186)
Pension/retirement schemes:   
Deficits 692 1,144 – –  692 1,144
Additional contributions and other
1
 124 137 – –  124 137
Share-based payments 19 16 – –  19 16
Financial instruments 7 19 (6) (11)  1 8
Other items 59 62 – –  59 62
Rolled over capital gains – – (13) (15)  (13) (15)
Capital losses carried forward 13 15 – –  13 15
Trading losses carried forward 19 36 – –  19 36
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 1,261 1,753 (367) (391)  894 1,362
Set off of tax (360) (378) 360 378  – –
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 901 1,375 (7) (13)  894 1,362
1 Includes deferred tax assets on US deferred compensation plans.  
  
  
17. Deferred tax (continued) 
Movement in temporary differences during the year 
 
At
1 January 
2013
£m
Foreign 
exchange
adjustments
£m
Acquisitions 
 and 
disposals 
£m 
Recognised 
in income 
£m 
Recognised
in equity
£m
At
31 December
 2013
£m
Property, plant and equipment (81) 1 (1) 19 – (62)
Intangible assets (91) (1) – 44 3 (45)
Provisions and accruals 317 (11) (1) 3 – 308
Goodwill  (186) 6 – (41) – (221)
Pension/retirement schemes:   
Deficits 1,144 8 – 5 (465) 692
Additional contributions and other
1
 137 (2) – 6 (17) 124
Share-based payments 16 – – – 3 19
Financial instruments 8 – – 8 (15) 1
Other items 62 (4) – 1 – 59
Rolled over capital gains (15) – – 2 – (13)
Capital losses carried forward 15 – – (2) – 13
Trading losses carried forward 36 (4) – (13) – 19
 1,362 (7) (2) 32 (491) 894
 
 
At
1 January 
2012
£m
Foreign 
exchange
adjustments
£m
Acquisitions 
 and 
disposals
2
£m 
Recognised 
in income 
£m 
Recognised
in equity
£m
At
31 December
 2012
£m
Property, plant and equipment (106) 4 1 20 – (81)
Intangible assets (176) 4 9 64 8 (91)
Provisions and accruals 367 (13) (2) (35) – 317
Goodwill  (151) 7 (3) (39) – (186)
Pension/retirement schemes:   
Deficits
3
 1,239 (12) – (23) (60) 1,144
Additional contributions and other
1
 101 (5) – 6 35 137
Share-based payments 11 (1) – 4 2 16
Financial instruments 13 (2) – (7) 4 8
Other items 38 (1) – 25 – 62
Rolled over capital gains (16) – – 1 – (15)
Capital losses carried forward 16 – – (1) – 15
Trading losses carried forward 47 (2) (1) (8) – 36
 1,383 (21) 4 7 (11) 1,362
1 Includes deferred tax assets on US deferred compensation plans. 
2 Includes net deferred tax liabilities on disposal of subsidiaries (£6m) and the transfer of net deferred tax assets to held for sale (Safariland £2m). 
3 Restated on adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   157 3/7/2014   1:59:20 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
158 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
17. Deferred tax (continued) 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m
Deductible temporary differences, including tax credits 1 3
Capital losses carried forward 36 59
Trading and other losses carried forward 62 68
 99 130
These assets have not been recognised as the incidence of future profits in the relevant countries and legal entities cannot be 
sufficiently accurately predicted at this time.  
Future changes in tax rates 
The UK current tax rate was reduced from 24% to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013. Under the Finance Act 2013, the UK current tax 
rate will reduce to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014, and then to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. This will reduce future current tax 
charges accordingly.  
The reduction from 23% to 20% was substantively enacted before 31 December 2013. In line with this change, the rate applying to UK 
deferred tax assets and liabilities has been reduced from 23% to 20%, creating a rate adjustment in 2013, which is partly reflected in 
the consolidated income statement and partly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Accordingly, both recognised and 
unrecognised UK deferred tax balances as at 31 December 2013 have been calculated at 20%. 
  
  
18. Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, including all relevant overhead expenditure, and net realisable value.  
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Short-term work-in-progress 381 385
Raw materials and consumables 227 203
Finished goods and goods for resale 72 67
 680 655
The Group recognised £4m (2012 £10m) as a write down of inventories to net realisable value. 
19. Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, call and term deposits, and other short-term liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value. For the purpose of the cash flow 
statement, cash and cash equivalents also includes bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand.  
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cash 460 657
Short-term deposits 1,762 2,698
 2,222 3,355
20. Geographical analysis of assets 
Analysis of non-current assets by geographical location 
Asset location 
 
Notes 
2013
£m
2012
£m
UK  2,705 2,402
Rest of Europe  667 707
Saudi Arabia  453 615
US  8,078 9,464
Australia  494 599
Rest of Asia and Pacific  1 4
Africa, Central and South America  15 21
Non-current segment assets  12,413 13,812
Financial instruments 16 117 104
Inventories 18 680 655
Trade and other receivables 15 3,038 2,873
Total segment assets  16,248 17,444
Tax  909 1,386
Pension prepayments  23 156 47
Assets held for sale 7 140 20
Cash (as defined by the Group)
1
  10 2,228 3,377
Consolidated total assets  19,681 22,274
1 Includes cash and cash equivalents (note 19) and debt-related derivative financial instrument assets (note 16). 
  
WORD_Background.indd   158 3/7/2014   1:59:20 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 159
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
17. Deferred tax (continued) 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m
Deductible temporary differences, including tax credits 1 3
Capital losses carried forward 36 59
Trading and other losses carried forward 62 68
 99 130
These assets have not been recognised as the incidence of future profits in the relevant countries and legal entities cannot be 
sufficiently accurately predicted at this time.  
Future changes in tax rates 
The UK current tax rate was reduced from 24% to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013. Under the Finance Act 2013, the UK current tax 
rate will reduce to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014, and then to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. This will reduce future current tax 
charges accordingly.  
The reduction from 23% to 20% was substantively enacted before 31 December 2013. In line with this change, the rate applying to UK 
deferred tax assets and liabilities has been reduced from 23% to 20%, creating a rate adjustment in 2013, which is partly reflected in 
the consolidated income statement and partly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Accordingly, both recognised and 
unrecognised UK deferred tax balances as at 31 December 2013 have been calculated at 20%. 
  
  
18. Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, including all relevant overhead expenditure, and net realisable value.  
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Short-term work-in-progress 381 385
Raw materials and consumables 227 203
Finished goods and goods for resale 72 67
 680 655
The Group recognised £4m (2012 £10m) as a write down of inventories to net realisable value. 
19. Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, call and term deposits, and other short-term liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value. For the purpose of the cash flow 
statement, cash and cash equivalents also includes bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand.  
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cash 460 657
Short-term deposits 1,762 2,698
 2,222 3,355
20. Geographical analysis of assets 
Analysis of non-current assets by geographical location 
Asset location 
 
Notes 
2013
£m
2012
£m
UK  2,705 2,402
Rest of Europe  667 707
Saudi Arabia  453 615
US  8,078 9,464
Australia  494 599
Rest of Asia and Pacific  1 4
Africa, Central and South America  15 21
Non-current segment assets  12,413 13,812
Financial instruments 16 117 104
Inventories 18 680 655
Trade and other receivables 15 3,038 2,873
Total segment assets  16,248 17,444
Tax  909 1,386
Pension prepayments  23 156 47
Assets held for sale 7 140 20
Cash (as defined by the Group)
1
  10 2,228 3,377
Consolidated total assets  19,681 22,274
1 Includes cash and cash equivalents (note 19) and debt-related derivative financial instrument assets (note 16). 
  
WORD_Background.indd   159 3/7/2014   1:59:20 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
160 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
21. Loans and overdrafts 
Loans and overdrafts are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans 
and overdrafts are stated at either amortised cost or, where hedge accounting has been adopted, fair value in respect of the hedged 
risk. Any difference between the amount initially recognised and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the 
period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis. 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Non-current 
Euro-Sterling £100m 10¾% bond, repayable 2014 – 100
US$500m 4.95% bond, repayable 2014 – 308
US$750m 5.2% bond, repayable 2015 453 459
US$350m 3.5% bond, repayable 2016 211 214
Albertville Hangar Bond, repayable 2018 6 6
US$1bn 6.375% bond, repayable 2019 607 626
US$500m 4.75% bond, repayable 2021 301 307
£400m 4.125% bond, repayable 2022 397 397
US$500m 7.5% bond, repayable 2027 299 306
US$400m 5.8% bond, repayable 2041 238 243
Debt-related derivative financial instruments – liabilities 12 1
 2,524 2,967
Current 
Euro-Sterling £100m 10¾% bond, repayable 2014 100 –
US$500m 4.95% bond, repayable 2014 302 –
Overdrafts – 21
 402 21
The US$500m 4.95% bond, repayable 2014, was converted on issue to a floating rate bond utilising a series of interest rate swaps 
giving an effective rate during 2013 of 2.4%.  
The US$1bn 6.375% bond, repayable 2019, has been converted to a floating rate bond utilising a series of interest rate swaps that 
mature in December 2014 and June 2019, and give an effective rate during 2013 of 5.3%. US$500m of this bond is measured at fair 
value.  
The US$500m 7.5% bond, repayable 2027, was converted at issue to a sterling fixed rate bond by utilising cross-currency swaps and 
has an effective interest rate of 7.8%. 
The debt-related derivative financial instruments represent the fair value of interest rate and cross-currency derivatives relating to the 
US$1bn 6.375% bond, repayable 2019, and the US$500m 7.5% bond, repayable 2027. These derivatives have been entered into 
specifically to manage the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange or interest rate risk.  
  
  
22. Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are stated at their cost. 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Non-current 
Amounts due to long-term contract customers 699 988
Accruals and deferred income 39 46
US deferred compensation plan liabilities 237 222
Other payables 185 225
 1,160 1,481
Current 
Amounts due to long-term contract customers 4,023 4,457
Amounts due to other customers 232 242
Cash received on customers’ account
1
 1 2
Trade payables 651 710
Amounts owed to equity accounted investments (note 30) 563 708
Other taxes and social security costs 82 63
Accruals and deferred income
2
 1,019 1,291
Other payables 503 594
 7,074 8,067
 
Included above: 
Amounts due to long-term contract customers 4,722 5,445
Advances from long-term contract customers, including progress payments in respect of work  
not yet performed 4,498 5,132
1 Cash received on customers’ account is the unexpended cash received from customers in advance of delivery which is subject to advance payment guarantees 
unrelated to Group performance.  
2 2012 included £131m in respect of the settlement reached on the terminated Trinidad and Tobago contract for Offshore Patrol Vessels which was paid in 2013.  
  
WORD_Background.indd   160 3/7/2014   1:59:21 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 161
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
21. Loans and overdrafts 
Loans and overdrafts are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans 
and overdrafts are stated at either amortised cost or, where hedge accounting has been adopted, fair value in respect of the hedged 
risk. Any difference between the amount initially recognised and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the 
period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis. 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Non-current 
Euro-Sterling £100m 10¾% bond, repayable 2014 – 100
US$500m 4.95% bond, repayable 2014 – 308
US$750m 5.2% bond, repayable 2015 453 459
US$350m 3.5% bond, repayable 2016 211 214
Albertville Hangar Bond, repayable 2018 6 6
US$1bn 6.375% bond, repayable 2019 607 626
US$500m 4.75% bond, repayable 2021 301 307
£400m 4.125% bond, repayable 2022 397 397
US$500m 7.5% bond, repayable 2027 299 306
US$400m 5.8% bond, repayable 2041 238 243
Debt-related derivative financial instruments – liabilities 12 1
 2,524 2,967
Current 
Euro-Sterling £100m 10¾% bond, repayable 2014 100 –
US$500m 4.95% bond, repayable 2014 302 –
Overdrafts – 21
 402 21
The US$500m 4.95% bond, repayable 2014, was converted on issue to a floating rate bond utilising a series of interest rate swaps 
giving an effective rate during 2013 of 2.4%.  
The US$1bn 6.375% bond, repayable 2019, has been converted to a floating rate bond utilising a series of interest rate swaps that 
mature in December 2014 and June 2019, and give an effective rate during 2013 of 5.3%. US$500m of this bond is measured at fair 
value.  
The US$500m 7.5% bond, repayable 2027, was converted at issue to a sterling fixed rate bond by utilising cross-currency swaps and 
has an effective interest rate of 7.8%. 
The debt-related derivative financial instruments represent the fair value of interest rate and cross-currency derivatives relating to the 
US$1bn 6.375% bond, repayable 2019, and the US$500m 7.5% bond, repayable 2027. These derivatives have been entered into 
specifically to manage the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange or interest rate risk.  
  
  
22. Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are stated at their cost. 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Non-current 
Amounts due to long-term contract customers 699 988
Accruals and deferred income 39 46
US deferred compensation plan liabilities 237 222
Other payables 185 225
 1,160 1,481
Current 
Amounts due to long-term contract customers 4,023 4,457
Amounts due to other customers 232 242
Cash received on customers’ account
1
 1 2
Trade payables 651 710
Amounts owed to equity accounted investments (note 30) 563 708
Other taxes and social security costs 82 63
Accruals and deferred income
2
 1,019 1,291
Other payables 503 594
 7,074 8,067
 
Included above: 
Amounts due to long-term contract customers 4,722 5,445
Advances from long-term contract customers, including progress payments in respect of work  
not yet performed 4,498 5,132
1 Cash received on customers’ account is the unexpended cash received from customers in advance of delivery which is subject to advance payment guarantees 
unrelated to Group performance.  
2 2012 included £131m in respect of the settlement reached on the terminated Trinidad and Tobago contract for Offshore Patrol Vessels which was paid in 2013.  
  
WORD_Background.indd   161 3/7/2014   1:59:21 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
162 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
23. Retirement benefit obligations 
Defined contribution pension schemes 
Obligations for contributions are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.  
Defined benefit pension schemes 
The cost of providing benefits is determined periodically by independent actuaries and charged to the income statement in the period in 
which those benefits are earned by the employees. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. Past service costs resulting from a plan amendment or curtailment are 
recognised immediately in the income statement.  
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Group’s balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligations 
calculated using a number of actuarial assumptions as set out on page 164 reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.  
Certain of the Group’s equity accounted investments participate in the Group’s defined benefit schemes as well as Airbus SAS, the 
Group’s share of which was disposed of in 2006. As these schemes are multi-employer schemes, the Group has allocated a share of 
the IAS 19, Employee Benefits, pension deficit to its equity accounted investments and other participating employers using a consistent 
allocation method intended to reflect a reasonable approximation of their share of the deficit. The allocation method for all schemes is 
based on the BAE Systems Pension Scheme’s (Main Scheme) schedule of contributions agreed with the sponsoring employers and 
trustees as part of the triennial funding valuations performed in 2011. The next funding valuations will be performed in 2014 and, 
accordingly, the schedule of contributions and resultant allocation method will be agreed at that time. The Group’s share of the IAS 19 
pension deficit allocated to the equity accounted investments is included in the balance sheet within equity accounted investments. In 
the event that an employer who participates in the Group’s pension schemes fails or cannot be compelled to fulfil its obligations as a 
participating employer, the remaining participating employers are obliged to collectively take on its obligations. The Group considers the 
likelihood of this event arising as remote. 
Pension schemes 
Background 
BAE Systems plc operates pension schemes for the Group’s qualifying employees in the UK, US and other countries. The principal 
schemes in the UK and US are funded defined benefit schemes, and the assets are held in separate trustee administered funds. The 
two largest funded defined benefit schemes are the Main Scheme and the BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan (2000 Plan) which, in 
aggregate, represent 72% (2012 70%) of the total IAS 19 defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2013. The schemes in other 
countries are primarily defined contribution schemes.  
At 31 December 2013, the weighted average durations of the UK and US defined benefit pension obligations were 18 years (2012 18 
years) and 12 years (2012 12 years), respectively. 
The split of the defined benefit pension obligations on a funding basis between active, deferred and pensioner members for the Main 
Scheme, 2000 Plan and US schemes in aggregate is set out below: 
 Active Deferred Pensioner
Main Scheme
1
 35% 15% 50%
2000 Plan
2
 14% 26% 60%
US schemes
3
 38% 19% 43%
1 Source: Main Scheme Actuarial Valuation Report as at 31 March 2011.  
2 Source: 2000 Plan Actuarial Valuation Report as at 31 March 2011.  
3 Source: Annual updates of the US schemes as at 1 January 2013.  
Regulatory framework 
The funded UK schemes are registered and subject to the statutory scheme-specific funding requirements outlined in UK legislation, 
including the payment of levies to the Pension Protection Fund as set out in the Pension Act 2004. These schemes were established 
under trust and the responsibility for their governance lies jointly with the trustees and the Group. 
The funded US schemes are tax-qualified pension schemes regulated by the Pension Protection Act 2006 and insured by the Pension 
Benefit Guarantee Corporation up to certain limits. These schemes were established under and are governed by the US Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act 1974 and the BAE Systems Administrative Committee is a named fiduciary with the authority to manage 
their operation.  
Benefits 
The UK defined benefit schemes provide benefits to members in the form of a set level of pension payable for life based on members’ 
final salaries. The benefits attract inflation-related increases both in deferment and payment. All UK defined benefit schemes are closed 
to new entrants, with benefits for new employees being provided through a defined contribution scheme. The Normal Retirement Age for 
active members of the Main Scheme and 2000 Plan is 65. Specific benefits applicable to members differ between schemes. Further 
details on the benefits provided by each scheme are provided on the BAE Systems Pensions website: www.baesystemspensions.com. 
The US defined benefit schemes ceased to be final salary schemes in January 2013. The benefits accrued based on the final salaries of 
members at that point will become payable on retirement. The Normal Retirement Age for the largest scheme in the US is 65.  
  
  
23. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
Funding  
The majority of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes are funded by the Group’s subsidiaries, equity accounted investments 
and other participating employers. The individual pension schemes’ funding requirements are based on actuarial measurement 
frameworks set out in their funding policies.  
For funding valuation purposes, pension scheme assets are included at market value, whilst the liabilities are determined based on 
prudent assumptions set by the trustees following consultation with scheme actuaries. 
The separate actuarial valuations for funding purposes include assumptions which may differ from the actuarial assumptions used for 
IAS 19 accounting purposes shown on page 164. The latest funding valuations of the Main Scheme and 2000 Plan were performed as at 
31 March 2011 and showed a funding deficit of £3bn. Deficit recovery plans agreed with the trustees of both schemes run until 2 026. 
The results of future triennial valuations and associated funding requirements will be impacted by the future performance of investment 
markets, and interest and inflation rates. 
The total Group contributions made to the defined benefit schemes in the year ended 31 December 2013 were £560m (2012 £1,029m) 
excluding those amounts allocated to equity accounted investments and participating employers of £86m (2012 £128m). This includes 
additional contributions of £44m into the UK schemes relating to the share buyback programme (2012 £nil).  
In 2014, the Group expects to make regular contributions at a similar level to the recurring contributions made in 2013 and additional 
contributions, such that total deficit funding, in excess of service cost, is expected to be approximately £0.4bn.  
The Group incurred a charge in respect of cash contributions of £130m (2012 £129m) paid to defined contribution schemes for 
employees. 
Risk management 
The defined benefit pension schemes expose the Group to actuarial risks, including market (investment) risk, interest rate risk, inflation 
risk and longevity risk.  
Risk Mitigation 
Market (investment) risk 
Asset returns may not move in line with the 
liabilities and may be subject to volatility. 
 
The investment portfolios are highly diversified, investing in a wide range of assets, in 
order to provide reasonable assurance that no single security or type of security could 
have a materially adverse impact on the total portfolio. To reduce volatility, certain assets 
are held in a matching portfolio, which largely consists of index-linked bonds, gilts and 
swaps, designed to mirror movements in corresponding liabilities. 
Some 50% (2012 52%) of the Group’s pension scheme assets are held in equities and 
pooled investment vehicles due to the higher expected level of return over the long term.
Some of the Group’s pension schemes use derivative financial instruments as part of 
their investment strategy to manage the level of market risk. In August 2013, the Main 
Scheme implemented a long-dated equity option strategy protecting £1.4bn of assets 
against a significant fall in equity markets. 
Interest rate risk 
Liabilities are sensitive to movements 
in interest rates, with lower interest rates 
leading to an increase in the valuation 
of liabilities. 
 
In addition to investing in bonds as part of the matching portfolio, the principal UK 
schemes invest in interest rate swaps to reduce the exposure to movements in interest 
rates. The swaps are held with several banks to reduce counterparty risk. 
Inflation risk  
Liabilities are sensitive to movements in 
inflation, with higher inflation leading to 
an increase in the valuation of liabilities. 
 
In addition to investing in index-linked bonds as part of the matching portfolio, the principal 
UK schemes invest in long-term inflation swaps to reduce the exposure to movements in 
inflation. The swaps are held with several banks to reduce counterparty risk. 
During the year, the Main Scheme implemented a pension increase exchange exercise to 
allow retired members to elect for a higher current pension in exchange for foregoing certain 
rights to future pension increases. The effective date of the exercise is 1 May 2014. 
Longevity risk 
Liabilities are sensitive to life expectancy, 
with increases in life expectancy leading to 
an increase in the valuation of liabilities. 
 
Longevity Adjustment Factors are used in the majority of the UK pension schemes in 
order to adjust the pension benefits payable so as to share the cost of people living 
longer with employees.  
In February 2013, with the agreement of the Company, the trustees of the 2000 Plan 
entered into an arrangement with Legal & General to insure against longevity risk for the 
current pensioner population, covering £2.7bn of pension scheme liabilities. In December 
2013, similar arrangements were entered into, with Legal & General, by the trustees of 
the Royal Ordnance Pension Scheme and Shipbuilding Industries Pension Scheme, 
covering £0.9bn and £0.8bn of pension scheme liabilities, respectively. These 
arrangements will reduce the funding volatility relating to increasing life expectancy. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   162 3/7/2014   1:59:21 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 163
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
23. Retirement benefit obligations 
Defined contribution pension schemes 
Obligations for contributions are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.  
Defined benefit pension schemes 
The cost of providing benefits is determined periodically by independent actuaries and charged to the income statement in the period in 
which those benefits are earned by the employees. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. Past service costs resulting from a plan amendment or curtailment are 
recognised immediately in the income statement.  
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Group’s balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligations 
calculated using a number of actuarial assumptions as set out on page 164 reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.  
Certain of the Group’s equity accounted investments participate in the Group’s defined benefit schemes as well as Airbus SAS, the 
Group’s share of which was disposed of in 2006. As these schemes are multi-employer schemes, the Group has allocated a share of 
the IAS 19, Employee Benefits, pension deficit to its equity accounted investments and other participating employers using a consistent 
allocation method intended to reflect a reasonable approximation of their share of the deficit. The allocation method for all schemes is 
based on the BAE Systems Pension Scheme’s (Main Scheme) schedule of contributions agreed with the sponsoring employers and 
trustees as part of the triennial funding valuations performed in 2011. The next funding valuations will be performed in 2014 and, 
accordingly, the schedule of contributions and resultant allocation method will be agreed at that time. The Group’s share of the IAS 19 
pension deficit allocated to the equity accounted investments is included in the balance sheet within equity accounted investments. In 
the event that an employer who participates in the Group’s pension schemes fails or cannot be compelled to fulfil its obligations as a 
participating employer, the remaining participating employers are obliged to collectively take on its obligations. The Group considers the 
likelihood of this event arising as remote. 
Pension schemes 
Background 
BAE Systems plc operates pension schemes for the Group’s qualifying employees in the UK, US and other countries. The principal 
schemes in the UK and US are funded defined benefit schemes, and the assets are held in separate trustee administered funds. The 
two largest funded defined benefit schemes are the Main Scheme and the BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan (2000 Plan) which, in 
aggregate, represent 72% (2012 70%) of the total IAS 19 defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2013. The schemes in other 
countries are primarily defined contribution schemes.  
At 31 December 2013, the weighted average durations of the UK and US defined benefit pension obligations were 18 years (2012 18 
years) and 12 years (2012 12 years), respectively. 
The split of the defined benefit pension obligations on a funding basis between active, deferred and pensioner members for the Main 
Scheme, 2000 Plan and US schemes in aggregate is set out below: 
 Active Deferred Pensioner
Main Scheme
1
 35% 15% 50%
2000 Plan
2
 14% 26% 60%
US schemes
3
 38% 19% 43%
1 Source: Main Scheme Actuarial Valuation Report as at 31 March 2011.  
2 Source: 2000 Plan Actuarial Valuation Report as at 31 March 2011.  
3 Source: Annual updates of the US schemes as at 1 January 2013.  
Regulatory framework 
The funded UK schemes are registered and subject to the statutory scheme-specific funding requirements outlined in UK legislation, 
including the payment of levies to the Pension Protection Fund as set out in the Pension Act 2004. These schemes were established 
under trust and the responsibility for their governance lies jointly with the trustees and the Group. 
The funded US schemes are tax-qualified pension schemes regulated by the Pension Protection Act 2006 and insured by the Pension 
Benefit Guarantee Corporation up to certain limits. These schemes were established under and are governed by the US Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act 1974 and the BAE Systems Administrative Committee is a named fiduciary with the authority to manage 
their operation.  
Benefits 
The UK defined benefit schemes provide benefits to members in the form of a set level of pension payable for life based on members’ 
final salaries. The benefits attract inflation-related increases both in deferment and payment. All UK defined benefit schemes are closed 
to new entrants, with benefits for new employees being provided through a defined contribution scheme. The Normal Retirement Age for 
active members of the Main Scheme and 2000 Plan is 65. Specific benefits applicable to members differ between schemes. Further 
details on the benefits provided by each scheme are provided on the BAE Systems Pensions website: www.baesystemspensions.com. 
The US defined benefit schemes ceased to be final salary schemes in January 2013. The benefits accrued based on the final salaries of 
members at that point will become payable on retirement. The Normal Retirement Age for the largest scheme in the US is 65.  
  
  
23. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
Funding  
The majority of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes are funded by the Group’s subsidiaries, equity accounted investments 
and other participating employers. The individual pension schemes’ funding requirements are based on actuarial measurement 
frameworks set out in their funding policies.  
For funding valuation purposes, pension scheme assets are included at market value, whilst the liabilities are determined based on 
prudent assumptions set by the trustees following consultation with scheme actuaries. 
The separate actuarial valuations for funding purposes include assumptions which may differ from the actuarial assumptions used for 
IAS 19 accounting purposes shown on page 164. The latest funding valuations of the Main Scheme and 2000 Plan were performed as at 
31 March 2011 and showed a funding deficit of £3bn. Deficit recovery plans agreed with the trustees of both schemes run until 2 026. 
The results of future triennial valuations and associated funding requirements will be impacted by the future performance of investment 
markets, and interest and inflation rates. 
The total Group contributions made to the defined benefit schemes in the year ended 31 December 2013 were £560m (2012 £1,029m) 
excluding those amounts allocated to equity accounted investments and participating employers of £86m (2012 £128m). This includes 
additional contributions of £44m into the UK schemes relating to the share buyback programme (2012 £nil).  
In 2014, the Group expects to make regular contributions at a similar level to the recurring contributions made in 2013 and additional 
contributions, such that total deficit funding, in excess of service cost, is expected to be approximately £0.4bn.  
The Group incurred a charge in respect of cash contributions of £130m (2012 £129m) paid to defined contribution schemes for 
employees. 
Risk management 
The defined benefit pension schemes expose the Group to actuarial risks, including market (investment) risk, interest rate risk, inflation 
risk and longevity risk.  
Risk Mitigation 
Market (investment) risk 
Asset returns may not move in line with the 
liabilities and may be subject to volatility. 
 
The investment portfolios are highly diversified, investing in a wide range of assets, in 
order to provide reasonable assurance that no single security or type of security could 
have a materially adverse impact on the total portfolio. To reduce volatility, certain assets 
are held in a matching portfolio, which largely consists of index-linked bonds, gilts and 
swaps, designed to mirror movements in corresponding liabilities. 
Some 50% (2012 52%) of the Group’s pension scheme assets are held in equities and 
pooled investment vehicles due to the higher expected level of return over the long term.
Some of the Group’s pension schemes use derivative financial instruments as part of 
their investment strategy to manage the level of market risk. In August 2013, the Main 
Scheme implemented a long-dated equity option strategy protecting £1.4bn of assets 
against a significant fall in equity markets. 
Interest rate risk 
Liabilities are sensitive to movements 
in interest rates, with lower interest rates 
leading to an increase in the valuation 
of liabilities. 
 
In addition to investing in bonds as part of the matching portfolio, the principal UK 
schemes invest in interest rate swaps to reduce the exposure to movements in interest 
rates. The swaps are held with several banks to reduce counterparty risk. 
Inflation risk  
Liabilities are sensitive to movements in 
inflation, with higher inflation leading to 
an increase in the valuation of liabilities. 
 
In addition to investing in index-linked bonds as part of the matching portfolio, the principal 
UK schemes invest in long-term inflation swaps to reduce the exposure to movements in 
inflation. The swaps are held with several banks to reduce counterparty risk. 
During the year, the Main Scheme implemented a pension increase exchange exercise to 
allow retired members to elect for a higher current pension in exchange for foregoing certain 
rights to future pension increases. The effective date of the exercise is 1 May 2014. 
Longevity risk 
Liabilities are sensitive to life expectancy, 
with increases in life expectancy leading to 
an increase in the valuation of liabilities. 
 
Longevity Adjustment Factors are used in the majority of the UK pension schemes in 
order to adjust the pension benefits payable so as to share the cost of people living 
longer with employees.  
In February 2013, with the agreement of the Company, the trustees of the 2000 Plan 
entered into an arrangement with Legal & General to insure against longevity risk for the 
current pensioner population, covering £2.7bn of pension scheme liabilities. In December 
2013, similar arrangements were entered into, with Legal & General, by the trustees of 
the Royal Ordnance Pension Scheme and Shipbuilding Industries Pension Scheme, 
covering £0.9bn and £0.8bn of pension scheme liabilities, respectively. These 
arrangements will reduce the funding volatility relating to increasing life expectancy. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   163 3/7/2014   1:59:21 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
164 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
23. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
Principal actuarial assumptions  
The assumptions used are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale covered, may 
not necessarily occur in practice. 
 UK US 
 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011
Financial assumptions   
Discount rate (%) 4.5 4.5 4.8 4.9 4.1 5.0
Inflation (%) 3.4 2.9 2.9 n/a n/a n/a
Rate of increase in salaries
 
(%) 3.4 3.4 3.4 3.0 3.7 4.5
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (%) 1.9 – 3.7 1.8 – 3.5 1.9 – 3.4 n/a n/a n/a
Rate of increase in deferred pensions
 
(%) 2.5/3.4 2.3/2.9 2.0/2.9 n/a n/a n/a
Demographic assumptions   
Life expectancy of a male currently aged 65 (years) 87 – 89 87 – 89 87 – 89 84 84 84
Life expectancy of a female currently aged 65 (years) 89 – 90 89 – 90 89 – 90 86 86 86
Life expectancy of a male currently aged 45 (years) 88 – 90 88 – 90 88 – 90 84 84 84
Life expectancy of a female currently aged 45 (years) 91 – 92 91 – 92 91 – 92 86 86 86
Discount rate 
Discount rate assumptions are based on third-party AA corporate bond indices and yields that reflect the maturity profile of the expected 
benefit payments.  
Inflation 
In the UK, the inflation assumptions are derived by reference to the difference between the yields on index-linked and fixed-interest 
long-term government bonds, or advice from the local actuary depending on the available information. In the US, inflation assumptions 
are not significant as the Group’s US pension schemes are not indexed with inflation. 
Rate of increase in salaries 
The rate of increase in salaries for the UK schemes is assumed to be Retail Prices Index (RPI) inflation of 3.4% (2012 0.5% above RPI 
inflation of 2.9%), plus a promotional scale. From 1 January 2013, employees in the US schemes no longer accrue salary-related 
benefits. 
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 
The rate of increase in pensions in payment differs between UK schemes. Different tranches of the schemes increase at rates based on 
either RPI or Consumer Prices Index (CPI) inflation, and some are subject to an inflation cap. With the exception of two smaller schemes, 
the rate of increase in pensions in payment is based on RPI inflation. 
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 
The rate of increase in deferred pensions for the UK schemes is based on CPI inflation of 2.5% (2012 2.3%), with the exception of the 
2000 Plan, which is based on RPI inflation of 3.4% (2012 2.9%). For all UK schemes, the rate of increase in deferred pensions is 
subject to inflation caps.  
Life expectancy 
For its UK pension schemes, the Group has used the Self-Administered Pension Schemes S1 mortality tables based on year of birth 
(published by the Institute of Actuaries) for both pensioner and non-pensioner members in conjunction with the results of an 
investigation into the actual mortality experience of scheme members. In addition, to allow for future improvements in longevity, the 
Continuous Mortality Investigation 2010 tables (published by the Institute of Actuaries) have been used, with an assumed long-term rate 
of future annual mortality improvements of 1%, for both pensioner and non-pensioner members.  
The mortality tables used for the US pension arrangements as calculated at 31 December 2012 are the 2013 IRS Static Tables, which 
are projected to 2020 for pensioners and to 2028 for non-pensioners using Scale AA. The mortality tables used for the US pension 
arrangements as calculated at 31 December 2013 are the 2014 IRS Static Tables, which are projected to 2021 for pensioners and 
to 2029 for non-pensioners using Scale AA.  
Post-retirement benefits other than pensions 
Background 
The Group operates a number of non-pension post-retirement benefit schemes, under which certain employees are eligible to receive 
benefits after retirement, the majority of which relate to the provision of medical benefits to retired employees of the Group’s 
subsidiaries in the US. The latest valuations of the principal schemes, covering retiree medical and life insurance schemes in certain 
US subsidiaries, were performed by independent actuaries as at 1 January 2013. These valuations were rolled forward to reflect the 
information at 31 December 2013. The method of accounting for these is similar to that used for defined benefit pension schemes. 
Principal actuarial assumptions 
The assumption for long-term healthcare cost increases is 5.3% (2012 5.2%) based on the assumptions that the increases are 8.3% in 
2014 reducing to 5% by 2023 and 5% each year thereafter for pre-retirement, and 7.75% in 2014 reducing to 5% by 2023 and 5% each 
year thereafter for post-retirement.  
  
  
23. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
The disclosures below relate to post-retirement benefit schemes in the UK, US and other countries which are accounted for as defined 
benefit schemes in accordance with IAS 19. The valuations used for the IAS 19 disclosures are based on the most recent actuarial 
valuation undertaken by independent qualified actuaries as updated to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 to assess the deficits 
of the schemes at 31 December each year. 
Summary of movements in retirement benefit obligations 
 
UK 
£m 
US and
other
£m
Total
£m
Total IAS 19 deficit at 1 January 2013 (4,795) (913) (5,708)
Actual return on assets excluding amounts included in interest expense 1,190 214 1,404
(Increase)/decrease in liabilities due to changes in assumptions and experience (750) 351 (399)
Additional contributions in excess of service cost 232 – 232
Recurring contributions in excess of service cost 62 95 157
Past service cost – plan amendments  (11) – (11)
Net interest expense  (200) (29) (229)
Foreign exchange adjustments  – (20) (20)
Movement in US healthcare schemes – 36 36
Total IAS 19 deficit at 31 December 2013 (4,272) (266) (4,538)
Allocated to equity accounted investments and other participating employers 1,029 – 1,029
Group’s share of IAS 19 deficit excluding Group’s share of amounts allocated to equity accounted 
investments and other participating employers at 31 December 2013 (3,243) (266) (3,509)
The net increase in UK liabilities due to changes in assumptions and experience reflects a 0.5 percentage point reduction in the real 
discount rate to 1.1%, partially offset by the rate of increase in salaries being held at RPI inflation of 3.4% (2012 0.5% above RPI 
inflation of 2.9%). 
Amounts recognised on the balance sheet 
The bid values of scheme assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short term and may be subject to significant change 
before they are realised, and the present values of scheme liabilities, which are derived from cash flow projections over long periods and 
therefore inherently uncertain, as at 31 December are shown in the following tables.  
 2013 2012 
 
UK defined
benefit
pension
schemes
£m
US and
other
pension
schemes
£m
US
healthcare
schemes
£m
Total
£m
UK defined 
benefit 
pension 
schemes 
£m 
US and 
other 
pension 
schemes 
£m 
US
healthcare
schemes
£m
Total
£m
Present value of unfunded obligations (53) (130) – (183) (53) (142) (5) (200)
Present value of funded obligations (22,550) (3,210) (117) (25,877) (21,353) (3,609) (129) (25,091)
Fair value of scheme assets 18,331 3,043 148 21,522 16,611 2,843 129 19,583
Total IAS 19 (deficit)/surplus, net (4,272) (297) 31 (4,538) (4,795) (908) (5) (5,708)
Allocated to equity accounted investments 
and other participating employers 1,029 – – 1,029 1,148 – – 1,148
Group’s share of IAS 19 (deficit)/surplus, 
net (3,243) (297) 31 (3,509) (3,647) (908) (5) (4,560)
Represented by:   
Pension prepayments (within trade and 
other receivables) 79 41 36 156 – 38 9 47
Retirement benefit obligations (3,322) (338) (5) (3,665) (3,647) (946) (14) (4,607)
 (3,243) (297) 31 (3,509) (3,647) (908) (5) (4,560)
   
Group’s share of IAS 19 deficit of equity 
accounted investments (115) – – (115) (137) – – (137)
Total cumulative actuarial losses recognised in equity since the transition to IFRS are £3.9bn (2012 £4.8bn). 
  
WORD_Background.indd   164 3/7/2014   1:59:21 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 165
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
23. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
Principal actuarial assumptions  
The assumptions used are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale covered, may 
not necessarily occur in practice. 
 UK US 
 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011
Financial assumptions   
Discount rate (%) 4.5 4.5 4.8 4.9 4.1 5.0
Inflation (%) 3.4 2.9 2.9 n/a n/a n/a
Rate of increase in salaries
 
(%) 3.4 3.4 3.4 3.0 3.7 4.5
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (%) 1.9 – 3.7 1.8 – 3.5 1.9 – 3.4 n/a n/a n/a
Rate of increase in deferred pensions
 
(%) 2.5/3.4 2.3/2.9 2.0/2.9 n/a n/a n/a
Demographic assumptions   
Life expectancy of a male currently aged 65 (years) 87 – 89 87 – 89 87 – 89 84 84 84
Life expectancy of a female currently aged 65 (years) 89 – 90 89 – 90 89 – 90 86 86 86
Life expectancy of a male currently aged 45 (years) 88 – 90 88 – 90 88 – 90 84 84 84
Life expectancy of a female currently aged 45 (years) 91 – 92 91 – 92 91 – 92 86 86 86
Discount rate 
Discount rate assumptions are based on third-party AA corporate bond indices and yields that reflect the maturity profile of the expected 
benefit payments.  
Inflation 
In the UK, the inflation assumptions are derived by reference to the difference between the yields on index-linked and fixed-interest 
long-term government bonds, or advice from the local actuary depending on the available information. In the US, inflation assumptions 
are not significant as the Group’s US pension schemes are not indexed with inflation. 
Rate of increase in salaries 
The rate of increase in salaries for the UK schemes is assumed to be Retail Prices Index (RPI) inflation of 3.4% (2012 0.5% above RPI 
inflation of 2.9%), plus a promotional scale. From 1 January 2013, employees in the US schemes no longer accrue salary-related 
benefits. 
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 
The rate of increase in pensions in payment differs between UK schemes. Different tranches of the schemes increase at rates based on 
either RPI or Consumer Prices Index (CPI) inflation, and some are subject to an inflation cap. With the exception of two smaller schemes, 
the rate of increase in pensions in payment is based on RPI inflation. 
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 
The rate of increase in deferred pensions for the UK schemes is based on CPI inflation of 2.5% (2012 2.3%), with the exception of the 
2000 Plan, which is based on RPI inflation of 3.4% (2012 2.9%). For all UK schemes, the rate of increase in deferred pensions is 
subject to inflation caps.  
Life expectancy 
For its UK pension schemes, the Group has used the Self-Administered Pension Schemes S1 mortality tables based on year of birth 
(published by the Institute of Actuaries) for both pensioner and non-pensioner members in conjunction with the results of an 
investigation into the actual mortality experience of scheme members. In addition, to allow for future improvements in longevity, the 
Continuous Mortality Investigation 2010 tables (published by the Institute of Actuaries) have been used, with an assumed long-term rate 
of future annual mortality improvements of 1%, for both pensioner and non-pensioner members.  
The mortality tables used for the US pension arrangements as calculated at 31 December 2012 are the 2013 IRS Static Tables, which 
are projected to 2020 for pensioners and to 2028 for non-pensioners using Scale AA. The mortality tables used for the US pension 
arrangements as calculated at 31 December 2013 are the 2014 IRS Static Tables, which are projected to 2021 for pensioners and 
to 2029 for non-pensioners using Scale AA.  
Post-retirement benefits other than pensions 
Background 
The Group operates a number of non-pension post-retirement benefit schemes, under which certain employees are eligible to receive 
benefits after retirement, the majority of which relate to the provision of medical benefits to retired employees of the Group’s 
subsidiaries in the US. The latest valuations of the principal schemes, covering retiree medical and life insurance schemes in certain 
US subsidiaries, were performed by independent actuaries as at 1 January 2013. These valuations were rolled forward to reflect the 
information at 31 December 2013. The method of accounting for these is similar to that used for defined benefit pension schemes. 
Principal actuarial assumptions 
The assumption for long-term healthcare cost increases is 5.3% (2012 5.2%) based on the assumptions that the increases are 8.3% in 
2014 reducing to 5% by 2023 and 5% each year thereafter for pre-retirement, and 7.75% in 2014 reducing to 5% by 2023 and 5% each 
year thereafter for post-retirement.  
  
  
23. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
The disclosures below relate to post-retirement benefit schemes in the UK, US and other countries which are accounted for as defined 
benefit schemes in accordance with IAS 19. The valuations used for the IAS 19 disclosures are based on the most recent actuarial 
valuation undertaken by independent qualified actuaries as updated to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 to assess the deficits 
of the schemes at 31 December each year. 
Summary of movements in retirement benefit obligations 
 
UK 
£m 
US and
other
£m
Total
£m
Total IAS 19 deficit at 1 January 2013 (4,795) (913) (5,708)
Actual return on assets excluding amounts included in interest expense 1,190 214 1,404
(Increase)/decrease in liabilities due to changes in assumptions and experience (750) 351 (399)
Additional contributions in excess of service cost 232 – 232
Recurring contributions in excess of service cost 62 95 157
Past service cost – plan amendments  (11) – (11)
Net interest expense  (200) (29) (229)
Foreign exchange adjustments  – (20) (20)
Movement in US healthcare schemes – 36 36
Total IAS 19 deficit at 31 December 2013 (4,272) (266) (4,538)
Allocated to equity accounted investments and other participating employers 1,029 – 1,029
Group’s share of IAS 19 deficit excluding Group’s share of amounts allocated to equity accounted 
investments and other participating employers at 31 December 2013 (3,243) (266) (3,509)
The net increase in UK liabilities due to changes in assumptions and experience reflects a 0.5 percentage point reduction in the real 
discount rate to 1.1%, partially offset by the rate of increase in salaries being held at RPI inflation of 3.4% (2012 0.5% above RPI 
inflation of 2.9%). 
Amounts recognised on the balance sheet 
The bid values of scheme assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short term and may be subject to significant change 
before they are realised, and the present values of scheme liabilities, which are derived from cash flow projections over long periods and 
therefore inherently uncertain, as at 31 December are shown in the following tables.  
 2013 2012 
 
UK defined
benefit
pension
schemes
£m
US and
other
pension
schemes
£m
US
healthcare
schemes
£m
Total
£m
UK defined 
benefit 
pension 
schemes 
£m 
US and 
other 
pension 
schemes 
£m 
US
healthcare
schemes
£m
Total
£m
Present value of unfunded obligations (53) (130) – (183) (53) (142) (5) (200)
Present value of funded obligations (22,550) (3,210) (117) (25,877) (21,353) (3,609) (129) (25,091)
Fair value of scheme assets 18,331 3,043 148 21,522 16,611 2,843 129 19,583
Total IAS 19 (deficit)/surplus, net (4,272) (297) 31 (4,538) (4,795) (908) (5) (5,708)
Allocated to equity accounted investments 
and other participating employers 1,029 – – 1,029 1,148 – – 1,148
Group’s share of IAS 19 (deficit)/surplus, 
net (3,243) (297) 31 (3,509) (3,647) (908) (5) (4,560)
Represented by:   
Pension prepayments (within trade and 
other receivables) 79 41 36 156 – 38 9 47
Retirement benefit obligations (3,322) (338) (5) (3,665) (3,647) (946) (14) (4,607)
 (3,243) (297) 31 (3,509) (3,647) (908) (5) (4,560)
   
Group’s share of IAS 19 deficit of equity 
accounted investments (115) – – (115) (137) – – (137)
Total cumulative actuarial losses recognised in equity since the transition to IFRS are £3.9bn (2012 £4.8bn). 
  
WORD_Background.indd   165 3/7/2014   1:59:21 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
166 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
23. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets before allocation to equity accounted investments and other participating employers  
 
UK defined
benefit
pension
schemes
£m
US and 
other 
pension 
schemes 
£m 
US
healthcare
schemes
£m
Total
£m
Value of scheme assets at 1 January 2012 15,010 2,567 130 17,707
Interest income
1
 734 127 6 867
Actual return on assets excluding amounts included in interest income
1
  601 292 2 895
Actual return on assets
1
 1,335 419 8 1,762
Contributions by employer 1,021 136 4 1,161
Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice arrangements 99 – – 99
Total contributions by employer 1,120 136 4 1,260
Members’ contributions (including Department for Work and Pensions rebates) 23 14 – 37
Administrative expenses
1
 (32) (10) – (42)
Foreign exchange loss – (119) (6) (125)
Benefits paid (845) (164) (7) (1,016)
Value of scheme assets at 31 December 2012 16,611 2,843 129 19,583
Interest income 745 123 5 873
Actual return on assets excluding amounts included in interest income  1,190 214 23 1,427
Actual return on assets 1,935 337 28 2,300
Contributions by employer 529 117 2 648
Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice arrangements 104 – – 104
Total contributions by employer 633 117 2 752
Members’ contributions (including Department for Work and Pensions rebates) 13 – – 13
Administrative expenses (30) (10) – (40)
Foreign exchange loss – (69) (6) (75)
Benefits paid (831) (175) (5) (1,011)
Value of scheme assets at 31 December 2013 18,331 3,043 148 21,522
1 Restated on adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
  
  
23. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
Assets of defined benefit pension schemes  
 2013 
 UK US  Total 
 
Quoted 
£m 
Unquoted
£m
Total
£m 
Quoted
£m
Unquoted
£m
Total 
£m   
Quoted 
£m 
Unquoted
£m
Total
£m 
Equities:     
UK
1
  4,139 – 4,139 – – –  4,139 – 4,139
Overseas 2,909 – 2,909 788 – 788  3,697 – 3,697
Pooled investment vehicles
2
 2,064 374 2,438 340 – 340  2,404 374 2,778
Fixed interest securities:     
UK gilts 2,261 – 2,261 – – –  2,261 – 2,261
UK corporates 2,081 – 2,081 – – –  2,081 – 2,081
Overseas government 103 – 103 172 – 172  275 – 275
Overseas corporates  205 – 205 1,514 – 1,514  1,719 – 1,719
Index-linked securities:     
UK gilts 1,822 – 1,822 – – –  1,822 – 1,822
UK corporates 1,120 – 1,120 – – –  1,120 – 1,120
Property
3 
 1,043 176 1,219 – 184 184  1,043 360 1,403
Derivatives  – (315) (315) – – –  – (315) (315)
Cash:     
Sterling 242 – 242 – – –  242 – 242
Foreign currency 65 – 65 37 – 37  102 – 102
Other  4 38 42 – 8 8  4 46 50
Total 18,058 273 18,331 2,851 192 3,043  20,909 465 21,374
 
 2012 
 UK US  Total 
 
Quoted 
£m 
Unquoted
£m
Total
£m 
Quoted
£m
Unquoted
£m
Total 
£m   
Quoted 
£m 
Unquoted
£m
Total
£m 
Equities:     
UK
1
 3,502 – 3,502 – – –  3,502 – 3,502
Overseas 2,631 – 2,631 1,077 – 1,077  3,708 – 3,708
Pooled investment vehicles
2
 2,520 – 2,520 456 – 456  2,976 – 2,976
Fixed interest securities:     
UK gilts 1,789 – 1,789 – – –  1,789 – 1,789
UK corporates 1,907 – 1,907 – – –  1,907 – 1,907
Overseas government 23 – 23 82 – 82  105 – 105
Overseas corporates  199 – 199 1,027 – 1,027  1,226 – 1,226
Index-linked securities:     
UK gilts 2,262 – 2,262 – – –  2,262 – 2,262
UK corporates 530 – 530 – – –  530 – 530
Property
3 
 967 169 1,136 – 170 170  967 339 1,306
Derivatives  – (256) (256) – – –  – (256) (256)
Cash:     
Sterling 296 – 296 – – –  296 – 296
Foreign currency 20 – 20 27 – 27  47 – 47
Other  – 52 52 – 4 4  – 56 56
Total 16,646 (35) 16,611 2,669 174 2,843  19,315 139 19,454
1 Includes £32m of the Company’s own ordinary shares (2012 £25m).  
2 Primarily comprises equities. 
3 Includes £259m of property occupied by Group companies (2012 £255m).  
  
WORD_Background.indd   166 3/7/2014   1:59:22 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 167
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
23. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets before allocation to equity accounted investments and other participating employers  
 
UK defined
benefit
pension
schemes
£m
US and 
other 
pension 
schemes 
£m 
US
healthcare
schemes
£m
Total
£m
Value of scheme assets at 1 January 2012 15,010 2,567 130 17,707
Interest income
1
 734 127 6 867
Actual return on assets excluding amounts included in interest income
1
  601 292 2 895
Actual return on assets
1
 1,335 419 8 1,762
Contributions by employer 1,021 136 4 1,161
Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice arrangements 99 – – 99
Total contributions by employer 1,120 136 4 1,260
Members’ contributions (including Department for Work and Pensions rebates) 23 14 – 37
Administrative expenses
1
 (32) (10) – (42)
Foreign exchange loss – (119) (6) (125)
Benefits paid (845) (164) (7) (1,016)
Value of scheme assets at 31 December 2012 16,611 2,843 129 19,583
Interest income 745 123 5 873
Actual return on assets excluding amounts included in interest income  1,190 214 23 1,427
Actual return on assets 1,935 337 28 2,300
Contributions by employer 529 117 2 648
Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice arrangements 104 – – 104
Total contributions by employer 633 117 2 752
Members’ contributions (including Department for Work and Pensions rebates) 13 – – 13
Administrative expenses (30) (10) – (40)
Foreign exchange loss – (69) (6) (75)
Benefits paid (831) (175) (5) (1,011)
Value of scheme assets at 31 December 2013 18,331 3,043 148 21,522
1 Restated on adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
  
  
23. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
Assets of defined benefit pension schemes  
 2013 
 UK US  Total 
 
Quoted 
£m 
Unquoted
£m
Total
£m 
Quoted
£m
Unquoted
£m
Total 
£m   
Quoted 
£m 
Unquoted
£m
Total
£m 
Equities:     
UK
1
  4,139 – 4,139 – – –  4,139 – 4,139
Overseas 2,909 – 2,909 788 – 788  3,697 – 3,697
Pooled investment vehicles
2
 2,064 374 2,438 340 – 340  2,404 374 2,778
Fixed interest securities:     
UK gilts 2,261 – 2,261 – – –  2,261 – 2,261
UK corporates 2,081 – 2,081 – – –  2,081 – 2,081
Overseas government 103 – 103 172 – 172  275 – 275
Overseas corporates  205 – 205 1,514 – 1,514  1,719 – 1,719
Index-linked securities:     
UK gilts 1,822 – 1,822 – – –  1,822 – 1,822
UK corporates 1,120 – 1,120 – – –  1,120 – 1,120
Property
3 
 1,043 176 1,219 – 184 184  1,043 360 1,403
Derivatives  – (315) (315) – – –  – (315) (315)
Cash:     
Sterling 242 – 242 – – –  242 – 242
Foreign currency 65 – 65 37 – 37  102 – 102
Other  4 38 42 – 8 8  4 46 50
Total 18,058 273 18,331 2,851 192 3,043  20,909 465 21,374
 
 2012 
 UK US  Total 
 
Quoted 
£m 
Unquoted
£m
Total
£m 
Quoted
£m
Unquoted
£m
Total 
£m   
Quoted 
£m 
Unquoted
£m
Total
£m 
Equities:     
UK
1
 3,502 – 3,502 – – –  3,502 – 3,502
Overseas 2,631 – 2,631 1,077 – 1,077  3,708 – 3,708
Pooled investment vehicles
2
 2,520 – 2,520 456 – 456  2,976 – 2,976
Fixed interest securities:     
UK gilts 1,789 – 1,789 – – –  1,789 – 1,789
UK corporates 1,907 – 1,907 – – –  1,907 – 1,907
Overseas government 23 – 23 82 – 82  105 – 105
Overseas corporates  199 – 199 1,027 – 1,027  1,226 – 1,226
Index-linked securities:     
UK gilts 2,262 – 2,262 – – –  2,262 – 2,262
UK corporates 530 – 530 – – –  530 – 530
Property
3 
 967 169 1,136 – 170 170  967 339 1,306
Derivatives  – (256) (256) – – –  – (256) (256)
Cash:     
Sterling 296 – 296 – – –  296 – 296
Foreign currency 20 – 20 27 – 27  47 – 47
Other  – 52 52 – 4 4  – 56 56
Total 16,646 (35) 16,611 2,669 174 2,843  19,315 139 19,454
1 Includes £32m of the Company’s own ordinary shares (2012 £25m).  
2 Primarily comprises equities. 
3 Includes £259m of property occupied by Group companies (2012 £255m).  
  
WORD_Background.indd   167 3/7/2014   1:59:22 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
168 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
23. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations before allocation to equity accounted investments and other participating 
employers  
 
UK defined
 benefit
pension
schemes
£m
US and 
other 
pension 
schemes 
£m 
US
healthcare
schemes
£m
Total
£m
Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 2012 (19,686) (3,460) (146) (23,292)
Current service cost (178) (44) (2) (224)
Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice arrangements (99) – – (99)
Total current service cost (277) (44) (2) (323)
Members’ contributions (including Department for Work and Pensions rebates) (23) (14) – (37)
Past service cost – plan amendments  (26) (1) (3) (30)
Actuarial loss due to changes in financial assumptions
1
 (1,272) (388) (9) (1,669)
Actuarial (loss)/gain due to changes in demographic assumptions
1
 – (38) 2 (36)
Experience (losses)/gains
1
 (35) 10 1 (24)
Curtailment gains – 26 16 42
Interest expense (932) (163) (6) (1,101)
Foreign exchange gain – 157 6 163
Benefits paid 845 164 7 1,016
Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2012 (21,406) (3,751) (134) (25,291)
Current service cost (205) (12) (1) (218)
Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice arrangements (104) – – (104)
Total current service cost (309) (12) (1) (322)
Members’ contributions (including Department for Work and Pensions rebates) (13) – – (13)
Past service cost – plan amendments  (11) – – (11)
Actuarial (loss)/gain due to changes in financial assumptions (896) 330 11 (555)
Experience gains 146 21 5 172
Interest expense (945) (152) (5) (1,102)
Foreign exchange gain – 49 2 51
Benefits paid 831 175 5 1,011
Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2013 (22,603) (3,340) (117) (26,060)
1 Restated on adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits. 
  
  
23. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
Sensitivity analysis 
Changes in the following principal actuarial assumptions would have the following effect on the defined benefit pension obligation: 
 
(Increase)/decrease
£bn
Discount rate: 
0.1 percentage point increase 0.4
0.1 percentage point decrease (0.4)
Inflation:  
0.1 percentage point increase (0.4)
0.1 percentage point decrease 0.4
Life expectancy:  
One-year increase (0.9)
One-year decrease 0.9
The sensitivity information has been derived using scenario analysis from the actuarial assumptions as at 31 December 2013 and 
keeping all other assumptions as set out on page 164.  
The sensitivity of the valuation of the liabilities to changes in the inflation assumption presented above assumes that a 0.1 p ercentage point 
change to expectations of future inflation results in a 0.1 percentage point change to all inflation-related assumptions used to value the 
liabilities. However, upper and lower limits exist on the majority of inflation-related benefits such th at a change in expectations of future inflation 
may not have the same impact on the inflation-related benefits, and hence will result in a smaller change to the valuation of t he liabilities. 
Accordingly, extrapolation of the above results beyond the specific sensitivity figures shown may not be appropriate. To illust rate this, the 
(increase)/decrease in the defined benefit pension obligation resulting from larger changes in the inflation assumption would be as follows: 
(Increase)/decrease
£bn
Inflation: 
0.5 percentage point increase (1.5)
0.5 percentage point decrease 1.5
1.0 percentage point increase (2.9)
1.0 percentage point decrease 2.9
Three of the Group’s schemes are invested in longevity swap arrangements insuring against longevity risk for the current pensioner 
population (see page 163). As life expectancy changes, the value of those longevity arrangements included within scheme assets will 
offset any movement in the defined benefit obligation in respect of the relevant pensioners. Allowing for a change in scheme assets from 
the movement in the value of the longevity arrangements, a one-year increase/decrease in life expectancy would increase/decrease the 
Group’s net pension deficit by £0.8bn. 
Amounts recognised in the income statement after allocation to equity accounted investments and other participating employers  
 2013 
Restated
1
 
2012  
 
UK defined
benefit
pension
schemes
£m
US and
other
pension
schemes
£m
US
healthcare
schemes
£m
Total
£m
UK defined 
benefit 
pension 
schemes 
£m 
US and 
other 
pension 
schemes 
£m 
US
healthcare
schemes
£m
Total
£m
Included in operating costs:   
Current service cost (160) (12) (1) (173) (141) (44) (2) (187)
Past service cost – plan amendments (11) – – (11) (26) (1) (3) (30)
 (171) (12) (1) (184) (167) (45) (5) (217)
Administrative expenses (24) (10) – (34) (29) (10) – (39)
 (195) (22) (1) (218) (196) (55) (5) (256)
Included in other income:   
Pension curtailment gains –– – – – 26 – 26
US healthcare curtailment gains –– – – – – 16 16
 –– – – – 26 16 42
Included in finance costs:   
Net interest expense on retirement 
benefit obligations (157) (29) – (186) (151) (36) – (187)
Included in share of results of equity 
accounted investments:   
Group’s share of equity accounted 
investments’ operating costs (9) – – (9) (7) – – (7)
Group’s share of equity accounted 
investments’ finance costs (5) – – (5) (7) – – (7)
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.   
WORD_Background.indd   168 3/7/2014   1:59:22 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 169
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
23. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations before allocation to equity accounted investments and other participating 
employers  
 
UK defined
 benefit
pension
schemes
£m
US and 
other 
pension 
schemes 
£m 
US
healthcare
schemes
£m
Total
£m
Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 2012 (19,686) (3,460) (146) (23,292)
Current service cost (178) (44) (2) (224)
Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice arrangements (99) – – (99)
Total current service cost (277) (44) (2) (323)
Members’ contributions (including Department for Work and Pensions rebates) (23) (14) – (37)
Past service cost – plan amendments  (26) (1) (3) (30)
Actuarial loss due to changes in financial assumptions
1
 (1,272) (388) (9) (1,669)
Actuarial (loss)/gain due to changes in demographic assumptions
1
 – (38) 2 (36)
Experience (losses)/gains
1
 (35) 10 1 (24)
Curtailment gains – 26 16 42
Interest expense (932) (163) (6) (1,101)
Foreign exchange gain – 157 6 163
Benefits paid 845 164 7 1,016
Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2012 (21,406) (3,751) (134) (25,291)
Current service cost (205) (12) (1) (218)
Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice arrangements (104) – – (104)
Total current service cost (309) (12) (1) (322)
Members’ contributions (including Department for Work and Pensions rebates) (13) – – (13)
Past service cost – plan amendments  (11) – – (11)
Actuarial (loss)/gain due to changes in financial assumptions (896) 330 11 (555)
Experience gains 146 21 5 172
Interest expense (945) (152) (5) (1,102)
Foreign exchange gain – 49 2 51
Benefits paid 831 175 5 1,011
Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2013 (22,603) (3,340) (117) (26,060)
1 Restated on adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits. 
  
  
23. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
Sensitivity analysis 
Changes in the following principal actuarial assumptions would have the following effect on the defined benefit pension obligation: 
 
(Increase)/decrease
£bn
Discount rate: 
0.1 percentage point increase 0.4
0.1 percentage point decrease (0.4)
Inflation:  
0.1 percentage point increase (0.4)
0.1 percentage point decrease 0.4
Life expectancy:  
One-year increase (0.9)
One-year decrease 0.9
The sensitivity information has been derived using scenario analysis from the actuarial assumptions as at 31 December 2013 and 
keeping all other assumptions as set out on page 164.  
The sensitivity of the valuation of the liabilities to changes in the inflation assumption presented above assumes that a 0.1 p ercentage point 
change to expectations of future inflation results in a 0.1 percentage point change to all inflation-related assumptions used to value the 
liabilities. However, upper and lower limits exist on the majority of inflation-related benefits such th at a change in expectations of future inflation 
may not have the same impact on the inflation-related benefits, and hence will result in a smaller change to the valuation of t he liabilities. 
Accordingly, extrapolation of the above results beyond the specific sensitivity figures shown may not be appropriate. To illust rate this, the 
(increase)/decrease in the defined benefit pension obligation resulting from larger changes in the inflation assumption would be as follows: 
(Increase)/decrease
£bn
Inflation: 
0.5 percentage point increase (1.5)
0.5 percentage point decrease 1.5
1.0 percentage point increase (2.9)
1.0 percentage point decrease 2.9
Three of the Group’s schemes are invested in longevity swap arrangements insuring against longevity risk for the current pensioner 
population (see page 163). As life expectancy changes, the value of those longevity arrangements included within scheme assets will 
offset any movement in the defined benefit obligation in respect of the relevant pensioners. Allowing for a change in scheme assets from 
the movement in the value of the longevity arrangements, a one-year increase/decrease in life expectancy would increase/decrease the 
Group’s net pension deficit by £0.8bn. 
Amounts recognised in the income statement after allocation to equity accounted investments and other participating employers  
 2013 
Restated
1
 
2012  
 
UK defined
benefit
pension
schemes
£m
US and
other
pension
schemes
£m
US
healthcare
schemes
£m
Total
£m
UK defined 
benefit 
pension 
schemes 
£m 
US and 
other 
pension 
schemes 
£m 
US
healthcare
schemes
£m
Total
£m
Included in operating costs:   
Current service cost (160) (12) (1) (173) (141) (44) (2) (187)
Past service cost – plan amendments (11) – – (11) (26) (1) (3) (30)
 (171) (12) (1) (184) (167) (45) (5) (217)
Administrative expenses (24) (10) – (34) (29) (10) – (39)
 (195) (22) (1) (218) (196) (55) (5) (256)
Included in other income:   
Pension curtailment gains –– – – – 26 – 26
US healthcare curtailment gains –– – – – – 16 16
 –– – – – 26 16 42
Included in finance costs:   
Net interest expense on retirement 
benefit obligations (157) (29) – (186) (151) (36) – (187)
Included in share of results of equity 
accounted investments:   
Group’s share of equity accounted 
investments’ operating costs (9) – – (9) (7) – – (7)
Group’s share of equity accounted 
investments’ finance costs (5) – – (5) (7) – – (7)
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.   
WORD_Background.indd   169 3/7/2014   1:59:22 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
170 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
24. Provisions 
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, 
it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated. 
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at an appropriate pre-tax discount rate. 
Warranties and after-sales service 
Warranties and after-sales service are provided in the normal course of business with provisions for associated costs being made based 
on an assessment of future claims with reference to past experience. A provision for warranties is recognised when the underlying 
products and services are sold. The provision is based on historical warranty data and a weighting of all possible outcomes against their 
associated probabilities. 
Reorganisations 
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring 
has either commenced or has been publicly announced. The costs associated with the reorganisation programmes are supported by 
detailed plans and based on previous experience as well as other known factors. Future operating costs are not provided for. 
Legal, contractual and environmental 
The Group holds provisions for expected legal, contractual and environmental costs that it expects to incur over an extended period. 
These costs are based on past experience of similar items and other known factors and represent management’s best estimate of the 
likely outcome.  
Other 
Other provisions include provisions for onerous contracts, which are recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group 
from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract. 
 
Warranties and
after-sales
service
£m
Reorganisations
£m
Legal, 
contractual  
and 
environmental 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total
£m
Non-current 66 19 294 70 449
Current 64 54 137 42 297
At 1 January 2013 130 73 431 112 746
Created
1
 60 113 90 64 327
Released (38) (25) (48) (13) (124)
Utilised (47) (38) (51) (19) (155)
Discounting – – 7 2 9
Foreign exchange adjustments (3) (1) (4) (1) (9)
At 31 December 2013 102 122 425 145 794
Represented by:   
Non-current 55 41 232 75 403
Current 47 81 193 70 391
 102 122 425 145 794
1 Reorganisation provisions created in 2013 include £95m for which the Group is contractually entitled to re-imbursement from the UK Ministry of Defence (see note 15). 
Warranties and after-sales service  
Warranty and after-sales service costs are generally incurred within three years post-delivery. Whilst actual events could result in 
potentially significant differences to the quantum but not the timing of the outflows in relation to the provisions, management has 
reflected current knowledge in assessing the provision levels.  
Reorganisations  
Reorganisation costs are generally incurred within one to three years. There is limited volatility around the timing and amount of the 
ultimate outflows related to these provisions.  
Legal, contractual and environmental  
Reflecting the inherent uncertainty within many legal proceedings, the timing and amount of the outflows could differ significantly from 
the amount provided. 
Other  
Other includes a provision taken in 2013 in respect of the Radford Army Ammunition Plant contract. There are no other individually 
significant provisions included within other provisions. 
  
  
25. Share capital and other reserves 
Share capital 
 Equity Non-equity Total 
 Ordinary shares of 2.5p each Special Share of £1  
 
Number of
shares 
m
Nominal
value
£m
Number of 
shares 
 
Nominal
value
£
Nominal
value
£m
Issued and fully paid  
At 1 January 2012 and 1 January 2013 3,588 90 1 1 90
Repurchased and cancelled (52) (1) – – (1)
At 31 December 2013 3,536 89 1 1 89
Special Share 
One Special Share of £1 in the Company is held on behalf of the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills (the Special 
Shareholder). Certain provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association cannot be amended without the consent of the Special 
Shareholder. These provisions include the requirement that no foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, can have more than 
a 15% voting interest in the Company, the requirement that the majority of the directors are British, and the requirement that the Chief 
Executive and any executive Chairman are British citizens. The effect of these requirements can also be amended by regulations made 
by the directors and approved by the Special Shareholder. 
The Special Shareholder may require the Company at any time to redeem the Special Share at par or to convert the Special Share into 
one ordinary voting share. The Special Shareholder is entitled to receive notice of and to attend general meetings and class meetings of 
the Company’s shareholders but has no voting right, nor other rights, other than to speak in relation to any business in respect of the 
Special Share. 
Share buyback 
In 2013, 51,595,000 ordinary shares of 2.5p were repurchased under the buyback programme (2012 nil).  
Treasury shares 
As at 31 December 2013, 327,644,952 (2012 336,813,996) ordinary shares of 2.5p each with an aggregate nominal value of 
£8,191,124 (2012 £8,420,350) were held in treasury. During 2013, 9,169,044 treasury shares were used to satisfy awards and 
options under the Share Incentive Plan, Performance Share Plan, Restricted Share Plan and Executive Share Option Plan (2012 
14,942,858 in respect of the Share Incentive Plan, Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan, Restricted Share Plan and Executive 
Share Option Plan).  
Own shares held 
Own shares held, including treasury shares and shares held by BAE Systems ESOP Trust, are recognised as a deduction from retained 
earnings. 
BAE Systems ESOP Trust  
The Group has an Employee Share Option Plan (ESOP) discretionary trust to administer the share plans and to acquire Company shares, 
using funds loaned by the Group, to meet commitments to Group employees. A dividend waiver was in operation for shares within the 
ESOP Trust, other than those owned beneficially by the participants, for the dividends paid in June and December 2013.  
At 31 December 2013, the ESOP held 1,451,631 (2012 2,633,198) ordinary shares of 2.5p each with a market value of £6m 
(2012 £9m). The shares held by the ESOP are recorded at cost and deducted from retained earnings until such time as the shares vest 
unconditionally to employees.  
Dividend waivers were in operation for the dividends paid in June and December 2013 over shares in the Group All-Employee Free 
Shares Plan Trust other than those shares owned beneficially by participants. A dividend waiver was also in operation for the dividends 
paid in June and December 2013 over shares within the Company’s Share Incentive Plan Trust other than those shares owned 
beneficially by the participants. 
Equity dividends 
Equity dividends on ordinary share capital are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared. The interim dividend is 
recognised when it has been approved by the Board and the final dividend is recognised when it has been approved by the shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting. 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Prior year final 11.7p dividend per ordinary share paid in the year (2012 11.3p) 380 367
Interim 8.0p dividend per ordinary share paid in the year (2012 7.8p) 258 253
 638 620
After the balance sheet date, the directors proposed a final dividend of 12.1p per ordinary share. The dividend, which is subject to 
shareholder approval, will be paid on 2 June 2014 to shareholders registered on 22 April 2014. The ex-dividend date is 16 April 2014. 
Shareholders who do not at present participate in the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan and wish to receive the final dividend in 
shares rather than cash should complete a mandate form for the Dividend Reinvestment Plan and return it to the registrars no later than 
9 May 2014. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   170 3/7/2014   1:59:22 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 171
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
24. Provisions 
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, 
it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated. 
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at an appropriate pre-tax discount rate. 
Warranties and after-sales service 
Warranties and after-sales service are provided in the normal course of business with provisions for associated costs being made based 
on an assessment of future claims with reference to past experience. A provision for warranties is recognised when the underlying 
products and services are sold. The provision is based on historical warranty data and a weighting of all possible outcomes against their 
associated probabilities. 
Reorganisations 
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring 
has either commenced or has been publicly announced. The costs associated with the reorganisation programmes are supported by 
detailed plans and based on previous experience as well as other known factors. Future operating costs are not provided for. 
Legal, contractual and environmental 
The Group holds provisions for expected legal, contractual and environmental costs that it expects to incur over an extended period. 
These costs are based on past experience of similar items and other known factors and represent management’s best estimate of the 
likely outcome.  
Other 
Other provisions include provisions for onerous contracts, which are recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group 
from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract. 
 
Warranties and
after-sales
service
£m
Reorganisations
£m
Legal, 
contractual  
and 
environmental 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total
£m
Non-current 66 19 294 70 449
Current 64 54 137 42 297
At 1 January 2013 130 73 431 112 746
Created
1
 60 113 90 64 327
Released (38) (25) (48) (13) (124)
Utilised (47) (38) (51) (19) (155)
Discounting – – 7 2 9
Foreign exchange adjustments (3) (1) (4) (1) (9)
At 31 December 2013 102 122 425 145 794
Represented by:   
Non-current 55 41 232 75 403
Current 47 81 193 70 391
 102 122 425 145 794
1 Reorganisation provisions created in 2013 include £95m for which the Group is contractually entitled to re-imbursement from the UK Ministry of Defence (see note 15). 
Warranties and after-sales service  
Warranty and after-sales service costs are generally incurred within three years post-delivery. Whilst actual events could result in 
potentially significant differences to the quantum but not the timing of the outflows in relation to the provisions, management has 
reflected current knowledge in assessing the provision levels.  
Reorganisations  
Reorganisation costs are generally incurred within one to three years. There is limited volatility around the timing and amount of the 
ultimate outflows related to these provisions.  
Legal, contractual and environmental  
Reflecting the inherent uncertainty within many legal proceedings, the timing and amount of the outflows could differ significantly from 
the amount provided. 
Other  
Other includes a provision taken in 2013 in respect of the Radford Army Ammunition Plant contract. There are no other individually 
significant provisions included within other provisions. 
  
  
25. Share capital and other reserves 
Share capital 
 Equity Non-equity Total 
 Ordinary shares of 2.5p each Special Share of £1  
 
Number of
shares 
m
Nominal
value
£m
Number of 
shares 
 
Nominal
value
£
Nominal
value
£m
Issued and fully paid  
At 1 January 2012 and 1 January 2013 3,588 90 1 1 90
Repurchased and cancelled (52) (1) – – (1)
At 31 December 2013 3,536 89 1 1 89
Special Share 
One Special Share of £1 in the Company is held on behalf of the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills (the Special 
Shareholder). Certain provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association cannot be amended without the consent of the Special 
Shareholder. These provisions include the requirement that no foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, can have more than 
a 15% voting interest in the Company, the requirement that the majority of the directors are British, and the requirement that the Chief 
Executive and any executive Chairman are British citizens. The effect of these requirements can also be amended by regulations made 
by the directors and approved by the Special Shareholder. 
The Special Shareholder may require the Company at any time to redeem the Special Share at par or to convert the Special Share into 
one ordinary voting share. The Special Shareholder is entitled to receive notice of and to attend general meetings and class meetings of 
the Company’s shareholders but has no voting right, nor other rights, other than to speak in relation to any business in respect of the 
Special Share. 
Share buyback 
In 2013, 51,595,000 ordinary shares of 2.5p were repurchased under the buyback programme (2012 nil).  
Treasury shares 
As at 31 December 2013, 327,644,952 (2012 336,813,996) ordinary shares of 2.5p each with an aggregate nominal value of 
£8,191,124 (2012 £8,420,350) were held in treasury. During 2013, 9,169,044 treasury shares were used to satisfy awards and 
options under the Share Incentive Plan, Performance Share Plan, Restricted Share Plan and Executive Share Option Plan (2012 
14,942,858 in respect of the Share Incentive Plan, Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan, Restricted Share Plan and Executive 
Share Option Plan).  
Own shares held 
Own shares held, including treasury shares and shares held by BAE Systems ESOP Trust, are recognised as a deduction from retained 
earnings. 
BAE Systems ESOP Trust  
The Group has an Employee Share Option Plan (ESOP) discretionary trust to administer the share plans and to acquire Company shares, 
using funds loaned by the Group, to meet commitments to Group employees. A dividend waiver was in operation for shares within the 
ESOP Trust, other than those owned beneficially by the participants, for the dividends paid in June and December 2013.  
At 31 December 2013, the ESOP held 1,451,631 (2012 2,633,198) ordinary shares of 2.5p each with a market value of £6m 
(2012 £9m). The shares held by the ESOP are recorded at cost and deducted from retained earnings until such time as the shares vest 
unconditionally to employees.  
Dividend waivers were in operation for the dividends paid in June and December 2013 over shares in the Group All-Employee Free 
Shares Plan Trust other than those shares owned beneficially by participants. A dividend waiver was also in operation for the dividends 
paid in June and December 2013 over shares within the Company’s Share Incentive Plan Trust other than those shares owned 
beneficially by the participants. 
Equity dividends 
Equity dividends on ordinary share capital are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared. The interim dividend is 
recognised when it has been approved by the Board and the final dividend is recognised when it has been approved by the shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting. 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Prior year final 11.7p dividend per ordinary share paid in the year (2012 11.3p) 380 367
Interim 8.0p dividend per ordinary share paid in the year (2012 7.8p) 258 253
 638 620
After the balance sheet date, the directors proposed a final dividend of 12.1p per ordinary share. The dividend, which is subject to 
shareholder approval, will be paid on 2 June 2014 to shareholders registered on 22 April 2014. The ex-dividend date is 16 April 2014. 
Shareholders who do not at present participate in the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan and wish to receive the final dividend in 
shares rather than cash should complete a mandate form for the Dividend Reinvestment Plan and return it to the registrars no later than 
9 May 2014. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   171 3/7/2014   1:59:22 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
172 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
25. Share capital and other reserves (continued) 
Other reserves 
 
Merger
reserve
£m
Statutory
reserve
£m
Revaluation
reserve
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m 
Hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2012 4,589 202 10 572 8 – 5,381
Currency translation on foreign currency net investments:   
Subsidiaries – – – (164) – – (164)
Equity accounted investments – – – (25) – – (25)
Reclassification of cumulative currency translation reserve on 
disposal – – – (97) – – (97)
Amounts charged to hedging reserve – – – – (21) – (21)
Tax on other comprehensive income – – – – 5 – 5
At 1 January 2013 4,589 202 10 286 (8) – 5,079
Currency translation on foreign currency net investments:   
Subsidiaries – – – (240) – – (240)
Equity accounted investments – – – (3) – – (3)
Reclassification of cumulative currency translation reserve on 
disposal – – – (8) – – (8)
Amounts credited to hedging reserve  – – – – 53 – 53
Tax on other comprehensive income – – – – (14) – (14)
Net purchase of own shares – – – – – 1 1
At 31 December 2013 4,589 202 10 35 31 1 4,868
Merger reserve 
The merger reserve arose on the acquisition of the Marconi Electronic Systems (MES) business by British Aerospace in 1999 to form 
BAE Systems, and represents the amount by which the fair value of the shares issued by British Aerospace as consideration exceeded 
their nominal value.  
Statutory reserve 
Under Section 4 of the British Aerospace Act 1980, this reserve may only be applied in paying up unissued shares of the Company to be 
allotted to members of the Company as fully paid bonus shares. 
Revaluation reserve 
The revaluation reserve relates to the revaluation at fair value of the net assets of the BVT joint venture previously held as an equity 
accounted investment on the acquisition of the remaining 45% interest in 2009. 
Translation reserve 
The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign 
operations. 
Hedging reserve 
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments 
related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.  
Capital redemption reserve 
The capital redemption reserve represents the cumulative nominal value of the Company’s ordinary shares repurchased and 
subsequently cancelled. During the year ended 31 December 2013, 51,595,000 ordinary shares with a nominal value of £1m were 
repurchased and have been subsequently cancelled.  
Capital 
The Group funds its operations through a mixture of equity funding and debt financing, including bank and capital market borrowings. 
At 31 December 2013, the Group’s capital was £3,387m (2012 £3,782m), which comprises total equity of £3,418m (2012 £3,774m), 
excluding amounts accumulated in equity relating to cash flow hedges of £31m (2012 £8m debit). Net debt (as defined by the Group) 
was £699m (2012 net cash £387m). 
The capital structure of the Group reflects the judgement of the directors of an appropriate balance of funding required. The Group’s 
policy is to maintain an investment grade credit rating and ensure operating flexibility, whilst:  
– meeting its pension obligations; 
– continuing to pursue organic investment opportunities;  
– paying dividends in line with the Group’s policy of long-term sustainable cover of around two times underlying earnings (see note 8); 
– making accelerated returns of capital to shareholders when the balance sheet allows; and  
– investing in value-enhancing acquisitions, where market conditions are right and where they deliver on the Group’s strategy.  
Notes to the Group accounts — other information 
 
  
26. Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries 
Business combinations on or after 1 January 2010 (IFRS 3, Business Combinations) 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is 
transferred to the Group. The Group measures goodwill as the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred, including the 
amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree, less the net of the acquisition-date fair values of the identifiable assets acquired 
and liabilities assumed, including contingent liabilities as required by IFRS 3.  
Consideration transferred includes the fair values of assets transferred, liabilities incurred by the Group to the previous owners of the 
acquiree, equity interests issued by the Group, contingent consideration, and share-based payment awards of the acquiree that are 
replaced in the business combination. Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. 
Subsequent changes to the fair value of contingent consideration that is not classified as equity are recognised in the income 
statement. If a business combination results in the termination of pre-existing relationships between the Group and the acquiree, then 
the lower of the termination amount, as contained in the agreement, and the value of the off-market element, is deducted from the 
consideration transferred and recognised in other expenses.  
Transaction costs that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination, such as finder’s fees, legal fees, due diligence fees, 
and other professional and consulting fees, are expensed as incurred.  
Non-controlling interests are measured at either the non-controlling interest’s proportion of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised or at fair value. The method used is determined on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis.  
Accounting for the acquisition of non-controlling interests that do not result in a change in control 
Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with equity holders in their capacity as equity holders and, 
therefore, no goodwill or profit or loss in the income statement is recognised as a result of such transactions. 
Subsidiaries disposed of during 2013 
In February, the Group completed the sale of its Commercial Armored Vehicles LLC business in the US to The O’Gara Group, Inc. for 
cash consideration of approximately $10m (£6m). A profit on disposal of Commercial Armored Vehicles of £9m, including £8m relating 
to the reclassification of cumulative currency translation reserve, is included in the profit on disposal of businesses of £10m (see note 4). 
Subsidiaries disposed of during 2012  
In March 2012, the Group completed the sale of its BAE Systems Safety Products Inc. and Schroth Safety Products GmbH businesses 
(Safety Products) in the US and Germany for cash consideration of approximately $32m (£21m).  
In July 2012, the US-based Safariland, LLC (Safariland) business was sold for cash consideration (after adjustment) of approximately 
$124m (£78m).  
Also in July 2012, the Group sold the assets comprising its BAE Systems Tensylon High Performance Materials Inc. (Tensylon) business 
for cash consideration of $18m (£12m). 
Summary 
 
Safariland 
£m 
Other
£m 
Total
£m
Cash consideration 78 33 111
Transaction costs paid (1) (2) (3)
Cash proceeds 77 31 108
Transaction costs accrued (1) – (1)
Net proceeds 76 31 107
Net assets disposed:  
Intangible assets (23) (12) (35)
Property, plant and equipment (15) (4) (19)
Inventories (16) (14) (30)
Trade and other receivables (22) (3) (25)
Deferred tax (2) 6 4
Trade and other payables 13 2 15
Cash and cash equivalents (10) (1) (11)
 (75) (26) (101)
Cumulative currency translation gain 84 13 97
Profit on disposal of businesses  85 18 103
Safariland and Tensylon were written down to fair value less costs to sell prior to their disposal incurring impairment charges to 
intangible assets of £48m and £12m, respectively.  
  
WORD_Background.indd   172 3/7/2014   1:59:23 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 173
Notes to the Group accounts — balance sheet continued 
25. Share capital and other reserves (continued) 
Other reserves 
 
Merger
reserve
£m
Statutory
reserve
£m
Revaluation
reserve
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m 
Hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2012 4,589 202 10 572 8 – 5,381
Currency translation on foreign currency net investments:   
Subsidiaries – – – (164) – – (164)
Equity accounted investments – – – (25) – – (25)
Reclassification of cumulative currency translation reserve on 
disposal – – – (97) – – (97)
Amounts charged to hedging reserve – – – – (21) – (21)
Tax on other comprehensive income – – – – 5 – 5
At 1 January 2013 4,589 202 10 286 (8) – 5,079
Currency translation on foreign currency net investments:   
Subsidiaries – – – (240) – – (240)
Equity accounted investments – – – (3) – – (3)
Reclassification of cumulative currency translation reserve on 
disposal – – – (8) – – (8)
Amounts credited to hedging reserve  – – – – 53 – 53
Tax on other comprehensive income – – – – (14) – (14)
Net purchase of own shares – – – – – 1 1
At 31 December 2013 4,589 202 10 35 31 1 4,868
Merger reserve 
The merger reserve arose on the acquisition of the Marconi Electronic Systems (MES) business by British Aerospace in 1999 to form 
BAE Systems, and represents the amount by which the fair value of the shares issued by British Aerospace as consideration exceeded 
their nominal value.  
Statutory reserve 
Under Section 4 of the British Aerospace Act 1980, this reserve may only be applied in paying up unissued shares of the Company to be 
allotted to members of the Company as fully paid bonus shares. 
Revaluation reserve 
The revaluation reserve relates to the revaluation at fair value of the net assets of the BVT joint venture previously held as an equity 
accounted investment on the acquisition of the remaining 45% interest in 2009. 
Translation reserve 
The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign 
operations. 
Hedging reserve 
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments 
related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.  
Capital redemption reserve 
The capital redemption reserve represents the cumulative nominal value of the Company’s ordinary shares repurchased and 
subsequently cancelled. During the year ended 31 December 2013, 51,595,000 ordinary shares with a nominal value of £1m were 
repurchased and have been subsequently cancelled.  
Capital 
The Group funds its operations through a mixture of equity funding and debt financing, including bank and capital market borrowings. 
At 31 December 2013, the Group’s capital was £3,387m (2012 £3,782m), which comprises total equity of £3,418m (2012 £3,774m), 
excluding amounts accumulated in equity relating to cash flow hedges of £31m (2012 £8m debit). Net debt (as defined by the Group) 
was £699m (2012 net cash £387m). 
The capital structure of the Group reflects the judgement of the directors of an appropriate balance of funding required. The Group’s 
policy is to maintain an investment grade credit rating and ensure operating flexibility, whilst:  
– meeting its pension obligations; 
– continuing to pursue organic investment opportunities;  
– paying dividends in line with the Group’s policy of long-term sustainable cover of around two times underlying earnings (see note 8); 
– making accelerated returns of capital to shareholders when the balance sheet allows; and  
– investing in value-enhancing acquisitions, where market conditions are right and where they deliver on the Group’s strategy.  
Notes to the Group accounts — other information 
 
  
26. Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries 
Business combinations on or after 1 January 2010 (IFRS 3, Business Combinations) 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is 
transferred to the Group. The Group measures goodwill as the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred, including the 
amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree, less the net of the acquisition-date fair values of the identifiable assets acquired 
and liabilities assumed, including contingent liabilities as required by IFRS 3.  
Consideration transferred includes the fair values of assets transferred, liabilities incurred by the Group to the previous owners of the 
acquiree, equity interests issued by the Group, contingent consideration, and share-based payment awards of the acquiree that are 
replaced in the business combination. Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. 
Subsequent changes to the fair value of contingent consideration that is not classified as equity are recognised in the income 
statement. If a business combination results in the termination of pre-existing relationships between the Group and the acquiree, then 
the lower of the termination amount, as contained in the agreement, and the value of the off-market element, is deducted from the 
consideration transferred and recognised in other expenses.  
Transaction costs that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination, such as finder’s fees, legal fees, due diligence fees, 
and other professional and consulting fees, are expensed as incurred.  
Non-controlling interests are measured at either the non-controlling interest’s proportion of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised or at fair value. The method used is determined on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis.  
Accounting for the acquisition of non-controlling interests that do not result in a change in control 
Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with equity holders in their capacity as equity holders and, 
therefore, no goodwill or profit or loss in the income statement is recognised as a result of such transactions. 
Subsidiaries disposed of during 2013 
In February, the Group completed the sale of its Commercial Armored Vehicles LLC business in the US to The O’Gara Group, Inc. for 
cash consideration of approximately $10m (£6m). A profit on disposal of Commercial Armored Vehicles of £9m, including £8m relating 
to the reclassification of cumulative currency translation reserve, is included in the profit on disposal of businesses of £10m (see note 4). 
Subsidiaries disposed of during 2012  
In March 2012, the Group completed the sale of its BAE Systems Safety Products Inc. and Schroth Safety Products GmbH businesses 
(Safety Products) in the US and Germany for cash consideration of approximately $32m (£21m).  
In July 2012, the US-based Safariland, LLC (Safariland) business was sold for cash consideration (after adjustment) of approximately 
$124m (£78m).  
Also in July 2012, the Group sold the assets comprising its BAE Systems Tensylon High Performance Materials Inc. (Tensylon) business 
for cash consideration of $18m (£12m). 
Summary 
 
Safariland 
£m 
Other
£m 
Total
£m
Cash consideration 78 33 111
Transaction costs paid (1) (2) (3)
Cash proceeds 77 31 108
Transaction costs accrued (1) – (1)
Net proceeds 76 31 107
Net assets disposed:  
Intangible assets (23) (12) (35)
Property, plant and equipment (15) (4) (19)
Inventories (16) (14) (30)
Trade and other receivables (22) (3) (25)
Deferred tax (2) 6 4
Trade and other payables 13 2 15
Cash and cash equivalents (10) (1) (11)
 (75) (26) (101)
Cumulative currency translation gain 84 13 97
Profit on disposal of businesses  85 18 103
Safariland and Tensylon were written down to fair value less costs to sell prior to their disposal incurring impairment charges to 
intangible assets of £48m and £12m, respectively.  
  
WORD_Background.indd   173 3/7/2014   1:59:23 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
174 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — other information continued 
27. Fair value measurement 
Fair value of financial instruments 
Certain of the Group’s financial instruments are held at fair value. 
The fair value of a financial instrument is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the balance sheet date. 
The fair values of financial instruments held at fair value have been determined based on available market information at the balance 
sheet date, and the valuation methodologies listed below: 
– the fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts are calculated by discounting the contracted forward values and translating at the 
appropriate balance sheet rates; 
– the fair values of both interest rate and cross-currency swaps are calculated by discounting expected future principal and interest cash 
flows and translating at the appropriate balance sheet rates; and 
– the fair values of loans and overdrafts have been estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using 
appropriate market-based interest rates prevailing at 31 December.  
Due to the variability of the valuation factors, the fair values presented at 31 December may not be indicative of the amounts the Group 
would expect to realise in the current market environment. 
Fair value hierarchy 
The fair value measurement hierarchy is as follows: 
– Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;  
– Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as 
prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and 
– Level 3 – Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (i.e. unobservable inputs). 
Carrying amounts and fair values of certain financial instruments 
 2013  2012 
 Notes
Carrying 
amount
£m
Fair 
value 
£m 
 Carrying 
amount
£m
Fair
value
£m
Financial instruments measured at fair value:   
Non-current   
Available-for-sale financial assets  3 3  55
Other receivables
1
  15 211 211  187 187
Other financial assets 16 42 42  62 62
Other financial liabilities 16 (59) (59)  (66) (66)
Loans 21 (307) (307)  (320) (320)
Trade and other payables
1
 22 (237) (237)  (222) (222)
Current   
Other financial assets 16 81 81  64 64
Other financial liabilities 16 (81) (81)  (88) (88)
   
Financial instruments not measured at fair value:   
Non-current   
Other receivables 15 110 110  20 20
Loans 21 (2,217) (2,367)  (2,647) (3,087)
Trade and other payables 22 (923) (923)  (1,259) (1,259)
Current   
Trade and other receivables 15 3,038 3,038  2,873 2,873
Cash and cash equivalents 19 2,222 2,222  3,355 3,355
Loans and overdrafts  21 (402) (414)  (21) (21)
Trade and other payables 22 (7,074) (7,074)  (8,067) (8,067)
1 Represents US deferred compensation plan assets and liabilities. 
All of the financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are classified as level 2 using the fair value hierarchy. There were no 
transfers between levels during the year.  
The fair value of total loans estimated using market prices at 31 December 2013 is £3,088m (2012 £3,407m). 
  
 
  
28. Financial risk management 
Interest rate risk 
The Group’s objective is to manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations on borrowings through varying the proportion of fixed rate 
debt relative to floating rate debt with derivative instruments, mainly interest rate swaps.  
The Group’s interest rate management policy is that a minimum of 50% (2012 50%) and a maximum of 90% (2012 90%) of gross debt 
is maintained at fixed interest rates. At 31 December 2013, the Group had 69% (2012 79%) of fixed rate debt and 31% (2012 21%) of 
floating rate debt based on a gross debt of £2.9bn, including debt-related derivative financial assets (2012 £3.0bn). 
Based on contracted maturities and/or repricing dates, the following amounts are exposed to interest rate risk over the future as shown 
below: 
 
Less than 
one year 
£m 
Between 
one and 
two years
£m
More than 
two years
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 2,222 – –
Loans (909) (300) (300)
The floating rate debt has been predominantly achieved by entering into interest rate swaps which swap the fixed rate US dollar interest 
payable on debt into either floating rate sterling or US dollars. At the end of 2013, the Group had a total of $1.5bn (2012 $1.0bn) of 
this type of swap outstanding with a weighted average duration of 2.3 years (2012 1.7 years). In respect of the fixed rate debt, the 
weighted average period in respect of which interest is fixed was 9.6 years (2012 10.1 years). 
Given the level of short-term interest rates during the year, the average cost of the floating rate debt was 3.3% (2012 2.7%) on US dollars. 
The cost of the fixed rate debt was 5.7% (2012 5.7%).  
A change of 100 basis points in short-term rates applied to the average fixed/floating mix and level of borrowings would vary the interest 
cost to the Group by £6m (2012 £6m).  
In respect of cash deposits, given the fluctuation in the Group’s working capital requirements, cash is generally invested for short-term 
periods based at floating interest rates. A change of 100 basis points in the average interest rates during the year applied to the 
average cash deposits would vary the interest receivable by £13m (2012 £7m). 
Liquidity risk 
Contractual cash flows on financial liabilities 
The contractual cash flows on loans and overdrafts, and derivative financial instruments at the reporting date are shown below, 
classified by maturity. The cash flows are shown on a gross basis, are not discounted and include estimated interest payments where 
applicable. 
 31 December 2013 31 December 2012
1
 
  Contractual cash flow Contractual cash flow 
 
Carrying 
amount 
£m 
Less than
one 
year
£m
Between 
one 
and five 
years
£m
More than
five 
years
£m
Total
£m
Carrying 
amount
£m
Less than 
one  
year 
£m 
Between 
one  
and five 
years 
£m 
More than
five 
years
£m
Total
£m
Loans and overdrafts (2,926) (558) (1,129) (2,513) (4,200) (2,988) (187) (1,605) (2,657) (4,449)
    
(Sale)/purchase contracts:    
US dollar  (197) (69) 97 (169) 466 200 54 720
Euro  683 1,079 61 1,823 472 1,018 95 1,585
Sterling  (620) (894) (159) (1,673) (1,088) (1,028) (148) (2,264)
Other  134 (122) – 12 137 (199) – (62)
Cash flow hedges – foreign 
exchange contracts (12) – (6) (1) (7) (67) (13) (9) 1 (21)
Purchase/(sale) contracts:     
US dollar  809 – – 809 (1,348) (13) – (1,361)
Euro  551 – – 551 683 – – 683
Sterling  (1,591) – – (1,591) 285 – – 285
Other  233 – – 233 382 15 – 397
Interest rate contracts  8 (5) (3) – 8 4 – 12
Other foreign exchange/interest 
rate contracts (11) 10 (5) (3) 2 17 10 6 – 16
Debt-related derivative financial 
instruments – assets 6 6 – – 6 22 6 6 7 19
Other financial assets and liabilities (17) 16 (11) (4) 1 (28) 3 3 8 14
1 Re-presented to provide more detailed information on contractual cash flows on derivative financial instruments. 
Contractual cash flows in respect of all other financial liabilities are equal to the balance sheet carrying amount. Current contractual 
amounts relating to other financial liabilities, such as trade payables, are settled within the normal operating cycle of the business.  
WORD_Background.indd   174 3/7/2014   1:59:23 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 175
Notes to the Group accounts — other information continued 
27. Fair value measurement 
Fair value of financial instruments 
Certain of the Group’s financial instruments are held at fair value. 
The fair value of a financial instrument is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the balance sheet date. 
The fair values of financial instruments held at fair value have been determined based on available market information at the balance 
sheet date, and the valuation methodologies listed below: 
– the fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts are calculated by discounting the contracted forward values and translating at the 
appropriate balance sheet rates; 
– the fair values of both interest rate and cross-currency swaps are calculated by discounting expected future principal and interest cash 
flows and translating at the appropriate balance sheet rates; and 
– the fair values of loans and overdrafts have been estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using 
appropriate market-based interest rates prevailing at 31 December.  
Due to the variability of the valuation factors, the fair values presented at 31 December may not be indicative of the amounts the Group 
would expect to realise in the current market environment. 
Fair value hierarchy 
The fair value measurement hierarchy is as follows: 
– Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;  
– Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as 
prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and 
– Level 3 – Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (i.e. unobservable inputs). 
Carrying amounts and fair values of certain financial instruments 
 2013  2012 
 Notes
Carrying 
amount
£m
Fair 
value 
£m 
 Carrying 
amount
£m
Fair
value
£m
Financial instruments measured at fair value:   
Non-current   
Available-for-sale financial assets  3 3  55
Other receivables
1
  15 211 211  187 187
Other financial assets 16 42 42  62 62
Other financial liabilities 16 (59) (59)  (66) (66)
Loans 21 (307) (307)  (320) (320)
Trade and other payables
1
 22 (237) (237)  (222) (222)
Current   
Other financial assets 16 81 81  64 64
Other financial liabilities 16 (81) (81)  (88) (88)
   
Financial instruments not measured at fair value:   
Non-current   
Other receivables 15 110 110  20 20
Loans 21 (2,217) (2,367)  (2,647) (3,087)
Trade and other payables 22 (923) (923)  (1,259) (1,259)
Current   
Trade and other receivables 15 3,038 3,038  2,873 2,873
Cash and cash equivalents 19 2,222 2,222  3,355 3,355
Loans and overdrafts  21 (402) (414)  (21) (21)
Trade and other payables 22 (7,074) (7,074)  (8,067) (8,067)
1 Represents US deferred compensation plan assets and liabilities. 
All of the financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are classified as level 2 using the fair value hierarchy. There were no 
transfers between levels during the year.  
The fair value of total loans estimated using market prices at 31 December 2013 is £3,088m (2012 £3,407m). 
  
 
  
28. Financial risk management 
Interest rate risk 
The Group’s objective is to manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations on borrowings through varying the proportion of fixed rate 
debt relative to floating rate debt with derivative instruments, mainly interest rate swaps.  
The Group’s interest rate management policy is that a minimum of 50% (2012 50%) and a maximum of 90% (2012 90%) of gross debt 
is maintained at fixed interest rates. At 31 December 2013, the Group had 69% (2012 79%) of fixed rate debt and 31% (2012 21%) of 
floating rate debt based on a gross debt of £2.9bn, including debt-related derivative financial assets (2012 £3.0bn). 
Based on contracted maturities and/or repricing dates, the following amounts are exposed to interest rate risk over the future as shown 
below: 
 
Less than 
one year 
£m 
Between 
one and 
two years
£m
More than 
two years
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 2,222 – –
Loans (909) (300) (300)
The floating rate debt has been predominantly achieved by entering into interest rate swaps which swap the fixed rate US dollar interest 
payable on debt into either floating rate sterling or US dollars. At the end of 2013, the Group had a total of $1.5bn (2012 $1.0bn) of 
this type of swap outstanding with a weighted average duration of 2.3 years (2012 1.7 years). In respect of the fixed rate debt, the 
weighted average period in respect of which interest is fixed was 9.6 years (2012 10.1 years). 
Given the level of short-term interest rates during the year, the average cost of the floating rate debt was 3.3% (2012 2.7%) on US dollars. 
The cost of the fixed rate debt was 5.7% (2012 5.7%).  
A change of 100 basis points in short-term rates applied to the average fixed/floating mix and level of borrowings would vary the interest 
cost to the Group by £6m (2012 £6m).  
In respect of cash deposits, given the fluctuation in the Group’s working capital requirements, cash is generally invested for short-term 
periods based at floating interest rates. A change of 100 basis points in the average interest rates during the year applied to the 
average cash deposits would vary the interest receivable by £13m (2012 £7m). 
Liquidity risk 
Contractual cash flows on financial liabilities 
The contractual cash flows on loans and overdrafts, and derivative financial instruments at the reporting date are shown below, 
classified by maturity. The cash flows are shown on a gross basis, are not discounted and include estimated interest payments where 
applicable. 
 31 December 2013 31 December 2012
1
 
  Contractual cash flow Contractual cash flow 
 
Carrying 
amount 
£m 
Less than
one 
year
£m
Between 
one 
and five 
years
£m
More than
five 
years
£m
Total
£m
Carrying 
amount
£m
Less than 
one  
year 
£m 
Between 
one  
and five 
years 
£m 
More than
five 
years
£m
Total
£m
Loans and overdrafts (2,926) (558) (1,129) (2,513) (4,200) (2,988) (187) (1,605) (2,657) (4,449)
    
(Sale)/purchase contracts:    
US dollar  (197) (69) 97 (169) 466 200 54 720
Euro  683 1,079 61 1,823 472 1,018 95 1,585
Sterling  (620) (894) (159) (1,673) (1,088) (1,028) (148) (2,264)
Other  134 (122) – 12 137 (199) – (62)
Cash flow hedges – foreign 
exchange contracts (12) – (6) (1) (7) (67) (13) (9) 1 (21)
Purchase/(sale) contracts:     
US dollar  809 – – 809 (1,348) (13) – (1,361)
Euro  551 – – 551 683 – – 683
Sterling  (1,591) – – (1,591) 285 – – 285
Other  233 – – 233 382 15 – 397
Interest rate contracts  8 (5) (3) – 8 4 – 12
Other foreign exchange/interest 
rate contracts (11) 10 (5) (3) 2 17 10 6 – 16
Debt-related derivative financial 
instruments – assets 6 6 – – 6 22 6 6 7 19
Other financial assets and liabilities (17) 16 (11) (4) 1 (28) 3 3 8 14
1 Re-presented to provide more detailed information on contractual cash flows on derivative financial instruments. 
Contractual cash flows in respect of all other financial liabilities are equal to the balance sheet carrying amount. Current contractual 
amounts relating to other financial liabilities, such as trade payables, are settled within the normal operating cycle of the business.  
WORD_Background.indd   175 3/7/2014   1:59:23 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
176 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — other information continued 
28. Financial risk management (continued)  
Borrowing facilities 
The Group’s objective is to maintain adequate undrawn committed borrowing facilities.  
At 31 December 2013, the Group had a committed Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) of £2bn (2012 £2bn). The RCF is contracted 
until 2018 and was undrawn throughout the year. The RCF also acts as a backstop to Commercial Paper issued by the Group. 
At 31 December 2013, the Group had no Commercial Paper in issue (2012 £nil). 
Cash management 
Cash flow forecasting is performed by the businesses on a monthly basis. The Group monitors a rolling forecast of its liquidity 
requirements to ensure that there is sufficient cash to meet operational needs and maintain adequate headroom.  
Surplus cash held by the businesses over and above balances required for working capital management is loaned to the Group’s 
centralised treasury department. Surplus cash is invested in interest bearing current accounts, term deposits, money market deposits 
and marketable securities, choosing instruments with appropriate maturities or sufficient liquidity to provide sufficient headroom as 
determined by cash forecasts.  
Credit risk  
Cash 
The Group’s objective is to monitor and control counterparty credit risk and credit limit utilisation. The Group adopts a conservative 
approach to the investment of its surplus cash. It is deposited with financial institutions with the strongest credit ratings for short 
periods. The cash and cash equivalents balance at 31 December 2013 of £2,222m (2012 £3,355m) was invested with 27 (2012 29) 
financial institutions. A credit limit is allocated to each institution taking account of its market capitalisation, credit rating and credit 
default swap price. The Group has no exposure to Greek, Irish, Italian, Portuguese or Spanish banks. Additionally, the Group monitors 
its exposure to banks which have exposure to these countries.  
The cash and cash equivalents of the Group are invested in non-speculative financial instruments which are usually highly liquid, such 
as short-term deposits. The Group, therefore, believes it has reduced its exposure to credit risk through this process.  
Trade receivables 
The Group has material receivables due from the UK, US and Saudi Arabian governments where credit risk is not considered an issue. 
For the remaining trade receivables, the bad debt provision has been calculated taking into account individual assessments based on 
past credit history and prior knowledge of debtor insolvency or other credit risk, and no one counterparty constitutes more than 5% of the 
balance (2012 8%). 
The ageing of trade receivables is detailed below: 
 2013 2012 
 
Gross
£m
Provision
£m
Net
£m
Gross 
£m 
Provision
£m
Net
£m
Not past due and not impaired 919 – 919 659 – 659
Up to 180 days overdue and not impaired 153 – 153 142 – 142
Up to 180 days overdue and impaired 1 (1) – 1 (1) –
Past 180 days overdue and not impaired 66 – 66 81 – 81
Past 180 days overdue and impaired 26 (26) – 30 (30) –
 1,165 (27) 1,138 913 (31) 882
Movements on the provision for bad debts are as follows: 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
At 1 January 31 39
Created 14 20
Released (16) (18)
Utilised (2) (7)
Foreign exchange adjustments – (1)
Other – (2)
At 31 December 27 31
Currency risk 
In order to protect itself against currency fluctuations, the Group’s policy is to hedge all material firm transactional exposures.  
The Group’s objective is to reduce its exposure to volatility in earnings and cash flows from movements in foreign currency exchange 
rates, mainly the US dollar, Euro and Saudi Riyal. 
The Group is exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates in respect of foreign currency denominated transactions. All 
material firm transactional exposures are hedged, unless otherwise approved as exceptions by the Treasury Review Management 
Committee, and the Group aims, where possible, to apply hedge accounting to these transactions. 
The Group is exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates in respect of the translation of net assets and income 
statements of foreign subsidiaries and equity accounted investments. The Group does not hedge the translation effect of exchange rate 
movements on the income statement or balance sheet of foreign subsidiaries and equity accounted investments it regards as long-term 
investments.   
 
  
29. Share-based payments  
The Group has granted equity-settled share options and Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) arrangements, and cash-settled share 
appreciation rights to employees.  
Equity-settled share options and LTIP arrangements are measured at fair value at the date of grant using an option pricing model.  
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the number of shares that 
will actually vest. 
Cash-settled share options are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date. The Group recognises a liability at the balance sheet 
date based on these fair values, and taking into account the estimated number that will actually vest and the relative completion of the 
vesting period. Changes in the value of this liability are recognised in the income statement for the year. 
Details of the terms and conditions of each share-based payment plan are given in the Annual remuneration report on pages 92 to 104.  
Expense in year 
 2013 2012 
 
Equity-settled
£m
Cash-settled
£m
Total
£m
Equity-settled 
£m 
Cash-settled
£m
Total
£m
Executive Share Option Plan (ExSOP)  3 36 2 2 4
Performance Share Plan (PSP) 8 –8 11 – 11
Restricted Share Plan (RSP) 7 –7 9 – 9
Share Matching Plan (SMP) – –– 2 – 2
 18 3 21 24 2 26
The Group also incurred a charge of £31m (2012 £33m) in respect of the equity-settled all-employee free shares and matching 
Partnership Shares elements of the Share Incentive Plan. 
ExSOP 
Equity-settled options 
 2013  2012 
 
Number of
 shares
’000
Weighted 
average 
 exercise 
price 
£  
Number of
 shares
’000
Weighted
average
 exercise
price
£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 23,014 3.24  10,624 3.61
Granted during the year 12,293 3.90  15,940 3.02
Exercised during the year (1,918) 2.37  (807) 2.29
Expired during the year (2,430) 3.62  (2,743) 3.70
Outstanding at the end of the year 30,959 3.52  23,014 3.24
Exercisable at the end of the year 5,674 3.95  8,307 3.62
Cash-settled share appreciation rights 
 2013  2012 
 
Number of
 shares
’000
Weighted 
average 
 exercise 
price 
£  
Number of
 shares
’000
Weighted
average
 exercise
price
£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 4,063 2.20  5,243 2.19
Exercised during the year (2,125) 2.03  (1,057) 2.14
Expired during the year (136) 2.30  (123) 2.36
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,802 2.38  4,063 2.20
Exercisable at the end of the year 1,802 2.38  4,063 2.20
 
 2013  2012 
Equity-settled Cash-settled  Equity-settled Cash-settled
Range of exercise price of outstanding options (£) 2.01 – 4.79 2.01 – 3.58  1.72 – 4.79 1.72 – 3.56
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 8 1  72
Weighted average fair value of options granted (£) 0.61 –  0.41 –
 
  
WORD_Background.indd   176 3/7/2014   1:59:23 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 177
Notes to the Group accounts — other information continued 
28. Financial risk management (continued)  
Borrowing facilities 
The Group’s objective is to maintain adequate undrawn committed borrowing facilities.  
At 31 December 2013, the Group had a committed Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) of £2bn (2012 £2bn). The RCF is contracted 
until 2018 and was undrawn throughout the year. The RCF also acts as a backstop to Commercial Paper issued by the Group. 
At 31 December 2013, the Group had no Commercial Paper in issue (2012 £nil). 
Cash management 
Cash flow forecasting is performed by the businesses on a monthly basis. The Group monitors a rolling forecast of its liquidity 
requirements to ensure that there is sufficient cash to meet operational needs and maintain adequate headroom.  
Surplus cash held by the businesses over and above balances required for working capital management is loaned to the Group’s 
centralised treasury department. Surplus cash is invested in interest bearing current accounts, term deposits, money market deposits 
and marketable securities, choosing instruments with appropriate maturities or sufficient liquidity to provide sufficient headroom as 
determined by cash forecasts.  
Credit risk  
Cash 
The Group’s objective is to monitor and control counterparty credit risk and credit limit utilisation. The Group adopts a conservative 
approach to the investment of its surplus cash. It is deposited with financial institutions with the strongest credit ratings for short 
periods. The cash and cash equivalents balance at 31 December 2013 of £2,222m (2012 £3,355m) was invested with 27 (2012 29) 
financial institutions. A credit limit is allocated to each institution taking account of its market capitalisation, credit rating and credit 
default swap price. The Group has no exposure to Greek, Irish, Italian, Portuguese or Spanish banks. Additionally, the Group monitors 
its exposure to banks which have exposure to these countries.  
The cash and cash equivalents of the Group are invested in non-speculative financial instruments which are usually highly liquid, such 
as short-term deposits. The Group, therefore, believes it has reduced its exposure to credit risk through this process.  
Trade receivables 
The Group has material receivables due from the UK, US and Saudi Arabian governments where credit risk is not considered an issue. 
For the remaining trade receivables, the bad debt provision has been calculated taking into account individual assessments based on 
past credit history and prior knowledge of debtor insolvency or other credit risk, and no one counterparty constitutes more than 5% of the 
balance (2012 8%). 
The ageing of trade receivables is detailed below: 
 2013 2012 
 
Gross
£m
Provision
£m
Net
£m
Gross 
£m 
Provision
£m
Net
£m
Not past due and not impaired 919 – 919 659 – 659
Up to 180 days overdue and not impaired 153 – 153 142 – 142
Up to 180 days overdue and impaired 1 (1) – 1 (1) –
Past 180 days overdue and not impaired 66 – 66 81 – 81
Past 180 days overdue and impaired 26 (26) – 30 (30) –
 1,165 (27) 1,138 913 (31) 882
Movements on the provision for bad debts are as follows: 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
At 1 January 31 39
Created 14 20
Released (16) (18)
Utilised (2) (7)
Foreign exchange adjustments – (1)
Other – (2)
At 31 December 27 31
Currency risk 
In order to protect itself against currency fluctuations, the Group’s policy is to hedge all material firm transactional exposures.  
The Group’s objective is to reduce its exposure to volatility in earnings and cash flows from movements in foreign currency exchange 
rates, mainly the US dollar, Euro and Saudi Riyal. 
The Group is exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates in respect of foreign currency denominated transactions. All 
material firm transactional exposures are hedged, unless otherwise approved as exceptions by the Treasury Review Management 
Committee, and the Group aims, where possible, to apply hedge accounting to these transactions. 
The Group is exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates in respect of the translation of net assets and income 
statements of foreign subsidiaries and equity accounted investments. The Group does not hedge the translation effect of exchange rate 
movements on the income statement or balance sheet of foreign subsidiaries and equity accounted investments it regards as long-term 
investments.   
 
  
29. Share-based payments  
The Group has granted equity-settled share options and Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) arrangements, and cash-settled share 
appreciation rights to employees.  
Equity-settled share options and LTIP arrangements are measured at fair value at the date of grant using an option pricing model.  
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the number of shares that 
will actually vest. 
Cash-settled share options are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date. The Group recognises a liability at the balance sheet 
date based on these fair values, and taking into account the estimated number that will actually vest and the relative completion of the 
vesting period. Changes in the value of this liability are recognised in the income statement for the year. 
Details of the terms and conditions of each share-based payment plan are given in the Annual remuneration report on pages 92 to 104.  
Expense in year 
 2013 2012 
 
Equity-settled
£m
Cash-settled
£m
Total
£m
Equity-settled 
£m 
Cash-settled
£m
Total
£m
Executive Share Option Plan (ExSOP)  3 36 2 2 4
Performance Share Plan (PSP) 8 –8 11 – 11
Restricted Share Plan (RSP) 7 –7 9 – 9
Share Matching Plan (SMP) – –– 2 – 2
 18 3 21 24 2 26
The Group also incurred a charge of £31m (2012 £33m) in respect of the equity-settled all-employee free shares and matching 
Partnership Shares elements of the Share Incentive Plan. 
ExSOP 
Equity-settled options 
 2013  2012 
 
Number of
 shares
’000
Weighted 
average 
 exercise 
price 
£  
Number of
 shares
’000
Weighted
average
 exercise
price
£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 23,014 3.24  10,624 3.61
Granted during the year 12,293 3.90  15,940 3.02
Exercised during the year (1,918) 2.37  (807) 2.29
Expired during the year (2,430) 3.62  (2,743) 3.70
Outstanding at the end of the year 30,959 3.52  23,014 3.24
Exercisable at the end of the year 5,674 3.95  8,307 3.62
Cash-settled share appreciation rights 
 2013  2012 
 
Number of
 shares
’000
Weighted 
average 
 exercise 
price 
£  
Number of
 shares
’000
Weighted
average
 exercise
price
£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 4,063 2.20  5,243 2.19
Exercised during the year (2,125) 2.03  (1,057) 2.14
Expired during the year (136) 2.30  (123) 2.36
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,802 2.38  4,063 2.20
Exercisable at the end of the year 1,802 2.38  4,063 2.20
 
 2013  2012 
Equity-settled Cash-settled  Equity-settled Cash-settled
Range of exercise price of outstanding options (£) 2.01 – 4.79 2.01 – 3.58  1.72 – 4.79 1.72 – 3.56
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 8 1  72
Weighted average fair value of options granted (£) 0.61 –  0.41 –
 
  
WORD_Background.indd   177 3/7/2014   1:59:24 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
178 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — other information continued 
29. Share-based payments (continued) 
PSP 
Equity-settled awards 
 
2013 
Number of 
shares 
’000 
2012
Number of
shares
’000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 26,834 31,698
Granted during the year 5,753 7,550
Exercised during the year (1,097) (2,056)
Expired during the year (9,797) (10,358)
Outstanding at the end of the year 21,693 26,834
Exercisable at the end of the year 720 416
Cash-settled share appreciation rights 
 
2013 
Number of 
shares 
’000 
2012
Number of
shares
’000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year – 25
Expired during the year – (25)
Outstanding at the end of the year – –
Exercisable at the end of the year – –
 
 2013  2012 
 Equity-settled Cash-settled  Equity-settled Cash-settled
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 5 –  5 –
Weighted average fair value of awards granted (£) 3.51 –  2.62 –
The exercise price for the PSP is £nil (2012 £nil). 
RSP 
All awards are equity-settled. 
 
2013 
Number of 
shares 
’000 
2012
Number of
shares
’000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 7,519 1,383
Granted during the year 1,373 7,310
Exercised during the year (1,887) (92)
Expired during the year (935) (1,082)
Outstanding at the end of the year 6,070 7,519
Exercisable at the end of the year – 8
 
 2013 2012
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 5 6
Weighted average fair value of awards granted (£) 3.90 3.01
The exercise price for the RSP is £nil (2012 £nil). 
  
 
  
29. Share-based payments (continued) 
SMP 
All awards are equity-settled. 
 
2013 
Number of 
shares 
’000 
2012 
Number of 
shares 
’000 
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 13,334 16,621 
Granted during the year 2,766 3,952 
Exercised during the year – (2,521) 
Expired during the year (4,899) (4,718) 
Outstanding at the end of the year 11,201 13,334 
Exercisable at the end of the year – – 
 
 2013 2012 
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 1 1 
Weighted average fair value of awards granted (£) 3.89 3.01 
The exercise price for the SMP is £nil (2012 £nil).  
Details of options/awards granted in the year 
The fair value of equity-settled options/awards granted in the year has been measured using the weighted average inputs below and the 
following valuation models:  
ExSOP – Binomial model 
PSP – Monte Carlo 
RSP and SMP – Dividend valuation model 
 2013 2012 
Range of share price at date of grant (£) 3.89 – 4.40 3.01 – 3.29 
Expected option/award life (years) 3 – 10 3 – 10 
Volatility (%) 24 – 25 24 
Risk free interest rate (%) 0.2 – 0.9 0.3 – 0.5 
Volatility was calculated with reference to the Group’s weekly share price volatility, after allowing for dividends and stock splits, for the 
greater of 30 weeks or for the period until vest date. 
The average share price in the year was £4.07 (2012 £3.10). 
30. Related party transactions 
The Group has a related party relationship with its directors and key management personnel (see below), equity accounted investments 
(note 14) and pension schemes (note 23). 
Transactions occur with the equity accounted investments in the normal course of business, are priced on an arm’s-length basis and 
settled on normal trade terms. The more significant transactions are disclosed below:  
 
Sales to  
related party 
Purchases from 
related party 
Amounts owed by 
related party  
Amounts owed to 
related party 
Management 
recharges 
Related party 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m 
2013  
£m  
2012  
£m  
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Advanced Electronics Company Limited 1 – 50 19 – – –  –  – – 
CTA International SAS 1 1 – – 1 2 –  –  – – 
Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH 1,048 1,324 – – 30 136 92
1
 161
1
 – – 
FADEC International LLC 61 52 – – – – –  –  – – 
Gripen International KB – – – – 17 17 16
1
 60
1
 – – 
MBDA SAS 17 21 134 166 6 7 454
1
 487
1
 17
1
18
1
Panavia Aircraft GmbH 39 35 64 65 2 1 –  –  – – 
Saudi Development and Training Company 
Limited 1 – 15 – – – 1
1
 –  – – 
 1,168 1,433 263 250 56 163 563  708  17 18 
1 Also relates to disclosures under Financial Reporting Standard 8, Related Party Disclosures, for the parent company, BAE Systems plc. At 31 December 2013, 
£560m (2012 £705m) was owed by BAE Systems plc and £3m (2012 £3m) by other Group subsidiaries. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   178 3/7/2014   1:59:24 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 179
Notes to the Group accounts — other information continued 
29. Share-based payments (continued) 
PSP 
Equity-settled awards 
 
2013 
Number of 
shares 
’000 
2012
Number of
shares
’000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 26,834 31,698
Granted during the year 5,753 7,550
Exercised during the year (1,097) (2,056)
Expired during the year (9,797) (10,358)
Outstanding at the end of the year 21,693 26,834
Exercisable at the end of the year 720 416
Cash-settled share appreciation rights 
 
2013 
Number of 
shares 
’000 
2012
Number of
shares
’000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year – 25
Expired during the year – (25)
Outstanding at the end of the year – –
Exercisable at the end of the year – –
 
 2013  2012 
 Equity-settled Cash-settled  Equity-settled Cash-settled
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 5 –  5 –
Weighted average fair value of awards granted (£) 3.51 –  2.62 –
The exercise price for the PSP is £nil (2012 £nil). 
RSP 
All awards are equity-settled. 
 
2013 
Number of 
shares 
’000 
2012
Number of
shares
’000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 7,519 1,383
Granted during the year 1,373 7,310
Exercised during the year (1,887) (92)
Expired during the year (935) (1,082)
Outstanding at the end of the year 6,070 7,519
Exercisable at the end of the year – 8
 
 2013 2012
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 5 6
Weighted average fair value of awards granted (£) 3.90 3.01
The exercise price for the RSP is £nil (2012 £nil). 
  
 
  
29. Share-based payments (continued) 
SMP 
All awards are equity-settled. 
 
2013 
Number of 
shares 
’000 
2012 
Number of 
shares 
’000 
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 13,334 16,621 
Granted during the year 2,766 3,952 
Exercised during the year – (2,521) 
Expired during the year (4,899) (4,718) 
Outstanding at the end of the year 11,201 13,334 
Exercisable at the end of the year – – 
 
 2013 2012 
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 1 1 
Weighted average fair value of awards granted (£) 3.89 3.01 
The exercise price for the SMP is £nil (2012 £nil).  
Details of options/awards granted in the year 
The fair value of equity-settled options/awards granted in the year has been measured using the weighted average inputs below and the 
following valuation models:  
ExSOP – Binomial model 
PSP – Monte Carlo 
RSP and SMP – Dividend valuation model 
 2013 2012 
Range of share price at date of grant (£) 3.89 – 4.40 3.01 – 3.29 
Expected option/award life (years) 3 – 10 3 – 10 
Volatility (%) 24 – 25 24 
Risk free interest rate (%) 0.2 – 0.9 0.3 – 0.5 
Volatility was calculated with reference to the Group’s weekly share price volatility, after allowing for dividends and stock splits, for the 
greater of 30 weeks or for the period until vest date. 
The average share price in the year was £4.07 (2012 £3.10). 
30. Related party transactions 
The Group has a related party relationship with its directors and key management personnel (see below), equity accounted investments 
(note 14) and pension schemes (note 23). 
Transactions occur with the equity accounted investments in the normal course of business, are priced on an arm’s-length basis and 
settled on normal trade terms. The more significant transactions are disclosed below:  
 
Sales to  
related party 
Purchases from 
related party 
Amounts owed by 
related party  
Amounts owed to 
related party 
Management 
recharges 
Related party 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m 
2013  
£m  
2012  
£m  
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Advanced Electronics Company Limited 1 – 50 19 – – –  –  – – 
CTA International SAS 1 1 – – 1 2 –  –  – – 
Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH 1,048 1,324 – – 30 136 92
1
 161
1
 – – 
FADEC International LLC 61 52 – – – – –  –  – – 
Gripen International KB – – – – 17 17 16
1
 60
1
 – – 
MBDA SAS 17 21 134 166 6 7 454
1
 487
1
 17
1
18
1
Panavia Aircraft GmbH 39 35 64 65 2 1 –  –  – – 
Saudi Development and Training Company 
Limited 1 – 15 – – – 1
1
 –  – – 
 1,168 1,433 263 250 56 163 563  708  17 18 
1 Also relates to disclosures under Financial Reporting Standard 8, Related Party Disclosures, for the parent company, BAE Systems plc. At 31 December 2013, 
£560m (2012 £705m) was owed by BAE Systems plc and £3m (2012 £3m) by other Group subsidiaries. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   179 3/7/2014   1:59:24 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
180 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Group accounts — other information continued 
30. Related party transactions (continued) 
The Group considers key management personnel as defined under IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, to be the members of the Group’s 
Executive Committee and the Company’s non-executive directors. Fuller disclosures on directors’ remuneration are set out in the Annual 
remuneration report on pages 92 to 104. Total emoluments for directors and key management personnel charged to the consolidated 
income statement were:  
 
2013 
£’000 
2012
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 13,418 14,375
Post-employment benefits 1,676 2,163
Termination benefits 611 –
Share-based payments 4,163 4,029
 19,868 20,567
31. Contingent liabilities and commitments 
Customer dispute 
Since 2009, BAE Systems, Inc. has been in dispute with a customer, AM General LLC. On 2 April 2013, the Superior Court in Gary, 
Indiana, USA, issued a ruling in favour of AM General’s claim, denying a counterclaim from BAE Systems, Inc. and entering judgement 
against BAE Systems, Inc. which, including pre-judgement and estimated post-judgement interest amounts to $290m (£175m). 
BAE Systems disagrees with the trial court’s ruling and is currently appealing that decision. The process is expected to run into 2015 
or later. 
Guarantees and performance bonds 
The Group has entered into a number of guarantee and performance bond arrangements in the normal course of business and regards 
these as insurance contracts. Provision is made for any amounts that the directors consider may become payable under such 
arrangements. 
Operating lease commitments – where the Group is the lessee 
The Group leases various offices, factories and shipyards under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have varying 
terms including escalation clauses, renewal rights and purchase options. None of these terms represent unusual arrangements or 
create material onerous or beneficial rights or obligations. 
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases and associated future minimum sublease income 
are as follows: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m
Payments due:  
Not later than one year 166 169
Later than one year and not later than five years 506 518
Later than five years 630 621
 1,302 1,308
 
 
Total of future minimum sublease income under non-cancellable subleases  166 188
Capital commitments 
Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided for in the accounts is as follows: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m
Property, plant and equipment 91 103
Intangible assets 18 2
 109 105
  
 
  
32. Group entities 
Principal subsidiary undertakings Principal activities 
Group interest 
in allotted 
capital 
Principally 
operates 
in
Country of 
incorporation
BAE Systems (Operations) Limited  
(Held via BAE Systems Enterprises Limited and 
BAE Systems (Overseas Holdings) Limited) 
Defence and commercial aerospace 
activities 
100% 
ordinary 
UK England and 
Wales
BAE Systems Controls Inc.  
(Held via BAE Systems, Inc.) 
Designs, develops and manufactures 
electronic systems for commercial and 
military applications  
100% 
common 
US US
BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems 
Integration Inc.  
(Held via BAE Systems, Inc.) 
Designs, develops and manufactures 
electronic systems and subsystems 
100% 
common 
US US
BAE Systems Information Solutions Inc. 
(Held via BAE Systems Technology Solutions & Services 
Inc.) 
Full-service information technology solution 
provider 
100% 
common 
US US
BAE Systems Land & Armaments LP 
1300 North 17th Street, Suite 1400, Arlington 
VA 22209, USA  
(Partners: BAE Systems Land & Armaments Inc. and 
BAE Systems Land & Armaments Holdings Inc.) 
Manufactures and supports military 
vehicles 
100% US US
BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited 
(Held via BAE Systems Surface Ships (Holdings) 
Limited) 
Designs, develops and constructs surface 
ships in the naval arena, and provides 
fleet support services  
100% 
ordinary 
UK England and 
Wales
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under Section 410(2) of the Companies Act 2006 by providing information only in 
relation to subsidiary undertakings whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the directors, principally affected the financial 
statements. Accordingly, the subsidiaries listed in the table above are those that represent more than 5% of total Group sales or 
underlying EBITA
1
. A full list of subsidiary, equity accounted investments and other associated undertakings as at 31 December 2013 
will be annexed to the Company’s next annual return filed with the Registrar of Companies. 
No subsidiary undertakings are excluded from the Group accounts. 
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items. 
33. Events after the balance sheet date  
In February 2014, the governments of the UK and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia agreed price escalation terms relating to the Typhoon aircraft 
under the Salam programme and these have been reflected in contractual arrangements between the UK government and BAE Systems. 
Accordingly, an adjustment has been made to sales and profit in 2013, reflecting the goods and services provided to the customer in 
both the current and prior years.  
WORD_Background.indd   180 3/7/2014   1:59:24 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 181
Notes to the Group accounts — other information continued 
30. Related party transactions (continued) 
The Group considers key management personnel as defined under IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, to be the members of the Group’s 
Executive Committee and the Company’s non-executive directors. Fuller disclosures on directors’ remuneration are set out in the Annual 
remuneration report on pages 92 to 104. Total emoluments for directors and key management personnel charged to the consolidated 
income statement were:  
 
2013 
£’000 
2012
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 13,418 14,375
Post-employment benefits 1,676 2,163
Termination benefits 611 –
Share-based payments 4,163 4,029
 19,868 20,567
31. Contingent liabilities and commitments 
Customer dispute 
Since 2009, BAE Systems, Inc. has been in dispute with a customer, AM General LLC. On 2 April 2013, the Superior Court in Gary, 
Indiana, USA, issued a ruling in favour of AM General’s claim, denying a counterclaim from BAE Systems, Inc. and entering judgement 
against BAE Systems, Inc. which, including pre-judgement and estimated post-judgement interest amounts to $290m (£175m). 
BAE Systems disagrees with the trial court’s ruling and is currently appealing that decision. The process is expected to run into 2015 
or later. 
Guarantees and performance bonds 
The Group has entered into a number of guarantee and performance bond arrangements in the normal course of business and regards 
these as insurance contracts. Provision is made for any amounts that the directors consider may become payable under such 
arrangements. 
Operating lease commitments – where the Group is the lessee 
The Group leases various offices, factories and shipyards under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have varying 
terms including escalation clauses, renewal rights and purchase options. None of these terms represent unusual arrangements or 
create material onerous or beneficial rights or obligations. 
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases and associated future minimum sublease income 
are as follows: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m
Payments due:  
Not later than one year 166 169
Later than one year and not later than five years 506 518
Later than five years 630 621
 1,302 1,308
 
 
Total of future minimum sublease income under non-cancellable subleases  166 188
Capital commitments 
Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided for in the accounts is as follows: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m
Property, plant and equipment 91 103
Intangible assets 18 2
 109 105
  
 
  
32. Group entities 
Principal subsidiary undertakings Principal activities 
Group interest 
in allotted 
capital 
Principally 
operates 
in
Country of 
incorporation
BAE Systems (Operations) Limited  
(Held via BAE Systems Enterprises Limited and 
BAE Systems (Overseas Holdings) Limited) 
Defence and commercial aerospace 
activities 
100% 
ordinary 
UK England and 
Wales
BAE Systems Controls Inc.  
(Held via BAE Systems, Inc.) 
Designs, develops and manufactures 
electronic systems for commercial and 
military applications  
100% 
common 
US US
BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems 
Integration Inc.  
(Held via BAE Systems, Inc.) 
Designs, develops and manufactures 
electronic systems and subsystems 
100% 
common 
US US
BAE Systems Information Solutions Inc. 
(Held via BAE Systems Technology Solutions & Services 
Inc.) 
Full-service information technology solution 
provider 
100% 
common 
US US
BAE Systems Land & Armaments LP 
1300 North 17th Street, Suite 1400, Arlington 
VA 22209, USA  
(Partners: BAE Systems Land & Armaments Inc. and 
BAE Systems Land & Armaments Holdings Inc.) 
Manufactures and supports military 
vehicles 
100% US US
BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited 
(Held via BAE Systems Surface Ships (Holdings) 
Limited) 
Designs, develops and constructs surface 
ships in the naval arena, and provides 
fleet support services  
100% 
ordinary 
UK England and 
Wales
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under Section 410(2) of the Companies Act 2006 by providing information only in 
relation to subsidiary undertakings whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the directors, principally affected the financial 
statements. Accordingly, the subsidiaries listed in the table above are those that represent more than 5% of total Group sales or 
underlying EBITA
1
. A full list of subsidiary, equity accounted investments and other associated undertakings as at 31 December 2013 
will be annexed to the Company’s next annual return filed with the Registrar of Companies. 
No subsidiary undertakings are excluded from the Group accounts. 
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items. 
33. Events after the balance sheet date  
In February 2014, the governments of the UK and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia agreed price escalation terms relating to the Typhoon aircraft 
under the Salam programme and these have been reflected in contractual arrangements between the UK government and BAE Systems. 
Accordingly, an adjustment has been made to sales and profit in 2013, reflecting the goods and services provided to the customer in 
both the current and prior years.  
WORD_Background.indd   181 3/7/2014   1:59:24 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
182 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Company balance sheet 
as at 31 December 
 Notes 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Fixed assets  
Tangible assets  10 9
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 2 8,057 8,055
  8,067 8,064
Current assets  
Debtors due within one year 3 3,662 8,412
Debtors due after one year  22 9
Other financial assets due within one year 4 126 116
Other financial assets due after one year 4 80 100
Cash at bank and in hand  1,732 2,679
  5,622 11,316
Liabilities falling due within one year  
Loans and overdrafts 5 (100) (21)
Creditors 6 (8,223) (13,846)
Other financial liabilities 4 (141) (113)
  (8,464) (13,980)
Net current liabilities  (2,842) (2,664)
Total assets less current liabilities  5,225 5,400
Liabilities falling due after one year  
Loans 5 (1,159) (1,262)
Creditors 6 (21) (30)
Other financial liabilities 4 (86) (95)
  (1,266) (1,387)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 7 (52) (52)
Net assets  3,907 3,961
  
Capital and reserves  
Issued share capital 9 89 90
Share premium account 11 1,249 1,249
Statutory reserve 11 202 202
Other reserves 11 88 90
Profit and loss account 11 2,279 2,330
Equity shareholders’ funds  3,907 3,961
Approved by the Board on 19 February 2014 and signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
I G King P J Lynas 
Chief Executive Group Finance Director  
  
Notes to the Company accounts 
  
1. Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical 
cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale 
financial assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities 
(including derivative instruments) at fair value through profit or 
loss, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in 
the UK (UK GAAP). The going concern basis has been applied in 
these accounts. 
In the Company’s accounts, all fixed asset investments (including 
subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures) are stated at cost (or 
valuation in respect of certain listed investments) less provisions 
for impairments. Dividends received and receivable are credited to 
the Company’s profit and loss account. In accordance with 
Section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is 
exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss 
account. The amount of profit for the financial year of the 
Company is disclosed in note 11 to these accounts. The Company 
has no other recognised gains or losses in the current or 
preceding year and, therefore, no statement of recognised gains 
or losses is presented.  
Relief under Sections 612 and 616 of the Companies Act 2006 
is taken wherever possible. Accordingly, where such relief is 
available, the difference between the fair value and aggregate 
nominal value of shares is not recognised in either shareholders’ 
funds or cost of investment. 
Cash flow statement 
The Company is exempt under the terms of FRS 1, Cash Flow 
Statements, from the requirement to publish its own cash flow 
statement, as its cash flows are included within the consolidated 
cash flow statement of the Group. 
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange 
rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at 
the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. These 
exchange differences are recognised in the profit and loss account 
unless they qualify for hedge accounting treatment, in which case 
the effective portion is recognised directly in a separate 
component of equity. 
Tangible fixed assets 
Depreciation is provided, normally on a straight-line basis, to 
write off the cost or valuation of tangible fixed assets over their 
estimated useful economic lives to any estimated residual value 
using the following rates: 
Buildings up to 50 years, or the lease term 
if shorter 
Computing equipment  5 years 
No depreciation is provided on freehold land and assets in the 
course of construction. 
Impairment reviews are undertaken if there are indications that 
the carrying values may not be recoverable. 
Leases 
Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the 
profit and loss account on a straight-line basis in arriving at 
operating profit. 
Investments 
The Company’s investment in shares in Group companies is 
stated at cost less provision for impairment. 
Financial instruments 
The policies disclosed in note 16 to the Group accounts for 
recognition, measurement and presentation of financial 
instruments are applied in the Company accounts. 
Tax 
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year 
and takes account of taxation deferred because of timing 
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation 
and accounting purposes. Deferred tax is recognised on an 
undiscounted basis in respect of all timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting 
purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance 
sheet date where there is an obligation to pay more tax, or a 
right to pay less tax, in the future. 
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
The Company contributes to Group pension schemes operated 
in the UK. Details of the principal schemes and the financial 
assumptions used are contained in the consolidated accounts 
of the Group. As permitted by FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, the 
schemes are accounted for as defined contribution schemes, as 
the employer cannot identify its share of the underlying assets 
and liabilities of the schemes. The employer’s contributions are 
set in relation to the current service period and also to fund a 
series of agreed measures to address the pension scheme 
funding deficits. 
Share-based payment compensation 
The Company has granted equity-settled share options and 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) arrangements to Group employees. 
Equity-settled share options and LTIP arrangements are measured 
at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value of awards granted 
to employees of the Company is expensed on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of the 
number of shares that will actually vest. The cost of awards to 
employees of subsidiary undertakings is accounted for as an 
additional investment in the employing subsidiary.  
In accordance with Urgent Issues Task Force (UITF) Abstract 25, 
National Insurance Contributions on Share Option Gains, the 
Company provides in full for the employer’s national insurance 
liability estimated to arise on the future exercise of share options 
and LTIP arrangements granted, except where the employee has 
agreed to settle the employer’s national insurance liability as a 
condition of grant. 
Own shares held 
As required under UITF Abstract 38, Accounting for ESOP Trusts, 
the cost to the Company of own shares held is shown as a 
deduction from shareholders’ funds within the profit and loss 
account. Consideration paid or received for the purchase or sale 
of the Company’s own shares in the ESOP Trust is shown 
separately in the reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ 
funds. 
Dividends 
Equity dividends on ordinary share capital are recognised as 
a liability in the period in which they are declared. The interim 
dividend is recognised when it has been approved by the Board 
and the final dividend is recognised when it has been approved 
by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. 
WORD_Background.indd   182 3/7/2014   1:59:25 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 183
Company balance sheet 
as at 31 December 
 Notes 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Fixed assets  
Tangible assets  10 9
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 2 8,057 8,055
  8,067 8,064
Current assets  
Debtors due within one year 3 3,662 8,412
Debtors due after one year  22 9
Other financial assets due within one year 4 126 116
Other financial assets due after one year 4 80 100
Cash at bank and in hand  1,732 2,679
  5,622 11,316
Liabilities falling due within one year  
Loans and overdrafts 5 (100) (21)
Creditors 6 (8,223) (13,846)
Other financial liabilities 4 (141) (113)
  (8,464) (13,980)
Net current liabilities  (2,842) (2,664)
Total assets less current liabilities  5,225 5,400
Liabilities falling due after one year  
Loans 5 (1,159) (1,262)
Creditors 6 (21) (30)
Other financial liabilities 4 (86) (95)
  (1,266) (1,387)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 7 (52) (52)
Net assets  3,907 3,961
  
Capital and reserves  
Issued share capital 9 89 90
Share premium account 11 1,249 1,249
Statutory reserve 11 202 202
Other reserves 11 88 90
Profit and loss account 11 2,279 2,330
Equity shareholders’ funds  3,907 3,961
Approved by the Board on 19 February 2014 and signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
I G King P J Lynas 
Chief Executive Group Finance Director  
  
Notes to the Company accounts 
  
1. Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical 
cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale 
financial assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities 
(including derivative instruments) at fair value through profit or 
loss, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in 
the UK (UK GAAP). The going concern basis has been applied in 
these accounts. 
In the Company’s accounts, all fixed asset investments (including 
subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures) are stated at cost (or 
valuation in respect of certain listed investments) less provisions 
for impairments. Dividends received and receivable are credited to 
the Company’s profit and loss account. In accordance with 
Section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is 
exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss 
account. The amount of profit for the financial year of the 
Company is disclosed in note 11 to these accounts. The Company 
has no other recognised gains or losses in the current or 
preceding year and, therefore, no statement of recognised gains 
or losses is presented.  
Relief under Sections 612 and 616 of the Companies Act 2006 
is taken wherever possible. Accordingly, where such relief is 
available, the difference between the fair value and aggregate 
nominal value of shares is not recognised in either shareholders’ 
funds or cost of investment. 
Cash flow statement 
The Company is exempt under the terms of FRS 1, Cash Flow 
Statements, from the requirement to publish its own cash flow 
statement, as its cash flows are included within the consolidated 
cash flow statement of the Group. 
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange 
rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at 
the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. These 
exchange differences are recognised in the profit and loss account 
unless they qualify for hedge accounting treatment, in which case 
the effective portion is recognised directly in a separate 
component of equity. 
Tangible fixed assets 
Depreciation is provided, normally on a straight-line basis, to 
write off the cost or valuation of tangible fixed assets over their 
estimated useful economic lives to any estimated residual value 
using the following rates: 
Buildings up to 50 years, or the lease term 
if shorter 
Computing equipment  5 years 
No depreciation is provided on freehold land and assets in the 
course of construction. 
Impairment reviews are undertaken if there are indications that 
the carrying values may not be recoverable. 
Leases 
Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the 
profit and loss account on a straight-line basis in arriving at 
operating profit. 
Investments 
The Company’s investment in shares in Group companies is 
stated at cost less provision for impairment. 
Financial instruments 
The policies disclosed in note 16 to the Group accounts for 
recognition, measurement and presentation of financial 
instruments are applied in the Company accounts. 
Tax 
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year 
and takes account of taxation deferred because of timing 
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation 
and accounting purposes. Deferred tax is recognised on an 
undiscounted basis in respect of all timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting 
purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance 
sheet date where there is an obligation to pay more tax, or a 
right to pay less tax, in the future. 
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
The Company contributes to Group pension schemes operated 
in the UK. Details of the principal schemes and the financial 
assumptions used are contained in the consolidated accounts 
of the Group. As permitted by FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, the 
schemes are accounted for as defined contribution schemes, as 
the employer cannot identify its share of the underlying assets 
and liabilities of the schemes. The employer’s contributions are 
set in relation to the current service period and also to fund a 
series of agreed measures to address the pension scheme 
funding deficits. 
Share-based payment compensation 
The Company has granted equity-settled share options and 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) arrangements to Group employees. 
Equity-settled share options and LTIP arrangements are measured 
at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value of awards granted 
to employees of the Company is expensed on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of the 
number of shares that will actually vest. The cost of awards to 
employees of subsidiary undertakings is accounted for as an 
additional investment in the employing subsidiary.  
In accordance with Urgent Issues Task Force (UITF) Abstract 25, 
National Insurance Contributions on Share Option Gains, the 
Company provides in full for the employer’s national insurance 
liability estimated to arise on the future exercise of share options 
and LTIP arrangements granted, except where the employee has 
agreed to settle the employer’s national insurance liability as a 
condition of grant. 
Own shares held 
As required under UITF Abstract 38, Accounting for ESOP Trusts, 
the cost to the Company of own shares held is shown as a 
deduction from shareholders’ funds within the profit and loss 
account. Consideration paid or received for the purchase or sale 
of the Company’s own shares in the ESOP Trust is shown 
separately in the reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ 
funds. 
Dividends 
Equity dividends on ordinary share capital are recognised as 
a liability in the period in which they are declared. The interim 
dividend is recognised when it has been approved by the Board 
and the final dividend is recognised when it has been approved 
by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. 
WORD_Background.indd   183 3/7/2014   1:59:25 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
184 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Company accounts continued 
2. Investments in subsidiary undertakings 
 £m
Cost 
At 1 January 2013 8,116
Additions
1
 7
Disposals (5)
At 31 December 2013 8,118
Impairment provisions 
At 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2013 61
Net carrying value 
At 31 December 2013 8,057
At 31 December 2012 8,055
1 Comprises the cost of share-based payments in respect of employees of subsidiary undertakings.  
3. Debtors 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Due within one year 
Corporation tax recoverable 32 32
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 3,585 8,340
Amounts owed by Group joint ventures 5 7
Prepayments and accrued income 24 25
Other debtors 16 8
 3,662 8,412
4. Other financial assets and liabilities 
 
2013 
Assets
£m
2013 
Liabilities 
£m 
2012
Assets
£m
2012
Liabilities
£m
Due within one year  
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts – (2) 1 (1)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts 126 (139) 115 (112)
 126 (141) 116 (113)
Due after one year  
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts – (2) – (1)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts 80 (84) 91 (94)
Debt-related derivative financial instruments – assets
1
 – – 9–
 80 (86) 100 (95)
1 The debt-related derivative financial instrument assets are presented as other financial assets. Debt-related derivative financial instrument liabilities are presented 
as a component of loans and overdrafts (see note 5).  
Full disclosures relating to the Group’s other financial assets and liabilities, and financial risk management strategies are given in notes 
16, 27 and 28 to the Group accounts.  
  
 
  
5. Loans and overdrafts 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Due within one year 
Euro-Sterling £100m 10¾% bond, repayable 2014 100 –
Overdrafts – 21
 100 21
Due after one year 
Euro-Sterling £100m 10¾% bond, repayable 2014 – 100
US$350m 3.5% bond, repayable 2016 211 214
US$500m 4.75% bond, repayable 2021 301 307
£400m 4.125% bond, repayable 2022 397 397
US$400m 5.8% bond, repayable 2041 238 243
Debt-related derivative financial instruments – liabilities 12 1
 1,159 1,262
6. Creditors 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Due within one year 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 7,338 12,802
Amounts owed to Group joint ventures 560 705
Accruals and deferred income 45 42
Other creditors 280 297
 8,223 13,846
Due after one year 
Other creditors 21 30
 21 30
7. Provisions for liabilities and charges 
 
Contracts
and other
£m
At 1 January 2013 52
Created 15
Utilised (16)
Released (2)
Discounting 3
At 31 December 2013 52
The Company holds provisions for contractual costs that it expects to incur over an extended period. These costs are based on past 
experience of similar items and represent management’s best estimate of the likely outcome. 
8. Contingent liabilities 
Company guaranteed borrowings 
Borrowings by subsidiary undertakings totalling £1,661m (2012 £1,699m) which are included in the Group’s borrowings have been 
guaranteed by the Company.  
WORD_Background.indd   184 3/7/2014   1:59:25 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 185
Notes to the Company accounts continued 
2. Investments in subsidiary undertakings 
 £m
Cost 
At 1 January 2013 8,116
Additions
1
 7
Disposals (5)
At 31 December 2013 8,118
Impairment provisions 
At 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2013 61
Net carrying value 
At 31 December 2013 8,057
At 31 December 2012 8,055
1 Comprises the cost of share-based payments in respect of employees of subsidiary undertakings.  
3. Debtors 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Due within one year 
Corporation tax recoverable 32 32
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 3,585 8,340
Amounts owed by Group joint ventures 5 7
Prepayments and accrued income 24 25
Other debtors 16 8
 3,662 8,412
4. Other financial assets and liabilities 
 
2013 
Assets
£m
2013 
Liabilities 
£m 
2012
Assets
£m
2012
Liabilities
£m
Due within one year  
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts – (2) 1 (1)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts 126 (139) 115 (112)
 126 (141) 116 (113)
Due after one year  
Cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts – (2) – (1)
Other foreign exchange/interest rate contracts 80 (84) 91 (94)
Debt-related derivative financial instruments – assets
1
 – – 9–
 80 (86) 100 (95)
1 The debt-related derivative financial instrument assets are presented as other financial assets. Debt-related derivative financial instrument liabilities are presented 
as a component of loans and overdrafts (see note 5).  
Full disclosures relating to the Group’s other financial assets and liabilities, and financial risk management strategies are given in notes 
16, 27 and 28 to the Group accounts.  
  
 
  
5. Loans and overdrafts 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Due within one year 
Euro-Sterling £100m 10¾% bond, repayable 2014 100 –
Overdrafts – 21
 100 21
Due after one year 
Euro-Sterling £100m 10¾% bond, repayable 2014 – 100
US$350m 3.5% bond, repayable 2016 211 214
US$500m 4.75% bond, repayable 2021 301 307
£400m 4.125% bond, repayable 2022 397 397
US$400m 5.8% bond, repayable 2041 238 243
Debt-related derivative financial instruments – liabilities 12 1
 1,159 1,262
6. Creditors 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Due within one year 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 7,338 12,802
Amounts owed to Group joint ventures 560 705
Accruals and deferred income 45 42
Other creditors 280 297
 8,223 13,846
Due after one year 
Other creditors 21 30
 21 30
7. Provisions for liabilities and charges 
 
Contracts
and other
£m
At 1 January 2013 52
Created 15
Utilised (16)
Released (2)
Discounting 3
At 31 December 2013 52
The Company holds provisions for contractual costs that it expects to incur over an extended period. These costs are based on past 
experience of similar items and represent management’s best estimate of the likely outcome. 
8. Contingent liabilities 
Company guaranteed borrowings 
Borrowings by subsidiary undertakings totalling £1,661m (2012 £1,699m) which are included in the Group’s borrowings have been 
guaranteed by the Company.  
WORD_Background.indd   185 3/7/2014   1:59:25 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
186 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Company accounts continued 
9. Share capital 
 Equity  Non-equity  Total 
 Ordinary shares of 2.5p each  Special Share of £1   
 
Number of
shares
m
Nominal
value
£m 
Number of 
shares 
 
Nominal
value
£
Nominal
value
£m
Issued and fully paid  
At 1 January 2012 and 1 January 2013 3,588 90 1 1 90
Repurchased and cancelled (52) (1) – – (1)
At 31 December 2013 3,536 89 1 1 89
Special Share 
One Special Share of £1 in the Company is held on behalf of the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills (the Special 
Shareholder). Certain provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association cannot be amended without the consent of the Special 
Shareholder. These provisions include the requirement that no foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, can have more than 
a 15% voting interest in the Company, the requirement that the majority of the directors are British, and the requirement that the Chief 
Executive and any executive Chairman are British citizens. The effect of these requirements can also be amended by regulations made 
by the directors and approved by the Special Shareholder. 
The Special Shareholder may require the Company at any time to redeem the Special Share at par or to convert the Special Share into 
one ordinary voting share. The Special Shareholder is entitled to receive notice of and to attend general meetings and class meetings of 
the Company’s shareholders but has no voting right, nor other rights, other than to speak in relation to any business in respect of the 
Special Share. 
Share buyback 
In 2013, 51,595,000 ordinary shares of 2.5p were repurchased under the buyback programme (2012 nil).  
Treasury shares 
As at 31 December 2013, 327,644,952 (2012 336,813,996) ordinary shares of 2.5p each with an aggregate nominal value of 
£8,191,124 (2012 £8,420,350) were held in treasury. During 2013, 9,169,044 treasury shares were used to satisfy awards and 
options under the Share Incentive Plan, Performance Share Plan, Restricted Share Plan and Executive Share Option Plan (2012 
14,942,858 in respect of the Share Incentive Plan, Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan, Restricted Share Plan and Executive 
Share Option Plan). 
  
 
  
10. Employee share plans 
Options over shares of the ultimate parent undertaking, BAE Systems plc, have been granted to employees of the Company under 
various plans. Details of the terms and conditions of each share-based payment plan are given in the Annual remuneration report on 
pages 92 to 104.  
 Executive Share Option Plan 
 2013  2012 
 
Number of 
shares 
’000 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
£  
Number of
shares
’000
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 9,601 3.30  5,539 3.64
Granted during the year 3,798 3.90  4,975 3.02
Exercised during the year (1,056) 2.06  (200) 2.39
Expired during the year (634) 3.92  (713) 4.29
Outstanding at the end of the year 11,709 3.57  9,601 3.30
    
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years)  7  6
Weighted average fair value of options granted (£) 0.59  0.38
Range of exercise price of outstanding options (£) 2.01 – 4.79  1.72 – 4.79
Expense recognised for the year (£m)  1  1
 
 Share Matching Plan  Performance Share Plan  Restricted Share Plan 
 
2013
Number of
 shares
’000
2012
Number of
shares
’000
2013 
Number of 
 shares 
’000 
2012 
Number of 
shares 
’000  
2013
Number of
 shares
’000
2012
Number of
shares
’000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 5,690 5,732 10,519 11,910  101 9
Granted during the year 1,446 2,055 1,798 2,426  10 83
Exercised during the year – (958) (500) (805)  (53) –
Expired during the year (1,969) (1,139) (3,536) (3,012)  (29) 9
Outstanding at the end of the year 5,167 5,690 8,281 10,519  29 101
    
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 1 1 5 5  5 6
Weighted average fair value of awards granted (£) 3.89 3.01 3.18 2.29  3.89 3.01
Expense recognised for the year (£m) – 1 3 5  – –
The exercise price for the Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan and Restricted Share Plan is £nil (2012 £nil). 
Information on options/awards granted in the year can be found in note 29 to the Group accounts. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   186 3/7/2014   1:59:25 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 187
Notes to the Company accounts continued 
9. Share capital 
 Equity  Non-equity  Total 
 Ordinary shares of 2.5p each  Special Share of £1   
 
Number of
shares
m
Nominal
value
£m 
Number of 
shares 
 
Nominal
value
£
Nominal
value
£m
Issued and fully paid  
At 1 January 2012 and 1 January 2013 3,588 90 1 1 90
Repurchased and cancelled (52) (1) – – (1)
At 31 December 2013 3,536 89 1 1 89
Special share 
One Special Share of £1 in the Company is held on behalf of the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills (the Special 
Shareholder). Certain provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association cannot be amended without the consent of the Special 
Shareholder. These provisions include the requirement that no foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, can have more than 
a 15% voting interest in the Company, the requirement that the majority of the directors are British, and the requirement that the Chief 
Executive and any executive Chairman are British citizens. The effect of these requirements can also be amended by regulations made 
by the directors and approved by the Special Shareholder. 
The Special Shareholder may require the Company at any time to redeem the Special Share at par or to convert the Special Share into 
one ordinary voting share. The Special Shareholder is entitled to receive notice of and to attend general meetings and class meetings of 
the Company’s shareholders but has no voting right, nor other rights, other than to speak in relation to any business in respect of the 
Special Share. 
Share buyback 
In 2013, 51,595,000 ordinary shares of 2.5p were repurchased under the buyback programme (2012 nil).  
Treasury shares 
As at 31 December 2013, 327,644,952 (2012 336,813,996) ordinary shares of 2.5p each with an aggregate nominal value of 
£8,191,124 (2012 £8,420,350) were held in treasury. During 2013, 9,169,044 treasury shares were used to satisfy awards and 
options under the Share Incentive Plan, Performance Share Plan, Restricted Share Plan and Executive Share Option Plan (2012 
14,942,858 in respect of the Share Incentive Plan, Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan, Restricted Share Plan and Executive 
Share Option Plan). 
  
 
  
10. Employee share plans 
Options over shares of the ultimate parent undertaking, BAE Systems plc, have been granted to employees of the Company under 
various plans. Details of the terms and conditions of each share-based payment plan are given in the Annual remuneration report on 
pages 92 to 104.  
 Executive Share Option Plan 
 2013  2012 
 
Number of 
shares 
’000 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
£  
Number of
shares
’000
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 9,601 3.30  5,539 3.64
Granted during the year 3,798 3.90  4,975 3.02
Exercised during the year (1,056) 2.06  (200) 2.39
Expired during the year (634) 3.92  (713) 4.29
Outstanding at the end of the year 11,709 3.57  9,601 3.30
    
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years)  7  6
Weighted average fair value of options granted (£) 0.59  0.38
Range of exercise price of outstanding options (£) 2.01 – 4.79  1.72 – 4.79
Expense recognised for the year (£m)  1  1
 
 Share Matching Plan  Performance Share Plan  Restricted Share Plan 
 
2013
Number of
 shares
’000
2012
Number of
shares
’000
2013 
Number of 
 shares 
’000 
2012 
Number of 
shares 
’000  
2013
Number of
 shares
’000
2012
Number of
shares
’000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 5,690 5,732 10,519 11,910  101 9
Granted during the year 1,446 2,055 1,798 2,426  10 83
Exercised during the year – (958) (500) (805)  (53) –
Expired during the year (1,969) (1,139) (3,536) (3,012)  (29) 9
Outstanding at the end of the year 5,167 5,690 8,281 10,519  29 101
    
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 1 1 5 5  5 6
Weighted average fair value of awards granted (£) 3.89 3.01 3.18 2.29  3.89 3.01
Expense recognised for the year (£m) – 1 3 5  – –
The exercise price for the Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan and Restricted Share Plan is £nil (2012 £nil). 
Information on options/awards granted in the year can be found in note 29 to the Group accounts. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   187 3/7/2014   1:59:25 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
188 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Notes to the Company accounts continued 
11. Reserves 
 
Share
premium
account
£m
Statutory 
reserve 
£m 
Other 
reserves
£m
Profit
and loss
account
£m
At 31 December 2012 1,249 202 90 2,330
Profit for the year – – – 758
Dividends paid – – – (638)
Share-based payments – – – 41
Purchase of own shares – – 1 (212)
Movements in hedging reserve – – (3) –
At 31 December 2013 1,249 202 88 2,279
Statutory reserve 
Under Section 4 of the British Aerospace Act 1980, this reserve may only be applied in paying up unissued shares of the Company to be 
allotted to members of the Company as fully paid bonus shares. 
Other reserves 
Other reserves for the Company comprise: capital reserve £24m (2012 £24m); hedging reserve £4m debit (2012 £1m); capital 
redemption reserve £1m (2012 £nil) and non-distributable reserve arising from property disposals to other Group undertakings £67m 
(2012 £67m). The non-distributable reserve arising from property disposals to other Group undertakings relates to the revaluation 
surplus realised by the Company on properties which were sold to other Group companies as part of operational reorganisations in prior 
years. Amounts within this reserve are transferred to the profit and loss account as distributable when the related properties are 
disposed of outside the Group, or written down following impairment.  
Profit and loss account 
The Company’s profit for the financial year was £758m (2012 £797m). The non-distributable portion of the profit and loss account is 
£196m (2012 £196m).  
Own shares held 
Own shares held, including treasury shares and shares held by BAE Systems ESOP Trust, are recognised as a deduction from retained 
earnings. 
BAE Systems ESOP Trust  
The Group has an Employee Share Option Plan (ESOP) discretionary trust to administer the share plans and to acquire Company shares, 
using funds loaned by the Group, to meet commitments to Group employees. A dividend waiver was in operation for shares within the 
ESOP Trust, other than those owned beneficially by the participants, for the dividends paid in June and December 2013. 
At 31 December 2013, the ESOP held 1,451,631 (2012 2,633,198) ordinary shares of 2.5p each with a market value of £6m 
(2012 £9m). The shares held by the ESOP are recorded at cost and deducted from retained earnings until such time as the shares vest 
unconditionally to employees.  
Dividend waivers were in operation for the dividends paid in June and December 2013 over shares in the Group All-Employee Free 
Shares Plan Trust other than those shares owned beneficially by participants. A dividend waiver was also in operation for the dividends 
paid in June and December 2013 over shares within the Company’s Share Incentive Plan Trust other than those shares owned 
beneficially by the participants. 
12. Other information 
Employees 
The total number of employees of the Company at 31 December 2013 was 831 (2012 801). Total staff costs, excluding charges for 
share-based payments, were £102m (2012 £129m). 
Directors’ emoluments 
Under Schedule 5 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (Schedule 5), total 
directors' emoluments, excluding Company pension contributions, were £6,289,295 (2012 £6,542,000); these amounts are calculated 
on a different basis to emoluments in the Annual remuneration report which are calculated under Schedule 8 of the Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (Schedule 8 (2013)). These emoluments 
were paid for their services on behalf of the BAE Systems Group. No emoluments related specifically to their work for the Company. 
Under Schedule 5, the aggregate gains made by directors from the exercise of share options in 2013 as at the date of exercise was 
£1,909,962 (2012 £370,881) and the net aggregate value of assets received by directors in 2013 from Long-Term Incentive Plans as 
calculated at the date of vesting was £129,722 (2012 £869,116); these amounts are calculated on a different basis from the valuation 
of share plan benefits under Schedule 8 (2013) in the Annual remuneration report.  
Company audit fee 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts totalled £1,621,000 (2012 £1,570,000). 
Related party transactions 
Details of related party transactions are detailed in note 30 to the Group accounts. 
The Company also has a related party relationship with its directors and key management personnel, and pension schemes. 
Independent auditor’s report to the members of BAE Systems plc  
  
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 
1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified  
We have audited the financial statements of BAE Systems plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the 
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income, the Group and parent company 
balance sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and related notes. 
In our opinion:  
– the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2013 and of the Group’s profit for the year 
then ended;  
– the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union;  
– the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards; and  
– the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.  
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our 
audit were as follows: 
Risk  
The procedures to address these audit risks included, amongst others, those 
listed below 
Recognition of revenues and profits on long-term contracts 
Refer to page 75 (Audit Committee report) and page 130 (accounting policy and financial disclosures) 
A significant proportion of the Group’s revenues and profits are 
derived from long-term contracts.  
These contracts include complex technical and commercial risks 
and often specify performance milestones to be achieved 
throughout the contract period, which can last many years, 
resulting in estimates and assumptions being made to:  
– forecast the margin on each contract after making appropriate 
allowances for technical and commercial risks related to 
performance milestones yet to be achieved; and 
– assess the proportion of revenue to recognise, in particular with 
regards to the value of claims for contract variations. 
The risk of misstatement is that the accounting for the Group’s 
significant contracts does not accurately reflect the status of the 
relevant contract.  
 
 
The directors have detailed procedures and processes, called 
Lifecycle Management (LCM), in place to manage the commercial, 
technical and financial aspects of the Group’s long-term contracts. 
The LCM process includes the regular preparation of a Contract 
Status Report (CSR) which includes key accounting information for 
the relevant contract. 
We considered the design and tested the effective operation of 
key LCM controls. For significant contracts, determined on the 
basis of technical and commercial complexity and profitability of 
the contract, we also:  
– obtained an understanding of the status of the contract through 
discussions with contract project teams and directors at a Group 
and operating business unit level, attendance at project teams’ 
contract review meetings, and examining externally available 
evidence, such as customer correspondence; and 
– challenged the key estimates and assumptions applied in 
determining financial status of these contracts by: 
– corroborating the consistency of changes in the updated 
contract financial information summarised in the year-end 
CSRs to other financial information received; 
– considering how key uncertainties are reflected in the 
contracts’ status taking into account externally available 
information; 
– assessing whether allowances for risks and uncertainties are 
consistent with past experience considering the maturity of the 
contracts and the extent of technical or commercial risk 
identified; and  
– using our cumulative knowledge of contract issues to assess 
the appropriateness of the contract positions reflected in the 
financial statements at the year end. 
We performed the above procedures, amongst others, in respect 
of the Group’s significant contracts which included, but are not 
limited to: 
– Saudi Typhoon aircraft;  
– Radford Army Ammunition Plant; and 
– Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers.  
We also considered the adequacy of the Group’s segmental and 
operating cost disclosures in respect of changes in the status of 
contracts which had a material impact on the Group’s financial 
performance for the year. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   188 3/7/2014   1:59:26 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 189
Notes to the Company accounts continued 
11. Reserves 
 
Share
premium
account
£m
Statutory 
reserve 
£m 
Other 
reserves
£m
Profit
and loss
account
£m
At 31 December 2012 1,249 202 90 2,330
Profit for the year – – – 758
Dividends paid – – – (638)
Share-based payments – – – 41
Purchase of own shares – – 1 (212)
Movements in hedging reserve – – (3) –
At 31 December 2013 1,249 202 88 2,279
Statutory reserve 
Under Section 4 of the British Aerospace Act 1980, this reserve may only be applied in paying up unissued shares of the Company to be 
allotted to members of the Company as fully paid bonus shares. 
Other reserves 
Other reserves for the Company comprise: capital reserve £24m (2012 £24m); hedging reserve £4m debit (2012 £1m); capital 
redemption reserve £1m (2012 £nil) and non-distributable reserve arising from property disposals to other Group undertakings £67m 
(2012 £67m). The non-distributable reserve arising from property disposals to other Group undertakings relates to the revaluation 
surplus realised by the Company on properties which were sold to other Group companies as part of operational reorganisations in prior 
years. Amounts within this reserve are transferred to the profit and loss account as distributable when the related properties are 
disposed of outside the Group, or written down following impairment.  
Profit and loss account 
The Company’s profit for the financial year was £758m (2012 £797m). The non-distributable portion of the profit and loss account is 
£196m (2012 £196m).  
Own shares held 
Own shares held, including treasury shares and shares held by BAE Systems ESOP Trust, are recognised as a deduction from retained 
earnings. 
BAE Systems ESOP Trust  
The Group has an Employee Share Option Plan (ESOP) discretionary trust to administer the share plans and to acquire Company shares, 
using funds loaned by the Group, to meet commitments to Group employees. A dividend waiver was in operation for shares within the 
ESOP Trust, other than those owned beneficially by the participants, for the dividends paid in June and December 2013. 
At 31 December 2013, the ESOP held 1,451,631 (2012 2,633,198) ordinary shares of 2.5p each with a market value of £6m 
(2012 £9m). The shares held by the ESOP are recorded at cost and deducted from retained earnings until such time as the shares vest 
unconditionally to employees.  
Dividend waivers were in operation for the dividends paid in June and December 2013 over shares in the Group All-Employee Free 
Shares Plan Trust other than those shares owned beneficially by participants. A dividend waiver was also in operation for the dividends 
paid in June and December 2013 over shares within the Company’s Share Incentive Plan Trust other than those shares owned 
beneficially by the participants. 
12. Other information 
Employees 
The total number of employees of the Company at 31 December 2013 was 831 (2012 801). Total staff costs, excluding charges for 
share-based payments, were £102m (2012 £129m). 
Directors’ emoluments 
Under Schedule 5 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (Schedule 5), total 
directors' emoluments, excluding Company pension contributions, were £6,289,295 (2012 £6,542,000); these amounts are calculated 
on a different basis to emoluments in the Annual remuneration report which are calculated under Schedule 8 of the Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (Schedule 8 (2013)). These emoluments 
were paid for their services on behalf of the BAE Systems Group. No emoluments related specifically to their work for the Company. 
Under Schedule 5, the aggregate gains made by directors from the exercise of share options in 2013 as at the date of exercise was 
£1,909,962 (2012 £370,881) and the net aggregate value of assets received by directors in 2013 from Long-Term Incentive Plans as 
calculated at the date of vesting was £129,722 (2012 £869,116); these amounts are calculated on a different basis from the valuation 
of share plan benefits under Schedule 8 (2013) in the Annual remuneration report.  
Company audit fee 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts totalled £1,621,000 (2012 £1,570,000). 
Related party transactions 
Details of related party transactions are detailed in note 30 to the Group accounts. 
The Company also has a related party relationship with its directors and key management personnel, and pension schemes. 
Independent auditor’s report to the members of BAE Systems plc  
  
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 
1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified  
We have audited the financial statements of BAE Systems plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the 
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income, the Group and parent company 
balance sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and related notes. 
In our opinion:  
– the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2013 and of the Group’s profit for the year 
then ended;  
– the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union;  
– the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards; and  
– the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.  
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our 
audit were as follows: 
Risk  
The procedures to address these audit risks included, amongst others, those 
listed below 
Recognition of revenues and profits on long-term contracts 
Refer to page 75 (Audit Committee report) and page 130 (accounting policy and financial disclosures) 
A significant proportion of the Group’s revenues and profits are 
derived from long-term contracts.  
These contracts include complex technical and commercial risks 
and often specify performance milestones to be achieved 
throughout the contract period, which can last many years, 
resulting in estimates and assumptions being made to:  
– forecast the margin on each contract after making appropriate 
allowances for technical and commercial risks related to 
performance milestones yet to be achieved; and 
– assess the proportion of revenue to recognise, in particular with 
regards to the value of claims for contract variations. 
The risk of misstatement is that the accounting for the Group’s 
significant contracts does not accurately reflect the status of the 
relevant contract.  
 
 
The directors have detailed procedures and processes, called 
Lifecycle Management (LCM), in place to manage the commercial, 
technical and financial aspects of the Group’s long-term contracts. 
The LCM process includes the regular preparation of a Contract 
Status Report (CSR) which includes key accounting information for 
the relevant contract. 
We considered the design and tested the effective operation of 
key LCM controls. For significant contracts, determined on the 
basis of technical and commercial complexity and profitability of 
the contract, we also:  
– obtained an understanding of the status of the contract through 
discussions with contract project teams and directors at a Group 
and operating business unit level, attendance at project teams’ 
contract review meetings, and examining externally available 
evidence, such as customer correspondence; and 
– challenged the key estimates and assumptions applied in 
determining financial status of these contracts by: 
– corroborating the consistency of changes in the updated 
contract financial information summarised in the year-end 
CSRs to other financial information received; 
– considering how key uncertainties are reflected in the 
contracts’ status taking into account externally available 
information; 
– assessing whether allowances for risks and uncertainties are 
consistent with past experience considering the maturity of the 
contracts and the extent of technical or commercial risk 
identified; and  
– using our cumulative knowledge of contract issues to assess 
the appropriateness of the contract positions reflected in the 
financial statements at the year end. 
We performed the above procedures, amongst others, in respect 
of the Group’s significant contracts which included, but are not 
limited to: 
– Saudi Typhoon aircraft;  
– Radford Army Ammunition Plant; and 
– Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers.  
We also considered the adequacy of the Group’s segmental and 
operating cost disclosures in respect of changes in the status of 
contracts which had a material impact on the Group’s financial 
performance for the year. 
  
WORD_Background.indd   189 3/7/2014   1:59:26 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
190 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Independent auditor’s report to the members of BAE Systems plc 
continued 
Risk  
The procedures to address these audit risks included, amongst others, those 
listed below 
Carrying value of US goodwill (£7.5bn) 
Refer to page 74 (Audit Committee report) and page 146 (accounting policy and financial disclosures) 
An impairment charge of £865m was recognised against the US 
cash-generating units in 2013.  
The uncertainty over future US defence spending increases the 
risk that the goodwill allocated to the Group’s US cash-generating 
units will not be recoverable. 
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and 
discounting future cash flows, which are the basis of the 
assessment of recoverability, this is one of the key judgemental 
areas that our audit is concentrated on. 
 
The directors’ annual goodwill impairment testing is based on the 
Group’s five-year Integrated Business Plan.  
We considered the Group’s budgeting procedures upon which the 
forecasts are based and the principles and integrity of the Group’s 
discounted cash flow model. 
We compared the Group’s assumptions, where possible, to 
externally derived data as well as our own assessments in relation 
to key inputs, such as projected economic growth, inflation and 
likely customer spending priorities. We used our own valuation 
specialists in also assessing the discount rates used. We 
performed breakeven analysis on the key assumptions and, as a 
sense check, compared the sum of discounted cash flows to the 
Group’s market capitalisation to assess the reasonableness of 
those cash flows.  
We also assessed whether the Group’s disclosures about the 
sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to 
changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the 
valuation of goodwill. 
Retirement benefit obligations (£3.5bn) 
Refer to page 74 (Audit Committee report) and page 162 (accounting policy and financial disclosures)  
As presented in note 23 of the financial statements, the Group’s 
share of the net deficit was £3.5bn after allocating £1.0bn to 
equity accounted investments and other participating employers.  
Small changes in assumptions and estimates used to value the 
Group’s retirement benefit obligation, including those supporting 
the proportion allocated to equity accounted investments and 
other participating employers, have a significant impact on the 
Group’s share of the retirement benefit obligation. 
 
We considered whether the methodology used by the directors, to 
allocate a proportion of the Group’s retirement benefit obligation 
to the equity accounted investments and other participating 
employers, was appropriate in estimating such allocation with 
reference to agreements between the Group and the equity 
accounted investments and participating employers. 
We challenged the key assumptions supporting the Group’s 
retirement benefit obligations valuation, with input from our own 
actuarial specialists. This included a comparison of the discount, 
inflation and life expectancy assumptions used against externally 
derived data. 
We also considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in 
respect of the sensitivity of the deficit to changes in these key 
assumptions. 
Tax accruals 
Accruals for tax contingencies require the directors to make 
judgements and estimates in relation to tax risks. This is one of 
the key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on due 
to the Group operating in a number of tax jurisdictions, the 
complexities of international tax legislation and the time taken for 
tax matters to be agreed with the tax authorities. 
 
We used our own international and local tax specialists to assess 
the Group's tax positions, its correspondence with the relevant tax 
authorities and its external tax advisers and to analyse and 
challenge the assumptions used to determine tax accruals based 
on our knowledge and experience of the application of the 
international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and 
courts. We have also considered the adequacy of the Group's 
disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions. 
 
  
 
  
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of 
our audit 
In establishing the overall audit strategy, and performing the audit, 
materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set 
at £100m. This has been determined with reference to a 
benchmark of Group profit before taxation which we believe to be 
one of the principal considerations for members of the Company 
in assessing financial performance of the Group. The same 
benchmark was used in the prior year.  
Materiality represents 8% of Group profit before taxation excluding 
the impairment charge for the year as disclosed on the face of the 
Consolidated Income Statement.  
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected 
and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit 
with a value in excess of £5m for income statement items in 
addition to other audit misstatements we believe warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds. 
We considered the individual financial significance and level of 
significant contract judgements at each business unit 
(components) and the requirement to prepare local audited 
statutory financial statements in scoping the procedures for our 
Group audit. 
As a result, audits for Group reporting purposes were performed at 
12 of BAE Systems’ components based in the UK, the US, the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia. These audits covered 74% 
of Group revenue, 82% of profits and losses before tax, and 84% 
of Group total assets. Three of these component audits were 
performed by the Group audit team with the remainder performed 
by component audit teams. Specified audit procedures were also 
performed at an additional five components covering an additional 
13% of Group revenue, 8% of profits and losses before tax, and 
5% of Group total assets. 
The audit procedures at each of the components for Group 
reporting purposes were all performed to materiality levels set by, 
or agreed with, the Group audit team. These materiality levels 
were set individually for each component and ranged from £6m 
to £50m. 
Detailed instructions were sent to all component auditors. These 
instructions included the significant areas that should be covered 
by these component auditors (which included the relevant risks of 
material misstatement detailed above) and set out the information 
required to be reported back to the Group audit team. The Group 
audit team visited the more significant components in each of the 
following countries: the UK, the US, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
and Australia. Telephone meetings were also held with the 
component auditors of these components and the majority of the 
other components that were not physically visited. 
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 
2006 is unmodified 
In our opinion:  
– the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and  
– the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.  
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we 
are required to report by exception  
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) we are 
required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired 
during our audit, we have identified other information in the 
Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either 
that knowledge or the financial statements, a material 
misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.  
In particular, we are required to report to you if:  
– we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors’ 
statement that they consider that the Annual Report and 
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy; or 
– the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or  
– the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or  
– certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or  
– we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.  
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:  
– the directors’ statement, set out on page 70, in relation to going 
concern; and 
– the part of the Governance section relating to the Company’s 
compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review.  
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities. 
Scope of report and responsibilities 
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities 
statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. A description of the scope of an audit of financial 
statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is 
made solely to the Company’s members as a body and is subject 
to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our 
responsibilities, published on our website at 
www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2013a, which are 
incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be 
read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the 
work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions. 
 
 
 
Ian Starkey (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square 
London 
E14 5GL 
19 February 2014 
 
WORD_Background.indd   190 3/7/2014   1:59:26 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 191
Independent auditor’s report to the members of BAE Systems plc 
continued 
Risk  
The procedures to address these audit risks included, amongst others, those 
listed below 
Carrying value of US goodwill (£7.5bn) 
Refer to page 74 (Audit Committee report) and page 146 (accounting policy and financial disclosures) 
An impairment charge of £865m was recognised against the US 
cash-generating units in 2013.  
The uncertainty over future US defence spending increases the 
risk that the goodwill allocated to the Group’s US cash-generating 
units will not be recoverable. 
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and 
discounting future cash flows, which are the basis of the 
assessment of recoverability, this is one of the key judgemental 
areas that our audit is concentrated on. 
 
The directors’ annual goodwill impairment testing is based on the 
Group’s five-year Integrated Business Plan.  
We considered the Group’s budgeting procedures upon which the 
forecasts are based and the principles and integrity of the Group’s 
discounted cash flow model. 
We compared the Group’s assumptions, where possible, to 
externally derived data as well as our own assessments in relation 
to key inputs, such as projected economic growth, inflation and 
likely customer spending priorities. We used our own valuation 
specialists in also assessing the discount rates used. We 
performed breakeven analysis on the key assumptions and, as a 
sense check, compared the sum of discounted cash flows to the 
Group’s market capitalisation to assess the reasonableness of 
those cash flows.  
We also assessed whether the Group’s disclosures about the 
sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to 
changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the 
valuation of goodwill. 
Retirement benefit obligations (£3.5bn) 
Refer to page 74 (Audit Committee report) and page 162 (accounting policy and financial disclosures)  
As presented in note 23 of the financial statements, the Group’s 
share of the net deficit was £3.5bn after allocating £1.0bn to 
equity accounted investments and other participating employers.  
Small changes in assumptions and estimates used to value the 
Group’s retirement benefit obligation, including those supporting 
the proportion allocated to equity accounted investments and 
other participating employers, have a significant impact on the 
Group’s share of the retirement benefit obligation. 
 
We considered whether the methodology used by the directors, to 
allocate a proportion of the Group’s retirement benefit obligation 
to the equity accounted investments and other participating 
employers, was appropriate in estimating such allocation with 
reference to agreements between the Group and the equity 
accounted investments and participating employers. 
We challenged the key assumptions supporting the Group’s 
retirement benefit obligations valuation, with input from our own 
actuarial specialists. This included a comparison of the discount, 
inflation and life expectancy assumptions used against externally 
derived data. 
We also considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in 
respect of the sensitivity of the deficit to changes in these key 
assumptions. 
Tax accruals 
Accruals for tax contingencies require the directors to make 
judgements and estimates in relation to tax risks. This is one of 
the key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on due 
to the Group operating in a number of tax jurisdictions, the 
complexities of international tax legislation and the time taken for 
tax matters to be agreed with the tax authorities. 
 
We used our own international and local tax specialists to assess 
the Group's tax positions, its correspondence with the relevant tax 
authorities and its external tax advisers and to analyse and 
challenge the assumptions used to determine tax accruals based 
on our knowledge and experience of the application of the 
international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and 
courts. We have also considered the adequacy of the Group's 
disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions. 
 
  
 
  
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of 
our audit 
In establishing the overall audit strategy, and performing the audit, 
materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set 
at £100m. This has been determined with reference to a 
benchmark of Group profit before taxation which we believe to be 
one of the principal considerations for members of the Company 
in assessing financial performance of the Group. The same 
benchmark was used in the prior year.  
Materiality represents 8% of Group profit before taxation excluding 
the impairment charge for the year as disclosed on the face of the 
Consolidated Income Statement.  
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected 
and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit 
with a value in excess of £5m for income statement items in 
addition to other audit misstatements we believe warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds. 
We considered the individual financial significance and level of 
significant contract judgements at each business unit 
(components) and the requirement to prepare local audited 
statutory financial statements in scoping the procedures for our 
Group audit. 
As a result, audits for Group reporting purposes were performed at 
12 of BAE Systems’ components based in the UK, the US, the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia. These audits covered 74% 
of Group revenue, 82% of profits and losses before tax, and 84% 
of Group total assets. Three of these component audits were 
performed by the Group audit team with the remainder performed 
by component audit teams. Specified audit procedures were also 
performed at an additional five components covering an additional 
13% of Group revenue, 8% of profits and losses before tax, and 
5% of Group total assets. 
The audit procedures at each of the components for Group 
reporting purposes were all performed to materiality levels set by, 
or agreed with, the Group audit team. These materiality levels 
were set individually for each component and ranged from £6m 
to £50m. 
Detailed instructions were sent to all component auditors. These 
instructions included the significant areas that should be covered 
by these component auditors (which included the relevant risks of 
material misstatement detailed above) and set out the information 
required to be reported back to the Group audit team. The Group 
audit team visited the more significant components in each of the 
following countries: the UK, the US, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
and Australia. Telephone meetings were also held with the 
component auditors of these components and the majority of the 
other components that were not physically visited. 
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 
2006 is unmodified 
In our opinion:  
– the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and  
– the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.  
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we 
are required to report by exception  
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) we are 
required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired 
during our audit, we have identified other information in the 
Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either 
that knowledge or the financial statements, a material 
misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.  
In particular, we are required to report to you if:  
– we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors’ 
statement that they consider that the Annual Report and 
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy; or 
– the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or  
– the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or  
– certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or  
– we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.  
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:  
– the directors’ statement, set out on page 70, in relation to going 
concern; and 
– the part of the Governance section relating to the Company’s 
compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review.  
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities. 
Scope of report and responsibilities 
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities 
statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. A description of the scope of an audit of financial 
statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is 
made solely to the Company’s members as a body and is subject 
to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our 
responsibilities, published on our website at 
www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2013a, which are 
incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be 
read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the 
work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions. 
 
 
 
Ian Starkey (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square 
London 
E14 5GL 
19 February 2014 
 
WORD_Background.indd   191 3/7/2014   1:59:26 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
192 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Five-year summary 
Income statement for the year ended 31 December 
Balance sheet as at 31 December  
 
2013
£m
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Intangible assets 9,735 10,928 11,465 11,216 11,306
Property, plant and equipment, and investment property 2,071 2,407 2,626 2,848 2,663
Non-current investments 286 270 788 798 852
Inventories 680 655 716 644 887
Assets held in Trust – – 403 261 227
Payables (excluding cash received on customers’ account) less receivables (4,718) (6,419) (5,386) (6,159) (6,918)
Other financial assets and liabilities (23) (50) (219) (10) (45)
Retirement benefit obligations (3,665) (4,607) (4,673) (3,456) (4,679)
Provisions  (794) (746) (954) (1,077) (929)
Net tax 405 951 975 580 896
Net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) (699) 387 (1,439) (242) 403
Assets/(liabilities) held for sale 140 (2) (3) – –
Non-controlling interests (37) (54) (59) (71) (72)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 3,381 3,720 4,240 5,332 4,591
 
  
 
2013
£m
Restated
1
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Continuing operations
2
  
Sales including Group’s share of equity accounted investments  
Electronic Systems 2,466 2,507 2,645 2,969 2,899
Cyber & Intelligence 1,243 1,402 1,399 1,201 1,302
Platforms & Services (US) 4,196 4,539 5,305 7,671 8,414
Platforms & Services (UK) 6,890 5,717 6,258 6,529 6,153
Platforms & Services (International) 4,063 4,071 3,794 4,325 3,658
HQ 306 267 233 209 172
Intra-group sales (984) (598) (480) (629) (756)
 18,180 17,905 19,154 22,275 21,842
Underlying EBITA
3
  
Electronic Systems 346 356 386 455 348
Cyber & Intelligence 115 124 136 108 107
Platforms & Services (US) 265 394 478 728 747
Platforms & Services (UK) 879 695 658 522 661
Platforms & Services (International) 429 417 449 449 402
HQ (109) (124) (82) (83) (114)
 1,925 1,862 2,025 2,179 2,151
Profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses 6 103 (29) 1 68
Pension curtailment gains – – – 2 261
Regulatory penalties – – (49) (18) (278)
EBITA 1,931 1,965 1,947 2,164 2,202
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (1,076) (312) (348) (517) (1,259)
Finance costs including share of equity accounted investments (392) (410) (106) (194) (694)
Profit before taxation 463 1,243 1,493 1,453 249
Taxation expense including share of equity accounted investments (287) (284) (233) (462) (344)
Profit/(loss) for the year – continuing operations 176 959 1,260 991 (95)
(Loss)/profit for the year – discontinued operations  – – (4) 90 50
Profit/(loss) for the year 176 959 1,256 1,081 (45)
 
  
Movement in net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) for the year ended 31 December 
 
2013
£m
2012  
£m  
2011 
£m 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Cash inflow from operating activities 205 2,458  951 1,535 2,232
Add back: Amounts already deducted from net (debt)/cash (as defined by 
the Group)
4
 – 458  – – –
 205 2,916  951 1,535 2,232
Net capital expenditure
5
 (153) (293)  (268) (364) (489)
Dividends received from equity accounted investments 95 94  88 71 77
Assets contributed to Trust – (25)  (137) (25) (225)
Cash held for charitable contribution to Tanzania – –  – (30) –
Operating business cash flow 147 2,692  634 1,187 1,595
Acquisitions and disposals 4 96  (256) (88) (254)
Interest (166) (147)  (176) (173) (186)
Tax and dividends (787) (746)  (885) (958) (889)
Purchase of equity shares (212) (16)  (509) (520) (20)
Foreign exchange adjustments 3 92  (20) (20) 262
Other movements
6
 (76) (146)  2 (80) (132)
Net (decrease)/increase in net funds (1,087) 1,825  (1,210) (652) 376
Movement in cash received on customers’ account 1 1  13 7 (12)
Movement in net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) (1,086) 1,826  (1,197) (645) 364
Opening net cash/(debt) (as defined by the Group) 387 (1,439)  (242) 403 39
Closing net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) (699) 387  (1,439) (242) 403
Other information 
 2013
Restated
1
 
2012  2011 2010 2009
Continuing operations
2
   
Basic earnings/(loss) per share – total (pence) 5.2 29.3  37.0 27.9 (3.3)
Basic earnings per share – underlying
7
 (pence) 42.0 38.7  45.6 39.8 39.1
Order backlog
8
 including the Group’s share of equity accounted investments (£bn) 42.7 42.5  39.1 n/a n/a
   
Including discontinued operations   
Dividend per ordinary share (pence) 20.1 19.5  18.8 17.5 16.0
Number of employees, excluding share of employees of equity accounted 
investments, at year end  78,000 81,000  87,000 92,000 98,000
Capital expenditure including leased assets (£m) 273 404  381 437 522
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
2 The Regional Aircraft line of business is presented as a continuing operation in 2013 and 2012. For 2009 to 2011, the Regional Aircraft line of business and 
Saab AB are presented as discontinued operations. 
3 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items. For 2013 and 2012, 
non-recurring items comprises profit on disposal of businesses. For 2009 to 2011, non-recurring items are profit/loss on disposal of businesses, pension 
curtailment gains and regulatory penalties 
4 Comprises the £428m contribution from Trust to the UK pension schemes and the £29.5m charitable contribution for the benefit of the people of Tanzania in 
connection with the global settlement with the UK’s Serious Fraud Office in 2010, both made in 2012, as the amounts had been deducted from the Group’s net 
(debt)/cash. 
5 Includes net expenditure on property, plant and equipment, investment property, intangible assets, and other investments, and equity accounted investment 
funding. 
6 Includes cash flows from matured derivative financial instruments, cash collateral and other non-cash movements. 
7 Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items. 
For 2013 and 2012, non-recurring items comprises profit on disposal of businesses. For 2009 to 2011, non-recurring items are profit/loss on disposal of 
businesses, pension curtailment gains and regulatory penalties.  
8 Order backlog comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders, and is stated after the elimination of intra-group orders.  
WORD_Background.indd   192 3/7/2014   1:59:26 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 193
Five-year summary 
Income statement for the year ended 31 December 
Balance sheet as at 31 December  
 
2013
£m
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Intangible assets 9,735 10,928 11,465 11,216 11,306
Property, plant and equipment, and investment property 2,071 2,407 2,626 2,848 2,663
Non-current investments 286 270 788 798 852
Inventories 680 655 716 644 887
Assets held in Trust – – 403 261 227
Payables (excluding cash received on customers’ account) less receivables (4,718) (6,419) (5,386) (6,159) (6,918)
Other financial assets and liabilities (23) (50) (219) (10) (45)
Retirement benefit obligations (3,665) (4,607) (4,673) (3,456) (4,679)
Provisions  (794) (746) (954) (1,077) (929)
Net tax 405 951 975 580 896
Net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) (699) 387 (1,439) (242) 403
Assets/(liabilities) held for sale 140 (2) (3) – –
Non-controlling interests (37) (54) (59) (71) (72)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 3,381 3,720 4,240 5,332 4,591
 
  
 
2013
£m
Restated
1
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Continuing operations
2
  
Sales including Group’s share of equity accounted investments  
Electronic Systems 2,466 2,507 2,645 2,969 2,899
Cyber & Intelligence 1,243 1,402 1,399 1,201 1,302
Platforms & Services (US) 4,196 4,539 5,305 7,671 8,414
Platforms & Services (UK) 6,890 5,717 6,258 6,529 6,153
Platforms & Services (International) 4,063 4,071 3,794 4,325 3,658
HQ 306 267 233 209 172
Intra-group sales (984) (598) (480) (629) (756)
 18,180 17,905 19,154 22,275 21,842
Underlying EBITA
3
  
Electronic Systems 346 356 386 455 348
Cyber & Intelligence 115 124 136 108 107
Platforms & Services (US) 265 394 478 728 747
Platforms & Services (UK) 879 695 658 522 661
Platforms & Services (International) 429 417 449 449 402
HQ (109) (124) (82) (83) (114)
 1,925 1,862 2,025 2,179 2,151
Profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses 6 103 (29) 1 68
Pension curtailment gains – – – 2 261
Regulatory penalties – – (49) (18) (278)
EBITA 1,931 1,965 1,947 2,164 2,202
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (1,076) (312) (348) (517) (1,259)
Finance costs including share of equity accounted investments (392) (410) (106) (194) (694)
Profit before taxation 463 1,243 1,493 1,453 249
Taxation expense including share of equity accounted investments (287) (284) (233) (462) (344)
Profit/(loss) for the year – continuing operations 176 959 1,260 991 (95)
(Loss)/profit for the year – discontinued operations  – – (4) 90 50
Profit/(loss) for the year 176 959 1,256 1,081 (45)
 
  
Movement in net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) for the year ended 31 December 
 
2013
£m
2012  
£m  
2011 
£m 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Cash inflow from operating activities 205 2,458  951 1,535 2,232
Add back: Amounts already deducted from net (debt)/cash (as defined by 
the Group)
4
 – 458  – – –
 205 2,916  951 1,535 2,232
Net capital expenditure
5
 (153) (293)  (268) (364) (489)
Dividends received from equity accounted investments 95 94  88 71 77
Assets contributed to Trust – (25)  (137) (25) (225)
Cash held for charitable contribution to Tanzania – –  – (30) –
Operating business cash flow 147 2,692  634 1,187 1,595
Acquisitions and disposals 4 96  (256) (88) (254)
Interest (166) (147)  (176) (173) (186)
Tax and dividends (787) (746)  (885) (958) (889)
Purchase of equity shares (212) (16)  (509) (520) (20)
Foreign exchange adjustments 3 92  (20) (20) 262
Other movements
6
 (76) (146)  2 (80) (132)
Net (decrease)/increase in net funds (1,087) 1,825  (1,210) (652) 376
Movement in cash received on customers’ account 1 1  13 7 (12)
Movement in net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) (1,086) 1,826  (1,197) (645) 364
Opening net cash/(debt) (as defined by the Group) 387 (1,439)  (242) 403 39
Closing net (debt)/cash (as defined by the Group) (699) 387  (1,439) (242) 403
Other information 
 2013
Restated
1
 
2012  2011 2010 2009
Continuing operations
2
   
Basic earnings/(loss) per share – total (pence) 5.2 29.3  37.0 27.9 (3.3)
Basic earnings per share – underlying
7
 (pence) 42.0 38.7  45.6 39.8 39.1
Order backlog
8
 including the Group’s share of equity accounted investments (£bn) 42.7 42.5  39.1 n/a n/a
   
Including discontinued operations   
Dividend per ordinary share (pence) 20.1 19.5  18.8 17.5 16.0
Number of employees, excluding share of employees of equity accounted 
investments, at year end  78,000 81,000  87,000 92,000 98,000
Capital expenditure including leased assets (£m) 273 404  381 437 522
1 On adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits.  
2 The Regional Aircraft line of business is presented as a continuing operation in 2013 and 2012. For 2009 to 2011, the Regional Aircraft line of business and 
Saab AB are presented as discontinued operations. 
3 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items. For 2013 and 2012, 
non-recurring items comprises profit on disposal of businesses. For 2009 to 2011, non-recurring items are profit/loss on disposal of businesses, pension 
curtailment gains and regulatory penalties. 
4 Comprises the £428m contribution from Trust to the UK pension schemes and the £29.5m charitable contribution for the benefit of the people of Tanzania in 
connection with the global settlement with the UK’s Serious Fraud Office in 2010, both made in 2012, as the amounts had been deducted from the Group’s net 
(debt)/cash. 
5 Includes net expenditure on property, plant and equipment, investment property, intangible assets, and other investments, and equity accounted investment 
funding. 
6 Includes cash flows from matured derivative financial instruments, cash collateral and other non-cash movements. 
7 Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items. 
For 2013 and 2012, non-recurring items comprises profit on disposal of businesses. For 2009 to 2011, non-recurring items are profit/loss on disposal of 
businesses, pension curtailment gains and regulatory penalties.  
8 Order backlog comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders, and is stated after the elimination of intra-group orders.  
WORD_Background.indd   193 3/7/2014   1:59:27 PM INVESTOR RESOURCES
194 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Shareholder information  
 
Registered office  
6 Carlton Gardens 
London 
SW1Y 5AD 
United Kingdom 
Telephone: +44 (0)1252 373232  
Company website: www.baesystems.com  
Registered in England and Wales, No. 1470151  
Registrars 
Equiniti Limited (0140) 
Aspect House  
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA  
United Kingdom 
If you have any queries regarding your shareholding or need to notify 
any changes to your personal details, please contact Equiniti.  
Equiniti’s website (https://help.shareview.co.uk) includes a 
comprehensive set of answers to many frequently asked 
questions relating to managing a shareholding. If you cannot find 
the answer to your question, there is an online e-mail form, which 
will help to ensure your question is directed to the most 
appropriate team for a response. Alternatively, you can call the 
BAE Systems Helpline on 0871 384 2044* or, from outside the 
UK, +44 121 415 7058. 
* Calls to the above number are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras. 
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.  
Shareview – online access to your shareholding 
Shareview is a free portfolio service offered by Equiniti to 
investors which gives shareholders online access to more 
information on their investments, including balance movements, 
indicative share prices and information on recent payments. It can 
also be used to sign up to receive all shareholder communications 
electronically and, once registered, arrange for dividends to be 
mandated or update your address. To take advantage of 
Shareview, register online at www.shareview.co.uk. Click on 
‘Register’ and follow the four easy steps.  
Details of software and equipment requirements are given on the 
website.  
Share register initiatives and shareholder donations  
As with any listed company with a large share register, over time 
we lose touch with some of our shareholders. During 2013, we 
asked ProSearch, a specialist tracing agency, to conduct an Asset 
Reunification Programme, to try and trace many of those 
shareholders for whom we did not appear to hold an up-to-date 
address, in order to reunite them with their shares and unpaid 
dividends. These shareholders were given the option of claiming 
their full entitlement or donating to our nominated charity, Blind 
Veterans UK. During 2013, over 4,700 shareholders were traced, 
more than 630,000 shares reactivated and £11,800 donated to 
Blind Veterans UK. The programme will continue into 2014. 
In September, we launched a Share Dealing Service to those 
shareholders who held 1,000 or fewer shares, which proved very 
successful. Shareholders were able to purchase shares, sell their 
entire shareholding or donate their shareholding to charity. In total, 
over £6,300 was donated to Blind Veterans UK, via ShareGift. 
ShareGift 
ShareGift, the share donation charity (registered charity number 
1052686), accepts donations of small parcels of shares which 
may be uneconomic to sell. Details of the scheme are available 
from ShareGift at www.sharegift.org, by telephone on 
020 7930 3737 or by e-mail: help@sharegift.org 
Dividend mandate 
If you have a UK bank or building society account and would like 
to apply a bank mandate to your shareholding, a mandate form 
can be obtained from our website or by contacting Equiniti. 
Alternatively, bank details can be submitted: 
– in writing to Equiniti; 
– electronically via Shareview; or  
– if the shareholding is held in a sole name, Equiniti can take 
instructions over the telephone.  
Do you have an overseas bank account? Instead of waiting for a 
sterling cheque to arrive by post, why not take advantage of 
Equiniti’s overseas payments service? Equiniti can arrange 
payment for over 90 countries worldwide. It normally costs less 
than paying in a sterling cheque and only takes a few days for the 
money to arrive into the account after the dividend payment date. 
For more information on the terms and conditions of this service, 
and to obtain the appropriate mandate form, visit the Shareview 
website (www.shareview.com/overseas) or contact Equiniti direct. 
Electronic shareholder communications 
An increasing number of shareholders receive communications 
from the Company using e-mail and web-based communications.  
The use of electronic communications, rather than printed paper 
documents, helps us reduce the environmental impact of our 
activities and assists us in managing our costs.  
We regularly consult with shareholders to check how they wish to 
receive information from us. Shareholders may receive electronic 
communications in one of two ways:  
– Via e-mail – This option is available through Shareview. 
Shareholders receive an e-mail notification when a new document 
is made available, which contains a link to the document.  
– Via our website – Shareholders receive a notification by post 
when a new document is made available.  
A shareholder is taken to have agreed to website communications 
if a response to a consultation has not been received. Any 
document or information required to be sent to shareholders is 
made available on the Company’s website and a notification of 
availability is sent. Shareholders who receive such a notification 
are entitled to request a hard copy of the document at any time 
and may also change the way they receive communications at any 
time by contacting Equiniti.  
Notwithstanding any election, the Company may, at its sole and 
absolute discretion, send any notification or information to 
shareholders in hard copy form.  
Dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) 
The Company offers holders of its ordinary shares the option to 
elect to have their dividend reinvested in shares purchased in the 
market instead of cash.  
Shareholders who currently have a DRIP mandate in place should 
note that the Terms and Conditions have recently been changed. 
A full copy of the Terms and Conditions and an application form 
can be obtained by contacting Equiniti, or by visiting their website: 
www.shareview.co.uk/Products/Pages/applyforadrip.aspx 
Share price information 
The middle market price of the Company’s ordinary shares on 
31 December 2013 was 435.0p and the range during the year 
was 327.4p to 468.0p.  
  
 
 
  
American Depositary Receipts 
BAE Systems plc American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) are traded 
on the Over The Counter market (OTC) under the symbol BAESY. 
One ADR represents four BAE Systems plc ordinary shares.  
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the depositary. If you should have 
any queries, please contact:  
JPMorgan Chase & Co 
PO Box 64504 
St Paul 
MN 55164-0504 USA  
Email: jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com  
Telephone number for general queries: (800) 990 1135  
Telephone number from outside the US: +1 651 453 2128  
 Beware of share fraud 
 Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.  
 They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment. 
 While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money. 
 5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) about share fraud each year, with victims losing an average of £20,000. 
 How to avoid share fraud   
 1. Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to 
contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares. 
 2. Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person 
and firm contacting you and then end the call.  
 3. Check the Financial Services Register from www.fca.org.uk to see 
if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA.  
 4. Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, 
copying its website or giving you false contact details.  
 5. Use the firm’s contact details listed on the Register if you 
want to call it back.  
 6. Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact 
details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.  
 7. Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at 
www.fca.org.uk/scams 
 8. Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm 
you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
 9. Think about getting independent financial and professional 
advice before you hand over any money.  
10.Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is! 
 Report a scam  
 If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.fca.org.uk/scams, where you can find out 
more about investment scams.  
 You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.  
 If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.  
 
Financial calendar 
Financial year end 31 December
Annual General Meeting 7 May 2014
2013 final ordinary dividend payable 2 June 2014
2014 half-yearly results announcement 31 July 2014
2014 interim ordinary dividend payable 1 December 2014
2014 full year results – preliminary announcement February 2015
  – report and accounts March 2015
2014 final ordinary dividend payable June 2015
Analysis of share register at 31 December 2013 
 Ordinary shares of 2.5p 
 Accounts  Shares 
Number 
‘000 %  
Number
1
million %
By category of shareholder    
Individuals 88.3 92.3  90.1 2.6
Nominee companies 2.2 2.3  2,969.3 83.9
Banks – –  7.0 0.2
Other 5.2 5.4  470.8 13.3
 95.7 100.0  3,537.2 100.0
By size of holding    
1 – 99 19.4 20.3  0.9 –
100 – 499 27.3 28.5  7.3 0.2
500 – 999 18.3 19.1  13.1 0.4
1,000 – 9,999 28.6 29.9  69.0 2.0
10,000 – 99,999 1.3 1.4  33.5 0.9
100,000 – 999,999 0.5 0.5  176.6 5.0
1,000,000 and over 0.3 0.3  3,236.8 91.5
 95.7 100.0  3,537.2 100.0
1 Includes 960,000 shares repurchased under the share buyback programme between 24 and 31 December 2013, the cancellation of which had not been completed at 
31 December 2013. 
 
WORD_Background.indd   194 3/7/2014   1:59:27 PM investor resources
INVESTOR RESOURCES
BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013 195
Shareholder information  
 
Registered office  
6 Carlton Gardens 
London 
SW1Y 5AD 
United Kingdom 
Telephone: +44 (0)1252 373232  
Company website: www.baesystems.com  
Registered in England and Wales, No. 1470151  
Registrars 
Equiniti Limited (0140) 
Aspect House  
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA  
United Kingdom 
If you have any queries regarding your shareholding or need to notify 
any changes to your personal details, please contact Equiniti.  
Equiniti’s website (https://help.shareview.co.uk) includes a 
comprehensive set of answers to many frequently asked 
questions relating to managing a shareholding. If you cannot find 
the answer to your question, there is an online e-mail form, which 
will help to ensure your question is directed to the most 
appropriate team for a response. Alternatively, you can call the 
BAE Systems Helpline on 0871 384 2044* or, from outside the 
UK, +44 121 415 7058. 
* Calls to the above number are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras. 
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.  
Shareview – online access to your shareholding 
Shareview is a free portfolio service offered by Equiniti to 
investors which gives shareholders online access to more 
information on their investments, including balance movements, 
indicative share prices and information on recent payments. It can 
also be used to sign up to receive all shareholder communications 
electronically and, once registered, arrange for dividends to be 
mandated or update your address. To take advantage of 
Shareview, register online at www.shareview.co.uk. Click on 
‘Register’ and follow the four easy steps.  
Details of software and equipment requirements are given on the 
website.  
Share register initiatives and shareholder donations  
As with any listed company with a large share register, over time 
we lose touch with some of our shareholders. During 2013, we 
asked ProSearch, a specialist tracing agency, to conduct an Asset 
Reunification Programme, to try and trace many of those 
shareholders for whom we did not appear to hold an up-to-date 
address, in order to reunite them with their shares and unpaid 
dividends. These shareholders were given the option of claiming 
their full entitlement or donating to our nominated charity, Blind 
Veterans UK. During 2013, over 4,700 shareholders were traced, 
more than 630,000 shares reactivated and £11,800 donated to 
Blind Veterans UK. The programme will continue into 2014. 
In September, we launched a Share Dealing Service to those 
shareholders who held 1,000 or fewer shares, which proved very 
successful. Shareholders were able to purchase shares, sell their 
entire shareholding or donate their shareholding to charity. In total, 
over £6,300 was donated to Blind Veterans UK, via ShareGift. 
ShareGift 
ShareGift, the share donation charity (registered charity number 
1052686), accepts donations of small parcels of shares which 
may be uneconomic to sell. Details of the scheme are available 
from ShareGift at www.sharegift.org, by telephone on 
020 7930 3737 or by email: help@sharegift.org 
Dividend mandate 
If you have a UK bank or building society account and would like 
to apply a bank mandate to your shareholding, a mandate form 
can be obtained from our website or by contacting Equiniti. 
Alternatively, bank details can be submitted: 
– in writing to Equiniti; 
– electronically via Shareview; or  
– if the shareholding is held in a sole name, Equiniti can take 
instructions over the telephone.  
Do you have an overseas bank account? Instead of waiting for a 
sterling cheque to arrive by post, why not take advantage of 
Equiniti’s overseas payments service? Equiniti can arrange 
payment for over 90 countries worldwide. It normally costs less 
than paying in a sterling cheque and only takes a few days for the 
money to arrive into the account after the dividend payment date. 
For more information on the terms and conditions of this service, 
and to obtain the appropriate mandate form, visit the Shareview 
website (www.shareview.com/overseas) or contact Equiniti direct. 
Electronic shareholder communications 
An increasing number of shareholders receive communications 
from the Company using e-mail and web-based communications.  
The use of electronic communications, rather than printed paper 
documents, helps us reduce the environmental impact of our 
activities and assists us in managing our costs.  
We regularly consult with shareholders to check how they wish to 
receive information from us. Shareholders may receive electronic 
communications in one of two ways:  
– Via e-mail – This option is available through Shareview. 
Shareholders receive an e-mail notification when a new document 
is made available, which contains a link to the document.  
– Via our website – Shareholders receive a notification by post 
when a new document is made available.  
A shareholder is taken to have agreed to website communications 
if a response to a consultation has not been received. Any 
document or information required to be sent to shareholders is 
made available on the Company’s website and a notification of 
availability is sent. Shareholders who receive such a notification 
are entitled to request a hard copy of the document at any time 
and may also change the way they receive communications at any 
time by contacting Equiniti.  
Notwithstanding any election, the Company may, at its sole and 
absolute discretion, send any notification or information to 
shareholders in hard copy form.  
Dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) 
The Company offers holders of its ordinary shares the option to 
elect to have their dividend reinvested in shares purchased in the 
market instead of cash.  
Shareholders who currently have a DRIP mandate in place should 
note that the Terms and Conditions have recently been changed. 
A full copy of the Terms and Conditions and an application form 
can be obtained by contacting Equiniti, or by visiting their website: 
www.shareview.co.uk/Products/Pages/applyforadrip.aspx 
Share price information 
The middle market price of the Company’s ordinary shares on 
31 December 2013 was 435.0p and the range during the year 
was 327.4p to 468.0p.  
  
 
 
  
American Depositary Receipts 
BAE Systems plc American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) are traded 
on the Over The Counter market (OTC) under the symbol BAESY. 
One ADR represents four BAE Systems plc ordinary shares.  
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the depositary. If you should have 
any queries, please contact:  
JPMorgan Chase & Co 
PO Box 64504 
St Paul 
MN 55164-0504 USA  
Email: jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com  
Telephone number for general queries: (800) 990 1135  
Telephone number from outside the US: +1 651 453 2128  
 Beware of share fraud 
 Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.  
 They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment. 
 While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money. 
 5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) about share fraud each year, with victims losing an average of £20,000. 
 How to avoid share fraud   
 1. Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to 
contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares. 
 2. Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person 
and firm contacting you and then end the call.  
 3. Check the Financial Services Register from www.fca.org.uk to see 
if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA.  
 4. Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, 
copying its website or giving you false contact details.  
 5. Use the firm’s contact details listed on the Register if you 
want to call it back.  
 6. Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact 
details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.  
 7. Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at 
www.fca.org.uk/scams 
 8. Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm 
you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
 9. Think about getting independent financial and professional 
advice before you hand over any money.  
10.Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is! 
 Report a scam  
 If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.fca.org.uk/scams, where you can find out 
more about investment scams.  
 You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.  
 If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.  
 
Financial calendar 
Financial year end 31 December
Annual General Meeting 7 May 2014
2013 final ordinary dividend payable 2 June 2014
2014 half-yearly results announcement 31 July 2014
2014 interim ordinary dividend payable 1 December 2014
2014 full year results – preliminary announcement February 2015
  – report and accounts March 2015
2014 final ordinary dividend payable June 2015
Analysis of share register at 31 December 2013 
 Ordinary shares of 2.5p 
 Accounts  Shares 
Number 
‘000 %  
Number
1
million %
By category of shareholder    
Individuals 88.3 92.3  90.1 2.6
Nominee companies 2.2 2.3  2,969.3 83.9
Banks – –  7.0 0.2
Other 5.2 5.4  470.8 13.3
 95.7 100.0  3,537.2 100.0
By size of holding    
1 – 99 19.4 20.3  0.9 –
100 – 499 27.3 28.5  7.3 0.2
500 – 999 18.3 19.1  13.1 0.4
1,000 – 9,999 28.6 29.9  69.0 2.0
10,000 – 99,999 1.3 1.4  33.5 0.9
100,000 – 999,999 0.5 0.5  176.6 5.0
1,000,000 and over 0.3 0.3  3,236.8 91.5
 95.7 100.0  3,537.2 100.0
1 Includes 960,000 shares repurchased under the share buyback programme between 24 and 31 December 2013, the cancellation of which had not been completed at 
31 December 2013. 
 
WORD_Background.indd   195 3/7/2014   1:59:27 PM INVESTOR RESOURCES
196 BAE Sy St Em S Annu Al Repo Rt 2013
Glossary 
 
  
AGM Annual General Meeting. 
ATTAC Availability Transformation Tornado Aircraft 
Contract.  
CPI Consumer Prices Index. 
CV90 Combat Vehicle 90. 
DEWS Digital Electronic Warfare System. 
EADS European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company.
EAP Employee Assistance Programme.  
EBITA Earnings before amortisation and impairment 
of intangible assets, finance costs and 
taxation expense. 
EC Executive Committee. 
ECP Engineering Change Proposal.  
EPS Earnings per share. 
ESOP Employee Share Option Plan. 
EU European Union. 
EV Expected Value. 
ExPS Executive Pension Scheme.  
ExSOP Executive Share Option Plan. 
FADEC Full Authority Digital Engine Controls.  
FCO Foreign & Commonwealth Office. 
FIRST Foundation for Inspiration and Recognition of 
Science and Technology.  
FMS Foreign Military Sales. 
FPE Final Pensionable Earnings. 
FPP Final Pensionable Pay. 
FRS Financial Reporting Standard. 
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice. 
GAO US Government Accountability Office. 
GEOINT Geospatial Intelligence. 
IAS International Accounting Standard. 
IBP Integrated Business Plan. 
IEMA Institute of Environmental Management and 
Assessment.  
IFBEC International Forum on Business Ethical Conduct.  
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard. 
ISR Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance. 
JETS Joint Effects Targeting System.  
 
JLTV Joint Light Tactical Vehicle.  
KPI Key Performance Indicator. 
LCM Lifecycle Management. 
LHD Landing Helicopter Dock. 
LRASM Long-Range Anti-Ship Missile. 
LRIP Low-Rate Initial Production. 
LTA Lifetime Allowance. 
LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan. 
M777 A lightweight 155mm field howitzer. 
M&A Mergers and Acquisitions.  
MoD Ministry of Defence. 
NED Non-executive director.  
OAS Operational Assurance Statement. 
OCF Operating Cash Flow.  
OPV Offshore Patrol Vessel. 
PIM Paladin Integrated Management. 
PSP Performance Share Plan.  
QBR Quarterly Business Review. 
R&D Research and Development. 
RAF Royal Air Force. 
RCF Revolving Credit Facility. 
RPI Retail Prices Index. 
RSAF Royal Saudi Air Force. 
RSNF Royal Saudi Naval Forces.  
RSP Restricted Share Plan. 
SBDCP Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme. 
SHE Safety, Health and Environment.  
SIGINT Signal Intelligence.  
SMM Safety Maturity Matrix. 
SMP Share Matching Plan. 
ToBA Terms of Business Agreement. 
TPL Total Performance Leadership. 
TRMC Treasury Review Management Committee. 
TSR Total Shareholder Return. 
UAE United Arab Emirates. 
UITF Urgent Issues Task Force. 
WARN Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification.  
 
WORD_Background.indd   196 3/7/2014   1:59:27 PM Cautionary statement: All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this document, including, without limitation, those regarding 
the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of BAE Systems and its strategy, plans and objectives and the markets and economies in 
which it operates, are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements which reflect management’s assumptions made on the basis of 
information available to it at this time, involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors which could cause the actual 
results, performance or achievements of BAE Systems or the markets and economies in which BAE Systems operates to be materially different from 
future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. BAE Systems plc and its directors accept no 
liability to third parties in respect of this report save as would arise under English law. Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated 
reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in accordance with schedule 10A of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000. It should be noted that schedule 10A and section 463 Companies Act 2006 contain limits on the liability of the directors of 
BAE Systems plc so that their liability is solely to BAE Systems plc.
At BAE Systems, we serve the needs of our 
customers by delivering a wide range of advanced 
defence, aerospace and security solutions that 
provide a performance edge. With some 84,600 
employees
1
 in six continents, we work together 
with local partners to develop, engineer, manufacture 
and support the innovations that increase defence 
sovereignty, sustain economies and safeguard 
commercial interests. 
That’s Inspired Work. 
1  Including share of equity accounted investments.
GET Th E LATEST i Nv ESTOR 
i NFORm ATi ON ONLi NE:
www. BAESy STEm S.c Om For the latest information on:  
– Innovation 
– Performance 
– Investor presentations 
– Corporate responsibility 
– News and events 
– Company videos
Plus, features enabling you to: 
– View on your laptop, tablet or phone 
– Stay connected with Twitter, Flickr, YouTube and Facebook 
– Sign up for RSS feeds 
– Sign up for e-mail alerts 
– Contact us
BAE Sy STEm S ONLi NE
Printed by Park Communications on FSC®certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System 
is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are 
recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this 
production will be recycled. 
The papers are the combination of 100% virgin fibre and 50% recycled fibre 
sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC®certified forests. The pulp for 
each is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) process.
Front cover image of Type 45 © Crown copyright.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar. ANNUAL REPORT 2013
ANNUAL  
REPORT 
2013
FOR m ORE  
i NFORm ATi ON
—
BAESy STEm S.c Om BAE Systems plc 
6 Carlton Gardens 
London SW1Y 5AD 
United Kingdom 
Telephone: +44 (0) 1252 373232 
www.baesystems.com
Registered in England and Wales No. 1470151
© BAE Systems plc 2014. All rights reserved
BAE SYSTEMS is a registered trade mark of BAE Systems plc.
