 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Abcam plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Welcome to  
a new chapter
in our story...
2014/15 was a year of significant delivery for Abcam. 
We made good progress in all five elements of our strategy, 
substantially outperforming the markets in which we operate 
and building a platform to deliver sustainable, profitable, 
long-term growth. Careful investment in our core reagents 
business, the development of new products and extension 
of our geographic penetration, as well as acquisitions and 
partnerships will further underpin the delivery of our strategy. 
Our teams across the globe are focused on providing 
research scientists with the tools to advance a global 
understanding of biology, causes of disease, and new 
approaches to defining and enhancing good health.  
As we do this, we continue to build a valuable business, 
trusted and relied upon by our customers and delivering 
value to our shareholders. Strategic report
Strategic report
1  Highlights
2  Chairman’s introduction
4  The Abcam story
6  Our business model
8  Our markets
10  Our CEO
12  Our strategic priorities
14   Operational r eview
17   Our KPIs
18   Our risks
22   Our responsibilities (CSR)
24   Our financials
Corporate governance
27  Chairman’s introduction to governance
28  Directors and Company Secretary
30  Senior Leadership Team (SLT)
32   Corporate governance statement
37  Audit and Risk Committee
40  Nomination Committee
42  Remuneration report
65  Directors’ report
Financial statements
69  Independent auditor’s report
74  Consolidated income statement
75   Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
   Reconciliation of consolidated 
adjusted financial measures
76  Balance sheets
77   Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
78   Company statement 
of changes in equity
79   Cash flow statements
80   Notes to the financial statements
IBC Corporate directory
  Shareholder information
Strategic report
1 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
We have delivered material returns in the year 
and exceeded our expectations by pursuing our 
five strategic priorities:
1
 Grow our core faster than market
We strengthened our position as the number one primary antibody 
supplier, using our superior quality RabMAb
®
 products to generate 
revenue growth significantly above market rate
2
 Establish new growth platforms
We increased Net Promoter Score (NPS) by 6%, a consistent increase 
across all categories and consumer segments, expanded our range 
of kits and assays and made significant market gains in China
3
 Scale organisation capabilities
We transformed consumer marketing, made key hires into 
our senior leadership team and laid the strategic groundwork 
for extensive improvements to our IT platform
4
 Sustain attractive economics
We achieved constant exchange rate (CER) product revenue growth 
of 16.6% and an adjusted operating margin of 34.2%
5  Selectively pursue partnerships  
and acquisitions
We have built a significant network of collaborations and  
acquired Firefly BioWorks to support our continued growth  
through increased product quality, a broader product portfolio  
and increased consumer reach 
Key highlights
View Our Strategic Priorities on pages 12–13
Highlights
• Strong progress continues in executing our strategy, with 
achievements against our specific strategic KPIs at the top 
end of, or above, our targets 
• CER product revenue increased by 16.6% to £135.4m 
(2013/14: £118.0m). On a reported basis the increase was 14.7%
• CER total revenue increased by 14.2% (12.6% on a reported basis) 
to £144.0m (2013/14: £128.0m)
• CER gross margin improved by 50 basis points, offset by currency 
headwinds, giving a reported margin of 70.5% (2013/14: 70.6%)
• Adjusted operating margin* 34.2% (2013/14: 36.4%), reflecting the 
expected operational investment in Firefly and other areas to drive 
future growth and the impact of foreign exchange rate movements
• Adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS)* increased by 9.4% 
to 19.76 pence (2013/14: 18.06 pence). Reported EPS increased 
by 9.1% to 18.57 pence (2013/14: 17.02 pence)
• Closing cash and term deposits were £58.7m (30 June 2014: £56.9m)
• Proposed full year dividend increased by 5.9% to 8.21 pence per 
share (2013/14: 7.75 pence)
• Appointment of Alan Hirzel as CEO and Murray Hennessy as Chairman
• Acquisition of Firefly and integration of its technology platform 
progressing well, bringing product diversification and exposure 
to fast-growing miRNA market
*  Excluding £3.1m (2013/14: £3.3m) of acquisition-related intangible amortisation 
and acquisition and integration costs of £0.4m (2013/14: £nil) and, in the case of EPS, 
the related tax effect. The full effect is shown in the Reconciliation of consolidated 
adjusted financial measures on page 75 and in note 11 in the case of EPS. Strategic report
2 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Murray Hennessy – Chairman
It gives me pleasure to introduce this year’s Annual Report which sets out the 
solid progress Abcam has made over the past twelve months. The Company 
has embarked on a new strategy which is delivering strong results and exceeded 
our high expectations for the year. Today, the Company is well placed to take full 
advantage of the significant opportunities that exist in our markets.
Chairman's introduction
• We have made progress in high-value targeting, 
identifying and focusing on products and 
subsectors which offer both higher-value 
and higher-volume sales opportunities.
• Our rapid progress in China demonstrates  
how investing in future markets can accelerate 
revenue growth and lay the foundations for 
expanding international business.
• Our reported revenues grew by 12.6%, a 
significant acceleration of the 4.7% growth  
we recorded in the prior year. 
Summary
Executing our strategy
Alan Hirzel was appointed CEO in September 2014 and we are very 
pleased with the results we are seeing from the implementation of 
the strategy we set out at that time. We have achieved double-digit 
growth across all of our geographic regions and product types, and 
we intend to accelerate this strategic process over the coming years. 
To continue to achieve growth in a managed and careful way, 
there are several areas of our business in which we need to invest. 
Focusing on revenue growth alone will not create a truly sustainable 
and valuable business. Rather, our strategy is to make focused 
investments to meet our consumers’ needs and then capitalise 
on the growth opportunities that this creates.
Since it was established, Abcam has spent 17 years developing its 
product expertise. We are now complementing this through building 
a consumer-centred organisational infrastructure. During the year 
we have made progress in high-value targeting, identifying and 
focusing on products and subsectors which offer both higher-value 
and higher-volume sales opportunities. As we do so we add layers 
of value and innovation to our existing business, as demonstrated 
in Our Business Model on pages 6–7.
Our strategy is enabling us to strengthen Abcam’s position 
at the heart of life science research. From our roots, providing 
antibodies in an ice bucket, we are moving to delivering comprehensive 
solutions and outstanding service levels to our consumers through 
a consistently improving online offering and geographic coverage. 
Our rapid progress in China demonstrates how investing in future 
markets can accelerate revenue growth and lay the foundations 
for an expanding international business.
  Dis cov er more about the investments we made and actions 
we took in the year in our Operational Review on pages 14–16.
Strong financial performance
Reflecting on the past twelve months, it is clear that Abcam has met 
ambitious targets and delivered results well above the underlying rate 
in our core markets. In total, after allowing for the adverse impact of 
exchange rates, our reported revenues grew by 12.6%, a significant 
acceleration of the 4.7% growth we recorded in the prior year. 
On a constant exchange rate basis our total revenue growth was 
14.2% (2013/14: 8.6%) compared with underlying market growth 
of around 4%.
After increased investment to drive future growth including the 
integration of Firefly and the negative impact of foreign exchange rate 
movements, adjusted operating margin was 34.2% (2013/14: 36.4%).
   Dis cov er more about the financial performance of the Group 
in Our Financials on pages 24–26. Strategic report
3 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Innovation and innovators
Our progress is driven by the quality and dedication of our people. 
T oday, Abcam employs over 820 people across ten locations. They are 
our innovators: across all our divisions and functions, employees are 
collaborating to drive innovation, focusing on our consumers’ needs, 
creating value for our shareholders and delivering the technologies that 
make a real difference to life science researchers. On behalf of all our 
stakeholders I would like to thank every employee for their enthusiasm, 
hard work and commitment over the last year.
The past year has seen significant senior management changes, 
with the appointment of Yvonne Chien, Chief Digital Officer; 
Sean Hickey, Chief Information Officer; and, after the period end, 
Suzanne Smith, Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary. 
In addition, Alejandra Solache, Global Head of Reagents Product 
Development and Manufacturing, who joined the Company in early 
2014, was appointed to the Senior Leadership Team in the year. 
These appointments bring added expertise in key areas.
  Dis cov er more about our investment in our talented team 
in our Corporate Governance Statement on pages 32–36.
One culture
Abcam’s strong consumer-focused, performance-based culture is 
grounded in our purpose to provide life science researchers with the 
tools they need to enable scientific progress. Our ‘One T eam’ approach 
underlines everything we do and serves as a framework for the success 
of each employee as well as the whole Company.
  Dis cov er more about our commitment to the recognition of 
employee contributions and achievements in Our Responsibilities 
on pages 22–23.
Board changes and governance
This year has been an important one for the governance of the Group: 
Alan Hirzel succeeded Jonathan Milner as CEO in September 2014, 
with Jonathan taking up a Deputy Chairman role and I took over as 
Chairman in November 2014. In addition, Sue Harris joined the Board 
as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee in December 2014.
Our effective governance framework at Board level and throughout 
the organisation has helped support this transition in leadership. 
However, we recognise that there is always scope for further 
improvement to support us in achieving the aspirations we have set 
for the Company. As such, over time the Board will continue to be 
strengthened as we seek to bring in further expertise in product 
and geographic areas.
  Dis cov er more about the actions of the Board in the year in 
the governance of risk on pages 35–36 and in the execution 
of a strategic review of remuneration in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 42–43.
Return to shareholders
The Board regularly reviews its dividend distribution policy and 
overall financial strategy to strike a balance between the needs 
of the business in terms of investment and the desire to provide a 
high level of return to shareholders. As such, we continue to operate 
a progressive dividend policy to grow the dividend if appropriate 
each year. This year the Board has recommended a final dividend 
of 5.92 pence per share to be paid on 4 December 2015 to 
shareholders on the register on 13 November 2015. This brings 
the dividend for the full year to 8.21 pence, an increase of 5.9% 
over the prior year’s dividend of 7.75 pence.
Creating future sources of value
Investment over the past two years, which has seen us deliver 
on our strategy and exceed our targets, has laid the foundation for 
growth in 2015/16 and beyond, as well as highlighting numerous new 
opportunities. To take advantage of these opportunities, investment 
will continue and gather pace. Better IT infrastructure is required to 
meet the demands of a global business dependent on gathering 
and sharing knowledge and data. Continued investment in research 
and consumer insight will enable us to identify new target products 
and bring them to market quickly. In the medium-term new premises 
will be required to provide an environment in which the best in the 
industry can work efficiently and in close proximity to one another. 
Judicious partnerships and acquisitions can accelerate this trend 
and we are pleased that Firefly is already generating revenues. 
These investments will drive further growth for shareholders over 
the coming years.
When we embarked on our new strategy in 2013/14 we recognised 
that we were at the beginning of a multi-year journey. Over time we 
must continue to balance the desire to generate growth and profits 
in the short term with the need to invest for longer-term growth. 
As Alan outlines throughout this report, the strands of our strategy are 
beginning to deliver the growth we expect. This gives us the confidence 
to continue with, and indeed, reinforce our current path.
Murray Hennessy
Chairman
11 September 2015
Our core ‘One Team ’ behaviours are:
• Focused on success: taking responsibility for business 
results, being committed and dependable and having 
a team focus
• Bold: communicating effectively and innovating 
to provide solutions
• Consumer-centric: being culturally aware and focused 
on the needs of our consumers Strategic report
4 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The Abcam story
100%
100,000
Chapter 1: 
The founding of a remarkable business
Chapter 2:
Expanding beyond antibodies
• 24 hour 
response 
time to 
enquiries 
established
• Same day delivery 
in Cambridge, UK
The principal founder, Dr Jonathan Milner, started Abcam to help 
researchers like himself when his breast cancer research slowed 
because of the lack of easily available high-quality reagents. In the 
first twelve years Abcam was focused on establishing a web-based 
company to sell the best antibodies in the world with the most 
comprehensive, honest and up-to-date datasheets, fast delivery 
and helpful customer service and technical support.
As the Company grew, we expanded our offering with 
successful additions across chromatin antibodies, loading 
control antibodies and GFP antibodies, as well as the 
introduction of immunoassays and kits. Abcam’ s scientific 
capabilities and product ranges continued to improve 
with in-house manufacturing, collaborations with leading 
scientific institutions and through acquisitions to help 
address unmet needs in the marketplace.
• Automated 
warehouse 
introduced 
to improve 
stock keeping 
and delivery
• 12% of revenue 
from products  
manufactured  
in-house 
• New offices 
opened including 
Tokyo and 
Cambridge, 
Massachusetts
• MitoSciences acquired in deal which 
enhances immunoassay portfolio
of our products 
were sourced from 
external organisations
Catalogue grows 
to 100,000 products 
in 2012
Chapter 1: 1998–2010 Chapter 2: 2010–2013
100+
PhDs
• Growth of local 
language customer 
support and local 
supply centres
• Introduction of 
immunoassay kits 
and reagents
Abcam is a rare success story – a £1bn global company, grown from the 
seeds of a business idea generated in a Cambridge lab in 1998. We’ve grown 
rapidly, driven by our ambition to transform the way life scientists are served 
and to do this on a global scale, and we look towards developing the next 
stage of value.
• First 
supplier 
to provide 
online 
antibody 
catalogue
• Catalogue 
grows to 
45,000 
products 
by 2008
• 2005 flotation 
and Queen’s 
award for 
enterprise
• Ascent Scientific acquired for 
its high-performance biochemicals – 
renamed Abcam Biochemicals in 2012
• Jonathan Milner 
wins CEO of the 
year award
• 300th 
employee hired Strategic report
5 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
40%
Consumer People Product Reach/scale
Chapter 3:
Delivering the next stage of value
• 8000+ RabMAb 
products for research 
and diagnostics
Our mission and vision remain the same: 
to aid life science researchers worldwide in 
achieving their mission, faster. As we enter a 
new phase of growth, Abcam looks positively 
into the future as we develop the next stage 
of value for our investors, our customers 
and our people.
• 60% of global researchers 
use Abcam’s products
of revenue 
from products 
manufactured 
in-house
• Established NPS to 
assess customer loyalty
Chapter 3: 2014–future
View Our Business Model on pages 6–7
View Our Strategic Priorities on pages 12–13
140+
PhDs
• Ten offices globally
• Customer growth and 
revenues were boosted in 
China following the opening 
of a Shanghai office
• Alan Hirzel 
appointed CEO 
and sets five 
strategic goals 
for the business
• Started Business 
Intelligence 
function (BI)
• Epitomics acquired 
in 2012 giving us 
IP for RabMAb 
production capacity
• Added tools and technology 
from consumer and retail 
industries to create a 
consumer insights team
• 100+ countries delivered 
to worldwide
• Abcam launches 
multiplex miRNA 
profiling assays
• Added recommendation 
engine to website
• Acquired Firefly Biosciences 
to add multiplex and miRNA 
assay capabilities
• New values 
and culture 
initiative launched
• Started selling 
directly to Australia 
and New Zealand Strategic report
6 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our consumers are life science researchers who seek 
to understand biological processes and their role in health 
and disease. These researchers demand fast access to 
high-performance products with detailed technical and 
reliable data. They want to have confidence that the 
product is reliable and the results are reproducible.
Our business model supports researchers working at the 
foundations of biology and we are now expanding our 
role to support a wider range of consumer segments:
Drug discovery and clinical researchers
Working in the biopharma and biotech markets, drug 
discovery and clinical researchers are large-scale users 
of Abcam’s tools throughout their discovery process.
Core facility research centres
Located in hospitals, research institutes and other large 
organisations, these groups apply Abcam’s research tools 
to provide services to researchers elsewhere in their institution.
Our business model
From the beginning, Abcam has added value to its offering by providing a continuous 
flow of product data and ensuring products are easy to find online. As we look to 
generate the next stage of growth, we are expanding how we add value. We are 
improving our understanding of our consumers, which in turn enables us to tailor 
and extend our product portfolio. Through innovations in our digital and offline 
channels we are able to quickly offer what researchers need.
Gain insights into how researchers
work and what they need
Quickly offer what consumers need 
through digital and offline channels
Learning from 
consumer 
interaction and 
improving offering 
as a result
Our consumers
How we add value
We regularly speak with key opinion leaders at the events that we host or 
sponsor and at industry tradeshows to keep abreast of the latest market 
trends. Through consumer surveys and focus groups, scientific support 
and other communication touch points, we can apply these insights as 
appropriate to our product development pipelines. In addition to these 
personal opportunities to listen, we make extensive use of the data 
analytics from our website and other data sources to uncover 
unmet needs.
We focus on the areas of greatest technical and commercial need 
and then innovate. This starts with an understanding of which biological 
pathways and research targets are most important to researchers and, 
today, we are expanding the range of products we offer by finding more 
applications for our high-quality antibodies as well as a broad class 
of affinity binders. Examples include antibodies conjugated with dyes, 
antibody pairs or putting an affinity binder into one of our kits. We also 
provide other products that are related to these pathways and targets, 
including our range of proteins, peptides, cellular assays, agonists, 
antagonists and many others. As we add more data, we add more 
value to the products and give researchers confidence that the 
products will work first time and every time.
1
3
1
  Gain insights into how researchers 
work and what they need
2
  Prioritise high-value pathways 
and targets and tailor and extend 
product portfolio Strategic report
7 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Our business model is designed to deliver sustainable 
long-term value for all our stakeholders.
Consumers
Our comprehensive consumer insights, personalised support, 
data and continually growing range of resources are helping 
to accelerate scientific discovery.
Investors
Operating transparently and responsibly, we regularly 
engage with our investors. We manage our business 
to sustain attractive economics.
Employees
Essential to our success is listening to and recognising our 
employees’ achievements. Our people remain highly motivated  
by the opportunities we provide to gain additional skills and 
experience and to help advance their careers at Abcam.
Suppliers and distributors
We work closely with our suppliers; we are transparent about 
how we work in terms of ethics, quality, the environment and 
general business principles, and we have the same expectations  
of them.
Local communities
We support a range of local initiatives and work with organisations 
to share best practice and knowledge in our sector. We support 
young people with employment opportunities, internships 
and work experience where possible.
Delivering stakeholder value
Prioritise high-value pathways and targets 
and tailor and extend product portfolio
Investment in our website and digital marketing capabilities continues to 
improve the ease and efficiency with which consumers find the products 
and services they need. In addition to our digital channel, we have an 
extensive range of offline channels: Abcam-hosted conferences, other 
conferences we attend, our field sales teams, and our global customer 
and technical support teams. Our digital platform plus our offline channels 
provide customers with what they want faster, wherever they are, and 
in the format they prefer. In most cases this means they can have the 
product they need working in their lab within 48 hours of ordering.
Pathway
AAAI
Binder
Peptides
Proteins
Cellular 
assays
Matched 
pairs
Direct 
conjugates
Multiplex 
assays
Singleplex 
assays
Underpinning our business model:
Innovation and R&D  
page 14
Corporate governance 
page 27
‘One Team’ behaviours  
page 3
Our financials 
pages 24–26
3
  Quickly offer what consumers need 
through digital and offline channels
2 Strategic report
8 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our marketplace
Antibodies and associated life science research reagents have 
a broad range of commercial applications that exploit their ability 
to recognise and bind to specific targets, with three broad uses:
• As research tools: antibodies are used to detect, quantify and 
modify proteins in scientific research experiments and thus enable 
conclusions to be drawn about the target molecule and pathway 
of interest. Regulatory approval of research-grade antibodies 
is not required.
• As diagnostics: antibodies have become a critical component 
of many diagnostic assays. Uses include, but are not limited to, the 
detection of infections, recognition of allergies and the measurement 
of hormones and other biological markers in blood. Antibody 
diagnostics generally require regulatory approval.
• As therapeutics: antibodies can be used as therapeutic agents 
for the treatment of diseases such as breast cancer, leukaemia 
and some immune-related diseases by binding and neutralising 
specific disease-causing molecules or by attaching to specific 
‘attack’ molecules. Therapeutic antibodies require high levels 
of regulatory approval.
Among these applications, the research antibody sector is the 
smallest but serves as the foundation for both diagnostics and 
therapeutics and is Abcam’s primary business focus worldwide.  
Currently, less than 2% of our revenue is earned in the diagnostics 
market from some of our proprietary RabMAb antibodies.
Global market for antibody-related products
Key growth drivers
Fundamental drivers for growth and change in the life science 
research tools market include:
• Increased funding for life science research: this serves to 
expand the numbers of projects undertaken and researchers 
employed. This growth in R&D spending can be driven by 
governments, private funding or commercial organisations – 
or a combination of all three.
• Re-allocation of funding to areas of science that are more productive: 
for example, the potential of epigenetics research and the Brain 
Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) 
Initiative, amongst others, to replace less productive areas of science.
• Advancement in the focus of research: as the cost of gene 
sequencing is reduced, more resource is diverted from gene 
identification to probing the function of the products of these 
sequenced genes in cells, leading to a further proliferation 
of research.
• Advancing knowledge about cellular pathways: this leads to 
more questions about how biology works, the causes of disease 
and potential diagnoses and treatments.
• Premiumisation of the market due to increased demand for 
better and more expensive products: this arises from either better 
product quality or improved efficiency through the use of kits 
or enhanced protocols.
Competition
The wide range of technologies and applications that use antibodies 
has created a fragmented and competitive marketplace for research 
antibody suppliers, although only a few players have significant global 
scale and liquidity. The number of new antibody suppliers is still growing 
rapidly, providing a pool of potential new partners for Abcam.
Global economic review
A large proportion of Abcam’s revenues is derived from consumers 
who are publicly funded through research grants; however, the 
nature of this market means that it is difficult to give a precise figure. 
We estimate that our addressable markets are growing by around 
4% per annum. Our Regional Managers present their view of the 
funding environment in each of our main geographic markets below.
During the recent economic downturn, cyclical factors such as 
the fiscal funding of life science research have impacted growth 
in the sector. From a global perspective, however, competition 
between nations in life science research has generally served to 
prioritise and protect budgets. The research reagents that Abcam 
sells are fundamental to the work of life scientists. Compared with 
larger capital intensive projects, our products are more resilient to 
changes in short-term funding. 
Our markets
Abcam’s current addressable market is the $2.4bn global life science 
research tools market, which is growing at around 4% per annum. 
We are the market leader within the $800m primary research 
antibodies sub-market.
Therapeutics $70bn
Diagnostics 
$20bn
Research 
reagents
$2.4bn
Other protein  
research tools
$1.2bn
Primary research 
antibodies
$0.8bn
Abcam's current 
addressable market:
Source: Abcam-commissioned market analysis.
miRNA
$0.4bn Strategic report
9 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
“ The life science market in Japan remains 
challenging. The caution we have seen in 
the market over the last few years continued 
in 2014/15 as the release of research grants 
has been delayed and funding withheld by 
academic institutions. This slowdown was 
further impacted by the increase in consumption 
tax in April 2014 and revelations of a particular instance of 
falsification of scientific research results has led to increased 
scrutiny of scientific publications. Our outlook on the market 
in Japan remains cautious against a backdrop of continuing 
uncertainty amongst researchers and a further increase in 
consumption tax scheduled for 2017.”
Nick Lines, Japan General Manager
“ New reforms to R&D funding 
structures in China could boost 
research activity. Innovation is 
becoming increasingly important 
with the percentage of GDP spent on 
R&D increasing. In 2014, basic research 
spending increased to $6.6bn, a 9% rise 
compared with 2013, and independent analysis 
anticipates that R&D budgets in China have the 
capacity to outpace those in the US by 2022.”
Jade Zhang, China General Manager
“ EU research funding has a mixed 
outlook, despite the optimistic Horizon 
2020 plan, which is intended to drive 
science and innovation. In the UK any 
growth in R&D is likely to come from 
industry. In France R&D budgets have 
been flat for the past five years and the 
Italian government plans to cut funding to university/public 
research by €360m, whereas Germany has overtaken the 
UK for the receipt of European Research Council grants.”
Paul Armstrong, EMEA General Manager
View Our KPIs on page 17
EMEA
The Americas
Japan
“ Economic growth continues to drive Asian R&D 
spending, although the outlook differs widely 
between countries. Singapore is marked by high 
government investment, political stability and an 
established regulatory environment alongside a 
substantial commitment to biomedical sciences 
research. Australia and Korea have the strongest 
growth in research funding, augmented in Korea by conglomerates 
such as Samsung and LG, which have diversified into biotech and 
founded advanced research institutes in partnership with academic 
centres of excellence. Taiwan is an outlier, where funding for research 
lags behind other markets because of low GDP growth.”
Peter Lee, Rest of Asia Pacific General Manager
Asia Pacific
China
“ US government funding saw cuts to 
the main National Institutes of Health 
(NIH) budget in 2011- 13, with 2013 
being particularly challenging because 
of the budget sequestration. Since 
then, NIH funding has remained flat or 
has seen only a small increase in absolute 
terms. Despite continuing budgetary pressures, 
the postponement or delay in sequestration 
has enabled better planning and confidence 
in purchasing for research projects.”
Bill Campbell, US General Manager
View our Operational Review on pages 14–16 Strategic report
10 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our CEO
Abcam has transitioned from being a small high-growth 
company to a substantial business and market leader 
in its core antibody market.
Alan Hirzel – CEO
Whilst this Annual Report marks my first full year as CEO, 
it is now two years since I joined Abcam as Chief Marketing 
Officer. When I arrived I was excited by the enormous 
opportunities available to the business and my first priority 
was to outline the strategy that would ensure our continued 
outperformance of the growth of our underlying core markets. 
I am pleased that we are now seeing positive results from  
this strategy. 
Abcam has transitioned from being a small high-growth 
company to a substantial business and market leader in its core 
antibody market. Sustaining growth has required a refocusing 
of the business to meet the needs of our consumers.  
We have always invested carefully both to support our 
existing products and to acquire businesses which will enable 
us to enter new markets or develop better products more 
quickly. The results we have seen this year bear testament  
to the hard work of our people across the Company.
The past two years have seen a substantial broadening 
of the skills and experience of our Board and Senior Leadership 
Team. This has been vital to ensure that we are fit and skilled 
not just to be the business we are today, but to be able to 
support a much larger business, operating internationally in 
fast-growing and highly complex markets. This process will 
continue as we bring talent and expertise into Abcam to 
help us understand how our products and expertise can 
be extended to new markets.
Abcam cannot exist without the support and advocacy of our 
consumers – the scientific research community. Abcam today 
is at the heart of this community, providing researchers around 
the globe with products they can trust, that are of the highest 
quality, along with the data needed to support and validate 
their research. Since we began implementing our new strategy 
two things have happened that give me enormous confidence 
for the future. Better understanding of our consumers has allowed 
us to enhance our position in the core antibody market. At the 
same time, through investment and acquisitions, we see new 
markets open to us both in terms of products and new 
applications and by extending our geographic reach.
A year of hard work and sustained growth
View our Operational Review on pages 14–16 Strategic report
11 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
What were your initial priorities in your first year 
as CEO of Abcam?
From the outset, I identified the need to clarify our vision, 
ambition and goals and to ensure we were all aligned to achieve 
these things. Secondly, it was imperative that we hire people 
with the capabilities we didn’t yet possess, that are essential 
to continue the acceleration of our growth. And thirdly, I was 
determined to see more customers and hear from them 
what they expect from Abcam today and what they need 
in the future.
What is your vision for the business?
We will be the most influential brand for every life science 
researcher that enables them to do their work more efficiently 
and productively.
What do you enjoy about your role?
Personally, I am inspired by the mission and purpose of our 
business. I started my career as a life scientist and I love being 
in a position to contribute to technical advances in biology. 
Like many people I have first-hand experience of the impact 
of diseases like cancer and I am motivated by the part we 
can play to help science and society bring solutions to these 
global challenges.
I really enjoy leading and mentoring people in our business as 
they implement our strategy. I have been fortunate to work with 
some of the best brands and executive teams in the world to 
help them achieve significant growth. I relish drawing upon such 
experiences daily as we make decisions about where and how 
to grow.
What have been the most unexpected 
developments in the business over your 
first twelve months as CEO?
I was surprised by the speed with which the market and our 
customers have embraced the changes we have made to our 
business since we defined the strategy in 2013. I have been 
delighted to discover how much more growth opportunity 
there is in our business.
What is the main focus for the year ahead?
We are continuing to press ahead with our five multi-year 
goals whilst keeping our global team focused on the areas 
of highest value. My focus will be to ensure our infrastructure 
keeps up with our growth.
What does the future hold for Abcam?
We will create an unbeatable brand in our markets, continuing with 
profitable growth that leads to a significant increase in Abcam’s 
value. Abcam will be the acknowledged leader for setting new 
standards in the life science industry: understanding customers, 
delivering reliable, high-quality products, and being the innovation 
partner of choice for the researchers we serve globally. 
Q&A...
with our Chief Executive Officer Strategic report
12 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our strategic priorities
What we promised 
for 2014/15
Key actions we took to 
deliver on that promise
Highlights demonstrating the 
impact of our investments Our next priorities
Grow our 
core reagents 
business faster 
than the market
Our aim is to generate 
above-market revenue 
growth from our 
existing consumer 
base, as well as 
by attracting new 
consumers to 
our products
Focus on developing 
high-quality products 
to high-value targets, 
particularly where we can 
use our RabMAb technology
Continue to grow the 
catalogue around research 
areas which we believe offer 
the greatest market potential
Establish linkages across our 
product categories to increase 
the purchase of non-primary 
antibody products 
Published over 1,500 
directly conjugated RabMAb 
primary antibodies against 
high-value targets
Developed improved 
cross-selling tools on 
the public website 
and ran integrated 
marketing campaigns
Created research area 
and product category landing 
pages on the public website
Worked closely with 
suppliers to add validation 
data and ensure consistent 
quality supply
Strengthened position 
as No.1 primary 
antibody supplier
24.2% RabMAb 
revenue growth against 
target of 15–20%
Increase in cross-category 
purchasing
5–fold increase 
in epigenetics and 
neuroscience content 
page views
Continue innovating to build 
portfolios of products around 
high-value targets
Further digital marketing 
improvements to provide 
a more personalised 
consumer experience 
Continued focus on quality 
to ensure products are 
always specific, selective 
and reproducible in the 
context for which our 
consumers use them
Our strategic priorities
Our medium-term aspirations
Our strategy is to deliver sustainable, profitable, long-term growth. 
Within 3–5 years we aspire to have:
• created significant additional value for shareholders;
• an increased base of loyal consumers making more frequent, 
higher-volume purchases – measured by a market-leading NPS;
• a product portfolio which provides researchers working on 
important protein targets with complete solutions; 
• superior quality products giving reproducible results  
– for recognised market leadership in premium products;
• built a presence in new markets with significant potential;
• a scalable and flexible IT platform, enabling efficiencies within the 
existing business and providing a platform for further growth; and
• a world-class workforce attracting great talent.
Our strategic investments throughout the organisation will give us 
the capability to succeed. The following table maps our progress 
against the priorities set out in last year’s Annual Report and 
summarises the next steps.
Mission
To enable scientists to 
discover more
Vision
To be the brand most 
recommended by life 
science researchers
Strategy
To deliver sustainable, 
profitable, long-term growth
1
Read more about our progress in our Operational Review and Our KPIs on pages 14–17
Our strategy is designed to increase growth and improve our long-term financial 
performance, in support of our ambition to become the most recommended brand by 
life science researchers. This will be based on scientists across the world trusting our 
products and knowing that purchasing from us will achieve faster, better quality and 
more reliable and reproducible results, thereby accelerating scientific breakthrough. Strategic report
13 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Our strategic priorities
What we promised 
for 2014/15
Key actions we took to 
deliver on that promise
Highlights demonstrating the 
impact of our investments Our next priorities
Establish new 
growth platforms
Our aim is to deliver 
enhanced value by the 
addition of attractive 
new product ranges 
or services in either 
the same or adjacent 
segments and by 
extending our 
geographic penetration
Use our data and consumer 
insights to prioritise which 
kits and assays to provide 
and incorporate our RabMAb 
technology into new product 
development where appropriate
Make market share gains in 
activity assays, proteins and 
peptides, immunoassays 
and research biochemicals
Continue penetration into 
consumer segments where 
Abcam is under-represented
Use our office in Shanghai to 
drive the growth of revenues 
from China
Prioritised launch of  
RabMAb matched pairs 
in immunoassay kits
Built consumer insights 
team and ran projects 
to better understand the 
needs of consumers 
in different segments
Created a reduced pool 
of focused distributors in 
China and further enhanced 
local stock-holding
Enabled two strategically 
important accounts with 
punch-out electronic 
catalogues in their 
eProcurement systems
NPS increased from 
18% to 24% – an increase 
across all categories and 
consumer segments
75.7% CER growth 
in China
Non-primaries CER revenue 
growth of 28.2%, against 
target of 25–30%, led by 
kits and assays growth 
of 33.0%
Market share gains 
as a result of growth 
in non-primaries of 7-8x 
market growth rates
Continue to strengthen 
our position in China
Build our kits and assays 
capabilities, leveraging 
our RabMAb and Firefly 
technologies
Continue to increase our share 
of underpenetrated segments
Increase number of 
strategically important 
accounts with eProcurement 
punch-out capability
Scale organisation 
capabilities
Our aim is to attract 
and retain the best 
people, empower them 
to succeed and build 
the capabilities 
necessary to deliver  
our strategy
Implement performance 
targets and merit-based 
incentives across the Group 
to reward success
Invest in our CRM and 
accounting software and 
implement a multi-year 
review of our IT platform
Relocate our manufacturing 
facility in Hangzhou
Conclude planning for 
a new consolidated UK  
head office
Introduced merit-based pay 
and bonus scheme, aligning 
remuneration to individual as 
well as Company performance 
Implemented new CRM 
software, business information 
tool and financial budgeting 
and forecasting system
Recruited CIO and began 
strategic IT review
Commenced construction 
work for the relocation of the 
Hangzhou production facility
Identified site and commenced 
design work for new 
consolidated UK head office
Strengthened our SLT with 
4 important hires
360° feedback has driven 
personal developmental goals 
for each SLT member that 
will increase their ability to 
contribute to Abcam’ s success
‘One Team’ training 
delivered in all global locations
Complete move of Hangzhou 
production facility
Complete outline design 
and begin planning approval 
process for new head office 
in Cambridge, UK
Implement improvements to 
the Cambridge, US office and 
relocate Firefly team to integrate 
them into the same building
Complete strategic IT review 
and begin implementation
Roll out long-term 
leadership and development 
training programme for 
senior managers
Sustain attractive 
economics
Our aim is to ensure 
operational efficiency 
and cost-effectiveness 
to deliver sustainable, 
profitable growth 
Generate strong revenue 
growth above that 
of our markets
Make investments that 
drive medium to long-term 
revenue growth
Extended custom services 
offering to Europe
Established a local office in 
Australia to allow direct sales 
in this market, generating 
increased returns
CER product revenue growth 
of 16.6%, around 
3–4 times market growth
Adjusted operating margin 
of 34.2%
Perform a detailed review 
of the cost base to maximise 
operational and capital 
spending efficiency
Establish a Singapore office to 
allow direct sales in this market
Review and optimise other 
global distribution arrangements
Enhance business planning 
and analysis capabilities
Selectively pursue 
partnerships and 
acquisitions
Our aim is to supplement 
the other components 
of our strategy by making 
acquisitions of and 
working with partners 
that add to our 
competitive advantage 
in the life science market
Actively seek out new 
partnerships, acquisitions 
and investment opportunities 
that support our strategy 
and maximise our 
competitive advantage
Continue to work with 
collaborators on the 
co-development of 
innovative products
A*STAR collaboration which 
leverages RabMAb technology 
in immunoassay kits
Agreement with Cell Marque 
to exploit the potential of 
RabMAb products in the 
diagnostics market
Acquisition of Firefly, 
diversifying into adjacent 
fast-growing miRNA market, 
with fundamental multiplexing 
technological advancement
Collaboration with Michael J 
Fox Foundation to develop 
benchmark RabMAb antibodies 
in the area of neuroscience
Several collaborations 
with high-profile 
Chinese universities
Bringing the Firefly 
technology in-house 
provides access to the 
$400m miRNA market 
and also the potential to use 
the technology in protein 
multiplexing kits
Chinese university 
collaborations already 
contributed over 30 
high-value targets to 
the RabMAb antibody 
development pipeline
Continue to actively seek out 
and evaluate new partnerships, 
acquisitions, collaborations 
and investment opportunities 
that support our strategy 
and leverage our 
competitive advantage
Prepare analysis of markets 
under-represented in our 
current business model 
and establish prioritisation 
plan for exploiting 
opportunities identified
2
3
4
5 Strategic report
14 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Innovation
Independent research conducted by BCC and published in 
January 2015 indicates a high percentage of researchers have 
unmet reagent needs because they cannot find a commercial supplier 
for their specific targets, species or applications. This is a significant 
opportunity for Abcam as we continue to identify untapped sources 
of growth in markets we already serve, as well as in new areas.
We continue to focus on our broad portfolio of research tools to enable 
breakthrough research into the role of signalling and regulatory molecules 
and proteins in biological pathways – ultimately leading to treatments 
for diseases such as cancer and immune deficiency disorders. 
Our catalogue now includes over 137,000 diverse products. 38% 
of our total revenue is now derived from our in-house manufactured 
products and innovation.
We take a data-driven, multi-layered approach to evaluate the protein 
targets of interest to scientists and our pipeline provides a complete 
solution around each target. This high-value targeting strategy is driving 
further growth across our business, generating increased returns from 
each new product: RabMAb products introduced using this approach 
are selling six times more within the first six months compared with 
previous volumes, with overall CER revenue growth from RabMAb 
products of 24.2%, in excess of our full year guidance of 15–20%.
Our proprietary, high-quality RabMAb technology continues to 
be an important differentiator. We increased our range of RabMAb 
antibodies in the year by 1,811 products, including a range of 
RabMAb pairs: a capture antibody and a detection antibody which 
are validated to work together, allowing scientists to focus on 
productive research rather than optimising antibody components 
in their experiments. These are performing well in competitive 
benchmarking. Now 90% of our SimpleStep ELISA assay kits contain 
RabMAb pairs, offering sensitive and accurate quantitation of the 
target protein in just 90 minutes. Led by CER kits and assays revenue 
growth of 33.0%, CER revenue from our non-primary antibody products 
grew by 28.2%, towards the upper limit of our target of 25–30%.
Proteins seldom function in isolation, so researchers often study 
them in their multi-component state. Without the right set of tools, 
multi-protein analysis can be extremely difficult, for instance because 
of cross-species reactivity when using indirect detection and challenges 
in sourcing appropriately labelled primary antibodies. Our exclusive 
range of over 1,500 directly conjugated RabMAb antibodies with multiple 
labels is designed to overcome these issues and is already selling 
well. These have laid the foundation for significant revenues in 2015/16.
Global expansion
We continue to innovate through our digital channels to provide 
personalised, relevant content that anticipates consumer needs 
and enhances their experience. We were delighted that our digital 
marketing strategy was recognised with the Life Science Industry 
Award in November 2014 for the ‘Best Use of Digital Media’. Improved 
cross-selling tools on the public website and new category landing 
pages to allow grouping of related content further improved the 
user experience and made ordering more efficient. Cross-category 
purchasing has also increased, for example, in the purchase of kits 
by our existing core primary antibody customers.
Quality
Antibodies have a vital role in biomedical research and scientific journals 
are calling for greater reproducibility of data in primary publications. 
High-quality research antibodies, including high specificity, sensitivity 
and lot-to-lot consistency, are needed to make critical progress on 
this issue. At Abcam we are responding with a key focus on improving 
product quality. This is a fundamental driver of improved NPS and our 
ambition to become the most recommended brand by life science 
researchers. We are confident in our strategy, which has seen an 
increase in NPS from 18% to 24% over the year.
We continue to add value to our consumers using our RabMAb 
technology which combines the superior antigen recognition of 
the rabbit immune system with the specificity and consistency of a 
monoclonal. We have now extended this technology into a number 
of our other product ranges to ensure consistency of quality across 
our catalogue. 
We also worked closely with our suppliers to gain extra validation 
data and to investigate and improve any products which did not 
meet our stringent quality criteria. We continue to build stronger 
collaborative relationships with suppliers by visiting them, sharing 
consumer feedback and presenting in-house validation data. 
One outcome has been significant progress in improving the packaging 
and consumer acceptance of our cellular assays range.
Service
We are passionate about understanding the needs of our consumers, 
supporting our aim to provide a customised and optimised service. 
Our new consumer insights team ran a consumer closeness project 
during the year, conducting interviews and focus groups in the UK and 
US to gain a better understanding of the needs of different consumers.
Having appointed 16 global key account managers for strategically 
important or significant accounts, we have seen twice the level 
of growth generated in managed accounts compared with those 
with no dedicated manager.
Other ways in which we have enhanced our services include: 
extending our custom service capability to Cambridge, UK, building 
on our established US team and enabling increased service levels for 
European custom project clients; and adding eProcurement capabilities 
for two key accounts, allowing consumers to purchase our products 
through their organisation’s own eProcurement applications.
Operational review
How we delivered value this year
In my first year as CEO, I have been delighted by the results delivered by implementing 
the strategy we outlined last year. 2014/15 shows what we can achieve by becoming 
a consumer-centred company. We strengthened our product pipeline and increased 
the momentum behind our growth platforms. Careful investment has driven growth in 
revenues and profits and our efforts are creating significant value for all our stakeholders.
137,000+
 diverse products in our catalogue Strategic report
15
Our strategic investments have yielded CER double-digit growth in all our geographic regions. Indeed, with the exception of Japan, growth 
over the previous year has accelerated in all regions. Particularly pleasing is China which has benefited from increased investment in our 
Shanghai office. Japan was the slowest growing region at 10.4%, due to the uncertainty in funding caused by the challenging macroeconomic 
situation. We are currently implementing a number of initiatives to get closer to our consumers in Japan, in collaboration with our sub-dealer 
network, which we hope will yield positive results in 2015/16.
Revenue
2014/15
£000
Revenue
2013/14
£000
Increase in
reported
revenue
CER
growth
The Americas 58,535 51,267 14.2% 11.7%
EMEA 43,343 40,633 6.7% 13.8%
Japan 11,148 11,116 0.3% 10.4%
China 12,912 7,161 80.3% 75.7%
Rest of Asia Pacific 9,444 7,813 20.9% 19.8%
Product revenue 135,382 117,990 14.7% 16.6%
Non-product revenue
1
 8,651 9,964 (13.2%) (15.3%)
Total reported revenue 144,033 127,954 12.6% 14.2%
1 Includes custom services, IVD/IHC, royalties and licence income. 
After relatively modest investments in our Shanghai sales and 
distribution facility since its establishment in February 2014, CER 
incremental sales in China in the year were £5.4m, a growth rate 
of 75.7%. Among the improvements to the way we serve this market, 
we have: created a focused team of fewer regional distributors, 
implemented a local stock-holding facility resulting in nearly all 
of our best-selling items being in stock at the point of order receipt 
and directly reached 10,000 scientists through training events, 
exhibitions and presentations in 62 institutions and 18 cities.
We completed the transition to direct sales in Australia and 
New Zealand, improving margins and expanding direct relationships 
with consumers and have also begun the process to set up direct 
sales in Singapore. We expect this to take effect in 2015/16.
Investing in infrastructure
We see many growth opportunities for Abcam in current and new 
markets and plan to invest in operational infrastructure in order to help 
deliver on them. We recruited an experienced Chief Information Officer, 
Sean Hickey, to lead a strategic review of current systems and plan 
how these map onto our future business needs. The picture this paints 
is of a set of highly refined bespoke systems that have underpinned 
the growth and efficiency of our original business model, but are relatively 
rigid in their scope and flexibility. As our business model continues to 
evolve we need to adapt to a more flexible componentised set of IT 
solutions built around a backbone ERP framework. This will both allow 
us to scale into different aspects of our business as well as facilitating 
integration and assimilation of any future acquisitions. We are engaging 
with an experienced external consultancy over the next few months to 
help us build a detailed map of our future business processes and align 
this with a plan to deliver a scalable and flexible platform solution. We 
expect this to result in an investment programme over a two to three-year 
period and will have further updates on the level of investment as part 
of our regular communication with shareholders as our plans progress.
The other vital area of capital investment is in our global premises. 
We have commenced construction of our new Hangzhou office, which 
will provide enlarged and improved manufacturing facilities. We expect 
to complete the move in Q2 2015/16 at a cost of around £2m. We are 
also looking to invest in our Cambridge, US, facilities in order to integrate 
the Firefly team and support the next growth phase.
Our premises in Cambridge are also in need of investment – we are 
currently spread over three separate buildings on the Cambridge 
Science Park and need more space as we grow. A new head office 
in Cambridge, UK, is planned to bring all Cambridge, UK, staff together 
under one roof, providing a more scalable environment. We are in 
discussions to lease a purpose-built facility on the new Cambridge 
Biomedical Campus. This is located on the Addenbrooke’ s Hospital site 
and is already becoming a centre for world-class biomedical research 
and patient care as well as having more direct access to clinical 
researchers. We estimate moving into our new head office in 2018/19 
and will update shareholders on this project as it develops.
View our Regional Managers’ thoughts on the economic 
environment in each of our geographic regions on page 9 Strategic report
16 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Firefly
We are pleased with the progress made by our combined teams since the acquisition of Firefly BioWorks in January 2015. Development of 
the Firefly™ particle technology platform is being delivered to plan and we are seeing strong consumer interest. In June 2015, the Firefly range 
of multiplex miRNA profiling assays was launched on our public website in selected regions and our first Firefly kit sale came through this 
online proposition. We are excited by the potential of extending the application of the Firefly technology into multiplex protein immunoassay 
kits. The first product launches in this area are planned for 2015/16.
Other strategic partnerships
To support the other components of our strategy, we are actively seeking to partner with companies that offer complementary products 
or capabilities in the life science market.
The acquisition of Firefly and the collaborations with Cell Marque and A*STAR are only a few of our existing technology and pipeline 
collaborations and we continue to work on the development of many more.
In 2015/16 we plan to review market opportunities which are under-represented in our current business model to ensure we exploit 
all commercially attractive options available.
Outlook
The 2015/16 year has started well and we have confidence in our ability to achieve the stretching targets we have set for ourselves over the 
coming year. The carefully balanced investments we have made to date have delivered enhanced profits and have locked in future growth. 
To ensure we are enabled to capitalise fully on the further opportunities available to us, we continue to work closely with our consumers 
and invest in R&D, IT, our infrastructure and our people to provide innovative and improved solutions. 
Supported by a clear purpose and strategy, we believe that Abcam is well positioned to deliver the next stage of value for our shareholders.
Alan Hirzel
Chief Executive Officer
11 September 2015
Operational review continued
How we delivered value this year
Epitomics - Mar 2012
Transformative strategic acquisition 
of proprietary RabMAb technology: 
enhanced quality offering, created ability 
to tailor offering and enabled access to 
previously under-represented markets
Ascent Scientific - Sep 2011
Expand range into biochemical reagents
A*STAR's Institute of Molecular 
and Cell Biology - Jan 2015
Collaboration agreement which leverages 
RabMAb technology in immunoassay kits
MitoSciences - May 2011
Expand kits and assays range
Partnerships 
which increase
- Quality
- Portfolio
- Customer
reach
Firefly - Jan 2015
Diversification into adjacent fast-growing 
miRNA market, with key multiplexing 
technological advancement
Cell Marque - Sep 2014
Global strategic marketing agreement to 
exploit the potential of RabMAb products  
in the diagnostics market
Expanding into 
horizontal  
adjacencies
Bringing novel 
technological 
capability  
in-house Strategic report
17 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
We measure our performance against a number of key performance indicators. Success against these KPIs forms 
a component of the Board and senior management’s incentives, as outlined on pages 45–52.
How we performed: At a CER growth rate of 24.4%, our RabMAb revenues have outperformed our high expectations in the year as a result of the 
many initiatives we have undertaken and investments we have made, including the introduction of a range of directly conjugated primary antibodies.
Why it’s important: We see our proprietary RabMAb technology, which offers greater specificity and lot-to-lot consistency benefits to our 
consumers, as a fundamental contributor to Abcam’s growth strategy.
Non-primary antibody products 
CER revenue growth
How we performed: Led by our kits and assays business, non-primary antibody CER revenue growth was 28.2%, towards the upper limit 
of our goal for the year.
Why it’s important: Sales of non-primary antibody products will form part of our successful strategic execution as we seek to attain levels 
of market penetration similar to those we have in the primary antibody market.
Net Promoter Score (NPS)
How we performed: Our NPS improved by six percentage points to 24%, above the ambitious target we set at the start of year. 
Whilst we have progressed further ahead of the industry average, the market-leading competitor NPS also increased, and we remain 
focused on further advancement.
Why it’s important: Our vision is to be the brand most recommended by life science researchers. It is increasingly important that we focus on our 
consumers and listen to their feedback. We conduct several formal consumer surveys during the year to determine their likelihood of recommending 
Abcam’s products and services to a colleague. The balance of detractors and promoters is then computed into an NPS using standard industry 
methods. As we seek to measure success against our vision, our NPS will be an important metric. 
Market position
Ongoing targets
• Maintain #1 position in primary research antibodies.
• Gain share in at least two other product categories.
How we performed: Market research has confirmed that we remain the #1 brand for research antibodies – and gained around four market share 
points – and that we continue to gain market share across all other categories in our product range, demonstrated by CER growth of over five times 
that of the underlying market in all product categories.
Why it’s important: A focus for Abcam is to expand our product ranges to provide a complete solution of research reagents to support our consumers. 
Market position in each of our product ranges will give a critical measurement of our progress in this area.
Our KPIs
28.2%
24%
1 5
Strategic alignment: 
2 5
Strategic alignment: 
1 2
Strategic alignment: 
24.2%
RabMAb primary antibodies 
CER revenue growth 
2012/13 19%
2014/15 24%
2013/14 18%
#1 in primary research antibodies
1 2
Strategic alignment: 
5
2012/13 33.5%
2014/15 24.2%
2013/14 17.1%
2015/16 target 15–20%
2014/15 target 15–20%
2012/13 32.4%
2014/15 28.2%
2013/14 34.3%
2015/16 target 25–30%
2014/15 target 25–30%
2015/16 target 22–28%
2014/15 target 20–22% Strategic report
18 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our risks
Abcam’s risk management strategy is to identify, assess and mitigate  
any significant risks that it faces. Despite this, no risk management  
strategy can provide absolute assurance against loss.
 
Low likelihood High likelihood
High level of control No control
3
7
10
13
9
2
1
4
6
12
11
5
8
Potential impact to the Group, 
after taking account of mitigation.
Risk management framework
Abcam has implemented policies and procedures 
intended to reduce risk, including with respect to product 
development, manufacturing, marketing and distribution 
operations within the increasing number of countries in 
which the Group operates. Success in these areas is 
of benefit to shareholders and other stakeholders alike. 
Our established risk management process for identifying, 
assessing, evaluating and managing significant risks is 
summarised opposite.
Our risk management policies are constantly reviewed, 
taking into account current market conditions and the 
Group’s activities. Significant risks, which are defined 
with reference to magnitude of impact and likelihood 
of occurrence, are escalated to the Group Risk Register, 
which is formally reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee 
and the Board twice a year. 
Principal risks
A summary of the principal risks, their linkage to our 
strategy and an explanation of how the Group mitigates 
each risk are set out in the table on pages 19–21. 
Whilst the Group is exposed to a number of risks, wider 
than those listed, we have chosen to disclose those 
currently of most concern to the business and those that 
have been the subject of debate at recent Board or Audit 
and Risk Committee meetings. There may be other risks 
and uncertainties which are unknown to the Group or 
which could become material in the future. These risks 
may cause the Group’s results to vary materially from 
historic and expected results.
Further additional information on the Group’s financial 
risk management strategy can be found in note 26 
to the financial statements.
The diagram below shows an analysis of the principal 
risks affecting the Group.
Audit 
and Risk 
Committee
Senior 
Leadership 
Team
Group 
financial 
management 
team
•   Responsible for reviewing and approving the adequacy and 
effectiveness of our risk management and internal controls
•   Assists the Executive Directors in identification of risks 
and implementing mitigating actions
•   Responsible for ensuring there is an open and receptive approach  
to solving risk problems in the Group
•  Challenges and reviews the risks identified
•   Maintains a view on changes in the business that may give 
rise to the new risks or risk areas
•  Significant risks are escalated to the Group’s Risk Register
Abcam 
Board
Executive 
Directors
Subsidiary 
companies 
and Group 
functions
•   Responsible for establishment and oversight of Abcam’s risk  
management framework
•  Sets the tone and influences the culture of risk management
•  Determines the risk prioritisation protocol
•  Monitors the management of fundamental risks
•   Maintain the Group’s Risk Register, including the identification 
and evaluation of any newly recognised risks
•  Implement mitigation actions in a timely manner
•   Embed risk management as part of the system of internal control 
within the Group
•   Responsible for identifying, assessing and managing risks within  
their offices or function
Accountability for monitoring
Responsibility for implementing Strategic report
19 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
The direction of change during the year is illustrated in the following table by the arrow in the ‘Change’ column. Please note that this refers 
to the overall change in the risk to the Group, following mitigating actions. 
Increased risk Decreased risk No change to risk
Principal risk and why it is relevant Change Alignment to strategy Key mitigation Activity during the year
1.  Business growth 
is constrained 
by infrastructure:
The size of our operation and 
the number of employees has 
grown rapidly both organically 
and by acquisition. Our operational 
and IT infrastructure needs to be 
robust, efficient and scalable in 
order for the Group to continue 
to manage its growth
Rapid growth 
in recent years 
has increased 
our risk of 
infrastructural 
constraints on 
future growth
2
4 3
1
5
• Global content delivery partner used 
to increase reliability and access 
speed for static website content
• Dynamic website content served 
from an external, fully supported 
data centre
• Continue to improve application 
architecture design to minimise 
the single points of failure
• Invest in global premises to ensure 
they are fit to support current 
operations as well as medium-term 
growth plans
• Invest extensively in IT systems 
to maximise scalability, security 
and usability
• Strengthened SLT with four 
additional members as well as 
significant recruitment activities 
across the organisation 
• Secured additional space in 
Cambridge, UK and US, offices
• Investment in new production 
facility in Hangzhou
• Began strategic review of IT 
infrastructure and applications
2.  Significant exchange 
rate movements:
The Group reports its 
results and pays dividends 
in Sterling. Operating and 
manufacturing companies trade 
in local currency. Our particular 
exposures are against the 
US Dollar, Euro, Japanese Yen 
and Chinese Renminbi
3
• Where possible, match sales 
and costs in the same currency
• Forward cover where appropriate 
and in line with the Group 
hedging policy
• Focus on reducing 
manufacturing costs
• Local price management practices
• Continued use of US Dollar, 
Euro and Japanese Yen forward 
contracts to hedge the impact 
of Sterling, which strengthened 
significantly against the Euro 
and Yen, whilst weakening slightly 
against the Dollar and Renminbi
• Putting in place strategies to 
enable the hedging of Renminbi 
during 2015/16
3.  Loss of output 
at any Group 
manufacturing  
facility:
Loss of manufacturing output 
at any important facility risks 
disruption to sales operations
Increase 
in in-house 
manufacturing
2
3
1
• Strategic location of the six 
manufacturing facilities across 
the world
• Business continuity planning 
and disaster recovery plans
• Saleable stocks of finished products 
held in logistics hubs globally
• Use of insurance audits/inspections 
and business interruption insurance
• Supply of key reagent (FBS) 
secured after disruption. We now 
have at least six months’ supply 
of key reagents across all facilities
• Capability for RabMAb 
development in Cambridge, 
UK, established
4.  Disruption to 
product supply:
Around 60% of Abcam’s 
revenues are derived from 
externally supplied products. 
A disruption in supply risks 
a loss of revenue
2
5 3
1
• Large supplier base of over 
400 OEM partners
• Strong relationship-building 
activities with key suppliers
• In 2014/15 no third party-supplied 
product accounted for more than 
2.5% of Group revenue and no 
single product accounted for more 
than 0.6% of Group revenue
• Ensuring potential alternatives 
are available on the catalogue 
for key products
• Numerous supplier visits 
throughout the year to continue 
relationship-building activities
• Several contracts renegotiated 
to ensure security of supply Strategic report
20 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our risks continued
Principal risks continued
Principal risk and why it is relevant Change Alignment to strategy Key mitigation Activity during the year
5.  Inadequate integration 
or leverage of acquired 
businesses:
Misjudging key elements of an 
acquisition or failing to integrate 
in an efficient and timely manner 
would disrupt existing operations
Acquisition 
of Firefly
5 4
• Extensive due diligence prior to 
each acquisition, including legal, 
financial and compliance
• Dedicated integration project teams 
are assigned and integration steps 
planned prior to acquisition
• Investment in the adaptability 
of our systems
• Acquisition and integration 
of Firefly on track
6. Increased competition:
The market for research antibody 
suppliers is fragmented and 
competitive and the number 
of new antibody suppliers 
is still growing
2
3
1
• Maintain market knowledge and 
monitor competitor developments
• Maintain large network 
of product suppliers
• Well established and progressive 
product content, datasheets, supply 
channels and logistic network
• Continuous commitment 
to product differentiation 
through innovation and 
product quality improvements
7.  Failure to protect 
intellectual property (IP) 
rights:
Research antibodies are not 
typically protected by IP rights 
and the market can be 
characterised as having relatively 
few barriers to entry in this regard
Additional 
IP attained 
with Firefly 
acquisition
2 1
• Resilient business model
• No single product dependency – 
no product accounts for more 
than 0.6% of revenue
• Registered IP protection 
over underlying RabMAb 
and Firefly technology
• Appointment of Chief Legal 
Officer and Company Secretary
• Detailed review of Firefly IP 
undertaken in due diligence exercise
• Continued active development and 
maintenance of our patent portfolio
8.  New growth opportunities 
are dependent on rapidly 
evolving technological 
developments and 
consumer needs:
To maintain our position as 
the market leader in primary 
antibodies and to gain share 
in the other markets in which 
we operate, it is essential 
to stay at the forefront of 
industry developments
Pace of 
market change 
increases risk
2
4 3
1
5
• Maintain market knowledge and 
monitor competitor developments
• Maintain investment in R&D and 
consumer insight programmes
• Appropriate IP registrations 
and enforcement
• Continuous improvement 
in product quality
• Continue to invest in securing 
new products and in our website 
and logistics network
• Hiring and developing the right 
talented people
• Acquisition of Firefly 
brings potential new 
multiplexing technology
• New standards set for product 
quality criteria
• Hired key talent to strengthen 
our SLT
9.  Availability of 
research funding:
Any substantial reduction 
in funding as a response to 
a fiscal contraction in one of 
our significant territories could 
have an adverse effect on the 
demand for our products
2
3
1
• Our products are used as research 
consumables which are more 
resilient to budget cuts than large 
capital investment projects
• Further expansion into high-growth 
markets and high-margin products
• Continue geographic penetration 
to diversify revenues from any single 
government funding source
• Increase market share of privately 
funded consumers
• Diversification of geographic 
reach, in particular through 
expanded penetration in China
• Growth of high-margin 
RabMAb products
• Broadening of our customer 
base to include different 
customer segments with 
different funding streams Strategic report
21 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Principal risk and why it is relevant Change Alignment to strategy Key mitigation Activity during the year
10.  Failure to recruit and 
retain talented staff:
The contribution made by 
Abcam’s highly skilled and 
dedicated staff has been, 
and will continue to be, essential 
to Abcam’s future success
3
• Open employee communication, 
including quarterly Group-wide 
meetings, weekly office newsletters 
and regular staff committee meetings
• Operation of share ownership 
schemes with rewards based 
on seniority within the business
• Provision of significant opportunities 
for learning and development
• Monitoring employee engagement 
and feedback via annual staff survey
• Conducted global review 
and harmonisation of employee 
job grades
• Rolled out ‘One Team 
Behaviours’ training globally
• Hired Global Head of Talent 
Acquisition, as well as strengthening 
our SLT with four key recruits
• Conducted staff survey and fed back 
results through function briefings
• Plans to extend merit-based pay 
scheme to additional grades
11.  Cybersecurity 
risks resulting 
in loss of data or 
website inaccessibility: 
Abcam has exploited the use of 
online and eCommerce systems 
and relies on its website to attract 
customers and make sales
2
4 3
1
• Continued extensive investment 
in IT systems
• Monitor evolving threats 
and anticipate risks
• Physical and software 
safeguards in place
• IT disaster recovery processes
• Cyber security insurance policy
• Website security penetration 
tested by a third party
• Quarterly public website 
failover drills
12.  Loss of  
key distributors:
In certain areas of the world 
Abcam works through third party 
distributors who undertake 
marketing support activities and 
provide local logistical support
Actions to 
create more 
direct contact 
with customers 
and consumers
2 1
• Detailed qualification process prior 
to distributor appointment
• Maintain close relationships with 
distributors and work with them 
to develop customer relationships
• Reduce distributor exposure 
by setting up direct operations
• Outside of China and Japan, 
where we sell directly to sub-dealers, 
distributor sales amounted to 
around 11% of total sales in 
2014/15 (2013/14: 11%)
• Established direct operations 
in Australia and New Zealand
• Reduced grey-import activity 
which undermines authorised 
distributor channels
13.  Non-compliance 
with health, safety 
and other regulation
As our product range expands, 
the number of different potential 
health and safety (H&S) and 
regulatory risks grows, for 
example in recent years with 
the production, storage and 
shipment of biochemicals
Actions 
taken to 
improve H&S
4 1
• Compliance with legislation 
and codes of best practice
• Regular external health and safety 
audits, checks and reporting
• Ongoing training
• Monitor changes to international 
import and export regulations
• Passed UK and US government 
audit on controlled toxins with no 
changes requested
• Created a dedicated H&S and 
facilities post in our Cambridge, 
MA, office
• Continued regular H&S audit 
inspections across all global offices
• Updated to new Globally 
Harmonised System of 
Classification and Labelling 
of Chemicals (GHS) 
labelling standards
• Discontinued supply of controlled 
drugs from the UK Strategic report
22 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our corporate responsibility activities are focused on three areas: 
attracting and retaining talent; health, safety and the environment; 
and supporting the local community.
Attracting and retaining talent
Attracting, retaining and empowering our employees are key 
priorities in the delivery of our strategy. We aim to provide employees 
with a positive and healthy work environment where they are rewarded 
and recognised for their contributions. Throughout the year, we 
have undertaken several well-being, performance, engagement 
and development activities to support these objectives.
Highlights
•  Selecting Saba Cloud learning management system to help 
improve the development and engagement of employees 
and to manage knowledge and training.
•  Embedding our values, the ‘One Team’ behaviours, across the 
organisation with champions to deliver workshops and action 
plans which ensure people understand why these values 
are important.
• Reviewing our internal communications strategy with an external 
partner to improve the communication and feedback process, 
the outputs of which will be delivered during 2015/16.
• Successfully implementing a global recognition scheme to 
reward individuals and teams for contributing to consumer-centric 
behaviours and expanding the scope of the awards to allow 
additional categories to increase participation.
•  Introducing a new well-being programme of activities such as 
‘Cycle Cinema’ and Nordic walking alongside our core activities: 
yoga and pilates classes, table tennis coaching, and mental 
health and first aid courses. 
• Signing up to our second Global Corporate Challenge (GCC) 
across global offices with 30 teams taking part again this year.
Health, safety and the environment
We provide a fair and safe work environment for employees and 
ensure we follow legal requirements and best practice standards. 
Employee participation in the delivery of our health and safety strategy 
is crucial and we have representatives in all offices who are involved 
in championing health and safety as well as undertaking our annual 
safety audit. All sites are now fully health and safety compliant, and 
we are currently looking to further improve all building facilities to 
comfortably house our growing workforce.
Ensuring we follow sustainable practices is important to Abcam’s 
success and we continue to look at ways to improve our 
environmental impact and operational efficiency.
Highlights
•  Expanding our cycle courier routes for a more sustainable way 
to deliver our products. 
•  Undertaking an energy audit to ensure we have appropriate 
environmental systems and processes in place.
•  Managing supplier channels to use more local suppliers to reduce 
our carbon footprint.
• Looking at ways we can optimise our packaging.
• Promoting and rewarding employees involved in the ‘Travel to Work’ 
scheme, which encourages staff to find environmentally friendly 
ways to travel to work.
Recognising  
consumer-centric behaviour
Meet Julia Prescott, 
Collaboration and Alliance 
Manager, Abcam Burlingame
“ 
The ‘Discover More’ recognition quest was a great way to 
tell everyone at Abcam about the exciting collaborations our 
team had been working on. We helped create a high-quality 
product, working with the National Institute of Biological 
Sciences, which was later featured in the highly influential 
Cell journal and had immediate commercial success in 
the marketplace.
 
It was a truly collaborative effort across multiple institutions, 
departments and global sites. It was fantastic to be 
recognised across the Company for our efforts and it 
made us feel like we were truly part of something special.
”
Our products and services help contribute to the understanding 
of health and disease and we endeavour to act ethically, be socially 
and environmentally responsible and make a positive impact in 
interactions with stakeholders to help make a difference in society.
Friendly, 
Innovative, 
Open 
Top three words used to describe Abcam 
in the 2015 staff survey
Our responsibilities (CSR) Strategic report
23 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Supporting the local community
We look to play a positive role in the community through charitable 
donations, partnerships and sponsorships.
Highlights
•  Making charitable donations of £77k to a range of local, 
national and international charities.
•  Continuing to provide placement and internship opportunities 
to support the next generation of scientists.
• Involving our employees in several community projects including a 
river clean-up, collecting and sorting food donations for low-income 
families and preparing a Thanksgiving dinner for those in need.
of staff cycle to work, which is  
better than the national average  
of 22%
38%
Amount of money contributed 
globally to charity
77,000
Sustainable delivery
For the past ten years, Abcam 
has used a local bicycle courier 
called Outspoken to deliver products 
to our customers in Cambridge, UK. 
This sustainable service has the added 
benefit of same day delivery for customers if they place their 
order before 2.00pm, as well as easing congestion in the city.
Supporting the next 
generation of scientists
Meet Carina Nicu, Industrial 
Placement Student, Abcam 
(July 2013 – June 2014)
Abcam runs an industrial placement 
scheme where undergraduates studying for a 
science degree can gain hands-on experience in our labs.
“ 
Due the success of this delivery method, we’re looking to 
expand the service to London and potentially further afield 
to provide this environmentally friendly service to as many 
customers as possible.
”
 Rob Treanor, Head of logistics, EMEA
“ 
You find yourself developing in so many ways professionally 
and as an individual, and once you reach the end of 
your industrial year you feel like a completely different 
person. I think the best thing that came out of my 
industrial placement is the confidence that I have 
gained – confidence in lab work, team work and, 
most importantly, myself. Thanks Abcam!
” Strategic report
24 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our financials
• Reported revenues for the year increased 
by 12.6% to £144.0m.
• Adjusted profit before tax was £49.6m, 
an increase of 5.9% (2013/14: £46.8m).
• At constant exchange rates, product 
revenues grew by 16.6% and total revenues 
by 14.2%.
• Continued strong cash control with closing 
cash of £58.7m.
• Underpinned by strong revenue growth, 
we will continue capital and operational 
investment to make targeted improvements.
Summary
Reported revenues for the year increased by 12.6% to £144.0m. 
The relative strengthening of Sterling during the year means that 
the constant exchange rate (CER) performance was stronger, with 
revenue growth from sales of products in our catalogue of 16.6%, 
and 14.2% overall. After increased investment in the business, including 
the research and development activities of Firefly BioWorks, which was 
acquired during the period, adjusted profit before tax was £49.6m, 
an increase of 5.9% (2013/14: £46.8m).
As outlined in last year’s report, our growth strategy demands that 
we listen to our consumers and that we use the insights gained to 
shape our business. We have done this successfully during the year, 
which has been one of further investment in our capabilities. In practical 
terms this has meant increased headcount, including at the senior 
level, new product development activities and investment in our 
eCommerce capabilities.
The table opposite shows revenues, costs and expenses for the year, 
which have been adjusted to aid comparison by separately identifying 
the acquisition and integration costs arising on the acquisition of Firefly 
and the amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets across 
the Group. The net contribution to operating profit from Firefly in the 
post-acquisition period is a net loss of £991k.
Revenue
The net strengthening of Sterling during the year against the other 
currencies in which the Group trades has partly offset the underlying 
growth in revenues, particularly in the first half of the year. Consequently, 
while on a CER basis product revenues grew by 16.6% and overall 
revenues by 14.2%, the reported revenue for the year of £144.1m 
represents 12.6% growth on the prior year. 
Gross margins
Reported gross margin was down very slightly to 70.5% in 2014/15 
(2013/14: 70.6%) as the positive impact on margins from product mix 
and pricing initiatives, which would have taken the margin to 71.0%, 
were offset by the impact of exchange rates. Whilst the proportion 
of revenue denominated in US Dollars is significant (50.6%), the 
proportion of US Dollar denominated costs of sale is higher (60.9%), 
meaning that the weakening of Sterling against the US Dollar in the 
period has a negative impact on gross margins. We also saw the 
same impact from the strengthening of Sterling against the Euro and 
Japanese Yen since the proportions of revenues from each (21.5% 
and 7.8%, respectively) significantly outweigh the proportion of cost 
of sale denominated in those currencies (5.5% and 1.0%).
The notable increase in revenue growth is an encouraging indication 
of the success of our strategy. Underpinned by strong revenue growth, 
we will continue capital and operational investment to make 
targeted improvements.
Jeff Iliffe – Chief Financial Officer Strategic report
25 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Adjusted income statement
2014/15 2013/14
Adjusted
 income
 statement
£000
Acquisition-related
intangible
amortisation
£000
Acquisition
and
 integration
 costs
£000
Reported
 IFRS
 income
 statement
£000
Adjusted
 income
 statement
£000
Acquisition-related
 intangible
 amortisation
£000
Reported
IFRS
 income
statement
£000
Revenue 144,033 — — 144,033 127,954 — 127,954
Cost of sales (42,507) — — (42,507) (37,569) — (37,569)
Gross profit 101,526 — — 101,526 90,385 — 90,385
Administration and management expenses (44,076) (1,445) (359) (45,880) (35,501) (1,517) (37,018)
Research and development expenses (8,246) (1,673) — (9,919) (8,306) (1,748) (10,054)
Operating profit 49,204 (3,118) (359) 45,727 46,578 (3,265) 43,313
Finance income 372 — — 372 238 — 238
Profit before tax 49,576 (3,118) (359) 46,099 46,816 (3,265) 43,551
Taxation (9,799) 1,080 4 (8,715) (10,697) 1,191 (9,506)
Profit after tax 39,777 (2,038) (355) 37,384 36,119 (2,074) 34,045
Earnings per share 
Basic 19.89p (1.02)p (0.18)p 18.69p 18.16p (1.04)p 17.12p
Diluted 19.76p (1.01)p (0.18)p 18.57p 18.06p (1.04)p 17.02p
Administration and management expenses
As foreshadowed last year, in 2014/15 we have continued to invest in our capabilities to drive medium and long-term growth, which has 
increased the cost base. The table below identifies the main cost movements.
2014/15 
£000
2013/14
£000 Increase
Total administration and management expenses (as reported) 45,880 37,018 23.9%
Acquisition-related intangible amortisation (1,445) (1,517)
Acquisition and integration costs (359) —
Gains/(losses) on forward selling contracts (212) 1,659
Share-based payments charge (1,395) (678)
Costs previously reported within R&D (1,230) —
Like-for-like administration and management expenses 41,239 36,482 13.0%
General and inflationary cost increases in line with business growth (1,851) —
Other specific areas of investment:
Firefly administrative costs (490) —
Incremental costs of Shanghai office (786) —
Investment in SLT, sales, marketing, IT and eCommerce teams (1,630) —
36,482 36,482
Like-for-like administration and management expenses, as defined in the table above, increased by 13.0%, which is below the growth in 
revenues. This includes some specific areas of incremental cost in the year: Firefly administrative expenses of £0.5m for the six months since 
acquisition (which excludes Firefly’s share-based payments charge, as this is already included in the £1.4m Group charge disclosed above), 
the incremental year-on-year spend of £0.8m to support the operation of the Shanghai office, and our additional strategic investment in our 
SLT, sales, marketing, IT and eCommerce teams of £1.6m. The remaining general and inflationary cost increases of £1.9m are in line 
with business growth, contributing an increase of 5.0% over the prior year total reported administration and management expenses. Strategic report
26 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our financials continued
Research and development expenditure
Research and development (R&D) expenditure relates to the 
development of new products, as well as costs incurred in searching for 
and developing production process improvements. These costs do not 
meet the requirements to be capitalised as an intangible asset and 
are therefore expensed through the income statement as incurred.
The reported level of R&D expenditure decreased slightly to £9.9m 
(2013/14: £10.1m). This reduction comes after we began to classify 
costs amounting to £1.2m as administration and management expenses, 
having previously categorised them as R&D. These are support costs 
of an innovation and manufacturing site and are now classified 
consistently with similar costs incurred in other Group production 
facilities. What would otherwise have been an increase in costs in 
the year reflects increased investment in new product development 
as part of our organic growth strategy, for example increasing our 
SimpleStep ELISA (SSE) portfolio and developing the first RabMAb 
SSE kits, as well as significantly expanding the range of directly 
conjugated antibodies and investing in additional product enhancements 
and quality testing. Firefly’s activities contributed £0.5m of the increase.
Earnings and tax
The adjusted profit before tax was £49.6m, on which the effective 
tax rate was 19.8%. This is lower than the 22.8% reported last year 
primarily due to a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate, the Firefly 
acquisition and R&D tax credits. After taking into account the deferred 
tax impact of acquisition-related intangible amortisation, the reported 
effective tax rate was 18.9% (2013/14: 21.8%).
Balance sheet
Goodwill and other intangibles
Goodwill at the year end was £87.0m (2013/14: £73.5m). 
Of the increase, £8.0m arose on the acquisition of Firefly and 
£5.5m from exchange rate movements due to the US Dollar 
being the predominant functional currency of the acquired 
companies to which the goodwill relates.
The acquisition of Firefly did not give rise to an additional  
cash-generating unit (CGU) and the goodwill resulting from the 
acquisition has been allocated to the CGU for the existing Abcam 
business. Goodwill is not amortised under IFRS but is subject to 
impairment review at least on an annual basis. Consequently, during 
the year, the Directors performed a review which involved making 
various assumptions regarding the future performance of the business. 
After considering various scenarios that could reasonably occur, 
the Directors concluded that no impairment was required. For more 
details, please see note 29 to the financial statements.
Other intangible assets at 30 June 2015 were £44.7m  
(2013/14: £30.2m). This movement primarily reflects the value 
attributed to patents and know-how held by Firefly and exchange 
rate movements arising because the functional currency of the 
related assets is predominately US Dollars. The intangible assets 
amortisation charge was £5.1m (2013/14: £4.8m). No amortisation 
was charged in relation to the Firefly assets which will be amortised 
from the point at which commercial product is available for release 
to a wider customer base, thereby generating meaningful revenues. 
Other intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, 
and the amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets has been 
added back in arriving at adjusted profit, as outlined in the table on 
page 25.
Capital expenditure
Additions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
arising other than through the acquisition of Firefly totalled £7.7m 
(2013/14: £7.4m). This reflects continued investment in support 
of our organic growth strategy. The major items include:
• investment in laboratory equipment of £2.1m, which is focused 
on improving the quality of product data in the catalogue; 
• development of new hybridomas and assays of £2.1m, with a 
further £0.8m expenditure on hybridomas under construction;
• office and computer equipment expenditure of £1.7m. This is an 
increase of £0.6m over the prior year, mainly due to replacement 
of IT equipment to support ongoing growth and the fit out of 
additional office space; and
• continuation of the core IT investment to support the next stage 
of Abcam’s growth. A total of £1.0m was capitalised in the year, 
including £0.5m of internal salary cost.
Cash flow
Our track record of strong cash control continued in the year 
and the period ended with an increase in net cash and term 
deposits of £1.9m to £58.7m (2013/14: £56.9m) after funding 
the acquisition of Firefly for a cash consideration of £17.6m, 
and no bank debt (2013/14: £nil).
Cash generated by operations was £48.9m (2013/14: £51.2m). 
This was after a working capital outflow in the period of £7.5m, 
of which £4.1m came from an increase in inventories, reflecting 
a strategic decision to carry more of our high-selling product lines, 
a build-up of inventory to support the roll-out of our conjugated primary 
antibody range, and the effect of the relative strengthening of Sterling 
for US Dollar denominated purchases. Non-trade receivables have grown 
by £0.8m due to increased recoverable VAT and new building deposits.
Looking forward
The notable increase in revenue growth is an encouraging indication 
of the success of our strategy. Underpinned by strong revenue growth, 
we will continue capital and operational investment to make targeted 
improvements. Over the next few years we expect to upgrade our IT 
capabilities to build a more flexible and scalable platform and improve 
our facilities to increase efficiencies, and will continue to ensure we 
have the right people and capabilities to deliver the next stage 
of growth.
We also plan to sustain attractive economics through our continued 
focus on tight cost management and effective financial control.
Jeff Iliffe
Chief Financial Officer
11 September 2015
Over the next few years we expect to upgrade our IT capabilities 
to build a more flexible and scalable platform and improve our facilities 
to increase efficiencies, and will continue to ensure we have the right 
people and capabilities to deliver the next stage of growth. 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
Chairman's introduction to governance
At Abcam we believe good governance is fundamental to our 
continuing success. We are working to ensure that our structure 
and processes remain aligned with this requirement and are fit for 
the purpose of implementing our ambitious growth plans. The Board 
and its Committees play a central role in the Company’s governance 
by providing an external and independent perspective on matters 
material to Abcam’s stakeholders, and by seeking to ensure that 
effective internal controls and risk management measures are 
in place. The Board also supports the promotion of a culture 
of good governance throughout the Company.
This section of the Annual Report describes our corporate 
governance structures and processes and how they have 
been applied throughout the year ended 30 June 2015.
The UK Corporate Governance Code
Although not required to have regard to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the Code) as an AIM-listed company, we have chosen to report 
on how Abcam has complied with and applied the principles of the 
Code and related guidance. The Board is committed to maintaining 
high standards of corporate governance and the Directors intend, 
so far as is practicable given the Company’s size and constitution 
of the Board, to comply with the provisions of the Code. The Board 
confirms that the 2014/15 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, strategy and 
business model of the Company, in accordance with C.1.1 of the Code.
My role as Chairman
My role is to ensure that Abcam has a Board which works effectively 
under my leadership. One of my most important jobs in this regard 
is to maintain the right dynamic on the Board, which requires 
effective contributions and constructive challenge from individual 
Directors. I am pleased to say that we have Directors on our Board 
with a broad range and balance of skills, expertise, experience and 
attributes, all of which contribute to our effectiveness. Communication 
is good and working relations are open and constructive. My relationship 
with Alan, our CEO, is positive; we are in frequent contact, covering 
both the hard and soft issues with which the Executive Directors 
have to deal. As Chairman, I lead the setting of the Board’s agenda, 
ensuring we have adequate time to discuss all necessary items, 
particularly the development and implementation of strategy and 
the organisational implications of this.
Board and Committee evaluation
Regular and appropriate Board and Committee evaluation is vital to 
improving Board effectiveness. This year we conducted an internally 
facilitated evaluation process. Overall, it was concluded that the 
Board is performing appropriately; the Board debate has moved 
from tactical to strategic and there is consensus that we should 
continue this trend. More detail about the Board evaluation and 
on some of the major matters considered by the Board and 
its Committees during the year can be found later in this report.
Management of risk
In recognition of our increased focus on risk management and our 
anticipation that this trend will continue over the coming years, the 
Board has agreed to rename the Audit Committee as the Audit and 
Risk Committee. Further details of our risk management framework 
can be found on page 18.
Succession planning and diversity
Proper planning for Board succession and refreshing and selection 
of the right individuals for the Board and Senior Leadership Team 
from a diverse talent pool are also key issues for me and for the Board. 
We explain our approaches to these fundamental components of 
Board effectiveness on page 35.
This has been an important year for the governance and leadership 
of the Group. Alongside the Chairman and CEO transitions early in 
the year, we were pleased to appoint Sue Harris as Chairman of the 
Audit and Risk Committee. The SLT was also strengthened with the 
appointments of Yvonne Chien, Chief Digital Officer; Sean Hickey, 
Chief Information Officer; Alejandra Solache, Global Head of Reagents 
Product Development and Manufacturing; and, after the period end, 
Suzanne Smith, Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary. Our new 
management structure, including appointments made in the previous 
two years as well as those outlined above, is now firmly embedded 
in the organisation and delivering key results in the execution of our 
strategy, as demonstrated by the acceleration of our top-line growth.
In succession planning for the Board and within the Group we take 
into account the need for diversity generally and support the principle 
of encouraging women in the Company. The Board has not set 
express diversity quotas or measurable objectives for implementing 
its policy as such, but it is the Board and management’s intention 
that female talent, as one element of diversity, is encouraged both 
at Board level and within the business.
The Board and I recognise the importance of ensuring strong 
leadership for Abcam and we have agreed to increase our focus 
further on succession planning and talent management in 2015/16.
Murray Hennessy
Chairman
11 September 2015
I was delighted to take over as Chairman of Abcam’s 
Board in November 2014 and I am pleased to introduce 
our 2014/15 Corporate Governance Report.
Murray Hennessy
Chairman Corporate governance
28 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Appointment: April 1998
Experience: Having worked in the life sciences 
industry for over ten years as an academic researcher, 
Jonathan identified the market opportunity for 
supplying high-quality antibodies to support protein 
interaction studies and, in 1998, founded Abcam 
with David Cleevely and Professor Tony Kouzarides. 
Jonathan is an experienced entrepreneur and investor 
and is passionate about supporting UK life science 
and high-tech start-ups. He has provided considerable 
investment and support to over 30 companies and 
has assisted three IPOs in joining AIM.
Current external appointments: Jonathan is a 
non-executive director of Horizon Discovery Group plc, 
Frontier Developments plc and GeoSpock Ltd. He is also 
chairman of Axol Bioscience Ltd and PhoreMost Ltd.
Appointment: January 2014
Experience: Alan has over 20 years’ global business 
and leadership experience. Prior to joining Abcam, he 
spent 14 years with Bain & Company helping companies 
grow organically and through acquisition. Earlier in his 
career, he led product innovation efforts for several 
brands at Kraft Foods. He was trained as a life scientist 
and published research in plant biochemistry. He also 
has a passion for social enterprise as a trustee and 
founder of the Social Business Trust and by providing 
advice on how to grow and succeed with these 
enterprises to social entrepreneurs and government 
organisations globally.
Current external appointments: Alan is a 
non-executive director at the UK National Citizen 
Service Trust.
Appointment: November 2011
Experience: Murray has an impressive track 
record of working internationally in customer-facing 
industries, as well as significant experience of online 
businesses. After an early career as a management 
consultant in the London, Tokyo and Boston offices 
of Bain & Company, Murray held a number of senior 
positions in the restaurant industry with Pepsico and 
Yum Brands and also led an internet start-up. Between 
2001 and 2004, Murray was the commercial director 
of John Lewis Department Stores, where he pioneered 
the store’s online presence, johnlewis.com. Until 2014, 
Murray was chief executive of thetrainline.com, the online 
train ticket retailer, which he joined in 2008, prior to 
which he was chief executive of Avis Europe plc, 
the car rental company.
Current external appointments: Murray is chairman 
of TGIF UK (Thank God It’s Friday, UK), non-executive 
director for SEDCO Holding Company (Saudi Arabia), 
and an advisory board member for River Island. 
He remains the deputy chairman at thetrainline.com.
Abcam’s Board of Directors has the breadth and depth of skills 
necessary to guide the Group as it seeks to take full advantage 
of new opportunities and contend with new challenges.
Directors and Company Secretary
E N
Murray Hennessy
Chairman
MBA
Jonathan Milner
Deputy Chairman
PhD
Appointment: November 2007
Experience: Jeff is a chartered accountant who 
was appointed as Abcam’s Chief Financial Officer 
after previously working for the Company as a financial 
consultant. He has extensive experience of the City, 
industry and internet-based business. Jeff was a 
corporate financier in life sciences at Panmure 
Gordon & Co. between 1989 and 1996. He then 
moved into industry, holding a number of financial 
positions at companies including the environmental 
consultancy Enviros Group Limited and Plethora 
Solutions plc. Prior to joining Abcam, he was 
chief financial officer at the eCommerce company 
St Minver Ltd.
Current external appointments: Jeff is a non-executive 
director of Treatt plc, a manufacturer and supplier of 
ingredient solutions for the flavour, fragrance and FMCG 
industries and a trustee of the Cambridge Arts Theatre.
E
Jeff Iliffe
Chief Financial Officer
ACA
E
Alan Hirzel
Chief Executive Officer
MS, MBA
Appointment: December 2014
Experience: A chemist by training, Sue has over 
30 years of financial and commercial experience. 
She began her career at Ford Motor Co. before moving 
to oil company Amerada Hess. She subsequently 
held senior executive roles at Marks & Spencer across 
finance, and latterly as head of corporate development 
and as corporate treasurer, and Standard Life, where 
she led the process to float the company in 2006. 
She then joined Lloyds Banking Group (LBG), where 
she was finance director of, respectively, Cheltenham 
and Gloucester, LBG’s Retail Bank and LBG Group 
Finance, and latterly group audit director. Previously, 
Sue was a non-executive director on the board of 
St. James’s Place (representing LBG) and a member 
of the audit and remuneration committee of the British 
Bankers’ Association. She was previously chair 
of trustees for KCP Youth and during a ten-year 
association with Mencap chaired both the finance 
and audit committees.
Current external appointments: Sue is an 
independent non-executive director of Bank of Ireland 
UK and a member of the Audit and Assurance Council 
of the Financial Reporting Council.
Sue Harris
Non-Executive Director
BSc, ACMA
R A N
Appointment: November 2000
Experience: Jim joined Abcam originally as Technical 
Director, and took over operational management of the 
UK office as Managing Director in June 2004, working 
on both cost saving and efficiency improvement projects. 
In 2009, Jim became Chief Operating Officer, with 
responsibility for overseeing the operational strategy 
of the Group as a whole. From 1986 to 2003, Jim 
worked for Analysys Limited, a Cambridge-based 
telecommunications consultancy, heading up its IT, 
software and web development initiatives.
Current external appointments: In 2014 Jim took 
up a non-executive position at Quartix Holdings plc, 
a transport telematics company and he is also a 
governor at a local academy school.
Jim Warwick 
Chief Operating Officer
MA (Cantab)
E E 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
Suzanne Smith
Chief Legal Officer and 
Company Secretary
LLB (Hons), MBA
Appointment: July 2015
Experience: Suzanne is a qualified solicitor with 
over 20 years’ global legal, business and leadership 
experience within the life sciences industry. Before 
joining Abcam, Suzanne was executive director, 
legal at Actavis plc where she was responsible 
for the leadership of the legal function internationally. 
Previous positions include legal director at Genzyme 
Therapeutics Ltd, general counsel and company 
secretary at Phoqus Pharmaceuticals plc and group 
legal counsel and company secretary at LGC Ltd, 
together with positions at SmithKline Beecham 
and Arentis.
N
Key to Committees
E
 Executive
N
 Nomination
A
 Audit and Risk
R
 Remuneration
 Committee chair
Appointment: September 2011
Experience: Anthony has more than 25 years’ experience 
in the life sciences industry within the UK and US, in both 
executive and non-executive roles. He was most recently 
non-executive chairman of Immunodiagnostics Systems 
Holdings plc and Sphere Medical Holding plc. His prior 
executive appointments include chief executive officer 
of British Bio-T echnology Products, AZUR Environmental, 
Molecular Probes Inc, Celsis International plc and 
president of Invitrogen Corporation. Anthony’s 
previous non-executive appointments include Prelude 
Trust plc, NeuTec Pharma plc and Molecular Insight 
Pharmaceuticals Inc. He has also served on the main 
board of Invitrogen Corporation and the strategic advisory 
board of Agilent Technologies. He has extensive 
experience of governance and responsibilities of board 
committees both on UK AIM-listed companies and on 
US Nasdaq listed corporations.
Current external appointments: Anthony is currently 
non-executive chairman of PhicoTherapeutics Ltd 
and non-executive director of Orthofix International N.V . 
He is a fellow of the Royal Society of Medicine.
Appointment: March 2014
Experience: Louise has extensive board-level and 
corporate governance experience, having served on 
quoted company boards for more than 20 years as 
a non-executive director, senior independent director, 
remuneration committee chairman and company 
chairman at businesses including the retailer 
Marks & Spencer plc, retailing group GUS plc 
and hotelier Hilton Group plc.
Current external appointments: Louise is currently 
a non-executive director of the FTSE 100 property 
group Intu Properties plc and is also a senior advisor 
to Bain & Company.
Appointment: November 2011
Experience: Michael is an eCommerce executive 
and advisor with a high level of technical expertise. 
After working at McKinsey & Company from 1994 
to 1999, Michael co-founded the online retailer 
figleaves.com in 1999, where he was chief executive 
officer. In 2006, he co-founded DynamicAction 
(previously eCommera), an eCommerce technology 
and advisory business where he is currently 
chief scientist.
Current external appointments: Michael is an 
executive director of DynamicAction and a non-executive 
director of Sainsbury’s Bank and Wex Photographic.
Anthony Martin
Non-Executive Director
PhD
Louise Patten
Non-Executive and 
Senior Independent 
Director 
MA (Oxon)
Michael Ross
Non-Executive Director
MA (Cantab)
A R N R A N Corporate governance
30 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Senior Leadership Team (SLT)
The SLT comprises the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary 
and the heads of the main business functions within the Group and 
meets bi-monthly to discuss cross-departmental matters. Each senior 
manager is responsible for the day-to-day operation of their function.
Experience: Jane is an HR professional with over 
25 years’ experience in a range of sectors including 
learned and professional, publishing and engineering. 
Her initial academic background was social policy 
with a particular interest in international comparisons. 
Jane joined Abcam in 2005 and has supported the 
growth of the Group from a people and organisational 
development perspective. She has considerable 
international experience working across the UK, 
the US, China, Hong Kong and Japan. Jane has 
focused on building a scalable People and Organisational 
Development function which is flexible and adaptable 
to Abcam’s commercial needs.
Jane Cooke
Director, People 
and Organisational 
Development
MA, CIPD
Experience: Mark joined Abcam in 2008 and is 
responsible for global innovation and manufacturing. 
Mark is a biologist with over 20 years’ research 
and management experience in academia, pharma 
and biotechnology. Prior to joining Abcam, Mark trained 
in cellular signalling and then worked for Pfizer before 
co-founding Cambridge Drug Discovery Ltd (CDD). 
After successfully integrating CDD into BioFocus, 
Mark joined Celltech as research director then VP 
research at UCB-Celltech. Mark has co-authored 
over 30 peer reviewed scientific papers and given 
over 40 presentations to scientific meetings and societies.
Mark Bushfield
Scientific Director
PhD
Experience: Philippe joined Abcam in 2008 as 
Commercial Director. He has over 20 years’ experience 
in sales and marketing in the life science industry. 
Philippe has responsibility for the Group’s regional 
sales structure and activities, pursuing business 
development opportunities, and the management 
of our distributor bases. As part of this, he also has 
overall responsibility for our customer service and 
scientific support activities. Before joining Abcam, 
Philippe worked for Affymetrix, where he was responsible 
for its European operations. Prior to that, he held 
several commercial positions at Amersham Pharmacia 
(now part of GE Healthcare) and Oxford Glycosciences. 
Philippe Cotrel
Commercial Director
PhD
Experience: Sean joined the SLT in September 2014 
as our Chief Information Officer (CIO), responsible for 
both the IT and network infrastructure that supports 
our business as well as our programme of software 
application development. Sean has over 20 years’ 
IT experience, with over 15 years in senior management, 
covering both infrastructure and applications. He has 
worked in manufacturing, FMCG, health, retail and 
utilities and has experience in the management of 
business process, development and IT teams on 
a global scale. Most recently he was IT director 
for Boots Contract Manufacturing.
Sean Hickey
Chief Information Officer
BSc
Experience: Danielle joined Abcam in 2001 and over 
the last 14 years has overseen the growth in logistics 
and stock management capabilities, championing 
investment in automated stock storage solutions and 
optimising the split of stock across Abcam’ s four logistics 
hubs in Cambridge, UK and US, Shanghai and Tokyo. 
She works closely with the regional offices to drive 
consistency and efficiency of operational processes to 
ensure that customers can expect similar high levels 
of service across the world. Her role also involves 
overseeing health and safety and employee well-being 
and she is passionate about ensuring that our sites 
meet required global standards. Prior to joining Abcam, 
Danielle worked as a strategic management consultant.
Danielle Miller
Operations Director
PhD
Experience: Alejandra joined Abcam in 2013 as Head of 
Reagents Product Development and Manufacturing 
globally. She is responsible for managing the output 
of the Abcam Cambridge, Hangzhou and Bristol 
laboratories, specifically the new product development 
and core product reagents pipelines and R&D. She 
also plays a key role in developing Abcam’s innovation 
strategy. Prior to joining Abcam she held various 
positions at EMD Millipore, latterly as R&D director, 
leading the antibody and assay development teams. 
She gained expertise in immunology, cell signalling 
and epigenetics through postdoctoral fellowships 
at UCSF and the Trudeau Institute.
Alejandra Solache
Head of Reagents 
Product Development 
and Manufacturing
PhD 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
Experience: Kirstie joined Abcam in 2014 as 
Head of Consumer Insights responsible for the 
delivery of high-quality insight to drive business 
performance. She has over 20 years’ market research 
experience working with healthcare professionals and 
consumers and has held a number of global insight 
roles across a variety of consumer product categories. 
Kirstie has previously managed consumer insight at 
GlaxoSmithKline, Kimberly-Clark, Hill’s Pet Nutrition 
and Nestle UK.
Kirstie Speck
Head of 
Consumer Insights
BBusSc
Experience: Yvonne joined Abcam in January 2015 
as Chief Digital Officer to lead the eCommerce, Digital 
Marketing and Communications functions. Yvonne brings 
extensive digital marketing and brand experience to 
Abcam having previously worked for Getty Images as 
senior vice president of marketing. Prior to this she 
held senior marketing positions with various internet 
and technology companies including Google, Bebo, 
Siebel Systems and BrainJuicer.
Yvonne Chien
Chief Digital Officer
MBA
Experience: Matthew joined Abcam in 2014 as 
Head of Category Marketing and is responsible 
for the global marketing of life science products. 
Matthew has over 30 years’ industry experience. 
His experience spans sales and marketing, business 
strategy, market and competitor analysis, and business 
development and licensing. Matthew has held senior 
positions at Crescendo Biologics, Genzyme, Wyeth 
and Glaxo.
Matthew Roe
Head of Category 
Marketing
MBA
E
Jeff Iliffe
Chief Financial Officer
ACA
E
Alan Hirzel
Chief Executive Officer
MS, MBA
Alan Hirzel’s biography can be read on page 28. Jeff IIiffe’s biography can be read on page 28. Jim Warwick’s biography can be read on page 28.
Suzanne Smith’s biography can be read on page 29.
Jim Warwick 
Chief Operating Officer
MA (Cantab)
Suzanne Smith
Chief Legal Officer and 
Company Secretary
LLB (Hons), MBA
E E Corporate governance
32 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance statement
The role of the Board and its Committees
Matters reserved for the Board and delegated authorities
To retain control of key decisions, the Board has identified certain ‘reserved matters’ that only it can approve, with other matters, 
responsibilities and authorities delegated to its Committees, as above. The schedule of matters reserved for the Board and the terms 
of reference for each of its Committees can be found on the Company’s investor relations website at www.abcamplc.com. Any matters 
outside of these fall within the CEO’s responsibility and authority. Accordingly, he reports on the activities of the SLT through his monthly 
reports to the Board.
Board
Responsible for the long-term success of the Group.  
It sets strategy and oversees implementation, ensuring 
only acceptable risks are taken. It provides leadership and 
direction and is also responsible for corporate governance 
and the overall financial performance of the Group. 
Meet our Board of Directors on pages 28–29.
Audit and Risk Committee
Reviews and is responsible for the 
oversight of the Group’s financial and 
reporting processes, the integrity of the 
financial statements, the external and 
internal audit processes, and the systems 
of internal control and risk management.
More details on pages 37–39.
Remuneration Committee
Reviews and recommends to the Board 
the executive remuneration policy and 
determines the remuneration packages 
of the Executive Directors, the Company 
Chairman and members of the Senior 
Leadership Team.
More details on pages 42–64.
Nomination Committee
Reviews and recommends to the Board 
the structure, size and composition of the 
Board and its Committees. It also has 
oversight responsibility for succession 
planning of the Board and 
senior management.
More details on pages 40–41.
Executive Directors
Responsible for implementation of the 
Board’s strategy, day-to-day management 
of the business and all matters which have 
not been reserved for the Board.
Senior Leadership Team (SLT)
A committee that operates under the direction and authority 
of the CEO and other Executive Directors. It comprises senior 
management from across the business (see pages 30–31). It assists 
the Executive Directors in implementing strategy and policies and 
managing the operational and financial performance of the Group.
Meet our SLT on pages 30–31.
Regional Managers
Each Regional Manager reports directly to a member of the SLT. 
They are responsible for the daily operational management of their 
respective entities, ensuring the consistent implementation 
of Abcam’s strategy across the whole Group.
Meet our Regional Managers on page 9. 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
Board composition and roles
The Board comprises the Chairman, three Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors. Their key responsibilities are as set out in 
the table below:
Board composition and roles
Chairman Murray Hennessy Responsible for leading and managing the Board, its effectiveness and governance. Ensures Board 
members are aware of and understand the views of major shareholders and other key stakeholders. 
Helps set the tone from the top in terms of the purpose, goal, vision and values for the whole organisation.
CEO Alan Hirzel Responsible for the day-to-day management of the business, developing the Group’s strategic direction 
for consideration and approval by the Board and implementing the agreed strategy.
CFO
COO
Jeff Iliffe
Jim Warwick
Support the CEO in developing and implementing strategy. Responsible for the financial and operational 
performance of the Group.
Deputy 
Chairman
Jonathan Milner Responsible for bringing expert knowledge in the ever-evolving field of protein research and its related 
science and technology. Provides entrepreneurial support to the Board to develop strategy to further 
exploit opportunities to enable Abcam to support scientists worldwide. Provides a technical sounding 
board to the Chairman and CEO. Represents Abcam at external events and forums worldwide and 
is an ambassador for Abcam in the scientific community.
Independent 
NEDs
Sue Harris
Anthony Martin
Michael Ross
Assist in the development of strategy and monitor its delivery, within the Company’s established risk appetite. 
Responsible for bringing sound judgement and objectivity to the Board’s deliberations and decision-making 
process, and constructively challenging and supporting the Executive Directors. Also reviewing the performance 
of the Executive Directors.
Senior 
Independent 
Director
Louise Patten Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and as a trusted intermediary for other Directors. 
Available to discuss any concerns with shareholders that cannot be resolved through the normal 
channels of communication with the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
Board and Committee meetings/attendance 
during the year
Director
Scheduled
Board
meetings
Ad hoc
Board
meetings
Audit
and Risk
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Murray Hennessy 12/12 3/3 0/1 4/4 2/2
Mike Redmond
1
4/4 2/2 —/— —/— 1/1
Alan Hirzel 12/12 3/3 —/— —/— —/—
Jeff Iliffe 12/12 3/3 —/— —/— —/—
Jim Warwick 12/12 2/3 —/— —/— —/—
Sue Harris
2
7/7 1/1 2/2 1/1 1/1
Peter Keen
1
4/4 2/2 1/1 —/— —/—
Anthony Martin 11/12 3/3 3/3 4/4 —/—
Jonathan Milner 12/12 2/3 —/— —/— —/—
Louise Patten 11/12 3/3 3/3 4/4 3/3
Michael Ross 11/12 2/3 —/— —/— 3/3
1  Mike Redmond and Peter Keen stepped down from the Board on 3 November 2014. 
Their attendance relates to the period from 1 July 2014 to that date.
2  Sue Harris was appointed to the Board on 12 December 2014. 
Her attendance relates to the period from that date until 30 June 2015.
Board meetings
The Board holds full meetings every month, with attendance required 
in person one month and via conference call the next month. In addition, 
ad hoc meetings may be called to discuss urgent pertinent issues 
arising during the course of the year, or to approve the annual 
and interim accounts and dividends. An extended two-day strategy 
session is held once a year to discuss the longer-term aspirations 
of the Company.
The Chairman meets with the Executive Directors and Company 
Secretary prior to scheduled and ad hoc meetings to discuss 
and set each Board agenda.
The culture of our Board meetings is to encourage rigorous debate. 
The NEDs constructively challenge the performance of management 
in meeting agreed goals and objectives and help develop proposals 
on strategy. There is an opportunity for more informal and extended 
discussions on strategy during bi-monthly off-site Board discussions.
The Directors have the benefit of directors’ and officers’ liability insurance 
and have access to the advice of the Company Secretary, who is a 
qualified solicitor and acts as secretary to all of the Board Committees.
Gender diversity
Board
22%
78%
 Men 7
 Women 2
SLT (excluding 
Executive Directors)
60%
40%
 Men 4
 Women 6
 Men 379
 Women 455
All employees
“ We have made progress 
in the year in terms of 
gender diversity with the 
percentage of women 
across Board and 
senior roles within the 
organisation increasing 
from 25% to 42%.”
 Murray Hennessy
 Chairman
55%
45% Corporate governance
34 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategy
• Reviewed long-term strategy 
as part of off-site strategy day
• Approved the acquisition 
of Firefly BioWorks
• Approved decision to transition 
to a direct sales model in 
Australia and New Zealand
• Received various departmental 
updates to monitor progress 
against strategic goals
• Approved the appointment 
of J.P . Morgan as nominated 
advisor, financial advisor 
and joint broker
Governance, 
stakeholders 
and shareholders
• Discussed the outcome 
of the Board evaluation 
and effectiveness review, 
and agreed improvement 
opportunities
• Reviewed regular health 
and safety updates
• Reviewed developments in 
corporate governance and 
received key regulatory updates
• Reviewed feedback from 
institutional shareholders 
and analysts following 
annual and interim results
Leadership and people
• Discussed the composition of 
the Board and its Committees, 
including succession planning
•  Approved the transition of 
Murray Hennessy to Chairman, 
Jonathan Milner to Deputy 
Chairman and Alan Hirzel 
to CEO
• Approved the appointment 
of Sue Harris, Audit and Risk 
Committee Chairman, and 
Suzanne Smith, Chief Legal 
Officer and Company Secretary
• Reviewed the development of 
people and talent in the Group
• Discussed the results of the 
employee engagement survey 
and the actions arising from it
Internal control 
and risk management
• Reviewed the Group’s 
Risk Register and the 
effectiveness of the systems 
of risk management
• Debated significant 
and emerging risks
Financial performance
• Considered the financial 
performance of the business 
and approved the budget, 
key performance targets 
and long-term plan
• Monitored performance 
against the budget via 
monthly review of management 
accounts by CFO
•  Reviewed the half-year and 
annual results and presentations 
to analysts and approved the 
Annual Report
• Discussed and agreed the 
interim and final dividend 
recommendations
Strategy
Governance, 
stakeholders and 
shareholders
Internal control 
and risk 
management
Leadership  
and people
Financial 
performance
The Board
Corporate governance statement continued
Board activity
The Board agenda focuses on the themes of driving our strategy, 
monitoring risk and execution against the strategy via regular 
business, financial and departmental updates. The diagram 
below shows the key areas of Board activity during the year: 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
Effectiveness
How do we make sure our Board is effective?
We have considered the overall balance between Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors and believe that the structure of the Board 
and the integrity of each Director ensure that no one individual or 
group dominates the decision-making process. The Board reflects 
a good balance between financial, sector-specific and general 
business skills, with a highly experienced team leading the 
business in both Executive and Non-Executive roles.
The Board is regularly updated with information concerning the 
state of the business and its performance in a timely manner, in a 
form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties. 
Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity to influence agendas 
for Board discussions and to ensure the amount of time spent reviewing 
strategic and operational issues is appropriately balanced.
In the event that Directors are unable to attend a meeting 
or a conference call, they have the opportunity to relay their 
comments and, if necessary, to follow up with the Chairman 
or the CEO after the meeting.
Director induction programme and ongoing training
On appointment to the Abcam Board, new Directors receive a 
comprehensive and tailored induction programme, the aim of which 
is to introduce them to key management and personnel across the 
business and to enhance their knowledge and understanding of 
the Group and its activities. This includes time with each of the 
Executive Directors and the Company Secretary, and a wide 
range of senior management from across the business.
The Group has a commitment to training and all Directors, Executive 
or Non-Executive, are encouraged to attend suitable training courses 
at the Group’s expense. Regular updates on corporate governance 
are also provided to the Board by the Group’s advisors.
Director independence
No equity-based incentives are granted to Non-Executive Directors. 
The Board considers all Non-Executive Directors to be independent 
within the meaning of the Code, with the exception of Jonathan Milner. 
Jonathan is a founder of Abcam, was an Executive Director of the 
Company until September 2014, and is a significant shareholder of 
the Company. Details of his interest in Abcam shares can be found 
on page 58. 
All Directors maintain conflicts of interest declarations and any 
planned changes in their interests including directorships outside the 
Group are notified to the Board. None of the relationships declared 
are considered to be of a material nature to Abcam’s business and 
none are therefore deemed to impact on the independence of the 
Directors. While the obligation to notify the Company is immediate, 
the updated conflicts register is formally reviewed at Board meetings 
on alternate months.
The beneficial interests of the Non-Executive Directors in the share 
capital of the Company, which are set out on page 58, do not, in the 
opinion of the Board, detract from their independent status.
Performance evaluation
The Board undertakes a regular evaluation of its own performance 
and the last review was undertaken during the year. This concluded 
that the Board and its individual members continue to perform 
effectively in an environment where there is constructive challenge 
from the Non-Executive Directors and operate within a framework 
of sound governance and practices which are consistent with the 
principles set out in the Code.
Subjects covered during the review include a general overview as 
to the operation of the Board, opinions on shareholder relationships, 
views on the Board’s input into strategy discussions, governance 
and compliance, risk management and succession planning, the 
Board culture and relationships with senior management, as well 
as how new members are selected and inducted.
The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without 
the Executive Directors present and the Non-Executive Directors, 
led by the Senior Independent Director, meet without the Chairman 
present at least annually to appraise the Chairman’s performance, 
with no issues arising from the review performed this year.
Accountability
What is our approach to risk management?
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for safeguarding 
the shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets and has 
established a continuous process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the significant risks which the Group faces.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring the Group maintains 
an adequate system of internal control and risk management, while 
the Audit and Risk Committee reviews its effectiveness on behalf of 
the Board. The implementation of internal control systems is the 
responsibility of management.
We have implemented an internal control system designed to 
help ensure:
• the effective and efficient operation of the Group by enabling 
management to respond appropriately to significant risks to 
achieving the Group’s business objectives;
• the safeguarding of assets from inappropriate use or from loss 
and fraud and ensuring that liabilities are identified and managed;
• compliance with applicable laws and regulations and with internal 
policies on the conduct of the Group’s business; and
• the ability to recover in a timely manner from the effects 
of disasters or major accidents which originate outside 
the Group’s direct control. Corporate governance
36 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance statement continued
Accountability continued
What is our approach to risk management? continued
Our risk management process involves the following steps:
• risk identification: risks are highlighted and documented 
in a centrally managed risk register;
• risk assessment: risks are assessed in terms of likelihood 
of occurrence and potential impact on the Group; and
• risk mitigation: required actions are agreed and assigned, 
with target deadlines.
The risk register and mitigating actions are reviewed by the Board 
on a bi-annual basis and by management as matters arise.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the 
risks inherent in a fast-moving business and can, therefore, provide 
only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
The principal risks and uncertainties we have identified are set out 
on pages 18–21. It is recognised that the Group is exposed to a 
number of risks, wider than those listed. However, we have chosen 
to disclose those of most concern to the business at this moment 
in time and those that have been the subject of debate at recent 
Board or Audit and Risk Committee meetings.
During the course of its reviews of the system of internal control during 
the year, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings 
or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant. Further 
information on risk management and review can be found in the 
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on pages 37–39.
Financial reporting
The Board is responsible for reviewing and approving the Annual 
Report and Accounts and the interim financial information and for 
ensuring they present a balanced assessment of the Group’s position. 
Drafts of these reports are provided to the Board in a timely manner 
and Directors’ feedback is discussed and incorporated where 
appropriate, prior to publication.
In addition, the Board ensures controls over the financial reporting 
process and preparation of the consolidated accounts consists 
of extensive reviews by qualified and experienced individuals to 
ensure that all elements of the financial statements and appropriate 
disclosure are considered and accurately stated.
Whistleblowing procedures
The Group operates a whistleblowing policy which allows 
all employees to raise concerns to senior management in 
strict confidence about any unethical business practices, fraud, 
misconduct or wrongdoing. They can do so without fear of 
recrimination and the Audit and Risk Committee receives any 
such confidential reports. More information can be found in 
the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on pages 37–39.
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Board believes it is important to have open communications 
with shareholders. To this end, the CEO and CFO, working in 
consultation with the Company’s corporate brokers and public 
relations advisors, make themselves available and expect to 
meet with major institutional shareholders at least twice a year.
Where appropriate, the Company consults with shareholders 
on significant issues. During the year, major shareholders were 
consulted on our strategic review of executive remuneration 
arrangements. More information can be found in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 42–43.
Members of the Board develop an understanding of the views 
of major shareholders through any direct contact that may be initiated 
by shareholders, shareholder feedback presented by the CEO 
and CFO following each analyst and investor roadshow, or through 
analysts’ and brokers’ briefings. We also regularly host investor 
meetings at our Cambridge, UK, office.
In addition, following investment analyst meetings and investor 
roadshows, our financial public relations advisors consult such 
analysts and our corporate brokers gather investor feedback which 
they relay to the Board. During the year, J.P . Morgan Securities plc 
(J.P . Morgan) was appointed as the Company’s nominated advisor 
and joint corporate broker. Peel Hunt LLP remains as joint broker 
with J.P . Morgan.
Constructive use of the AGM
The Board actively encourages the participation of all Directors in the 
AGM, which is the principal forum for dialogue with shareholders. 
A presentation is made outlining recent developments in the business 
and an open question and answer session follows to enable 
shareholders to ask about the business in general. 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
Audit and Risk Committee
I was delighted to join the Board in December 2014 and take over 
as Chairman of the Committee. I am very pleased to be working 
with my new colleagues to ensure that our financial strategy and 
reporting helps to drive successful long-term growth for the Group. 
During the year we have devoted more time to risk management 
and anticipate that this trend will continue over the coming years. 
To give recognition to this increased responsibility, the Board has 
agreed to rename the Audit Committee the Audit and Risk Committee. 
Sue Harris
Audit and Risk Committee Chairman
Effective Committee governance
All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive 
Directors with a combination of accounting, financial and commercial 
experience across listed companies both inside and outside of the 
biotechnology sector. The Committee meetings are also attended, 
by invitation, by other members of the Board and senior representatives 
of the external auditor and, going forward, the newly appointed 
Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary. Representatives of the 
Group’s external auditor meet with the Audit and Risk Committee 
at least twice a year without any Executive Directors or other 
Company management being present.
The Committee acts independently of the executive to ensure that 
the interests of the shareholders are appropriately protected in relation 
to financial reporting, internal control and risk management. 
The Committee is required to include one financially qualified member 
(as recognised by the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies), 
and I currently fulfil this requirement. I am deemed by the Board to have 
recent and relevant financial experience as a qualified accountant with 
over 30 years’ financial and commercial experience in listed companies, 
principally across the retail, life assurance and banking sectors.
We continue to consider the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and the FRC Guidance on audit committees. 
The 2014 Code takes effect for companies with a financial year 
commencing on or after 1 October 2014 and we will address 
the associated changes in our 2015/16 report.
Key responsibilities of the Committee
The Committee’s principal duties are to:
• monitor the integrity of the Group’s financial reporting, including 
the review of significant financial reporting judgements;
• advise the Board on whether, taken as a whole, the Annual 
Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable; 
• review and approve the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk 
management and internal controls;
• review annually the need for an internal audit function;
• oversee the Group’ s external audit process, including monitoring the 
auditor’ s independence, objectivity, effectiveness and performance;
• approve any engagement by the external auditor outside of the 
Group’s audit; and
• review and monitor the whistleblowing policy and activity.
Audit and Risk Committee activities
The key areas of Committee activity during the year included:
Financial reporting
• reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts and the interim 
management statements, challenging where appropriate, 
with particular consideration around the key judgements;
• advised the Board that taken as a whole the Annual Report 
and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable;
• monitored the integrity of the financial statements and the 
underpinning control framework;
• reviewed critical accounting policies to ensure they remained 
relevant and appropriate; and 
• reviewed the basis for the going concern statement.
Committee members
Sue Harris (Chairman)
Anthony Martin
Louise Patten
  Details of member appointments and biographies, and 
attendance at Committee meetings held during the year 
appear on pages 28–29 and 33, respectively.
  The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s IR website at www.abcamplc.com. Corporate governance
38 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Audit and Risk Committee continued
Audit and Risk Committee activities continued
Internal control and risk management
• considered the effectiveness of the internal controls framework, 
receiving appropriate reports from management; and
• reviewed and challenged the assessment of business-wide risks 
and monitored the Group’s risk register.
External audit
• approved the annual audit plan and risk identification;
• reviewed the findings of the auditor and management’s response 
and ensured robust challenge;
• reviewed the independence, objectivity, performance 
and effectiveness of the auditor; and
• approved the level of fees paid to the auditor for non-audit services.
Whistleblowing
• reviewed and considered reports from management on the 
operation of the Group’s whistleblowing process, including 
any associated activity.
External audit
Appointment and tendering
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) has served as Abcam’s external 
auditor since September 2013, when a full tender process was carried 
out. The current audit partner has served since the firm’s appointment, 
and is due for rotation in September 2018. Following the review of PwC’ s 
continued objectivity, independence and performance in respect of the 
2014/15 financial year, and having received an expression of willingness 
to continue in office as external auditor, the Committee recommended 
to the Board the re-appointment of PwC as the Company’s external 
auditor for the 2015/16 financial year. There were no contractual 
obligations that inhibited or influenced the Committee’ s recommendation. 
The external auditor is subject to ongoing effectiveness review and 
the Committee may choose to put the external audit contract out 
to tender at any time it considers appropriate.
Effectiveness
The Committee recognises the importance of having a high-calibre 
audit and as such, undertakes an annual assessment of the effectiveness 
of the external audit process. As part of its evaluation, the Committee 
considers the views of both financial and commercial management 
in addition to the Non-Executive Directors with a view to facilitating 
continued and measurable improvement in the effectiveness of the 
external audit process. The assessment of the external auditor’s 
performance specifically considered:
• delivery of a thorough and efficient global audit in compliance 
with agreed plan and timescales;
• provision of accurate, robust and perceptive advice on 
key accounting and audit judgements, technical issues 
and best practice;
• a high level of professionalism and technical expertise 
consistently demonstrated by all audit staff;
• maintenance of continuity within the core audit team; and
• strict adherence to independence policies and other 
regulatory requirements.
The Committee concluded that the above factors had been 
met with a constructive working relationship between the external 
auditor and members of financial management. Moreover, the 
Committee determined that the audit process was sufficiently robust, 
with the external auditor demonstrating continued commitment 
to the performance of high-quality audit work.
Independence and objectivity
The Committee recognises both the need for an objective 
and independent external auditor and how such objectivity and 
independence might be, or appear to be, compromised through 
the provision of non-audit services. Our policy is to ensure we appoint 
the advisor who we believe is in the position to best advise the Company 
on the particular matter in question. Accordingly, the Committee 
operates a policy of prior approval of non-audit services by the external 
auditor with a view to safeguarding objectivity and independence.
Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements includes disclosures 
of the auditor’s remuneration for the year, including an analysis of 
audit services, audit-related services and other non-audit services 
under those headings prescribed by law. The Committee monitors 
the level of non-audit fees in relation to the audit fee for its bearing 
on external auditor independence. Other non-audit fees were paid to 
PwC during the year, mainly in respect of its review of the Company’s 
interim results report to shareholders and due diligence services in 
respect of the acquisition of Firefly BioWorks. Taking into account the 
relatively low quantum of fees paid for these non-audit services, the 
Committee does not feel auditor independence has been impeded.
The independence and objectivity of the auditor is regularly reviewed 
by the Committee taking into consideration relevant UK professional 
and regulatory requirements. The Committee receives an annual 
statement from the external auditor detailing its independence policies 
and safeguards and confirming its independence, taking into account 
relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by 
the external auditor. The Committee considers that, during 2014/15, 
the external auditor was sufficiently robust in dealings with members 
of financial management and that, in their absence, the external 
auditor was transparent and decisive in dealings with the Committee.
Internal controls framework and risk management
A rolling programme of assessing the effectiveness of key processes 
has been implemented and is carried out by members of the finance 
team, with support from the IT function. This involves visits to worldwide 
locations across the Group. The results and actions arising are reported 
to the Audit and Risk Committee. The internal reviews carried out in 
the year highlighted no significant control failings. Further details on 
Abcam’s risk framework can be found on page 18.
Internal audit
Until now Abcam has not had a formal internal audit function; 
however, the Committee has continued to review risk management 
practices and risk tolerance and appetite to ensure the Board has 
maintained sound risk management and internal controls processes 
within the business.
The Committee undertook a review during the year of the need 
for an internal audit function and has concluded that given the 
size, complexity and global nature of the Group’s operations, it is 
appropriate now to establish a formalised resource in this area. 
A key priority for 2015/16 will be to implement a strategically 
focused internal audit capability. 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
Review of financial statements and audit findings
The Committee reviewed the full and half-year financial statements and considered reports from management and the external auditor 
on these statements. Significant matters that were considered by the Committee in the year included the following issues, which were 
also areas of focus for the external auditor. 
Issue Assessment
Purchase accounting for the 
Group’s acquisition of Firefly
The Committee reviewed and critiqued the critical accounting estimates used in the purchase 
price allocations, particularly the valuation of acquired intangible assets, and satisfied itself that these 
estimates were reasonable and appropriately applied. In addition the Committee considered whether 
the acquisition should give rise to an additional cash-generating unit (CGU) for impairment testing 
purposes, and concluded that Firefly is not a CGU (see note 12). The Committee addressed these 
matters through the receipt of reports from external valuation consultants and management which 
discussed the assumptions used. In addition, as a principal area of audit focus PwC provided 
detailed reporting to the Committee in respect of these matters. Further information is available 
in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
Inventory and property, plant 
and equipment valuation for 
in-house manufactured items
Inventory manufactured in-house is valued using a standard cost approach, on a first-in, first-out 
basis. The Group also capitalises within property, plant and equipment the costs of producing 
hybridomas
1
 and assays. As part of the standard costing an element of overheads is allocated into 
each asset’s valuation. The Committee discussed the calculation methodologies with management 
and also reviewed the report from the auditor on the results of its testing.
Inventory provisioning The calculation of the inventory provision includes a degree of judgement of the likelihood that 
individual products may not be sold at some point in the future, at a value equivalent to or greater 
than cost. The Committee’s review included an assessment of the reasonableness of future sales 
forecasts (which are based on actual sales patterns in previous years) and the shelf life of those 
products. The Committee also considered the overall provision as a percentage of the gross 
inventory balance.
1  A hybridoma is a hybrid cell produced by the fusion of a tumour cell with an ordinary antibody-producing cell, which then proliferates in cell culture and yields large amounts 
of a monoclonal antibody.
Sue Harris
Audit and Risk Committee Chairman
11 September 2015 Corporate governance
40 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Nomination Committee
Our job as a Committee is to ensure Abcam has the right 
leadership including a Board with the appropriate mix of attributes 
and skills to effectively develop, and to help ensure the delivery 
of, the Company’s strategy. This year was an important one for 
the Committee, with several changes to our Board, including my 
appointment as Chairman of the Company and the Committee. 
We are confident the team now assembled will play a significant 
role in the achievement of our growth objectives.
Murray Hennessy
Nomination Committee Chairman
Key responsibilities of the Committee
In addition to leading the process for Board appointments 
and making recommendations to the Board in relation to new 
appointments, the Committee’s general responsibilities include 
reviewing succession planning, Board composition and balance, 
and considering the roles and capabilities required for each new 
appointment based on an evaluation of the skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the existing Directors.
Board diversity and appointments procedure
Abcam recognises and embraces the benefits of having a diverse 
Board, and sees increasing diversity at Board level as an essential 
element in maintaining a competitive advantage. A truly diverse 
Board will include and make good use of differences in the skills, 
regional and industry experience, background, race, gender and 
other distinctions between Directors. These differences will be 
considered in determining the optimum composition of the Board 
and should be balanced appropriately.
Board composition is central to the effective leadership of the Group 
and, therefore, prior to commencing any search for prospective 
Board members, the Committee draws up a specification, reflecting 
on the Board’s current balance of skills and experiences and those 
that would be conducive to the delivery of the Company’s strategy. 
Selection for Board appointments is made on merit against 
this specification and not by reference to a prescribed quota. 
A recommendation is then made to the Board as to the core 
attributes sought.
The process adopted by the Committee to identify a candidate 
for a specific vacancy is, in the first instance, to determine whether 
any individuals known to the Board would be suitable for the role. 
If no candidates can be identified through this process, or if the 
Committee believes that the process would be improved by the 
involvement of other candidates, then an appropriately qualified 
independent search firm will be engaged. Shortlisted candidates are 
interviewed by all members of the Committee and other Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors as the Committee deems appropriate. 
Once a suitable candidate has been identified and references taken, 
the Chairman of the Committee will recommend to the Board that 
a formal offer of employment be made. Following appointment, 
a tailored induction programme is put in place to ensure the new 
Director rapidly gains the necessary knowledge to discharge his 
or her duties.
As described in more detail below, Sue Harris was appointed to the 
Board in the year, and we are already enjoying the fresh perspective 
she brings to Board discussions. Following Sue’s appointment, 
female representation on the Board has risen to 22%, from 10% 
during 2013/14.
We have also made good progress in terms of gender diversity 
generally, with more women now filling senior management positions 
across the business. The Senior Leadership Team, which forms part 
of the next tier of management below the Executive Directors, comprises 
60% women following several new appointments made through the 
year and since the year end. We continue to focus on this important 
area. The diversity charts on page 33 provide further useful information.
Committee members
Murray Hennessy (Chairman)
Sue Harris
Louise Patten
Michael Ross
  Details of member appointments and biographies, and full 
attendance at Committee meetings held during the year 
appear on pages 28–29 and 33, respectively.
  The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s IR website at www.abcamplc.com. 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
Board appointments in the year
As a result of Peter Keen stepping down from the Board at the 
AGM in November 2014 in line with best practice for independent 
non-executive directors, the Committee recommended to the Board 
that a search be commenced for a new NED to take the role of 
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee. Ridgeway Partners Ltd 
was retained to undertake the search, as a result of which Sue Harris 
was appointed on 12 December 2014. Sue brings a wealth of finance 
and commercial expertise which, combined with her broad corporate 
experience and scientific background, makes her an ideal person to 
further strengthen our Board.
Louise Patten was awarded the role of Senior Independent Director 
following Peter’s departure, reflecting her extensive experience, 
having served on the boards of substantial quoted companies 
for more than 20 years.
A number of other Board changes were made early in 2014/15 and 
were announced and explained in detail in the 2013/14 Annual Report. 
These were as follows:
• Alan Hirzel was appointed as CEO on 8 September 2014, 
having joined the Board in January 2014;
• at the same time, Jonathan Milner moved from CEO to a newly 
created Deputy Chairman position and retains an active role in 
the continued development of the Company; and
• Mike Redmond stepped down from the Board at the AGM in 
November 2014 and I, Murray Hennessy, took over as Chairman 
of the Board from that date.
Following the year end, on the appointment of Suzanne Smith 
as Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary, the roles of CFO 
and Company Secretary were decoupled, in line with best practice.
Priorities for 2015/16
A key role of the Nomination Committee is to ensure that plans are 
in place for the orderly and progressive refreshing of the Board and 
to identify and develop individuals with potential for Board positions. 
In the coming year the Committee will continue to focus in particular 
on the key issues of active talent management, putting in place 
sufficient development and retention plans for key individuals.
Murray Hennessy
Nomination Committee Chairman
11 September 2015 Corporate governance
42 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Remuneration report
Part 1a – Remuneration Committee Chairman’s statement
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present you with the 
Remuneration Committee’s report for the year ended 30 June 2015. 
This has been an important year for the Committee, involving a full 
review of our remuneration strategy for Executive Directors and 
senior staff. An overview of the proposed changes arising from 
this review is set out below, and is followed by the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Louise Patten
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Although not required by the AIM Listing Rules to provide all the 
information detailed in this report, the Directors have chosen to do 
so in accordance with best practice and in order to provide greater 
transparency to shareholders. This includes the details of our revised 
and updated policy on Directors’ remuneration, which will be put to 
an advisory vote at the 2015 AGM. Any future changes to this policy 
will be put to a further advisory vote. The Annual Report on Remuneration 
will also be subject to an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the 
Accounting Regulations under the Companies Act 2006 and other 
related regulations.
Context of the Committee’s decisions
The Committee is responsible for ensuring that executive remuneration 
is aligned to the successful delivery of strategy and to the performance 
of the executives and the SLT , ensuring that remuneration is appropriate 
to retain and attract talented executives. 
2014/15 has been a year of significant delivery against the strategic 
growth initiatives that we outlined in 2013/14. In most cases, our financial 
and strategic results either exceed or are at the upper end of the 
stretching targets we set at the start of the year. Particular achievements 
include the delivery of adjusted PBT of £49.6m, 24.2% CER growth 
in RabMAb revenue, 28.2% CER growth in non-primaries revenue 
and the maintenance of our number one leading position in research 
antibodies. This progress gives us confidence that we are doing the 
right things to attract and retain consumers to our business as we 
continue to identify further growth opportunities.
Engagement with shareholders
Our intention to undertake a full strategic review of our remuneration 
structure and policies was communicated to shareholders in last 
year’s Annual Report. In 2014/15 the review was undertaken in the 
context of the Group’s strategy and growth aspirations, in a process 
which included consultation with our largest shareholders. We have 
sought to hear investors’ views both via direct communication 
and also on an ongoing basis through broader investor interaction. 
The decisions made take into consideration the balance of feedback 
that has been received.
Strategic review of remuneration
Following the completion of the strategic review of remuneration and 
receipt of feedback from shareholders, we are now presenting a number 
of changes which will be put to an advisory vote at the 2015 AGM. 
Last year the Remuneration Committee was delighted to note that 
98.6% and 99.6% of shareholders approved the Remuneration Policy 
and the 2013/14 Remuneration Report respectively, and I am confident 
that the proposed changes set out in this report balance the particular 
requirements of our business with good practice.
The review was undertaken in the context of Abcam’ s evolving strategy 
and growth aspirations, and against the background of a remuneration 
structure which has remained largely unchanged for the past six years, 
during which time the business has grown significantly. Market 
capitalisation, for example, has grown from around £200m at the 
beginning of 2009 to over £1bn today. But whilst Abcam is entering 
a new phase of its development it continues to have an entrepreneurial 
approach. The revised structure is therefore designed to:
• establish remuneration at a level appropriate to the size 
and scale of the business;
• continue to promote our underlying philosophy of share ownership;
• ensure that remuneration continues to support our ambition 
to be the brand most recommended by life science researchers;
• reward the sustainable delivery of profitable, long-term growth; and
• incorporate key aspects of emerging best practice.
Full details are set out in the body of the Remuneration Report 
but the key changes are as follows:
Policy changes in light of best practice:
• To increase the time horizon of LTIP awards. At least 60% 
of the CEO’s LTIP award and 50% of the award for other 
Executive Directors will be subject to further holding periods. 
For the other Executive Directors, this will be over one and two 
years, increasing the overall time horizon of the awards to five years. 
For the CEO, a further portion of at least 20% of the award will 
have a holding period of an additional year, taking his time horizon 
to six years. This aligns with our philosophy of the importance 
of executives having a strong interest in shares.
Committee members
Louise Patten (Chairman)
Sue Harris
Anthony Martin
  Details of member appointments and biographies, and full 
attendance at Committee meetings held during the year 
appear on pages 28–29 and 33, respectively.
  The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s IR website at www.abcamplc.com. 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
Strategic review of remuneration continued
Policy changes in light of best practice continued
• To introduce clawback to the LTIP awards. From 2015/16, awards 
under the LTIP to Executive Directors will be subject to clawback 
for a period of two years following vesting in circumstances of 
material misstatement or gross misconduct.
• To introduce a cross-underpin to the Annual Bonus Plan (ABP). 
At the Committee’s discretion, vesting may be restricted if any of the 
three performance elements (financial, strategic or personal) show 
serious underperformance, or if the Committee determines that there 
has been underperformance of an Executive Director in his role.
Structural changes to the LTIP:
• To increase the quantum of the LTIP award. In 2015/16, the LTIP 
awards to Executive Directors will increase from the current level of 
50% of salary to 125% of salary for the CEO and to 100% of salary 
for the other Executive Directors, in the context of an unchanged 
maximum of 150% allowable under the Remuneration Policy.
• T o re-balance the performance measures applied under the LTIP so that 
70% of the award continues to be subject to stretching EPS targets, 
with the remaining 30% based on clearly measurable strategic KPIs 
which are critical to the long-term profitable growth of the business.
• To reduce the level of LTIP vesting for threshold performance from 
50% to 25% of maximum.
The Committee will continue to monitor the current arrangements 
to ensure they remain aligned with Abcam’s strategic goals and 
shareholder interests. All ABP and LTIP targets will be fully disclosed 
after vesting, excepting only where full disclosure would expose 
the business to a clear competitive risk.
Other key Committee decisions
In addition to the policy and structural changes outlined above, 
key decisions made by the Committee have included the following:
The discussion and approval of remuneration 
out-turns in respect of the 2014/15 financial year:
• The annual bonus out-turns for Executive Directors in 2014/15 were 
75.0% and 71.9% of the maximum award for financial and strategic 
measures respectively, reflecting exceptional performance against 
stretching targets during the year. Out-turns against personal targets 
ranged from 6-18% of base salary. 30% of each Director’s total 
award will be deferred in shares for a further two years. Further details 
regarding achievement against each performance target are set 
out on page 54.
• In respect of LTIP awards for which performance conditions were 
tested in the period, vesting was as follows:
• Annualised compounded EPS growth over the three-year 
performance period ended 30 June 2015 was 11.3% against a 
minimum target of 10%; therefore, 12.7% of the awards granted 
under the LTIP on 1 November 2012 will vest on 1 November 2015.
• Total shareholder return (TSR) over the three-year performance 
period ended on 1 November 2014 was 13.0%, which fell below 
the median of the comparator group. As a result, none of the 
TSR awards granted under the LTIP in November 2011 vested 
in November 2014.
Base salaries for Executive Directors 
and the Company Chairman:
• Alan Hirzel was appointed CEO on 8 September 2014. His base 
salary was set at £320,000.
• The Executive Directors proposed that no increases be made 
to their salaries in the 2015/16 year; similarly, no increase will 
be made to the Chairman’s fee.
EPS targets for the LTIP:
• The Committee considers that EPS targets should be set at a 
level which is stretching but incentivising. The awards made in 
November 2014 had an EPS target which required annualised 
compound EPS growth over a three-year period of 12% for 
maximum vesting, with threshold vesting for 8% growth. 
• These targets were considered carefully as part of the strategic review 
of remuneration in 2014/15 and the Committee concluded that they 
remain appropriate for the 2015/16 LTIP award. In particular, the 
Committee’s view is that a top end 12% EPS performance target 
remains appropriately stretching and incentivising in the context 
of our business strategy.
CEO stepping down:
• Jonathan Milner stood down as CEO on 8 September 2014 after 
16 years in the role and became Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
• There was no payment in lieu of notice or other 
compensatory payment.
• Jonathan was treated as a good leaver for the purpose 
of his incentives.
• As a good leaver, the Committee awarded him a cash bonus 
payment for the 2014/15 year based on the pre-determined 
performance measures, but pro-rated for time served during 
the year. Conversely, the deferred share element of his 2014/15 
award was not granted.
• In respect of outstanding deferred share awards, in line with the 
rules of the APB, these will vest on the second anniversary of the 
date of grant. Unvested LTIP awards will subsist, pro-rated for his 
period of employment as CEO, and will continue to be subject 
to performance conditions, tested at the normal time. 
• Full details are set out in this report and I can confirm that the 
decisions made by the Committee were taken within the terms 
of the approved 2014 Remuneration Policy.
Wider employee share plan implementation and renewal
As previously reported we operate a number of other share schemes 
to incentivise employees across the Group to enhance shareholder 
value and to allow them the opportunity to become shareholders in 
the Company. The Abcam 2005 Share Option Scheme is due to expire 
during 2015/16. We are therefore seeking shareholder approval at 
the 2015 AGM for a new scheme which has similar terms. Board 
Directors do not participate in this scheme. The Company may 
implement new all-employee share schemes in the future, and it is 
envisaged that Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in 
any new all-employee share schemes.
This has been a year of considerable activity for the 
Committee, and I would like to thank my fellow Committee 
members as well as the internal and external individuals 
who supported us with their commitment and hard work.
Louise Patten
Remuneration Committee Chairman
11 September 2015 Corporate governance
44 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Remuneration report continued
Part 1b – Remuneration framework
Fixed elements
(base salary 
and benefits)
• Employees’ base salaries are 
benchmarked against the 
relevant market taking into 
account the companies with 
which we compete for talent 
and geography.
• Retirement and other benefit 
arrangements are provided to 
employees with appropriate 
consideration of market practice 
and geographical differences.
Short-term incentives
• Assessment of short-term 
incentives under the Annual 
Bonus Plan is made against 
a corporate scorecard of key 
performance measures built 
around Abcam’s key financial 
and other strategic priorities 
for the relevant year.
• A sales incentive plan is in 
operation for key account 
managers and other incentive 
schemes are in place across 
the Group to reward specific 
performance as appropriate 
within each entity.
Long-term incentives
• Discretionary long-term 
equity awards are made on an 
annual basis dependent on an 
employee’ s level of responsibility 
within the Company.
• For Executive Directors, 
vesting occurs at the end of a 
three-year period, with holding 
periods applying, up to a further 
three years.
• For the rest of the employee 
population, vesting periods 
vary dependent on local 
market practice, with either 
three-year vesting periods or 
phased vesting over a period 
of three years.
•   There is a deferral of shares 
under the Annual Bonus Plan for 
Executive Directors and senior 
managers for a further two-year 
period following the initial year 
of performance measurement.
Strategically aligned
•  Remuneration should reflect and align 
with our business strategy and culture.
•  Equity ownership can drive the right 
long-term behaviour and alignment 
with shareholders’ interests.
Performance oriented
• Remuneration is structured in order 
to promote a performance culture.
• Employees should be rewarded based 
on their contribution to value creation.
Relevant to employees
• Each element of the package should be 
valued by employees and, as far as practicable, 
meet their differing needs and preferences.
• The ability to influence Company value 
should influence the remuneration mix 
for the employees.
Market competitive
• Remuneration must be market competitive 
in order to attract and retain talent as well 
as to avoid overpaying.
Overall remuneration
The structure and quantum of individual remuneration packages varies by geography, role and level  
of responsibility. In general the proportion of variable remuneration in the total package increases with level 
of responsibility within the Company.
These work as a framework for  
remuneration decisions across the Company 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
Part 2 – Directors’ Remuneration Policy
This section sets out the policy which will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM on 5 November 2015. The policy will apply 
to any remuneration and loss of office payments made on or after 1 July 2015.
a) Executive Director remuneration policy
The following table summarises the key elements of our remuneration policy and highlights the changes which have been made to the policy 
approved by shareholders in 2014.
Element Summary description Summary of changes to policy from 2014/15
Base salary Base salaries are set at a level to recognise the market value 
of the role, and individual’s skills, experience and performance.
No change in policy.
Pension 
and benefits
Pension and other benefits provided in line with market practice. No change in policy.
Annual Bonus Plan 
(ABP)
An annual bonus may be payable each year subject to performance 
against a scorecard of financial and non-financial targets.
A portion is deferred as shares for a period of two years 
and is subject to clawback.
No change in policy.
Long Term 
Incentive Plan 
(LTIP)
Nil-cost options or conditional share awards vest at the end of a 
three-year performance period, subject to stretching and specific 
financial and strategic performance measures.
To increase the quantum of the LTIP award, normal annual 
awards will be 125% of salary for the CEO, and 100% of salary 
for other Executive Directors (previously 50% of salary for all 
Executive Directors).
Introduction of holding periods of up to a further three years 
aligns with our philosophy of executive share ownership and 
long-term sustainability.
Awards are subject to clawback provisions for a period 
of two years following vesting, in line with best practice.
The Remuneration Committee’s policy is to attract and retain individuals of the highest calibre by offering remuneration competitive with 
comparable publicly listed companies, and to drive Group performance by providing arrangements which fairly and responsibly reward 
individuals for their contribution to the success of the Group. 
Performance-related bonuses and long-term equity-based remuneration linked to demanding targets represent a substantial proportion 
of Executive Directors’ potential remuneration, which aligns the interests of the individuals with those of the shareholders. Although deferred 
share awards are presented as short term, due to their performance conditions being over a one-year period, they must in fact be held for 
a further period of two years before vesting and the Committee therefore considers them to be long term in nature.
The Committee is satisfied that the composition and structure of the remuneration package is appropriate and does not incentivise undue 
risk taking.  Corporate governance
46 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
a) Executive Director remuneration policy continued
Future policy table
Fixed elements – Base salary
Purpose and link to strategy To provide an appropriately competitive level of base salary in order to enable the Group to recruit, retain and motivate 
Executive Directors of the calibre required to achieve the Group’s business strategy and objectives.
To reflect the individual’s skills, experience and role within the Group.
Operation Base salaries are paid monthly in cash and are reviewed annually with increases applying from July in each year, although 
an out-of-cycle review may be conducted if the Committee determines it to be appropriate. A review will not necessarily 
lead to an increase in salary.
When determining salaries, the Committee typically takes into account:
• business performance;
• individual performance, skills, experience and potential;
• external market conditions;
• salary levels at companies of a similar size, industry, global scope and complexity to Abcam; and
• the pay and conditions of employees elsewhere in the Group.
Maximum opportunity While there is no maximum, salary increases will typically be in line with the general level of increase awarded to other 
employees in the Group.
Higher increases may be made at the Committee’s discretion for reasons including (but not limited to):
• increase in the scope and/or responsibility of the individual’s role;
• realignment to market level;
• development of the individual within the role; and/or
• where a larger increase is considered necessary for the retention of an Executive Director.
Salary levels for the year ending 30 June 2016 are shown in Part 3(j) of this report.
Performance measures No specific performance measures are used, although the overall performance of each Executive Director is considered 
by the Committee when reviewing base salaries.
Fixed elements – Benefits
Purpose and link to strategy To provide competitive benefits in line with market practice to enable the Group to recruit and retain high-calibre 
Executive Directors.
To support personal health and well-being.
Participation in the Company’s Share Incentive Plan (SIP) encourages share ownership and alignment with the 
wider workforce.
Operation The Executive Directors are provided with core benefits of life insurance cover up to five times base salary, family private 
medical cover and annual health screening.
The Company contributes a percentage of base salary into a flexible benefits/salary sacrifice scheme which allows the 
Director to choose a variety of benefits to suit individual needs, such as:
• additional life assurance;
• critical illness cover;
• dental insurance;
• travel insurance;
• cycle to work scheme;
• childcare vouchers;
• additional holidays; and
• pension contributions.
Other benefits may be provided if the Committee considers it appropriate. Expenses incurred in the performance of duties 
may be reimbursed or paid for directly, including any tax due on expenses.
Situation-specific taxable benefits may be provided as may be required in the interests of the Group’s business, such as, 
but not limited to, housing or relocation allowances, travel allowance or other expatriate benefits.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate, on the same basis as other employees, in the Company’s HMRC tax 
advantaged SIP or any other all-employee share plan operated in the future.
Maximum opportunity Reasonable market cost of providing benefits plus the employer’s national insurance (NI) saving on any salary sacrificed.
Participation by Executive Directors in the SIP and any other all-employee share plan operated in the future is limited to 
the maximum award levels permitted by the relevant legislation.
There is no overall maximum level of benefit.
Performance measures No performance measures.
Remuneration report continued
Part 2 – Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
a) Executive Director remuneration policy continued
Future policy table continued
Fixed elements – Pension benefits
Purpose and link to strategy To provide pension contributions in line with market practice, which will enable Directors to plan for retirement.
Operation The Company contributes a percentage of base salary into a flexible benefits/salary sacrifice scheme, as described above, 
which allows the Director to choose a variety of benefits including pension contributions.
The Director also has the option to sacrifice an element of base pay to purchase additional benefits as detailed above. If as 
a result of any salary sacrificed the Company’s NI liability is reduced, the benefit of this reduction is added as a contribution 
to each Director’s pension fund.
For those in excess of the pension lifetime allowance applicable in the UK, the Company’s contribution may be taken 
as a cash allowance (subject to payroll deductions and the Director meeting any employer-related NI costs arising).
Maximum opportunity The current level of Company contribution is 12%. This may be amended from time to time in accordance with 
benchmarking reviews against current market practice. There is no overall maximum percentage.
Performance measures No performance measures.
Short-term incentives – Annual Bonus Plan (ABP)
Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise Executive Directors to achieve performance objectives that are directly linked to both the Group’s short-term 
and long-term financial and strategic goals.
The performance measures align to the strategy of the business and shareholder value creation.
The deferred portion of the award aligns the long-term interests of the Executive Directors and shareholders 
and supports retention.
Operation An annual bonus of both cash and deferred shares may be awarded under the ABP .
The cash component of the annual bonus, if earned, is paid annually in cash after the audited preliminary announcement 
of results for that year end is signed off.
Deferred shares have a compulsory deferral of a further two years, subject to continued employment within the Group.
Bonus payments are not pensionable.
Maximum opportunity 150% of base salary, of which at least 30% of the bonus must be deferred in shares.
Performance measures Targets for the bonus may be based on individual performance, strategic priorities for the Group and financial performance 
measures. Performance is assessed over one financial year.
Individual performance is normally measured through an assessment of comprehensive business deliverables, personal 
performance and the achievement of specific individual objectives.
Financial performance targets are chosen carefully to ensure a strong link between reward and underlying Group financial 
performance. As an example, these measures may typically include PBT or other measures as appropriate.
Strategic performance targets are selected from measurable key performance indicators aligned with Abcam’s stated strategy.
The exact measures, weightings, threshold vesting and targets are determined by the Committee each year taking into 
account the Group’s key strategic priorities and the approved budget for the year. Further details of the measures, weightings, 
threshold vesting and targets for 2014/15 are given on page 54.
In addition to the above performance measures, an award may be reduced (including to nil) where the Committee 
determines that a participant has underperformed.
Malus and clawback The Committee may reduce or cancel any cash award that has not been paid in the case of a material adverse adjustment 
to the audited consolidated accounts of the Company for any accounting period ending before the payment of the cash award, 
or following fraud or other gross misconduct of the participant.
In addition, the Committee may reduce or reclaim any deferred share award in the case of a material adverse adjustment 
to the audited consolidated accounts of the Company or following fraud or other gross misconduct, material dishonesty, 
material failure of risk management and/or material wrongdoing on the part of or by the participant for a period of two 
years following the end of the initial year of performance measurement. Corporate governance
48 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
a) Executive Director remuneration policy continued
Future policy table continued
Long-term incentives – Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise long-term value creation through the setting of stretching targets which ensure a strong link between 
reward, underlying Group financial performance and shareholder returns.
To support recruitment and retention.
Operation Annual nil-cost options or conditional share awards vesting at the end of a three-year performance period. 
Awards made in 2015/16 will be 125% of salary for the CEO and 100% of salary for other Executive Directors.
Significant post-vesting holding periods will apply. For 2015/16 the holding periods are as follows:
% of award CEO Other Executive Directors
Released after three-year vesting period 40% 50%
Released after four years 20% 25%
Released after five years 20% 25%
Released after six years 20% —
Subject to statutory limits, the first £30,000 of value awarded under the LTIP may be structured to be tax efficient 
using an HMRC tax advantaged executive share option scheme. This involves making a simultaneous award under 
the Company Share Option Plan (CSOP).
Maximum opportunity While the maximum award limit under the rules of the LTIP is 150% of base salary, awards for 2015/16 will be 125% 
for the CEO and 100% for other Executive Directors. 
Performance measures Vesting of awards is based on specific financial or quantifiable strategic measures against stretching targets over the 
vesting period.
The vesting period is three years from the date of grant, or such other period set by the Committee in its discretion.
The exact measures, weightings, threshold vesting and targets are determined by the Committee each year taking into 
account the Group’ s key strategic priorities, the approved budget for the year and the Group’ s longer-term financial outlook.
Malus and clawback The Committee may reduce or cancel any award that has not been released in the case of a material adverse 
adjustment to the audited consolidated accounts of the Company for any accounting period ending before the 
release of the award, or following fraud or other gross misconduct of the participant.
In addition, the Committee may reclaim any award that has already been released in the case of a material adverse 
adjustment to the audited consolidated accounts of the Company or following fraud or other gross misconduct, material 
dishonesty, material failure of risk management and/or material wrongdoing on the part of or by the participant for 
a period of two years following the release of the award or throughout any period that a participant is subject to a 
work-related criminal investigation.
Malus and clawback apply where stated in the above tables. 
Other elements of remuneration are not subject to recovery 
provisions. References to base salary in the table above refer 
to base salary prior to any voluntary waiver.
The Remuneration Committee believes that situations may arise 
when it would be in the Company’s best interests for them to retain 
discretion on certain matters as to how the Remuneration Policy 
described above is applied. These are as follows:
• to adjust incentive performance targets in light of changes within 
Abcam’s business such as acquisitions or divestitures;
• in the context of one-off recruitment cash or equity awards, determine 
appropriate performance conditions for any equity award, taking 
account of the circumstances of each individual case; 
• in the operation of the LTIP , subject to any statutory prohibition:
• vary the period from the date of grant to the vesting 
of an award from the usual three-year period;
• determine and vary the post-vesting holding period;
• meet any stamp duty or liability for any other taxes 
or expenses arising;
• impart additional and/or modified terms and conditions relating 
to the grant, release or exercise of any award as may be necessary 
to comply with or take account of any relevant laws or regulations;
• determine whether the participant shall be liable for the 
employer’s NI contributions payable on the release or exercise 
of an award;
• determine that an award that has not been released shall 
not lapse on cessation of employment for reasons including, 
amongst others, injury, disability, ill health, retirement, 
redundancy and death;
• determine the period over which a participant may exercise 
all released nil-cost option awards, following his cessation 
of employment;
• if events subsequently occur which cause the Committee to 
consider that the existing performance requirements have become 
unfair or impractical, amend the relevant performance requirements, 
ensuring that they are no more or less difficult to abide by or 
satisfy as those originally imposed or last amended; and
• to determine that any LTIP award should be reduced if it reasonably 
considers that there is a significant misalignment between the 
attainment of the performance targets and the underlying 
sustainable performance improvement of the Company; and
• in the operation of the ABP:
• where the Committee is of the opinion that the Group is facing 
severe cash flow restraints that threaten the Group’ s ability to fund 
its operations, it can reduce the proportion of a cash award under 
the ABP which is capable of vesting or determine that the cash 
award may be settled in plan shares, in whole or in part; and
• to determine that any annual or deferred bonus awards should 
be reduced if it reasonably considers that there is a significant 
misalignment between the attainment of the performance targets 
and the underlying sustainable performance of the Company.
Remuneration report continued
Part 2 – Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
a) Executive Director remuneration policy continued
Selection of performance measures and how targets are set
LTIP
Performance measures for the LTIP are selected after careful 
consideration by the Committee and where appropriate following 
consultation with larger shareholders. 
The Committee believes that a combination of EPS growth and 
measures based on Abcam’ s key strategic priorities currently provides 
the best alignment to Group strategy and will encourage, reinforce and 
reward the delivery of sustainable shareholder value. For 2015/16 
awards, 70% of the LTIP award will be subject to EPS targets and 
30% will be subject to the achievement of quantitative and measurable 
strategic KPIs in the same format as those used under the ABP 
as outlined below, but with three-year performance targets.
The Committee has set a stretching target for the reported EPS growth 
performance condition for the awards made in November 2014, 
after taking into account the Group’s financial projections for the 
three-year vesting period. The setting of the targets in future will 
reflect the Group’s prospects to ensure that they are suitably 
challenging while being motivational.
Annual Bonus Plan for Executive Directors
The annual award under the ABP normally consists of three 
components: financial profit measures, key strategic goals and 
an individual performance measure based on the achievement 
of specific personal targets.
The strategic goals are based on the successful Group delivery 
against a set of performance measures which are chosen by the 
Committee to closely align to the strategy of the business and 
shareholder value creation as currently outlined on pages 12–13.
Financial performance measures are set annually and chosen carefully 
to ensure a strong link between reward and underlying Group financial 
performance. Each year the Committee considers the most appropriate 
target to apply for the following financial year, taking into account the 
Group’s key strategic priorities and the approved budget for the year.
The individual performance bonus objectives are normally specific 
to each Executive Director and are set based on comprehensive 
business deliverables, personal performance and the achievement 
of specific individual objectives. The Committee may determine that 
measures and targets apply across some or all Executive Directors.
Further details of the measures for 2015/16 are set out on page 63. 
Achievement of the targets for these measures would result in a 
50% payout of the relevant bonus, with adjustments to reflect 
over or under performance.
Remuneration arrangements across the Group
We firmly believe that successful delivery of our strategy can only 
be achieved with engaged and motivated employees and that our 
Group remuneration philosophy is sufficient to attract and retain 
high-calibre individuals. While this philosophy is consistent across 
the Group there may be variations due to various factors, including 
geography and the local talent market.
• Salaries and benefits – a range of factors are considered 
including business and individual performance, the pay of other 
employees and external market data. 
• LTIP and ABP – in addition to participation in the LTIP , key 
management below Board level may receive some of their annual 
bonus in shares under the ABP , which must be deferred for a 
further two years. The targets and deferral retention policies under 
both schemes are in line with the policy for Executive Directors 
(except for the extended holding period under the LTIP , which 
applies only to the Executive Directors). Other annual bonuses 
across the Group are typically linked to local business and 
individual performance.
• All-employee share plans – an HMRC tax advantaged SIP is 
open to all UK eligible employees (including Executive Directors) 
on the same terms, giving them the opportunity to become 
shareholders in the Company. Currently over 280 employees 
participate in the SIP with a combined beneficial or conditional 
holding of over 970,000 shares.
• A number of other share schemes are in place to incentivise 
employees across the Group to enhance shareholder value, 
and to allow them the opportunity to become shareholders 
in the Company where possible. The Company may implement 
new all-employee share schemes in the future, and it is envisaged 
that Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in any new 
all-employee share schemes.
b) Chairman and NED remuneration policy
Overall remuneration
Purpose and link 
to strategy
To attract and retain an appropriately experienced Chairman and independent NEDs of suitable calibre to fulfil a range of different 
roles including financial expert/Audit and Risk Committee Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other Committee Chairmen.
To pay fees that reflect responsibilities and workload undertaken and that are competitive with peer companies.
Operation NED fees consist of a base fee plus a fee for membership or chairmanship of each of the Committees.
NED fees are determined by the Chairman of the Board and the Executive Directors. The Chairman’s fee is proposed by the 
Committee and approved by the Board as a whole with the Chairman taking no part in the decision.
Fees are reviewed on an annual basis and take account of fees paid for similar roles by peer companies and the skills and expected 
time commitment of the individual concerned. An out-of-cycle review may be conducted if the Committee determines appropriate.
A portion of the fees may be delivered or paid by reference to a fixed number of Company shares.
Expenses incurred in the performance of non-executive duties may be reimbursed or paid directly, including any tax due on expenses.
The NEDs and the Chairman are not eligible to receive bonuses or pension contributions, nor can they participate in the executive 
or all-employee equity plans.
Maximum opportunity Fees are set at an appropriate level taking into account the factors outlined in this table.
Any Director who devotes special attention to the business of the Group, or otherwise performs services which, in the opinion of the 
Directors, are outside the scope of the ordinary duties of a Director, may be paid additional fees to be determined by the Committee.
Performance 
measures
None. Corporate governance
50 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
c) Recruitment policy
Our philosophy for remuneration is to attract and retain leaders 
who are focused and encouraged to deliver business priorities 
within a framework that is aligned with the long-term interests 
of the Company’s shareholders.
The following factors are taken into account when negotiating a new 
appointment as Executive Director to the Board:
• Base salary – to be set based on relevant market data, experience 
and skills of the individual, internal relativities and their current 
base salary. Where new appointments have initial base salaries 
set below market, the shortfall will normally be managed with 
phased increases over a period of two to three years, subject 
to their development in the role. For interim positions a cash 
supplement may be paid rather than salary.
• Bonus – the annual and deferred bonuses described in the table 
above will apply to a new appointee with the relevant maximum 
being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment over 
the year. The Committee may determine that for the first year 
of appointment the annual bonus award will be subject to such 
conditions as it may determine.
• Share incentives – usually new appointees will be granted awards 
under the LTIP on the same terms as other Executive Directors.
• To facilitate the recruitment of an Executive Director it may be 
necessary to buy out existing awards from their current employer. 
Any buyout may take the form of a cash payment or share award 
and would take into account the terms of the arrangements 
(e.g. form of award, performance conditions and timeframe) being 
forfeited. The over-riding principle will be that any replacement 
buyout awards should be of no higher commercial value to the 
awards which have been forfeited. So far as practical any buyout 
would make use of existing plans.
• The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be 
granted in the first year (excluding buy-outs) is in line with the 
aggregate maximums set out in the policy table and shall be 
no more than 275% of salary.
d) Service contracts and termination arrangements
Executive Directors’ service contracts, which include details 
of remuneration, will be available for inspection at the forthcoming 
AGM in November 2015 and during normal business hours at 
the Company’s registered office.
Executive Directors have rolling service contracts. In order to ensure 
retention of key talent, and to minimise any potential disruption 
to the business, the notice period for Alan Hirzel, Jeff Iliffe and 
Jim Warwick was extended from six months to twelve months 
from September 2014.
The details of Executive Directors’ contracts are summarised below:
Commencement of contract
Notice period
 (months)
Alan Hirzel 9 September 2014 12
Jeff Iliffe 9 September 2014 12
Jim Warwick 9 September 2014 12
Any payment in lieu of notice is at the Committee’s discretion 
and both mitigation and the phasing of payments through the notice 
period would be considered by the Committee where appropriate. 
If appropriate, certain expenses or payments may be provided in 
connection with termination, such as legal costs and the costs 
of meeting any settlement agreement.
All NEDs, including the Chairman, serve under letters of appointment. 
Currently either party can terminate on one month’s written notice, 
other than Jonathan Milner whose contract provides for a six-month 
notice period. The policy in relation to notice periods may be reviewed 
from time to time but will not exceed six months.
Neither the Chairman nor the NEDs have any right to compensation 
on the early termination of their appointment. The details of NEDs’ 
current contracts are summarised below:
Commencement of contract
Notice period
 (months)
Murray Hennessy 9 September 2014 1
Jonathan Milner 9 September 2014 6
Sue Harris 12 December 2014 1
Anthony Martin 16 September 2011 1
Louise Patten 27 March 2014 1
Michael Ross 1 November 2011 1
Vesting of incentives for leavers
Cash and deferred share awards under the ABP
Any cash or deferred share awards outstanding under the ABP 
will ordinarily lapse on termination of employment. In certain 
circumstances, such as injury, disability, ill health, retirement, 
redundancy and death or any other reason at the discretion 
of the Remuneration Committee, it will vest in full on the second 
anniversary of the date of grant.
Alternatively the Remuneration Committee may determine that 
deferred shares vest at cessation of employment. Where vested 
deferred share awards are in the form of a nil-cost option, the award 
holder would then be entitled to exercise these for a period of twelve 
months from the date of vesting, after which time any unexercised 
nil-cost options will lapse.
Any unvested cash or deferred award outstanding under the ABP 
may be paid, normally on a pro-rata basis for the period of the 
financial year in employment, at the Remuneration Committee’s 
absolute discretion. Any bonus paid would be based on the 
Remuneration Committee’s assessment of the achievement 
of the relevant performance targets.
LTIP awards
Unvested LTIP awards ordinarily lapse on cessation of employment, 
unless the Committee in its absolute discretion determines otherwise 
for reasons including, amongst others, injury, disability, ill health, 
retirement, redundancy and death. In this instance, the proportion 
of the award to be released is calculated based on the amount 
of the relevant award period completed on the date of cessation 
and on the satisfaction of the performance requirements relating 
to the award. The extent to which any further holding periods would 
continue to apply would be at the Committee’s discretion taking 
into account the circumstances of departure.
CSOP options ordinarily lapse on cessation of employment. 
Options may be exercised in certain leaver circumstances including 
death, injury, ill health, disability, redundancy, retirement or the sale 
of the individual’s employing company or business out of the Group. 
The proportion of the option that is exercisable in these circumstances 
is based on the proportion of time from grant to the third anniversary 
and by reference to the performance requirements. The Board may 
at its discretion permit options to be exercised by other leavers on 
such basis as it determines.
SIP awards
Payments may be made under the Company’s SIP , the terms of 
which are governed by plan rules complying with HMRC requirements, 
and include certain provisions for employees leaving the Group.
Remuneration report continued
Part 2 – Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
d) Service contracts and termination arrangements 
continued
Change of control
All of Abcam’s equity-based plans contain change of control clauses. 
Deferred share awards typically vest upon change of control. Under the 
LTIP , on a change of control, merger or demerger, the Remuneration 
Committee may at its discretion determine the proportion of the 
award that shall be released, taking account of whatever factors 
it considers appropriate, as well as the period over which those 
awards may be exercised.
e) Existing contractual arrangements
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments 
and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in 
line with the Remuneration Policy where the terms of the payment 
were agreed:
(i)  before the policy came into effect; or
(ii)  at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the 
Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment 
was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director 
of the Company.
For these purposes ‘payments’ includes the Committee satisfying 
awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over 
shares, the terms of the payment are ‘agreed’ at the time the 
award is granted.
The Committee may make minor changes to the policy that do 
not have a material advantage to Directors, to aid in its operation 
or implementation, without seeking shareholder approval but taking 
into account the interests of shareholders.
f) Remuneration scenarios
The charts below show hypothetical values of the remuneration 
package for 2015/16 in line with the policy above and include 
base salary, pension, benefits and incentives. The charts provide 
an illustration of the proportion of total remuneration made up of 
each component of the policy and the value of each component. 
These charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes 
may differ from those shown.
For these purposes base salary is the latest known salary for 
2015/16, benefits are as disclosed in the single figure table in 
Part 3(a) of this report for the year ended 30 June 2015 and 
pension is calculated as 12% of base salary, assuming no cash 
election or waiver has been made.
Three scenarios have been illustrated for each Executive Director:
Minimum 
performance
• No bonus payout
• No vesting under the LTIP
On-target 
performance
• 75% of salary payout under the ABP 
(of which 30% is deferred into shares, 
being 22.5% of salary)
• LTIP awards to a value of 125% of salary for 
Alan Hirzel and 100% of salary for the other 
Executive Directors, of which 50% vest
Maximum 
performance
• 150% of salary payout under the ABP 
(of which 30% is deferred into shares, 
being 45% of salary)
• LTIP awards to a value of 125% of salary for 
Alan Hirzel and 100% of salary for the other 
Executive Directors, of which 100% vest
Notes
1  Fixed remuneration is comprised of salary, standard benefit provision and employer pension contribution/allowance.
2  Annual variable remuneration comprises cash awards under the ABP and deferred bonuses awarded under the ABP , for which performance targets are measured  
over a one-year period.
3  All scenarios assume no share price appreciation during the vesting period. Therefore, depending on share price performance, the actual outcomes could be higher.
4  All-employee share plans have been excluded, as have any legacy awards which Executive Directors may hold.
1,250
Alan Hirzel
£000 1,000
1,500 1,500 1,500
750
500
250
100% 45% 29%
30%
39%
25%
32%
£359
£799
£1,239
£299
£631
£962
£299
£631
£962
0
Fixed Annual variable Multiple period variable
1,250
Jeff Iliffe
£000 1,000
750
500
250
100% 47% 31%
32%
41%
21%
28%
0
1,250
Jim Warwick
£000 1,000
750
500
250
100% 47% 31%
32%
41%
21%
28%
0 Corporate governance
52 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
g) Shareholder engagement
The Committee is strongly committed to an open and transparent 
dialogue with shareholders on remuneration matters. We believe 
that it is important to meet regularly with our key shareholders 
to understand their views on our remuneration arrangements 
and discuss our approach.
In line with our ongoing commitment to open and transparent dialogue 
with shareholders, the Chairman of the Committee discussed the 
proposed revisions to our Remuneration Policy with several of our 
largest shareholders during the year. These discussions have informed 
the disclosures in this report, as well as the decisions made by the 
Committee in determining the remuneration for the Executive Directors.
The Committee will continue to engage with shareholders going 
forward and will aim to consult on any material changes to the 
policy or its application.
h) Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group
The Committee has oversight of the main compensation structures 
throughout the Group and actively considers the relationship between 
general changes to employees’ remuneration and Executive Director 
reward. When considering potential changes to Executive Director 
remuneration the Committee is provided with comparative employee 
information, e.g. average salary reviews across the Group.
The Committee does not consider it appropriate to consult directly 
with employees when formulating Executive Director reward policy. 
However, it does take into account information provided by the 
People and Organisational Development Director and feedback 
from our global employee satisfaction survey, which includes 
questions about pay and conditions generally.
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration
AUDITED INFORMATION
a)  2014/15 single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors
The aggregate remuneration provided to Directors who have served as Directors in the year ended 30 June 2015 is set out below, 
along with comparatives for the prior year.
Executive Directors
Jonathan Milner
1
Alan Hirzel
2
Jeff Iliffe
3
Jim Warwick
2014/15
£000
2013/14
£000
2014/15
£000
2013/14
£000
2014/15
£000
2013/14
£000
2014/15
£000
2013/14
£000
Salary 70 321 306 100 265 257 265 260
Taxable benefits 2 3 1 — 2 2 2 1
Annual bonus 54 235 235 65 182 169 191 169
Deferred bonus 23 72 101 20 78 52 82 52
Long-term incentives 26 4 5 — 24 4 25 4
Pension-related and other benefits
4
— 7 37 12 29 32 5 5
Total executive remuneration 175 642 685 197 580 516 570 491
Non-Executive fees 57 — — — — — — —
Single total remuneration 232 642 685 197 580 516 570 491
1  In the prior year, Jonathan Milner waived a £39,000 increase in salary which would have taken his salary up to £360,000. His bonus and benefits were based on his salary prior 
to the waiver. He made no such waiver in 2014/15. Jonathan stepped down as CEO and was appointed Non-Executive Deputy Chairman on 9 September 2014.
2  Alan Hirzel was employed on 5 August 2013. He was appointed to the Board of Directors on 30 January 2014, and his remuneration and benefits from this date onwards have 
been included in the comparatives disclosed in the table above. His deferred bonus award for 2013/14 was £44,289; however, the amount disclosed in the comparative above 
relates to the period following his appointment to the Board.
3  Jeff Iliffe took unpaid leave with a value of £2,723 in 2013/14, and this has been deducted from the 2013/14 comparative salary disclosed in the table above.
4  In place of pension contributions that can no longer be contributed in a tax-efficient way, an additional cash allowance and/or provision of certain benefits have been provided to 
Jonathan Milner and Jim Warwick since 6 April 2012 and to Jeff Iliffe from 6 April 2014. The value of these cash payments and benefits has been disclosed within pension-related 
and other benefits in the table above. Jonathan Milner waived his entitlement to £7,000 (2013/14: £35,000) and Jim Warwick waived his entitlement to £26,000 (2013/14: £26,000) 
of these payments in lieu of retirement benefits. The Company made donations to charities of its choice amounting to the total amounts waived.
Remuneration report continued
Part 2 – Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
AUDITED INFORMATION continued
a)  2014/15 single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors continued
Executive Directors continued
The figures in the single figure table above are derived from the following:
Salary The amount of base salary received in the year.
Taxable benefits The taxable value of benefits received in the year.
Annual bonus The value of the cash bonus earned in respect of the year under the ABP . 
Deferred bonus The value of the bonus in respect of the year under the ABP , which will be deferred as a nil-cost 
option or conditional share award over Abcam plc shares, for at least two years from the date 
of award. The deferred element is not subject to further performance conditions, but vesting 
normally requires continuation of employment.
Long-term incentives The value of performance-related incentives whose performance targets relate to a period ending 
in the relevant financial year and the value of Free and Matching Shares granted in the year 
under the HMRC tax advantaged SIP , based on the fair value of the shares at the date of grant.
The LTIP awards made in 2010 and 2011 were each divided into two equal portions, of which 
half were based on a compound unadjusted EPS growth target (relating to the relevant financial 
years of the Company) and half were based on relative TSR performance against a comparator 
group, measured over the vesting period of the award, being three years from each date of grant. 
The LTIP awards made in 2012 were based solely on compound EPS performance. 
The values shown in the 2014/15 column therefore relate to the TSR awards which were due 
to vest on 1 November 2014, but which did not meet the relevant performance conditions, 
and so lapsed, along with the LTIP awards which will vest on 1 November 2015, valued using 
the average mid-market closing share price over the last three months of the financial year.
The values in the 2013/14 column relate to the TSR awards which were due to vest on 
2 December 2013, but which did not meet the relevant performance conditions, and so 
lapsed, along with the EPS awards which were due to vest on 1 November 2014, but 
which did not meet the relevant performance conditions, and so also lapsed.
Pension-related and other benefits The value of the employer contribution to the defined contribution pension plan (or the value 
of a salary or benefit supplement paid in lieu of a contribution to this pension plan).
Details of individual elements of remuneration
Base salary/fees
Salary increases for Executive Directors from 1 July 2014 were 2%, which was in line with cost of living increases for UK-based employees. 
There will be no base salary increase for Executive Directors in 2015/16.
Taxable benefits
Benefits comprise amounts in respect of life insurance, private medical cover and annual health screening.
Annual and deferred bonus
For the year ended 30 June 2015, the bonus under the ABP consisted of three elements: Group profit performance, achievement of specific 
Group strategic goals and individual performance targets. 30% of the bonus will be deferred into Abcam plc shares for a further two years 
from the date of approval of these audited financial statements subject to continuation of employment. The deferred element is not subject 
to further performance conditions. Corporate governance
54 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
AUDITED INFORMATION continued
a)  2014/15 single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors continued
Details of individual elements of remuneration continued
Annual and deferred bonus continued
The targets and performance outcomes which resulted in the annual bonus shown in the single figure table are as follows:
Annual Bonus Plan element Performance
Financial (50% 
of total bonus)
Financial performance 
is based on the Group’s 
adjusted profit before tax, 
loss from Firefly and cash 
bonuses, on a constant 
exchange rate basis.
The table below shows the target ranges for 2014/15. 
Adjusted PBT, at constant
exchange rates and before
 Firefly losses and
cash bonuses
% of
maximum
Threshold £48.2m–£48.9m 25%
Target £48.9m–£50.3m 50%
Exceed £50.3m–£51.7m 75%
Maximum >£51.7m 100%
Overall out-turn was 75% of the maximum financial element.
Strategic (33% 
of total bonus)
The strategic goals’ 
performance measures 
are aligned to the Group’ s 
four KPIs: RabMAb primaries 
revenue growth, non-primaries 
revenue growth, NPS 
and market position. 
Our performance in the 
year against these KPIs 
is presented on page 17.
The table below shows each strategic KPI measure, its relative weighting and an indication 
of the targets.
Strategic measure Weighting Threshold Target Exceed Maximum
RabMAb primaries CER revenue growth 13% 16%–19% 19%–20% 20%–22% >22%
Non-primaries CER revenue growth 7% 26%–28.6% 28.6%–30.5% 30.5%–33% >33%
NPS 10% 18%–20% 20%–22% 22%–24% >24%
Market position 3% Target to maintain #1 position in research primary 
antibodies as well as to improve market share in 
at least two other areas.
Achievement was as follows:
Threshold Target Exceed Maximum
RabMAb primaries revenue growth 
Non-primaries revenue growth 
NPS 
Market position 
Overall out-turn was 71.9% of the maximum strategic element.
Personal (17% 
of total bonus)
The personal targets are specific to each individual Executive Director. Out-turns ranged from 6% 
to 18% of base salary.
Jonathan Milner’s pro-rated bonus for the financial year was based on Group financial and strategic measures only, in the proportion 60:40.
Long-term incentives
The values shown in the 2014/15 column in the ‘single total figure of remuneration’ table relate to those awards for which the 
performance conditions were tested in the year: the TSR awards which vested on 1 November 2014 and the LTIP awards which 
will vest on 1 November 2015, based on EPS performance over the three years ended 30 June 2015.
Remuneration report continued
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration continued 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
AUDITED INFORMATION continued
a)  2014/15 single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors continued
Details of individual elements of remuneration continued
Long-term incentives continued
Vesting of the TSR awards was determined as follows, with proportional straight-line vesting between these points, over the three-year 
period ended on 1 November 2014:
TSR performance compared to comparator group % of TSR award vesting
Below 50th percentile 0%
At 50th percentile 30%
At or above 75th percentile 100%
The comparator group consisted of the companies making up the FTSE 250. The Company’s TSR performance over this three-year period 
fell below the median of the comparator group and therefore none of the TSR awards vested.
Vesting of the LTIP awards based on EPS performance over the three-year period ended 30 June 2015 was determined as follows, 
with proportional straight-line vesting between these points:
Annualised, compounded growth in EPS % of EPS award vesting
Below 10% 0%
At or above 20% 100%
The Company’s annualised, compounded unadjusted EPS growth over the three-year performance period ended 30 June 2015 was 11.3%, 
resulting in 12.7% of the EPS awards vesting.
Under the SIP , £3,600 of Free Shares (2013/14: £3,000) and £1,800 (2013/14: £1,500) of Matching Shares were awarded to each 
Executive Director in office on the date of grant.
Retirement benefits
The Company operates a flexible benefits scheme under which the Executive Directors are entitled to contributions to be made by the Company 
on their behalf equivalent to 12% of base salary. Each Executive Director can choose how to spend this contribution amongst the specific 
benefits available and also has the option to sacrifice an element of base pay to make additional pension contributions into the Company’s 
money purchase pension scheme or to purchase other benefits. As a result of the salary sacrificed and used to purchase additional pension 
contributions or benefits, the Company’s national insurance (NI) liability is reduced and the benefit of this reduction is added as a contribution 
to each Executive Director’s pension fund. This amount is included within the pension-related benefit figures disclosed in the ‘single total 
figure of remuneration’ table on page 52.
Where Executive Directors have elected to preserve their current lifetime allowance for pension contributions, meaning that no further pension 
contributions can be made into their pension schemes, they are entitled to draw a cash supplement or other benefits equivalent to the cost 
to the Company of their pension entitlement, as adjusted for employer’ s NI contributions, such that the Company is in no better or worse position. 
These amounts have been included within the pension-related benefits disclosed in the ‘single total figure of remuneration’ table on page 52.
b) 2014/15 single total figure of remuneration for the Chairman and NEDs
Fees
2014/15
£000
2013/14
£000
Mike Redmond
1
19 72
Murray Hennessy
2
129 39
Jonathan Milner
3
57 —
Sue Harris
4
28 —
Peter Keen
1
14 45
Anthony Martin 39 39
Louise Patten
5
50 13
Michael Ross 35 37
Total remuneration 371 245
1 Resigned from the Board on 3 November 2014.
2  Murray Hennessy was appointed Chairman on 3 November 2014, having previously served as a Non-Executive Director. His fees disclosed in the table above include the total 
amount payable to him during the year in respect of each role.
3 Jonathan Milner transferred from CEO to Non-Executive Deputy Chairman on 9 September 2014. The fees in this table are those payable in his non-executive capacity from that date.
4 Sue Harris was appointed to the Board of Directors on 12 December 2014. Her remuneration from this date onwards has been included in the above table.
5 Louise Patten was appointed to the Board of Directors on 27 March 2014. Her remuneration from this date onwards has been included in the comparatives in the above table. Corporate governance
56 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
AUDITED INFORMATION continued
c) Executive Directors’ scheme interests awarded during 2014/15
Executive Director
Type of interest
awarded Award basis
Face value
of award
£000
% vesting at 
minimum 
performance
requirements
Performance 
period Date of award Date of vesting
Alan Hirzel LTIP Total of 50% of base salary
(less the value of SIP Free
and Matching awards)
155 50% 1 Jul 2014–
30 Jun 2017
4 Nov 2014 4 Nov 2017
Jeff Iliffe 128
Jim Warwick 128
Alan Hirzel
SIP – 
Free
Shares
Maximum award as per
scheme rules
3 n/a n/a 24 Oct 2014 24 Oct 2017
Jeff Iliffe 3
Jim Warwick 3
Alan Hirzel SIP –
Matching 
Shares
Maximum award as per
scheme rules
2 n/a n/a 24 Oct 2014 24 Oct 2017
Jeff Iliffe 2
Jim Warwick 2
Alan Hirzel ABP – 
deferred 
share award
Up to 45% of base salary 44 n/a n/a 9 Sep 2014 9 Sep 2016
Jeff Iliffe 52
Jim Warwick 52
The share prices used to calculate the face value of the LTIP awards and the Free and Matching Shares under the SIP were the mid-market 
prices on the day prior to award date, being 406 pence for the 4 November 2014 awards and 398 pence for the 24 October 2014 awards. 
The share price used to calculate the face value of the deferred share awards was the ten dealing day average share price prior to the date 
of award, being 420.34 pence.
The performance conditions for the 2014 LTIP awards are based on target annualised compound EPS growth over the three-year period 
ending on 30 June 2017. There will be 50% vesting at 8% compound growth and 100% vesting at 12% growth, with proportionate 
straight-line vesting between these two figures.
d) Executive Director departure arrangements for Jonathan Milner
As disclosed in last year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report, Jonathan Milner stepped down as CEO and was appointed as Non-Executive 
Deputy Chairman on 9 September 2014. In line with the Committee’s policy, the Committee considered the overall circumstances of his 
departure as an Executive Director, as well as performance, contractual obligations and plan rules. In particular, the Committee considered 
Jonathan’s sustained performance and contribution to the Company since its foundation in 1998, the good 2013/14 financial results 
and confident outlook at the time of departure. The Committee’s determinations, which were consistent with the Committee’s termination 
policy, are set out below.
Remuneration element Description
Payment in lieu of notice No payment in respect of salary or benefits (or compensation in lieu) in respect of any period after 
9 September 2014 or compensation for loss of office was made. 
Base salary An annual increase of 2% to base pay, prior to any voluntary waiver, was awarded from 1 July 2014, 
in line with increases for the other Executive Directors. 
Retirement and other benefits The Committee determined that it would be appropriate to maintain his benefits package until his 
date of departure.
ABP Jonathan was entitled to a pro-rata cash bonus payment for the period 1 July 2014–9 September 2014, 
whilst the deferred share element relating to 2014/15 will not be granted. Deferred share awards 
already accrued from previous years will vest on the second anniversary of the date of grant.
LTIP Unexercised but vested LTIP awards are capable of exercise within twelve months from the date of 
leaving. Unvested LTIPs will be pro-rated and will be capable of being exercised within twelve months 
from their normal release dates, subject to performance measures.
e) Payments to past Directors
There have been no payments to former Directors during the year.
Remuneration report continued
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration continued 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
AUDITED INFORMATION continued
f) Directors’ shareholdings and share interests
The Committee introduced a shareholding guideline of two times salary for all Executive Directors from the date of the 2014 AGM. This level 
is to be built up over a period ending on the later of the fifth anniversary of appointment or the fifth anniversary of introduction of the policy. 
The extent to which each Executive Director has met the shareholding guideline as at 30 June 2015 is shown in the table below:
Outstanding scheme interests
3,4,5
Beneficial shareholding:
Number of shares
1
 and as
a percentage of salary
2
Type
Owned
outright
Unvested, 
subject to 
performance 
measures
Unvested, not 
subject to 
performance 
measures
Vested but
 unexercised
Total of all share 
interests and 
outstanding
scheme interests
Executive Directors
Alan Hirzel 19,205
32%
Shares 19,205 — — — 19,205
CSOP options — 6,465 — — 6,465
LTIP ‘A’ awards
6
— 6,465 — — 6,465
LTIP ‘B’ awards — 56,998 — — 56,998
Deferred awards — — 10,538 — 10,538
SIP Free — — 1,493 — 1,493
SIP Matching — — 746 — 746
19,205 69,928 12,777 — 101,910
Jeff Iliffe 328,072
656%
Shares 328,072 — — — 328,072
Unapproved options — — — 170,460 170,460
CSOP options — 6,465 — — 6,465
LTIP ‘A’ awards
6
— 6,465 — — 6,465
LTIP ‘B’ awards — 80,899 — 170,745 251,644
Deferred awards — — 24,715 — 24,715
SIP Free — — 2,280 — 2,280
SIP Matching — — 1,140 — 1,140
328,072 93,829 28,135 341,205 791,241
Jim Warwick 3,006,222
6,008%
Shares 3,006,222 — — — 3,006,222
CSOP options — 6,465 — — 6,465
LTIP ‘A’ awards
6
— 6,465 — — 6,465
LTIP ‘B’ awards — 82,504 — 237,488 319,992
Deferred awards — — 25,384 — 25,384
SIP Free — — 2,280 — 2,280
SIP Matching — — 1,140 — 1,140
3,006,222 95,434 28,804 237,488 3,367,948
1 Interests in shares owned outright at 30 June 2015, including shares held by connected persons.
2 Based on share price of 530 pence at 30 June 2015 and salary at 30 June 2015.
3  Outstanding scheme interests under the LTIP , SIP and ABP (deferred share awards) take the form of rights to receive shares (nil-cost share options or conditional share awards). 
Outstanding CSOP , unapproved and EMI options take the form of rights to receive shares on payment of the relevant exercise price.
4 Details of each scheme interest held by each Executive Director are set out on the following pages.
5 Outstanding scheme interests under the LTIP for which the performance conditions were not met have been excluded.
6  Part ‘A’ awards under the LTIP refer to the first £30,000 of LTIP value awarded at the date of grant, for awards prior to 30 June 2014. A corresponding CSOP option was also granted, 
with an exercise price equal to the share price at the date of grant, and subject to the same performance conditions. In respect of the LTIP Part ‘A’ award, subject to achievement 
of the relevant performance conditions, the participant will receive the lower of the number of shares with an aggregate value of £30,000 at the date of release and the number of 
shares originally subject to the award. Thus, £30,000 of gain will be subject to income tax/NI and any increase in value between the date of grant of the award and the date at which 
the shares are sold is delivered through the CSOP option and is subject to capital gains tax. Corporate governance
58 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
AUDITED INFORMATION continued
f) Directors’ shareholdings and share interests continued
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the Company’s share schemes. Their beneficial shareholdings as at 30 June 2015 
were as follows:
Beneficial
shareholding
Non-beneficial
shareholding
Total
shareholding
Murray Hennessy 18,800 — 18,800
Jonathan Milner 23,274,966 28,300 23,303,266
Sue Harris — — —
Anthony Martin — — —
Louise Patten 19,883 — 19,883
Michael Ross — — —
There have been no changes in the interests of the Executive Directors or NEDs between 30 June 2015 and the date of approval of the 
2014/15 Annual Report and Accounts, except to note that the 2012/13 deferred share awards vested on 9 September 2015, following 
completion of the two-year holding period.
Reconciliations of the opening scheme interests to those at the end of the year are provided in the tables below, including grants, awards, 
exercises and lapses.
Details of scheme interests exercised in the year
Scheme
Type of
award
Number of
shares
Exercise price
pence
Market price
on date
of exercise
pence
Gain on
exercise
£
Jeff Iliffe
Abcam plc 2005 plan EMI 40,000 62.4 402.25 135,940
LTIP ‘B’ Unapproved 10,000 0.2 402.25 40,205
50,000 176,145
Jim Warwick
LTIP ‘B’ Unapproved 60,000 0.2 402.3 241,230
Details of outstanding scheme interests
Abcam plc 2005 Plan (the Plan)
Details of options over 0.2 pence ordinary shares in the Company for Directors who served during the year, all of which had vested before 
the start of the year, are as follows:
Number of
awards
at 30 June
2014 Granted Exercised
Number of
awards
at 30 June
2015
Exercise price
pence
Date from which
exercisable Expiry date
Jeff Iliffe 210,460 — (40,000) 170,460 62.4 8 Nov 2010 7 Nov 2017
The Plan was adopted prior to flotation in 2005 and amended in 2008 to make it more tax efficient for US-based employees. All options 
granted under the Plan since flotation have been based on outperformance of the FTSE AIM All-Share Index measured on the third anniversary 
of the date of grant. If the target is achieved, then options will be exercisable during the next seven years, subject to the rules of the Plan. If the 
target is not met at the third anniversary, then performance will be monitored on certain dates over the next twelve months. If the target is met 
on any of those dates, then the options become exercisable. If the target is not met on any of those dates, the options will lapse on the 
fourth anniversary.
In the year under review no options were granted under the Plan to the Executive Directors. 
The 170,460 share options outstanding at the end of the year for Jeff Iliffe are unapproved options (subject to income tax and employee’s 
and employer’s NI to be paid by the participant).
Remuneration report continued
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration continued 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
AUDITED INFORMATION continued
f) Directors’ shareholdings and share interests continued
LTIP and CSOP awards
Details of LTIP and CSOP awards outstanding for Directors who served during the year are as follows:
Name of Director
Type of 
award
Exercise 
price
pence 
Number of
awards at
30 June 2014 Awarded 
1
Exercised Lapsed
Number of
awards at
30 June 2015
Number of
vested awards at
30 June 2015
2
Jonathan Milner ‘B’ award 0.2 159,986 — — (125,748) 34,238 —
Alan Hirzel CSOP 464.0 6,465 — — — 6,465 —
‘A’ award 0.2 6,465 — — — 6,465 —
‘B’ award 0.2 18,639 38,359 — — 56,998 —
31,569 38,359 — — 69,928 —
Jeff Iliffe CSOP 464.0 6,465 — — — 6,465 —
‘A’ award 0.2 6,465 — — — 6,465 —
‘B’ award 0.2 300,226 31,610 (10,000) (70,192) 251,644 170,745
313,156 31,610 (10,000) (70,192) 264,574 170,745
Jim Warwick CSOP 464.0 6,465 — — — 6,465 —
‘A’ award 0.2 6,465 — — — 6,465 —
‘B’ award 0.2 409,925 31,610 (60,000) (61,543) 319,992 237,488
422,855 31,610 (60,000) (61,543) 332,922 237,488
927,566 101,579 (70,000) (257,483) 701,662 408,233
1 The market price at the date of award for all awards made during the year was 406 pence.
2 These relate to the 2008, 2009 and 2010 awards and are included in the number of awards at 30 June 2014.
Annual Bonus Plan deferred share awards
Deferred share awards made under the ABP which remain outstanding at 30 June 2015 are outlined below:
Executive Directors
ABP shares/
nil-cost
options held at
30 June 2014
1
Nil-cost
options or
conditional shares
awarded during
the year ended
30 June 2015
2
Award date
Market price per
share at award
Planned
vesting
date
Maximum ABP
shares/nil-cost
options held at
30 June 2015
Alan Hirzel — 10,538
23 Sep 2014 420.3 pence 23 Sep 2016
10,538
Jonathan Milner 17,278 17,243 34,521
Jeff Iliffe 12,262 12,453 24,715
Jim Warwick 12,931 12,453 25,384
42,471 52,687 95,158
1  These options relate to the awards made in September 2013 under the ABP for financial year 2012/13, and they vested on 9 September 2015, following satisfactory completion 
of the two-year holding period.
2 These options relate to the awards made in September 2014 under the ABP for financial year 2013/14.
SIP
Abcam operates an HMRC tax advantaged SIP for all UK employees. Under the SIP , awards are made as follows:
Free Share awards
Annual awards are made to UK-based staff, with a market value up to the HMRC limit, which in 2014/15 was £3,600 each (2013/14: £3,000). 
Awards take the form of a conditional entitlement to shares and will vest after three years’ continuous employment with the Company.
Partnership and Matching Share awards
All UK-based employees are given the opportunity to invest up to the HMRC limit, which in 2014/15 was £1,800 per annum (2013/14: £1,500), 
to acquire new shares in the Company at market value. If these shares are held for three years and the employee remains employed by the 
Company during that time then they will also receive an additional share for each share acquired. Corporate governance
60 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
AUDITED INFORMATION continued
f) Directors’ shareholdings and share interests continued
SIP continued
Dividend shares
Shares conditionally and beneficially held in the SIP are entitled to earn dividends. These are immediately beneficially owned and can be 
removed from the SIP by the participant with no penalty.
The following table sets out the shares purchased and awarded under the SIP in respect of each of the Executive Directors during the year.
Conditionally awarded shares
1
Beneficially owned shares
Executive Director Type of award
Number
conditionally
awarded as at
30 June 2014
Number
conditionally
awarded
during the year 
Number
transferred
to beneficial
ownership
during the year
Number
conditionally
awarded as at
30 June 2015
Number
beneficially
owned as at
30 June 2014
Number
purchased/
acquired/
transferred
to beneficial
ownership
during the year
Number
beneficially
owned as at
30 June 2015
Jeff Iliffe and 
Jim Warwick
Free 2,246 904 (870) 2,280 5,769 870 6,639
Partnership — — — — 3,854 452 4,306
Matching 1,124 452 (436) 1,140 2,730 436 3,166
Dividend — — — — 906 405 1,311
3,370 1,356 (1,306) 3,420 13,259 2,163 15,422
Alan Hirzel Free 589 904 — 1,493 — — —
Partnership — — — — 294 452 746
Matching 294 452 — 746 — — —
Dividend — — — — 12 57 69
883 1,356 — 2,239 306 509 815
1 Conditionally awarded shares are dependent upon three years’ continuous employment from the date of award.
Conditionally awarded shares Beneficially owned shares
Executive Director Type of award
Number
conditionally
awarded as at
30 June 2014
Number
conditionally
awarded
during the year
Number
lapsed during
the year
Number
conditionally
awarded as at
30 June 2015
Number
beneficially
owned as at
30 June 2014
Number
purchased/
acquired
during the year
Number
transferred
out of SIP
during the year
Number
beneficially
owned as at
30 June 2015
Jonathan Milner Free 2,246 — (2,246) — 5,769 — (5,769) —
Partnership — — — — 3,854 — (3,854) —
Matching 1,124 — (1,124) — 2,730 — (2,730) —
Dividend — — — — 906 91 (997) —
3,370 — (3,370) — 13,259 91 (13,350) —
The award/purchase of Free, Matching and Partnership Shares in the year took place on 24 October 2014, at a price of 398 pence per share.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 30 June 2015 was 530 pence and the range during the year was 358.5 pence to 546.0 pence.
Non-Executive appointments at other companies
The following Executive Directors served as NEDs elsewhere and received and retained fees for the period covered by this report as follows:
Executive Director Company
Fees
£
Jeff Iliffe Treatt plc 34,950
Jim Warwick Quartix Holdings plc 35,000
Jeff Iliffe also serves on the board of trustees of a charity and does not receive fees for this appointment. Jim Warwick also serves on the 
board of directors for an academy school and Alan Hirzel is a non-executive director of the UK National Citizen Service Trust for which they 
do not receive fees. 
Remuneration report continued
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration continued 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
g) TSR performance graph
The Company’s TSR performance over the previous six years compared to a broad equity market is shown in the graph below. The FTSE 250 
Index has been chosen as the comparator index because Abcam would sit within this index if it was a Main Market-listed company and the 
Committee considers the relatively complex and international nature of this index to be comparable to the Company’s business operations 
where a large proportion of revenues are generated outside the UK.
4.3
4.1
3.9
3.7
3.5
3.3
3.1
2.9
2.7
2.5
2.3
2.1
1.9
1.7
1.5
1.3
1.1
0.9
0.7
0.5
0.3
Index
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
FTSE 250 Index Abcam
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2009
CEO remuneration
The table below shows the historic total remuneration for the person undertaking the role of CEO:
Financial year
CEO single figure of
total remuneration
£000
Annual bonus
awarded against
maximum opportunity
Long-term incentive
vesting rates against
maximum opportunity
2014/15 Alan Hirzel 685 73.3% n/a
1
2013/14 Jonathan Milner 642 56.8% 0%
2012/13 Jonathan Milner 821 71.2% 16.9%
2011/12 Jonathan Milner 739 60.0% 96.3%
2010/11 Jonathan Milner 805 62.7% 100%
2009/10 Jonathan Milner 716 100.0% n/a
1  Vesting of long-term incentives is measured over a three-year performance period. Since Alan Hirzel has been employed by Abcam for less than three years, no long-term 
incentives have yet vested.
h) Percentage change in CEO remuneration
Abcam has an international workforce of more than 820. Due to the differing local pay levels across each of our overseas offices, 
the Committee considers the most meaningful comparator group to be the average remuneration of UK employees.
The following table shows the percentage change in remuneration between the years ended 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2015 for the CEO 
and this comparator group.
Salary Taxable benefits Annual bonus
CEO percentage change
1
(15.1)% (76.3)% 0.3%
Comparator group percentage change
2
7.0% 7.0% 7.7%
1  Alan Hirzel is paid a lower salary than the previous CEO, resulting in a decrease in salary and taxable benefits being shown in the above table. 
2 The comparator group is inclusive of promotions in the period. Corporate governance
62 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
UNAUDITED INFORMATION continued
i) Relative importance of spend on pay
The graph below shows Abcam’s dividend payout increased by 6.1% versus total Group employee pay expenditure increase of 25.4% 
for the financial years ended 30 June 2015 and 2014.
1  Dividends are the interim and final dividends paid in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2014 and the interim dividend paid and the final dividend recommended in respect 
of the financial year ended 30 June 2015.
2  Total employee pay includes bonuses, employer social security, pension contributions, redundancies and share-based charges, as well as pay costs of Firefly in the period 
since acquisitions.
j) Implementation of Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 2015/16
The following sections outline how the Remuneration Policy, as outlined on pages 45–52 will be implemented in 2015/16.
Salary
The Executive Directors proposed that no increase be made to their salaries in the 2015/16 financial year.
Salary 2014/15
£000 Change
Salary as at
1 July 2015
£000
Alan Hirzel 320 0% 320
Jeff Iliffe 265 0% 265
Jim Warwick 265 0% 265
Annual incentive, deferred bonus and LTIPs
The intention to undertake a full strategic review of the Company’s remuneration structure and policies was communicated to shareholders 
in last year’s Annual Report. The review was undertaken in the context of Abcam’s evolving strategy and growth aspirations, and against the 
background of a remuneration structure which has remained largely unchanged for the past six years, during which time the business has 
grown significantly. Market capitalisation, for example, has grown from around £200m at the beginning of 2009 to over £1bn today. But whilst 
Abcam is entering a new phase of its development it continues to have an entrepreneurial approach.
The review included consultation with our largest shareholders. The key changes arising from the review were as follows:
•  an increase in the LTIP award levels to 125% for the CEO and 100% for other Executive Directors (previously 50% of salary);
•  rebalancing of performance measures under the LTIP to provide that 70% of the award continues to be subject to stretching EPS targets, 
with 30% based on strategic KPIs which are critical to the delivery of the Company’s growth strategy;
•  introduction of holding periods. At least 50% of the award for Executive Directors will be subject to an additional holding period of one 
and two years. For the CEO’s award a larger proportion (60%) will be subject to the additional holding period, with 20% of the award 
having a holding period of three years, taking his time horizon to six years;
•  threshold vesting (for both the EPS and the strategic measures portions of the LTIP award) will be decreased from 50% of maximum 
to 25% of maximum; and
•  the introduction of clawback to the LTIP .
Remuneration report continued
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration continued
£m
40
30
20
10
0
Dividend
1
Total employee pay
2
2013/14 2014/15
+6.1%
+25.4% 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
UNAUDITED INFORMATION continued
j) Implementation of Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 2015/16 continued
Annual incentive, deferred bonus and LTIPs continued
The overall performance framework for 2015/16 is as follows:
Maximum % of salary 2015/16 measures Weighting
Annual Bonus Plan
150%, of which 30% is deferred 
into shares
Profit growth 50%
Strategic targets 33%
Personal objectives 17%
Long Term Incentive Plan
125% for CEO
100% for other Executive Directors
Three-year EPS growth 70%
Three-year strategic targets 30%
The strategic targets for the ABP and LTIPs are measurable and quantifiable and aligned with the Group’s KPIs as set out on page 17.
The EPS growth targets for the forthcoming LTIP award will be 8% growth per annum for threshold vesting and 12% growth per annum 
for maximum vesting. These targets are considered to be appropriately stretching and incentivising in the context of our business strategy.
The strategic targets for the forthcoming LTIP award will be based on:
• CER growth in revenue from the RabMAb primary antibody range;
• CER growth in revenue from non-primary antibody products;
• Net Promoter Score (NPS) – Abcam’s vision is to be the brand most recommended by life science researchers; and
• market position – relative market position in each of the main markets in which we operate.
The Annual Bonus Plan targets and the strategic targets for the LTIP will not be disclosed in advance as they are deemed by the 
Committee to be commercially sensitive. The nature of these targets relies upon the use of internal budgets and strategic plans which 
would be inappropriate to disclose ahead of time. Appropriate retrospective disclosure of targets will be provided when these are no longer 
considered commercially sensitive.
The Committee introduced a cross-underpin to the Annual Bonus Plan. At the Committee’s discretion, vesting may be restricted if any 
of the three performance elements (financial, strategic or personal) show serious underperformance, or if the Committee determines that 
there has been underperformance on the part of an Executive Director in his role.
Pension
The Company retains its policy of contributing 12% of base salary (prior to any voluntary waivers) into each Executive Director’s pension 
scheme. This figure may be amended from time to time in accordance with benchmarking reviews against current market practice.
Non-Executive Directors
Murray Hennessy was appointed as Chairman on 3 November 2014 and his fee level was set at £150,000 per annum.
There will be no increase in NED fees for 2015/16. During 2015/16 the Company intends to put in place fee arrangements for all NEDs 
where a portion of fees will be delivered as a fixed number of Abcam shares.
k) Remuneration Committee
The Committee advises the Board on overall remuneration policy. It also determines, on behalf of the Board, and with the benefit of advice 
from external consultants, the People and Organisational Development Director and other members of the human resources department, 
the remuneration of the Executive Directors and proposes a fee for the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
The Committee formulates and applies the policy with consideration to the prevailing economic climate in the major economies in which 
the Group operates. It also observes the spirit of the Group’s core values which cultivate responsible leadership in the external and internal 
social environment. Consequently the Committee closely considers the Company’s performance in building both shareholder value and 
a secure future for all stakeholders.
The Committee currently comprises three NEDs, each of whom the Company deems to be independent: Louise Patten (Chairman), 
Sue Harris and Anthony Martin. Sue Harris was appointed to the Committee on joining the Board on 12 December 2014. Murray Hennessy 
resigned from the Committee on the same date.
The Company’s Chairman, CFO and Company Secretary attend the Committee meetings by invitation and assist the Committee in its 
deliberations, except when issues relating to their own compensation are discussed. No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration. Corporate governance
64 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Remuneration report continued
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration continued
UNAUDITED INFORMATION continued
k) Remuneration Committee continued
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest, other than as a shareholder, in the matters to be decided by the Committee. 
The three independent members of the Committee have no conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships. Members of the Committee 
have no day-to-day involvement in the running of the Company. The Committee met four times during the year. Details of attendance can 
be found in the Corporate Governance Report (see page 33).
While it is the Committee’s responsibility to exercise independent judgement, the Committee does request advice from management 
and professional advisors, so as to be informed given the internal and external environment.
External advisors to the Committee
The following table sets out the details of external advisors who provided material assistance to the Committee during the year in its 
consideration of matters related to Directors’ remuneration:
Advisors Appointment and selection Other services provided to the Company Fees for Committee assistance
Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) Appointed by the Committee to 
provide ongoing advice to the 
Committee on various matters 
including the structure of incentive 
pay and executive salary and 
incentives benchmarking review
None £53,395
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to 
executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The Committee is satisfied that advice received from Deloitte during the year was objective 
and independent.
During the year, the Committee also sought input from the Chief Financial Officer (Jeff Iliffe), the Chief Operating Officer (Jim Warwick) and 
the People and Organisational Development Director (Jane Cooke) on various subjects including the remuneration of senior management.
Statement of voting at general meeting
The table below shows the voting outcome at the November 2014 AGM for the approval of the 2013/14 Remuneration Report and the 
Remuneration Policy as laid out in the 2013/14 Annual Report:
Votes for Votes against
Votes total
Votes 
withheld Number % Number %
Remuneration Policy 121,921,731 98.6% 1,784,370 1.4% 123,706,104 —
Remuneration Report 123,253,834 99.6% 452,270 0.4% 123,706,104 —
The Committee believes the 98.6% and 99.6% votes, respectively, in favour of the Remuneration Policy and the Remuneration Report show 
very strong shareholder support for the Group’s remuneration arrangements.
Approval
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Louise Patten
Remuneration Committee Chairman
11 September 2015 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
Directors' report
The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated 
financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2015.
Pages 1–67 inclusive (together with the sections of the Annual 
Report incorporated by reference) consist of a Directors’ Report 
that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in 
reliance upon applicable English company law and the liabilities 
of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject 
to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The following additional disclosures to be included in the Directors’ 
Report are made in compliance with the Companies Act 2006, 
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules which the Company has 
voluntarily chosen to apply and the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2012.
Likely future developments
The outlook for the business and likely future developments are 
outlined in the Our Markets, Our CEO, Our Strategic Priorities and the 
Operational Review sections of the Strategic Report on pages 8–16 
and are incorporated in the Directors’ Report by cross-reference.
Post-balance sheet events
There have been no important events affecting the Company 
or Group since the year end. 
Research and development activities
A description of the Group’s R&D activities is given in the Finance 
Review on page 26 and is incorporated in the Directors’ Report 
by cross-reference. 
Dividends
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.92 pence (2013/14: 
5.62 pence) per ordinary share to be paid on 4 December 2015 to 
shareholders on the register on 13 November 2015. Together with 
the interim dividend of 2.29 pence per share paid on 17 April 2015, 
this makes a combined dividend for the year of 8.21 pence 
(2013/14: 7.75 pence), representing an increase of 5.9%.
Disabled employees
Abcam is an equal opportunities employer and ensures that 
applications for employment from people with disabilities and 
other under-represented groups are given full and fair consideration. 
Such individuals are given the same training, development and job 
opportunities as other employees. Every effort is also made to 
retrain and support employees who have a disability during their 
employment, including flexible working to assist their re-entry into 
the workplace and making alternative suitable provisions.
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies, 
including the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted 
transaction for which hedge accounting is used and the Group’s 
exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk, 
are given in note 26 to the financial statements.
Information on the principal risks and uncertainties and how they 
are managed by the Group is included in the Strategic Report on 
pages 18–21.
Control and share structure
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with 
details of the movements in the Company’s issued share capital 
during the year, are shown in note 24. The Company has one 
class of ordinary share which carries no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings 
of the Company.
Other than specific lock-ins and orderly marketing provisions 
negotiated with vendors in connection with acquisitions made 
by the Company, there are no specific restrictions on the size of 
a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed 
by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing 
legislation. The Directors are not aware of any agreements between 
holders of the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on 
the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 27. 
Shares held by the Abcam Employee Share Benefit Trust abstain 
from voting.
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s 
share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Agreements affected by a change of control
The agreements affected by change of control are outlined in the 
Remuneration Report on page 51.
Other than some OEM supplier agreements that have an option to be 
terminated, the Company is not party to any agreements which take 
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company 
following a takeover. There are no agreements between the Company 
and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss 
of office or employment (whether through resignation, purported 
redundancy or otherwise) that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Major interests in shares
On 31 August 2015, the Company had been notified, in accordance 
with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the 
voting rights as a shareholder of the Company as set out below 
(excluding Directors’ interests, which are set out on page 57).
Fund manager
Number of 
ordinary shares 
held 
Percentage of 
issued share 
capital
T Rowe Price International Inc 21,114,612 10.5%
Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 17,044,930 8.5%
Select Equity Group Inc 11,653,457 5.8%
Wasatch Advisors Inc 10,368,532 5.2%
Standard Life Investments Ltd 7,811,371 3.9% Corporate governance
66 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors' report continued
Purchase of own shares
At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under the 
shareholders’ resolutions of 3 November 2014, to purchase 
through the market 20,000,000 of the Company’s ordinary 
shares, provided that:
(i)  the amount paid for each share (exclusive of expenses) shall 
not be more than the higher of: (1) 5% above the average market 
value for the five business days before the date on which the 
contract for the purchase is made; and (2) an amount equal to 
the higher of the price of the last independent trade and current 
independent bid as derived from the AIM Appendix to the 
Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange or less 
than 0.2 pence per share; and
(ii)  the authority expires at the conclusion of the AGM of the 
Company to be held on 5 November 2015.
No shares were purchased under the above authority during the 
year under review.
Directors
The Directors of the Company who were in office during the year 
and up to the date of signing the financial statements are as shown 
in the table on page 33.
Re-election of Directors
In accordance with best practice as set out in the Code, all Directors 
should retire and stand for election at the first AGM following their 
appointment to the Board, followed by annual re-election by shareholders 
thereafter. At the AGM to be held on 5 November 2015, Sue Harris 
will retire and stand for election, this being the first AGM following 
her appointment to the Board. All other Directors will retire and offer 
themselves for re-election, in line with best practice.
Brief biographical descriptions of the Directors are set out on 
pages 28–29.
Following performance evaluation, the Chairman has determined 
that each individual continues to demonstrate commitment to his 
role and to display effective performance; he is therefore recommending 
election or re-election of all Directors.
The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors in the 
Company’s ordinary shares of 0.2 pence are disclosed in the 
Remuneration Report.
Appointment of Directors
Abcam shareholders may by ordinary resolution appoint any person 
to be a Director. Abcam must have not less than three and no more 
than twelve Directors holding office at all times. Abcam may by ordinary 
resolution from time to time vary the minimum and/or maximum 
number of Directors.
The Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an 
additional Director to hold office until the next AGM, who shall 
then be eligible for election.
Articles of Association
Abcam’s Articles of Association may be amended only by a special 
resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Powers of Directors
Abcam’s Articles of Association confer the following powers on 
the Directors:
• to manage the business of the Group;
• to establish any local boards or agencies for managing any of the 
affairs of the Group;
• to appoint any attorney of the Company;
• to authorise all payments and other negotiable or transferable 
instruments, and all receipts for moneys paid to the Company;
• to establish any schemes or funds for providing pensions, 
annuities, sickness or compassionate allowance, life assurance 
benefits, donations, gratuities or other benefits for employees 
and to make contributions out of the Company’s money to such 
schemes or funds;
• to support any institutions, associations, clubs, funds or trusts 
calculated to be for the benefit of employees;
• to sanction the exercise of any power conferred upon the 
Company by section 247 of the Companies Act 2006;
• to make payments to charities; and
• to restrict the borrowings of the Group to an amount not 
exceeding three times the ‘adjusted capital and reserves’ 
as defined within the Articles of Association. 
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions 
for the benefit of its Directors which were made during the reporting 
period and these remain in force at the date of this report.
Corporate governance
The Company’s statement on corporate governance can be 
found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 32–36 
of these financial statements. The Corporate Governance Report 
forms part of this Directors’ Report and is incorporated into it 
by cross-reference.
Going concern
In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial 
statements, the Directors have considered the business activities 
as set out on pages 1–26 and reviewed the Group forecasts 
and budgets as well as the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties 
as set out on pages 18–21.
The Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason, the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing its financial statements. 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The AGM will be held at 330 Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, 
Cambridge CB4 0FL, UK, on 5 November 2015 at 10.30am. 
A presentation will be made at this meeting outlining recent 
developments in the business. All voting at the meeting will be 
conducted on a poll where every shareholder present in person 
or by proxy will have one vote for each share of which they are 
the owner. The Group will convey the results of the poll on the 
website after the AGM. Shareholders are invited to submit written 
questions in advance of the meeting. Questions should be sent 
to The Company Secretary, Abcam plc, 330 Science Park, 
Milton Road, Cambridge CB4 0FL, UK.
A resolution to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 
independent auditor to the Group will be proposed at the AGM. 
Details of other resolutions to be proposed at the meeting are set 
out in the Circular and Notice of AGM 2015, which will be made 
available to all shareholders together with a proxy card.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have prepared 
the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union. Under company law the Directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
• state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union have been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken 
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed 
in the biographies on pages 28–29, confirm that, to the best 
of their knowledge:
• the Group financial statements, which have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit 
of the Group; and
• the Directors’ Report on pages 65–67 and the Our Financials 
and Our Risks sections on pages 18–26 of the Strategic Report 
include a fair review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Group, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Each Director in office at the date the Directors’ Report is approved 
confirms that:
(a)  so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
(b)  he/she has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken 
as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditor is aware of that information.
On behalf of the Board
Murray Hennessy
Chairman
Suzanne Smith
Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary
11 September 2015 69 Independent auditor’s report 
74 Consolidated income statement
75 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
 Reconciliation of consolidated adjusted financial measures
76 Balance sheets
77 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
78 Company statement of changes in equity
79 Cash flow statements
80 Notes to the financial statements
IBC Corporate directory
  Shareholder information
Financial statements 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
Independent auditor's report 
to the members of Abcam plc
Report on the financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion:
• Abcam plc’ s group financial statements and company financial 
statements (the “financial statements”) give a true and fair view of the 
state of the group’ s and of the company’ s affairs as at 30 June 2015 
and of the group’ s profit and the group’ s and the company’ s cash 
flows for the year then ended;
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;
• the company financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited
Abcam plc’s financial statements comprise:
• the consolidated and company balance sheets as 
at 30 June 2015;
• the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
• the consolidated and company cash flow statements for the 
year then ended;
• the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity 
for the year then ended; 
• the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary 
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information; and
• the reconciliation of consolidated adjusted financial measures 
for the year then ended.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the 
Annual Report and Accounts (the Annual Report), rather than in 
the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced 
from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the company 
financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach
Overview
• Overall group materiality: £2,305,000 (2014: £2,178,000) which 
represents 5% of profit before tax.
• We conducted audits of the complete financial information 
of Abcam plc and Abcam Inc.
• We performed specified procedures over certain account 
balances and transaction classes at other Group companies, 
including procedures at the Group’s operations in China.
• With the exception of the specified procedures performed 
in China, which were performed by a component auditor, the 
Group engagement team performed all of the audit procedures.
• Taken together the Group companies over which we performed 
our audit work accounted for 85% of the Group’s revenues and 
85% of the Group’s net assets.
• The following were areas of focus for our audit:
• Accounting for the acquisition of Firefly BioWorks Inc.
• Costing of inventory manufactured in-house and hybridomas 
included within property, plant and equipment.
• Inventory provisioning.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK & Ireland)).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing 
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. 
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective 
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates 
that involved making assumptions and considering future events 
that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed 
the risk of management override of internal controls, including 
evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors 
that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on 
our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are 
identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set 
out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order 
to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and 
any comments we make on the results of our procedures should 
be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks 
identified by our audit. Financial statements
70 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Independent auditor's report continued
to the members of Abcam plc
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Acquisition of Firefly BioWorks Inc
During the year the Group acquired Firefly BioWorks 
Inc (Firefly) for consideration of £17,557,000 
(see notes 4 and 29 of the financial statements and 
page 39 of the Audit and Risk Committee Report).
The Directors performed a purchase price allocation 
exercise that involved fair valuing the assets and 
liabilities acquired, including separately identifiable 
intangible assets. This valuation involved significant 
judgement and the Directors used external valuation 
experts in its calculation.
In order to test the valuation of intangible assets, 
we focused on the reasonableness of the 
assumptions used and judgements taken 
as part of the valuation exercise. 
Furthermore, the Directors determined that 
the acquisition of Firefly did not give rise to 
an additional cash-generating unit (CGU), 
and goodwill resulting from the acquisition 
was allocated to the CGU for the existing 
Abcam business. 
Accordingly, we also focused our work on the 
Directors’ assessment that assets within Firefly 
do not generate cash flows independently of the 
rest of the group, and therefore that there is no 
separate CGU for the purposes of testing goodwill 
for impairment.
With the assistance of our internal valuation experts, we assessed and 
challenged the assumptions used and judgements taken in determining the 
fair value of the acquired intangibles, being software and patents, technology 
and know-how. 
In particular: 
• we considered whether it was appropriate that all of the patents, technology 
and know-how should be treated as a single asset. Given that the underlying 
patents and licences are all related to the underlying platform technology and 
are inextricably linked we considered this approach to be appropriate; and 
• we challenged the external valuation experts on the timing of the peak 
and subsequent decline (attrition) of the assumed cash flows arising from 
the technology and how they considered the impact of the key patent expiry 
dates for the attrition profile. Attrition is assumed prior to patent expiry 
which is consistent with management’s experience of other products. 
We considered the approach appropriate.
Whilst recognising that valuing such assets is inherently judgemental, we 
determined that the assumptions used and judgements taken by management 
were reasonable.
We agreed the consideration paid to the share purchase agreement and bank 
statements. We found no material exceptions in our testing.
We evaluated the Directors’ assessment that Firefly does not constitute an 
additional CGU by considering whether the assets within Firefly generate cash 
inflows largely independently of the cash inflows from the existing Abcam 
business. We found no exceptions in our testing.
Costing of inventory manufactured in-house 
and hybridomas included within property, 
plant and equipment
The Group capitalises within property, plant and 
equipment (PPE) costs arising from the production 
of hybridoma cells, which are used to generate 
antibodies that the Group sells. During the year, 
£2,144,000 was capitalised as part of the total 
additions to hybridomas and assays and 
hybridomas under construction of £2,907,000 
(see note 14 and page 39 of the Audit and Risk 
Committee Report).
The costs incurred both in producing the 
hybridomas (held in PPE) and in harvesting the 
antibodies (held in inventory) include a labour and 
overhead allocation. This allocation is capitalised 
into PPE and inventory on the basis of the 
proportion of batches that pass internal quality 
tests. No allocation is capitalised for the batches 
that do not pass the tests, and the labour and 
overhead element is instead written off in the 
income statement.
The nature of the manufacturing process is 
such that there are fluctuations in the proportion 
of batches of hybridomas and antibodies that pass 
quality tests, meaning that the total labour and 
overhead absorbed into PPE and inventory varies. 
The relevant calculations are also done manually, 
so that it required significant audit effort for us to test 
that the correct amounts of labour and overhead 
cost had been capitalised.
We evaluated whether appropriate costs had been capitalised as inventory 
and property, plant and equipment, including checking, on a sample basis, 
the labour costs capitalised. 
We agreed, on a sample basis, the timesheet records used to allocate labour 
costs to the underlying system and similarly, for the quality test results, we 
agreed a sample back to the underlying test results.
We found no material exceptions in our testing.
We also checked the mathematical accuracy of the calculations (taking 
into account the proportion of batches passing quality tests) and that 
only reasonable categories of overheads were absorbed into inventory 
and capitalised as property, plant and equipment. We found no material 
exceptions in our testing. 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Inventory provisioning
The Group had inventory of £19,803,000 as at 
30 June 2015. Inventory principally comprises 
antibodies and reagents that bear a natural risk 
of obsolescence. Furthermore, owing to the low 
incremental cost of in-house production of antibodies, 
the Group often produces surplus inventories that 
are at risk of expiring before a sale can be achieved 
(see note 4 and page 39 of the Audit and 
Risk Committee Report).
For new products, the Directors apply a fixed 
percentage against the inventory levels held at the 
year end, unless they believe that no provision is 
required due to the nature of the product being 
an extension to an existing product in the range.
For all other products the Directors calculate 
a specific provision for obsolescence by comparing 
inventories on hand at year end with forecast sales 
volumes on a product by product basis, providing 
fully against inventories regarded as surplus.
There is therefore judgement in the valuation 
of inventories, owing to the estimation uncertainty 
that exists around future sales forecasts. 
We understood and assessed the methodology utilised to estimate the 
Group’s inventory provision and checked that the calculation of the provision 
was mathematically accurate and in accordance with accounting standards. 
We found no material exceptions in our testing. 
For new products, against which the Directors had not recorded a provision, 
we assessed management’s rationale as to why no provision was required. 
This inventory relates to derivative products of existing successful antibodies and 
is largely supported by sales forecasts for the coming year. In addition we also 
considered the outcome of estimates made in the previous year in relation to 
similar products where no provision had been made. We found no material 
exceptions in our testing.
For the other products, we assessed the reasonableness of the Directors’ future 
sales forecasts by considering whether projected levels of sales growth were 
supported by historic trends or specific factors relevant to the product in question. 
We considered both the risk of under and overstatement of the inventory 
provisions. We found no material exceptions in our testing.
We also performed sensitivity analysis on the forecast future sales. 
Having ascertained the change that would be required to materially 
affect the determined provision, we assessed that the likelihood 
of such a change was low.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed 
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements 
as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, 
the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which 
the group operates.
The group financial statements are a consolidation of 13 reporting units, 
comprising the Group’s operating businesses and holding companies.
We performed audits of the complete financial information of Abcam plc 
and Abcam Inc. reporting units, which accounted for 70% of the 
Group’ s revenue and 80% of the Group’ s expenses. We also performed 
audit procedures over goodwill and other tangible assets, as well as 
certain account balances and transaction classes that we regarded 
as material to the Group at three further reporting units.
All audit work in respect of the Group financial statements was performed 
by the Group engagement team, other than specified procedures over 
the Chinese operations, which were performed by a component auditor.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. 
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together 
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope 
of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures 
and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on 
the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality 
for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall group materiality  
£2,305,000 (2014: £2,178,000).
How we determined it 
5% of profit before tax, consistent with the prior year.
Rationale for benchmark applied 
We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted 
audit practice, in the absence of indicators that an alternative 
benchmark would be appropriate. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee and Risk that we would report 
to them misstatements identified during our audit above £115,000 
(2014: £108,900) as well as misstatements below that amount 
that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
The directors have voluntarily complied with Listing Rule 9.8.6(R)(3) 
of the Financial Conduct Authority and provided a statement in relation 
to going concern, set out on page 66, required for companies with 
a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The directors have requested that we review the statement on going 
concern as if the company were a premium listed company. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded 
that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going 
concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that 
the group and company have adequate resources to remain in operation, 
and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from 
the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit 
we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern 
basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, 
these statements are not a guarantee as to the group’s and company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. Financial statements
72 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Independent auditor's report continued
to the members of Abcam plc
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
The Directors have chosen to voluntarily comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) as if the company were 
a premium listed company. Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
Information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the 
course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
• the statement given by the directors on page 67, in accordance with 
provision C.1.1 of the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken 
as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for members to assess the group’ s and company’ s 
performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent 
with our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the 
course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
• the section of the Annual Report on pages 37–39, as required 
by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit 
and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information 
and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the company financial statements are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility. 
Other voluntary reporting
Matter on which we have agreed to report by exception
Corporate governance statement
The company voluntarily prepares a corporate governance statement 
in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. The directors have requested that we review the parts of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’ s compliance 
with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified 
for auditor review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority 
as if the company were a premium listed company. We have nothing 
to report having performed our review. 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
Responsibilities for the financial statements 
and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
set out on page 67, the directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. 
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is 
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s 
and the company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and
• the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ 
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing 
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable 
basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through 
testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a 
combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Simon Ormiston (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Cambridge
11 September 2015 Financial statements
74 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Year ended
30 June 2014
£000
Revenue 5 144,033 127,954
Cost of sales (42,507) (37,569)
Gross profit 101,526 90,385
Administration and management expenses (45,880) (37,018)
Research and development expenses (9,919) (10,054)
Operating profit 45,727 43,313
Finance income 9 372 238
Profit before tax 46,099 43,551
Taxation 10 (8,715) (9,506)
Profit for the year attributable to the owners of the parent 6 37,384 34,045
Earnings per share 
Basic 11 18.69p 17.12p
Diluted 11 18.57p 17.02p
Consolidated income statement 
For the year ended 30 June 2015 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
For the year ended 30 June 2015
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Year ended
30 June 2014
£000
Profit for the year 37,384 34,045
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
Movement on cash flow hedges 1,068 2,491
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 7,583 (11,116)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income (203) (550)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 8,448 (9,175)
Total comprehensive income for the year 45,832 24,870
Reconciliation of consolidated 
adjusted financial measures
For the year ended 30 June 2015
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Year ended
30 June 2014
£000 
Profit before tax 46,099 43,551
Acquisition costs 335 —
Integration costs 24 —
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 3,118 3,265
Adjusted profit before tax 49,576 46,816
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Year ended
30 June 2014
£000 
Operating profit 45,727 43,313
Acquisition costs 335 —
Integration costs 24 —
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 3,118 3,265
Adjusted operating profit 49,204 46,578
Adjusted operating margin
1
34.2% 36.4%
1 Adjusted operating margin is adjusted operating profit divided by revenue. Financial statements
76 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes
Consolidated Company
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 12 86,998 73,549 7,658 —
Intangible assets 13 44,815 30,176 5,381 5,836
Property, plant and equipment 14 12,451 8,502 6,728 3,835
Investments 15 — — 88,306 96,147
Deferred tax asset 16 3,300 2,258 898 485
Loan receivable 19 — — 60,503 39,133
Term deposits 1,636 1,000 1,000 1,000
Derivative financial instruments 21 224 180 224 180
149,424 115,665 170,698 146,616
Current assets
Inventories 17 19,803 14,753 17,090 13,321
Trade and other receivables 18 19,727 17,843 21,906 13,248
Cash and cash equivalents 57,059 55,278 49,931 49,013
Term deposits — 584 — —
Available-for-sale asset 20 678 623 — —
Derivative financial instruments 21 3,255 1,848 3,255 1,848
100,522 90,929 92,182 77,430
Total assets 249,946 206,594 262,880 224,046
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 (15,508) (14,036) (24,312) (16,526)
Current tax liabilities (4,813) (2,782) (5,987) (4,145)
Derivative financial instruments 21 (737) (14) (737) (14)
(21,058) (16,832) (31,036) (20,685)
Net current assets 79,464 74,097 61,146 56,745
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liability 16 (14,779) (8,841) (119) —
Derivative financial instruments 21 (5) (21) (5) (21)
(14,784) (8,862) (124) (21)
Total liabilities (35,842) (25,694) (31,160) (20,706)
Net assets 214,104 180,900 231,720 203,340
Equity
Share capital 24 402 401 402 401
Share premium account 24 19,522 17,692 19,522 17,692
Merger reserve 24 56,513 56,513 56,513 56,513
Own shares 24 (2,812) (2,143) (2,812) (2,143)
Translation reserve 24 (1,266) (8,718) — —
Share-based payments reserve 24 8,319 6,441 7,860 6,113
Hedging reserve 24 1,758 893 1,758 893
Tax reserve 24 585 (98) 562 (121)
Retained earnings 131,083 109,919 147,915 123,992
Total equity attributable to the owners of the parent 214,104 180,900 231,720 203,340
The financial statements on pages 74–112 of Abcam plc, registered number 3509322, were approved by the Board of Directors 
and authorised for issue on 11 September 2015.
They were signed on its behalf by:
Jeff Iliffe
Director
Balance sheets
At 30 June 2015 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 30 June 2015
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium 
account
£000
Merger 
reserve
£000
Own
shares
£000
Translation
reserve
1
£000
Share-based
payments
reserve
2
£000
Hedging
reserve
3
£000
Tax
reserve
4
£000
Retained
earnings
£000
Total
equity
£000
Balance as at 1 July 2014 401 17,692 56,513 (2,143) (8,718) 6,441 893 (98) 109,919 180,900
Profit for the year — — — — — — — — 37,384 37,384
Exchange differences on 
translation of foreign operations — — — — 7,452 131 — — — 7,583
Movements on 
cash flow hedges — — — — — — 1,068 — — 1,068
T ax relating to components 
of other comprehensive income — — — — — — (203) — — (203)
Total comprehensive 
income for the year — — — — 7,452 131 865 — 37,384 45,832
Issue of share capital 1 1,830 — (1,001) — — — — — 830
Own shares disposed 
of on release of shares — — — 332 — — — — (332) —
Credit to equity for 
share-based payments — — — — — 1,747 — 683 — 2,430
Payment of dividends — — — — — — — — (15,888) (15,888)
Balance as at 30 June 2015 402 19,522 56,513 (2,812) (1,266) 8,319 1,758 585 131,083 214,104
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium 
account
£000
Merger 
reserve
£000
Own
shares
£000
Translation
reserve
1
£000
Share-based
payments
reserve
2
£000
Hedging
reserve
3
£000
Tax
reserve
4
£000
Retained
earnings
£000
Total
equity
£000
Balance as at 1 July 2013 399 16,395 56,513 (1,872) 2,203 5,893 (1,048) 1,252 90,542 170,277
Profit for the year — — — — — — — — 34,045 34,045
Exchange differences on 
translation of foreign operations — — — — (10,921) (195) — — — (11,116)
Movements on 
cash flow hedges — — — — — — 2,491 — — 2,491
T ax relating to components 
of other comprehensive income — — — — — — (550) — — (550)
Total comprehensive 
income for the year — — — — (10,921) (195) 1,941 — 34,045 24,870
Issue of share capital 2 1,297 — (484) — (198) — — — 617
Own shares disposed 
of on release of shares — — — 213 — — — — (213) —
Credit/(charge) to equity 
for share-based payments — — — — — 941 — (1,350) — (409)
Payment of dividends — — — — — — — — (14,455) (14,455)
Balance as at 30 June 2014 401 17,692 56,513 (2,143) (8,718) 6,441 893 (98) 109,919 180,900
1 Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations.
2 IFRS 2 charge for fair value of equity-settled share-based options and awards.
3 Gains and losses recognised on cash flow hedges.
4 Portion of tax asset arising on outstanding share options and share options exercised. Financial statements
78 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
£000
Merger 
reserve
£000
Own
shares
£000
Share-based
payments
reserve
1
£000
Hedging
reserve
2
£000
Tax
reserve
3
£000
Retained
earnings
£000
Total
equity
£000
Balance as at 1 July 2014 401 17,692 56,513 (2,143) 6,113 893 (121) 123,992 203,340
Profit for the year — — — — — — — 40,372 40,372
Movements on cash flow hedges — — — — — 1,068 — — 1,068
Tax relating to components 
of other comprehensive income — — — — — (203) — — (203)
T otal comprehensive income for the year — — — — — 865 — 40,372 41,237
Issue of share capital 1 1,830 — (1,001) — — — — 830
Own shares disposed of on exercise 
of share options — — — 332 — — — (332) —
Share-based payments charge 
recognised on behalf of subsidiaries — — — — 529 — — — 529
Credit to equity for 
share-based payments — — — — 1,218 — 683 — 1,901
Arising on transfer of trade 
from subsidiary (note 30) — — — — — — — (229) (229)
Payment of dividends — — — — — — — (15,888) (15,888)
Balance as at 30 June 2015 402 19,522 56,513 (2,812) 7,860 1,758 562 147,915 231,720
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
£000
Merger 
reserve
£000
Own
shares
£000
Share-based
payments
reserve
1
£000
Hedging
reserve
2
£000
Tax
reserve
3
£000
Retained
earnings
£000
Total
equity
£000
Balance as at 1 July 2013 399 16,395 56,513 (1,872) 5,370 (1,048) 1,022 109,360 186,139
Profit for the year — — — — — — — 29,300 29,300
Movements on cash flow hedges — — — — — 2,491 — — 2,491
Tax relating to components 
of other comprehensive income — — — — — (550) — — (550)
T otal comprehensive income for the year — — — — — 1,941 — 29,300 31,241
Issue of share capital 2 1,297 — (484) (198) — — — 617
Own shares disposed of on exercise 
of share options — — — 213 — — — (213) —
Share-based payments charge 
recognised on behalf of subsidiaries — — — — 307 — — — 307
Credit/(charge) to equity  
for share-based payments — — — — 634 — (1,143) — (509)
Payment of dividends — — — — — — — (14,455) (14,455)
Balance as at 30 June 2014 401 17,692 56,513 (2,143) 6,113 893 (121) 123,992 203,340
1 IFRS 2 charge for fair value of equity-settled share-based options and awards.
2 Gains and losses recognised on cash flow hedges.
3 Portion of tax asset arising on outstanding share options and share options exercised.
Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 30 June 2015 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
Cash flow statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015
Notes
Consolidated Company
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
Profit before tax 46,099 43,551 50,349 37,840
Finance income (372) (238) (4,110) (3,361)
Finance costs — — — 22
Operating profit for the year 45,727 43,313 46,239 34,501
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 2,934 1,882 1,312 852
Amortisation of intangible assets 13 5,104 4,831 2,004 1,767
Impairment loss on intangible assets 13 — 454 — 454
Change in fair value of derivatives outstanding at year end 325 (655) 326 (655)
Share-based payments charge 27 1,891 941 1,217 634
Non-cash foreign currency gains 375 — — —
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 56,356 50,766 51,098 37,553
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (4,071) 252 (2,173) 2,309
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (4,646) (280) (30,598) 6,575
Increase in payables 1,249 508 5,500 1,719
Cash generated by operations 48,888 51,246 23,827 48,156
Income taxes paid (8,676) (9,948) (7,999) (8,926)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 40,212 41,298 15,828 39,230
Investing activities
Investment income 202 231 4,110 3,318
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (6,501) (3,828) (4,070) (1,500)
Purchase of intangible assets (978) (3,647) (948) (3,492)
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash and term deposits acquired 29 (17,333) — — —
Acquisition of trade from subsidiary, net of cash acquired — — 54 —
Decrease in term deposits — 1,187 — —
Net cash used in investing activities (24,610) (6,057) (854) (1,674)
Financing activities
Dividends paid 25 (15,888) (14,455) (15,888) (14,455)
Proceeds on issue of shares 1,832 617 1,832 617
Net cash used in financing activities (14,056) (13,838) (14,056) (13,838)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,546 21,403 918 23,718
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 55,278 35,388 49,013 25,295
Effect of foreign exchange rates 235 (1,513) — —
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 57,059 55,278 49,931 49,013
Reconciliation to total cash and cash equivalents and term deposits
Consolidated Company
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
Cash and cash equivalents 57,059 55,278 49,931 49,013
Term deposits (non-current) 1,636 1,000 1,000 1,000
Term deposits (current) — 584 — —
Total cash and cash equivalents and term deposits 58,695 56,862 50,931 50,013 Financial statements
80 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
1. General information
Abcam plc (the Company) is incorporated and domiciled in the UK under the Companies Act 2006. The address of the registered office 
is 330 Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, Cambridge CB4 0FL, UK. The Company is a public limited company which is listed 
on the London Stock Exchange Alternative Investment Market.
The Company and its subsidiaries (together the Group) produce and distribute high-quality research-grade antibodies and associated 
protein research tools. The Group operates through its ultimate parent company Abcam plc and through a channel of wholly owned 
manufacturing and distribution subsidiaries mainly based in the US and Asia Pacific, which allows it to serve a global customer base 
of over 100 countries. A list of all subsidiaries is contained in note 15.
2. Changes in accounting policy and disclosures
New standards, amendments and interpretations adopted by the Group
In the current year, the Group has adopted the following new and revised standards, amendments and Interpretations which have been 
assessed as having no financial or disclosure impact on the numbers presented:
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements (as revised in 2011)
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IAS 28 Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures (as revised in 2011)
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
IAS 19 Employee Benefits: Defined Benefit Plans (Amendment)
IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendment)
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets (Amendment)
IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting (Amendment)
IFRIC 21 Levies (Interpretation on IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets recognition criteria)
New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet adopted
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following standards and interpretations were in issue but not yet effective, 
and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements:
Effective for
accounting periods
 beginning on or after
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments classification and measurement requirements replacing IAS 39 1 January 2018
IFRS 10 (amendment) Consolidated Financial Statements addresses inconsistency with IAS 28 1 January 2016
IFRS 11 (amendment) Joint Arrangements on acquisition of an interest in a joint operation 1 January 2016
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts recognition of amounts related to rate regulation 1 January 2016
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers improvement to the financial reporting of revenue 1 January 2017
IAS 1 (amendment) Presentation of Financial Statements disclosure initiative 1 January 2016
IAS 16 (amendment) Property, Plant and Equipment regarding bearer plants 1 January 2016
IAS 27 (revised) Separate Financial Statements on using the equity method to account for investments 1 January 2016
IAS 28 (amended) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures consolidation exception for investment entities 1 January 2016
IAS 38 (amendment) Intangible Assets clarification of acceptable depreciation and amortisation methods 1 January 2016
The standards and interpretations above have not been applied in preparing these financial statements and the Directors do not expect 
that their adoption in future periods will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
3. Significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The annual financial statements of Abcam plc are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and 
IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) interpretations as adopted by the European Union and the Companies Act 2006 applicable 
to companies reporting under IFRS and comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments. 
The Group financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£000) except 
when otherwise indicated.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation 
of the statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 except where disclosed otherwise in this note.
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Going concern
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements from the cash surpluses generated as a result of normal trading. The Group’s 
forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able 
to operate within the limits of its available resources.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated 
financial statements.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company made 
up to 30 June each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an 
investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that 
control ceases. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies in line 
with those used by the Group. All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary 
is the fair value at the date of exchange of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group. 
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. 
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination that meet the recognition criteria 
under IFRS 3 (2008) are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition, except that:
• deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured 
in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively;
• liabilities or equity instruments relating to the replacement by the Group of an acquiree’s share-based payment awards are measured 
in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment; and
• assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale 
and Discontinued Operations are measured as per that standard.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less impairment. Where applicable, cost is adjusted to reflect changes in consideration 
arising from contingent consideration amendments. 
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the 
acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is reviewed and tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed in subsequent periods. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity 
include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those cash-generating units 
or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. Cash-generating 
units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit 
may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss 
is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on 
the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
In accordance with IAS 21 goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition of that foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of that foreign operation and as 
such are translated at the relevant foreign exchange rate at the balance sheet date.
Revenue and income recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services 
provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are dispatched and title has passed.
Custom service revenue is recognised proportionately when the outcome of each discrete stage of the contract can be estimated reliably 
and is based on the stage of completion of the contract activity per agreed milestones set out in the contract. Where the outcome cannot 
be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised to the extent of costs incurred where it is probable these will be recovered. In instances where 
it is probable that the costs will be in excess of the contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Licence fee income is recognised on delivery of the licensed technology where the Group’s continued performance or future research 
and development services are not required. Payments received prior to this are recorded as deferred income.
Royalty revenue is recognised based on the contractual terms and the substance of the agreements with the counterparty. Financial statements
82 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Revenue and income recognition continued
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the 
rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
Revenue derived from the Company’s conferences is recognised when the conference is held; however, it is not material.
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Benefits received 
and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it 
operates (its functional currency). For the purposes of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group 
company are expressed in Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the presentation currency for the consolidated 
financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign 
currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets 
and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated to the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary 
items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value 
was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise except for:
• exchange differences on transactions entered into to hedge certain foreign currency risks (see below under financial instruments/
hedge accounting).
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the results of the operations of the Company’s overseas subsidiaries 
are translated at the monthly exchange rates during the period and their balance sheets at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. 
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the opening net assets and results of operations are classified as equity and recognised 
in the Group’s foreign currency translation reserve.
Retirement benefit costs
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state-managed 
retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the nature of the Group’s obligations under 
the schemes is equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme. The Group has no further obligations once 
the contributions have been paid.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes some items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are 
never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Where the current tax deduction in respect of share option exercises exceeds the share option accounting charge for the period, the excess 
is recorded in the tax reserve rather than the income statement.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability 
method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the 
extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets 
and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition 
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the Group is able 
to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
The Group’s liability for deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date 
that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income 
statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and 
liabilities on a net basis. 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. Cost includes the 
original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. Depreciation 
is charged so as to write off the cost of assets over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases:
Office equipment, fixtures and fittings Two to five years
Laboratory equipment One to five years
Computer equipment Three years
Hybridomas and assays Three to eight years
Motor vehicles Five years
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income. Residual values of assets and their useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted 
if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Intangible assets
Payments made to acquire software, distribution rights, capitalised development work and contract-based intangibles from third parties 
are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated minimum useful lives. The principal economic lives used 
for this purpose are as follows:
Upfront licence fees Three years
Distribution rights One to ten years
Software One to five years
Contract based Term of contract
Customer relationships Seven to ten years
Patents, technology and know-how Five to 15 years
Trade names Eight years
Patents, technology and know-how assets are only amortised once the development is complete and meaningful revenue is being derived 
from identified assets; until this point the asset is deemed to be in progress.
Expenditure on development activities including internally generated intangible assets is recognised as an asset if and only if it meets the 
recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets. Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which 
it is incurred.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated 
in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any).
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows 
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its 
recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs 
and an attributable portion of production overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. 
Cost is calculated using the standard cost method. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of 
completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items 
where appropriate.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Available-for-sale financial assets
The Group has an investment in unlisted shares which is not traded in an active market but is classified as an available-for-sale financial 
asset and stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost, less provision for impairment. Appropriate 
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the income statement when there is objective evidence that the asset 
is impaired. When a trade receivable is considered uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries 
of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account 
are recognised in the income statement. Financial statements
84 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Term deposits
Term deposits represent bank deposits and a charitable bond all with an original maturity of over three months.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity 
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. The accounting 
policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
Trade payables
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments
Forward contracts are used by the Group to manage its exposure to the risk associated with the variability in cash flows in relation to both 
recognised assets or liabilities and forecast transactions.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their 
fair value at each balance sheet date. A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a 
negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement immediately unless 
the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in the income statement 
depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than twelve months 
and it is not expected to be realised or settled within twelve months. Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Hedge accounting
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency risk 
of firm commitments (cash flow hedges).
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, 
along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the 
hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is effective 
in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in other 
comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is included in the 
‘administration and management expenses’ line of the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss, 
in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated 
or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in other comprehensive income at that time 
remains in other comprehensive income and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss. When a 
forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in other comprehensive income is recognised 
immediately in profit or loss.
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment. In accordance with IFRS 1, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants 
of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 July 2006.
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share option, SIP and LTIP schemes. Equity-settled share-based 
payments are measured at fair value (excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value 
determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, 
based on the Group’s estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The grant date fair value of options issued under the Group’s share option schemes is measured by the use of the Monte Carlo Simulation.
The grant date fair value of the awards under the Group’s LTIP is measured by the use of the Monte Carlo Simulation for the TSR portion 
and the Black Scholes Model for the EPS portion.
The grant date fair value of an equity-settled payment under the SIP is measured as the face value of the award on the date of grant.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, 
exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. Charges made to the income statement in respect of share-based payments 
are credited to the share-based payments reserve. 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Share-based payments continued
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based 
on the non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, 
with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a 
capital contribution. The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the 
vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity in the parent entity accounts.
When the options are exercised, the Company issues new shares. The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs 
are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium.
The Group operates an employee share benefit trust as part of its incentive plans for UK-based employees. All assets and liabilities 
of the trust are recorded in the balance sheet as assets and liabilities of the Company until such time as the assets are awarded 
to the beneficiaries. All income and expenditure of the trust is similarly brought into the results of the Company.
Own shares
Own equity instruments which are acquired are recognised at cost and deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised in the income 
statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments. Any difference between the carrying amount 
and the consideration is recognised in reserves.
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities as at the date of reporting the financial statements, and the reported 
amounts of revenues and expenditure during the year. These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and based on historical 
experiences and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances prevailing 
at that time. In preparation of the consolidated financial statements, estimates and assumptions have been made by the Directors concerning 
the fair value of share options, the estimated useful lives of fixed assets, accruals and provisions required, the carrying value of investments, 
the recoverability of deferred tax assets, the initial valuation of intangibles acquired as part of a business combination, the carrying value 
of goodwill and other intangible assets, and other similar evaluations. Actual amounts may differ from those estimates.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, 
or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Valuation and impairment of intangibles
As part of the business combinations the Group has undertaken in the current and previous years, it has acquired the following types of intangible 
assets: licence fees, customer relationships, patents, trade names, technology and know-how. The Group obtains a third party valuation for 
any newly acquired intangible assets to ascertain the initial fair value and identifies a suitable useful life with reference to the third party guidance 
and the lives attributed to previous similar intangibles. In addition to the acquired intangibles, the Group capitalises IT development costs relating 
to the rebuilding of the Group’s IT core systems, since these costs meet the recognition criteria of IAS 38. The Group reviews the carrying 
amount of all intangible assets held at each balance sheet date and considers these in line with the remaining usefulness to the Group. 
No impairments have been deemed necessary in the current year on any of the asset classifications (2014: £454,000).
Impairment of goodwill and determination of cash-generating units
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on at least an annual basis or more frequently when there are indications of possible impairment. 
The impairment review requires a value in use calculation of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. It has been determined 
that the Group has one cash-generating unit; there have been no organisational or operational changes in the current year that would indicate 
additional cash-generating units should be recognised. In estimating the value in use, management is required to make an estimate of the 
expected future cash flows attributable to the cash-generating unit and to choose an appropriate discount rate to calculate the present value 
of those cash flows. The carrying amount of goodwill at 30 June 2015 was £86,998,000 (2014: £73,549,000). Further details are given in note 12.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets carrying value
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (excluding goodwill) represent 22.9% (2014: 18.7%) of the Group’s total assets; 
estimates and assumptions made may have a material impact on their carrying value and related depreciation and amortisation charge. 
See note 13 ‘Intangible assets’ and note 14 ‘Property, plant and equipment’ for further details.
Valuation of own manufactured inventory
The standard costs used for the valuation of own manufactured inventory require a number of assumptions concerning the allocation 
of overheads. These assumptions are based primarily on management’s estimates of time spent in each relevant area of activity 
and normal levels of activity.
Provision for slow moving or defective inventory
The provision for slow moving inventory is based on management’s estimation of the future sales of each of the Group’s products over the 
next five years (or period from the balance sheet date to the expiry date of the product, whichever is the shorter), taking into account actual 
sales of those products in previous years and applying an assumed growth rate based on historical trends where available. Financial statements
86 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
Provision for slow moving or defective inventory continued
Should forecast sales (incorporating the projected growth rates) differ from those estimated by management, both the level of provision against 
existing inventory and the rates of provision applied to inventory in future periods would need to be revised. If the projected unit sales growth on 
each product category increased by 5% the provision required would reduce by less than 0.2%. If the projected unit sales growth on each 
product category decreased by 5% the provision required would increase by less than 0.3%. If no growth was factored in across all product 
categories, the maximum impact that would result would be a £0.2m increase in the provision.
Provisions for income taxes
The Group is subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. Significant judgement is employed to determine the income tax provision on 
a global basis. There are numerous transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary 
course of business. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be 
due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters differs from amounts initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and 
deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
5. Operating segments
Products and services from which reportable segments derive their revenues
The Directors consider that there are no identifiable business segments that are engaged in providing individual products or services or a 
group of related products and services that are subject to risks and returns that are different to the core business. The information reported 
to the Group’s Chief Executive Officer, who is considered the chief operating decision maker, for the purposes of resource allocation and 
assessment of performance is based wholly on the overall activities of the Group. The Group has therefore determined that it has only one 
reportable segment under IFRS 8, which is ‘sales of antibodies and related products’. The Group’s revenue and results and assets for this 
one reportable segment can be determined by reference to the Group’s income statement and balance sheet.
The Group has no individual product or customer which comprises more than 10% of its revenues.
Geographical information
The Group’s revenue from external customers and information about its non-current segment assets (excluding deferred tax and derivative 
financial instruments) by geographical location is detailed below:
Revenue Non-current assets
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Year ended
30 June 2014
£000
As at
30 June 2015
£000
As at
30 June 2014
£000
US 62,332 55,210 123,103 92,493
Japan 11,282 11,462 55 71
Germany 8,627 9,350 — —
UK 10,316 9,400 19,796 19,622
China 13,077 7,315 1,976 1,032
Other countries 38,399 35,217 2 9
144,033 127,954 144,932 113,227
Revenues are attributed to countries on the basis of the customer’s location. No country included within ‘Other countries’ contributes more 
than 5% of the Group’s total revenue.
Revenue by type is shown below:
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Year ended
30 June 2014
£000
Product revenue 135,382 117,990
Non-product revenue
1
 8,651 9,964
Total reported revenue 144,033 127,954
1 Includes custom services, IVD/IHC, royalties and licence income. 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
6. Profit for the year
Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Notes 
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Year ended
30 June 2014
£000
Foreign exchange differences arising on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 325 (655)
Other net foreign exchange differences (108) (1,004)
R&D expenditure (including amortisation as detailed below) 9,919 10,054
Operating lease rentals – land and buildings 23 2,822 2,600
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 2,934 1,882
Amortisation of intangible assets included within administration and management expenses 13 1,986 1,566
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets included within administration 
and management expenses 13 1,445 1,517
Impairment loss on intangible assets 13 — 454
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets included within R&D expenditure 13 1,673 1,748
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 35,175 35,872
Write down of inventories recognised as an expense 1,262 1,697
Staff costs 8 33,410 26,239
Impairment loss recognised on trade receivables 18 67 101
Auditor’s remuneration 7 229 138
7. Auditor remuneration
A detailed analysis of the auditor remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below:
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£000
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the parent company and the consolidation 119 95
Total audit fees 119 95
– Audit-related assurance services
1
20 20
– Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 10 10
– Services relating to corporate finance transactions 80 —
– Other services — 13
Total other services fees 110 43
Total auditor remuneration 229 138
1 This relates to the interim review.
Details of the Company’s policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit services are set out in the Audit and Risk Committee Report. During the 
year the auditor was used for due diligence work as this was considered beneficial to the Group due to the auditor’s established knowledge 
and experience of the Group’s activities. No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
8. Employees and remuneration
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) was:
Group
Year ended
30 June 2015
Number 
Year ended
30 June 2014
Number 
Management, administrative, marketing and distribution 492 437
Laboratory 290 297
782 734 Financial statements
88 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
8. Employees and remuneration continued
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
Group
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Year ended
30 June 2014
£000
Wages and salaries 27,018 21,644
Social security costs 3,286 3,231
Other pension costs 1,689 1,207
Charge in respect of share options and awards granted 1,891 941
Total staff costs 33,884 27,023
Staff costs capitalised
1
(474) (784)
Net staff costs 33,410 26,239
1  £474,000 (2014: £784,000) relates to Group staff costs directly attributable to the rebuild of the IT core systems being capitalised as part of an internally generated intangible asset 
under IAS 38 (see note 13).
The remuneration of the Directors is set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 42–64.
9. Finance income
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£000
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£000
Interest on cash and term deposits 372 238
Finance income 372 238
10. Taxation
Note
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£000
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£000
Current tax 10,347 9,984
Deferred tax 16 (1,632) (478)
8,715 9,506
UK corporation tax is calculated at 20.75% (2014: 22.5%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions 
is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. The standard rate of UK corporation tax reduced from 21% to 20% on 
1 April 2015. The Finance Act 2015, which received Royal Assent on 26 March 2015, states that this rate will not change for financial year 
2016. Deferred tax has been calculated accordingly in these financial statements. 
In the budget of 8 July 2015, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced tax rate changes, which, if enacted in the proposed manner, will 
have an effect on the Company’s future tax position. These additional changes will reduce the standard rate of UK corporation tax from 20% 
to 19% from 1 April 2017, and 18% from 1 April 2020. These proposed changes had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet 
date and consequently their effects are not included in these financial statements. The effect of these announced reductions is not likely 
to be material.
The above changes to the rate of corporation tax will impact the amount of future cash tax payments to be made by the Company.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Year ended
30 June 2015
%
Year ended
30 June 2014
£000
Year ended
30 June 2014
%
Profit before tax 46,099 43,551
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 20.75% (2014: 22.5%) 9,566 20.8 9,799 22.5
Adjusted in respect of foreign tax rates 891 1.9 563 1.3
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 262 0.6 322 0.7
Additional relief in relation to overseas entities (1,266) (2.8) (778) (1.8)
R&D tax credit uplift (383) (0.8) (479) (1.1)
Adjustments in respect of prior year (324) (0.7) 52 0.1
Effect of difference between closing deferred tax rate and current tax rate (31) (0.1) 27 0.1
Tax expense and effective rate for the year 8,715 18.9 9,506 21.8 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
11. Earnings per share
The calculation of the basic and diluted EPS is based on the following data:
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£000
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£000
Earnings
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted EPS being net profit attributable to owners of the parent 37,384 34,045
Number Number
Number of shares
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic EPS 199,978,991 198,858,251
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
– Share options 1,298,477 1,159,930
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted EPS 201,277,468 200,018,181
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the parent by the weighted average number of shares outstanding 
during the year. Diluted EPS is calculated on the same basis as basic EPS but with a further adjustment for the weighted average shares in 
issue to reflect the effect of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. The number of dilutive potential ordinary shares is derived from the number 
of share-based options and awards granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s 
ordinary shares during the year and where it is considered performance conditions will be met.
Adjusted earnings per share
The calculation of adjusted EPS excluding acquisition costs, integration costs and amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets is based 
on earnings of:
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£000
Year ended 
30 June 2014
£000
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted EPS being net profit attributable to the owners of the parent 37,384 34,045
Acquisition costs 335 —
Integration costs 24 —
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 3,118 3,265
Tax effect of adjusting items (1,084) (1,191)
Profit after tax excluding integration costs and amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 39,777 36,119
The denominators used are the same as those detailed above for both basic and diluted earnings per share.
Adjusted EPS after adding back acquisition costs and amortisation of associated intangible assets:
Year ended 
30 June 2015
Year ended 
30 June 2014
Adjusted basic EPS 19.89p 18.16p
Adjusted diluted EPS 19.76p 18.06p
The adjusted EPS information is provided to allow a clear method for year-on-year comparison.  Financial statements
90 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
12. Goodwill
Group
£000
Company
£000
Cost
At 1 July 2013 81,954 —
Exchange differences (8,405) —
At 1 July 2014 73,549 —
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary (note 29) 8,013 —
Acquired on transfer of trade from subsidiary (note 30) — 7,658
Exchange differences 5,436 —
At 30 June 2015 86,998 7,658
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 July 2013, 1 July 2014 and 30 June 2015 — —
Carrying amount
At 30 June 2013 81,954 —
At 30 June 2014 73,549 —
At 30 June 2015 86,998 7,658
Group goodwill acquired in the year relates to the acquisition of Firefly BioWorks Inc on 23 January 2015. Note 29 contains further details 
of the transaction and resulting financial impact on the Group.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash-generating units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit 
from that business combination. The Directors consider there to be one CGU. Acquisitions are immediately integrated into the Group’s 
operations and product portfolio and therefore any discrete financial information which is available for an individual entity within the Group 
does not reflect the true substance of the performance of that entity and the value being added, which has meant it is not possible to 
accurately assess the value in use of acquired entities. There have been no changes to the Group organisation during the interim period 
which would require a re-allocation of the goodwill balance.
The Abcam Group CGU is tested for impairment on a Group-wide basis using the future forecast cash flows arising from the Abcam 
business as a whole.
The Group performs an annual test for goodwill impairment or more frequently if there are any indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions considered most sensitive for the 
value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and anticipated movements in selling prices and direct costs 
during the period.
Management has projected cash flows based on financial forecasts over a period of five years. No growth rate has been used in the 
extrapolation of cash flows beyond the five years. A discount rate of 7.5% has been estimated using pre-tax rates that reflect current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU.
Management has performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions mentioned above. Based on the results of this analysis, management 
is satisfied that the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeds its carrying amount. As such, no impairment of goodwill has been recognised 
at the balance sheet date.
Due to the headroom which exists between the recoverable amount and the carrying value there is currently no reasonable possible change 
in any of these key assumptions which would cause the CGU’s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Company goodwill
The goodwill acquired in the year on the Company balance sheet has arisen from the transfer of trade and assets from Ascent Scientific Ltd, 
a subsidiary undertaking. Note 30 contains further details of the transaction.
The Company goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are any indications that the goodwill might be 
impaired. The forecast cash flows arising in the Company have been projected using the same key assumptions as used for the Group testing.
Management has performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions and, based on the results of this analysis, management is satisfied 
that the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeds its carrying amount. As such, no impairment of goodwill has been recognised at the 
balance sheet date. 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
13. Intangible assets
Group
Upfront
licence 
fees 
£000 
Distribution
rights 
£000 
Software 
£000 
Contract
 based
£000
Assets
under
construction
£000
Customer
relationships
£000
Patents,
technology 
and 
know-how
£000
Trade
names
£000
Total
£000
Cost 
At 1 July 2013 497 1,732 4,244 3,452 218 4,790 22,820 2,022 39,775
Additions 47 229 175 — 3,306 106 — — 3,863
Transfer to asset in use — — 3,324 — (3,324) — — — —
Disposals (19) (868) (543) — — — — — (1,430)
Exchange differences — — (8) (200) — (262) (1,261) (121) (1,852)
At 1 July 2014 525 1,093 7,192 3,252 200 4,634 21,559 1,901 40,356
Additions 2 4 85 — 890 — — — 981
Transfer to asset in use — — 887 — (887) — — — —
Acquisition of subsidiary (note 29) — — 615 — — — 17,089 — 17,704
Exchange differences — — (20) 280 — 371 977 167 1,775
At 30 June 2015 527 1,097 8,759 3,532 203 5,005 39,625 2,068 60,816
Accumulated amortisation 
At 1 July 2013 420 1,340 651 1,041 — 631 2,285 300 6,668
Charge for the year 56 152 1,353 771 — 500 1,748 251 4,831
Impairment — — 454 — — — — — 454
Disposals (2) (867) (543) — — — — — (1,412)
Exchange differences — — (2) (100) — (55) (173) (31) (361)
At 1 July 2014 474 625 1,913 1,712 — 1,076 3,860 520 10,180
Charge for the year 40 384 1,806 462 — 482 1,673 257 5,104
Exchange differences — — — 187 — 116 367 47 717
At 30 June 2015 514 1,009 3,719 2,361 — 1,674 5,900 824 16,001
Carrying amount
At 30 June 2014 51 468 5,279 1,540 200 3,558 17,699 1,381 30,176
At 30 June 2015 13 88 5,040 1,171 203 3,331 33,725 1,244 44,815 Financial statements
92 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
13. Intangible assets continued
Company
Upfront 
licence fees 
£000
Distribution
rights 
£000
Software 
£000
Assets under
Construction
£000
Customer
relationships
£000
Patents,
technology 
and 
know-how
£000
Total
£000
Cost
At 1 July 2013 493 2,127 4,195 218 — — 7,033
Additions 47 229 127 3,306 — — 3,709
Transfer to asset in use — — 3,324 (3,324) — — —
Disposals (15) (868) (543) — — — (1,426)
At 1 July 2014 525 1,488 7,103 200 — — 9,316
Additions 1 1 55 890 — — 947
Acquired on trade transfer from subsidiary (note 30) — — — — 190 412 602
Transfer to asset in use — — 887 (887) — — —
At 30 June 2015 526 1,489 8,045 203 190 412 10,865
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 July 2013 419 1,617 636 — — — 2,672
Charge for the year 55 381 1,331 — — — 1,767
Impairment — — 454 — — — 454
Disposals (2) (868) (543) — — — (1,413)
At 1 July 2014 472 1,130 1,878 — — — 3,480
Charge for the year 40 270 1,694 — — — 2,004
At 30 June 2015 512 1,400 3,572 — — — 5,484
Carrying amount
At 30 June 2014 53 358 5,225 200 — — 5,836
At 30 June 2015 14 89 4,473 203 190 412 5,381
The amortisation period for the upfront licence fees is three years and software is between one and five years. The amortisation period 
for the distribution rights is the term of the agreement.
Contract-based intangibles predominately relates to two agreements: an agreement with the University of Oregon, under which the university 
supplies monoclonal antibodies to MitoSciences Inc, which has full rights and entitlement to commercially exploit these materials in exchange 
for an ongoing fee. The remaining amortisation period is nine years, being the remaining term of the agreement; and an agreement between 
Epitomics and Loyola University Chicago for access to a patent. This was fully amortised in the current year in February 2015, the expiry 
date of the agreement.
Assets under construction relates to the development of the core IT systems architecture. These are not amortised until being available 
for use in the business.
Customer relationships mainly relates to access to new customers as part of the Epitomics acquisition, namely in the reagents and services 
business. The remaining amortisation period is seven years in line with the history of the business. Customer relationships in the Company 
balance sheet have been acquired as part of the trade transfer of Ascent Bioscience and represent access to new customers in the 
biochemical industry. The remaining amortisation period is two years.
Patents, technology and know-how relates to acquired technology as part of the Group’s acquisitions: RabMAb
®
 technology as part 
of the Epitomics business with a remaining amortisation period of twelve years, being the remaining term of the primary patent; and multiplex 
and complex assay technology as part of the newly acquired Firefly BioWorks business. This is currently held as in-progress research 
and development and consequently amortisation will not begin until a fully marketable product utilising the technology is established. 
The amortisation period will then be the remaining term on the primary patent, which is currently 15 years.
Trade names relate to RabMAb
®
 and Epitomics. The remaining amortisation period is five years. 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
14. Property, plant and equipment
Group
Computer
equipment 
£000
Laboratory
equipment 
£000
Office
equipment,
fixtures
and fittings 
£000
Hybridomas
and assays
£000
Hybridomas
under
construction
£000
Motor 
vehicles
£000
Total
£000
Cost 
At 1 July 2013 1,766 9,265 2,496 2,787 1,162 156 17,632
Additions 332 710 768 1,468 257 6 3,541
Transfer to asset in use — — — 342 (342) — —
Disposals (176) (301) (63) — — (5) (545)
Exchange differences (57) (307) (197) (284) (133) (19) (997)
At 1 July 2014 1,865 9,367 3,004 4,313 944 138 19,631
Additions 643 2,049 1,077 2,148 759 — 6,676
Transfer to asset in use — — — 325 (325) — —
Disposals (109) (65) (6) — — — (180)
Exchange differences 30 210 102 99 — 12 453
At 30 June 2015 2,429 11,561 4,177 6,885 1,378 150 26,580
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2013 1,284 6,587 1,753 483 — 24 10,131
Charge for the year 312 762 476 312 — 20 1,882
Disposals (175) (284) (60) — — (5) (524)
Exchange differences (40) (143) (120) (52) — (5) (360)
At 1 July 2014 1,381 6,922 2,049 743 — 34 11,129
Charge for the year 385 1,192 481 860 — 16 2,934
Disposals (109) (63) (6) — — — (178)
Exchange differences 15 98 73 54 — 4 244
At 30 June 2015 1,672 8,149 2,597 1,657 — 54 14,129
Carrying amount
At 30 June 2014 484 2,445 955 3,570 944 104 8,502
At 30 June 2015 757 3,412 1,580 5,228 1,378 96 12,451 Financial statements
94 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
14. Property, plant and equipment continued
Company
Computer
equipment 
£000
Laboratory
equipment
£000
Office
equipment,
fixtures
and fittings 
£000
Hybridomas 
and assays
£000
Hybridomas 
under 
construction 
£000
Motor 
vehicles
£000
Total
£000
Cost
At 1 July 2013 1,291 6,480 1,074 284 — — 9,129
Additions 198 456 289 1,242 945 6 3,136
Disposals (161) (250) (25) — — — (436)
At 1 July 2014 1,328 6,686 1,338 1,526 945 6 11,829
Additions 394 1,090 90 1,905 592 — 4,071
Transfer to asset in use — — — 291 (291) — —
Acquired on trade transfer from subsidiary (note 30) 8 111 15 — — — 134
Disposals (71) (1) — — — — (72)
At 30 June 2015 1,659 7,886 1,443 3,722 1,246 6 15,962
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2013 968 5,501 890 205 — — 7,564
Charge for the year 210 379 149 113 — 1 852
Disposals (161) (236) (25) — — — (422)
At 1 July 2014 1,017 5,644 1,014 318 — 1 7,994
Charge for the year 250 561 141 358 — 2 1,312
Disposals (71) (1) — — — — (72)
At 30 June 2015 1,196 6,204 1,155 676 — 3 9,234
Carrying amount
At 30 June 2014 311 1,042 324 1,208 945 5 3,835
At 30 June 2015 463 1,682 288 3,046 1,246 3 6,728
15. Investments
The Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries at 30 June 2015 were:
Country of 
incorporation 
Proportion
of shares 
held 
Proportion 
of voting
power held
Abcam Australia Pty Limited Australia 100% 100%
Abcam Inc US 100% 100%
Abcam KK Japan 100% 100%
Abcam (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong 100% 100%
Abcam Epitomics Holdings, Inc US 100% 100%
Abcam LLC US 100% 100%
Abcam Trading (Shanghai) Co., Limited China 100% 100%
Abcam (US) Limited UK 100% 100%
Abcam US Group Holdings Inc US 100% 100%
Ascent Scientific Limited UK 100% 100%
Camgene Limited (dormant) UK 100% 100%
Epitomics Inc US 100% 100%
Epitomics (Hangzhou) Biotechnology Co., Limited China 100% 100%
Epitomics (Hong Kong) Limited (dormant) Hong Kong 100% 100%
Firefly BioWorks Inc US 100% 100%
MitoSciences Inc US 100% 100%
The Abcam Employee Share Benefit Trust Limited UK 100% 100% 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
15. Investments continued
Analysis of changes in investments
£000
At 1 July 2013 95,840
Capital contribution
1
307
At 30 June 2014 96,147
Capital contribution
1
529
Reduction of investment value on transfer of trade to parent (note 30) (8,370)
At 30 June 2015 88,306
1 The capital contribution represents share-based payment charges for share options issued by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries.
On 30 June 2015 the Company acquired the trade and assets of Ascent Scientific Ltd (Ascent), a subsidiary undertaking. The investment 
held on the Company balance sheet at the date of transfer was £10,127,000, representing the assessed fair value of the net assets at the 
date of acquisition to the Abcam Group. As a result of the transfer the holding value of the investment is not deemed by the Directors to 
be representative of the remaining value left in the entity post-transfer due to any economic benefits being transferred into the Company. 
Consequently the investment value has been reduced down to £1,757,000, the remaining book value of assets and liabilities in Ascent, 
to more accurately reflect the subsidiary’s value. The transferred economic benefit is represented by the new Company goodwill (see note 12). 
There is no overall economic loss to the Group.
16. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
The following are the deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and Company and movements thereon during the current 
and prior reporting years.
Group
Accelerated tax 
depreciation
£000
Cash flow 
hedges 
£000
Share-based 
payment 
£000
Acquired 
intangible
assets
£000 
Other
temporary
differences 
£000
Total
£000
At 30 June 2013 (1,396) 312 2,162 (11,284) 3,933 (6,273)
Credit/(charge) to income 658 — 85 1,191 (1,456) 478
Charge to equity — (550) (1,350) — — (1,900)
Exchange differences 125 — — 1,252 (265) 1,112
At 30 June 2014 (613) (238) 897 (8,841) 2,212 (6,583)
(Charge)/credit to income (608) — 62 1,079 1,099 1,632
Acquisition of subsidiary — — — (6,607) — (6,607)
(Charge)/credit to equity — (203) 623 — — 420
Exchange differences (56) — — (410) 125 (341)
At 30 June 2015 (1,277) (441) 1,582 (14,779) 3,436 (11,479)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so. The following is the analysis of the 
deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial reporting purposes:
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
Deferred tax assets 3,300 2,258
Deferred tax liabilities (14,779) (8,841)
(11,479) (6,583)
The deferred tax liability of £14,779,000 (2014: £8,841,000) has been recognised in relation to the acquired intangible assets as a result of the 
acquisitions. Amounts released from this liability during the year were £1,079,000 (2014: £1,191,000), representing the decrease of the 
deferred tax liability in line with amortisation charged against the carrying value of the associated intangible assets. Financial statements
96 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
16. Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued
Company
Accelerated tax
depreciation
£000
Cash flow
hedges
£000
Share-based
payment
£000
Acquired
intangible assets
£000
Other temporary
differences
£000
Total
£000
At 30 June 2013 42 312 2,006 — 35 2,395
Charge to income (70) — — — (147) (217)
Charge to equity — (550) (1,143) — — (1,693)
At 30 June 2014 (28) (238) 863 — (112) 485
(Charge)/credit to income (259) — 95 — 157 (7)
Acquisition (note 30) — — — (119) — (119)
(Charge)/credit to equity — (203) 623 — — 420
At 30 June 2015 (287) (441) 1,581 (119) 45 779
At the balance sheet date, there are no aggregate temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which 
a deferred tax liability has not been recognised (2014: £nil). No temporary differences exist in the current year as a result of a change to the 
UK tax legislation which largely exempts dividends from UK tax if received on or after 1 July 2009. The Directors believe that all dividends 
to be paid by the Company’s subsidiaries will meet the criteria for exemption from UK tax.
17. Inventories
Group Company
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
Raw materials 1,487 834 — —
Work in progress 1,845 1,079 — —
Finished goods 16,471 12,840 17,090 13,321
19,803 14,753 17,090 13,321
On 30 June 2015, the Company acquired finished goods with a book value of £1,596,000 from Ascent Scientific Ltd, one of its subsidiaries, 
as part of a transfer of trade and assets; this is included within the closing Company balance. The transaction is detailed in note 30.
18. Financial assets
Trade and other receivables
Group Company
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
Amounts receivable for the sale of goods 13,791 12,620 3,964 4,124
Allowance for doubtful debts (565) (479) (137) (196)
13,226 12,141 3,827 3,928
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings — — 14,467 7,689
Other debtors 4,119 2,386 2,399 754
Prepayments 2,382 3,316 1,213 877
19,727 17,843 21,906 13,248
Trade receivables
The average credit period taken for sales is 32.5 days (2014: 35.3 days). No interest has been charged on the receivables. Trade receivables 
are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience. The Group and Company have 
provided fully for all receivables over 90 days past due because historical experience is such that receivables that are past due beyond 90 days 
are generally not recoverable. Trade receivables between 30 days and 90 days are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts 
from the sale of goods determined by reference to past default experience.
Credit limits for each customer are reviewed on a monthly basis. No customer represents more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables.
The analysis below shows the balances included in debtors which are past due at the reporting date for which the Group or Company has 
not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable. Neither the Group 
nor Company holds any collateral or other credit enhancements over these balances, nor do they have a legal right to offset against any 
amounts owed to the counterparty. 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
18. Financial assets continued
Trade receivables continued
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables
Group Company
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
0 to 30 days overdue 2,689 2,281 599 632
30 to 60 days overdue 524 332 52 12
3,213 2,613 651 644
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts
Group Company
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
Balance at the beginning of the year (479) (411) (196) (140)
Impairment losses (recognised)/released through the income statement (67) (101) 59 (56)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (19) 33 — —
Balance at the end of the year (565) (479) (137) (196)
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable the Group and Company consider any change in the credit quality of the receivable 
from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base 
being large and unrelated. Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the allowance 
for doubtful debts.
Ageing of impaired receivables
Group Company
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
0 to 30 days overdue 265 163 79 66
30 to 60 days overdue 16 164 1 75
60 to 90 days overdue 186 116 14 32
More than 90 days overdue 98 36 43 23
565 479 137 196
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
19. Loan receivable
Group Company
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
Amount owed by subsidiary undertaking — — 60,503 39,133
The amount owed to the Company represents three interest-bearing loans due from Abcam US Group Holdings Inc, a subsidiary undertaking.
Book value
Principal 
$000 Repayment date
Interest 
rate
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
Term loan 1 33,000 20 December 2017 7.34% 20,983 19,274
Term loan 2 34,000 20 December 2019 8.69% 21,619 19,859
Bridging loan 28,153 Not applicable 7.30% 17,901 —
60,503 39,133
All of the loans are unsecured. The bridging loan was issued on 22 January 2015 and has no fixed repayment date. It is expected that this 
loan will be replaced with a formal term loan. Any other changes in the book values of each loan are due to foreign exchange movements. Financial statements
98 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
20. Available-for-sale financial asset
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
Shares 678 623
As part of the Epitomics acquisition the Group acquired a 13% interest in Plexbio Co. Limited (Plexbio), a privately owned biotechnology company 
headquartered in T aiwan. Plexbio was established to research, develop and manufacture in-vitro diagnostic (IVD) kits. The movement in the year 
is due to foreign exchange. See note 26 for further details.
21. Derivative financial instruments
Group and Company: 30 June 2015
Current Non-current
Asset
£000
Liability
£000
Asset
£000
Liability
£000
Total
£000
Derivatives carried at fair value through profit 
and loss (FVTPL)
Forward exchange contracts that are not designated 
in hedge accounting relationships 784 (247) — — 537
Derivatives that are designated and effective 
as hedging instruments carried at fair value
Forward exchange contracts 2,471 (490) 224 (5) 2,200
3,255 (737) 224 (5) 2,737
Group and Company: 30 June 2014
Current Non-current
Asset
£000
Liability
£000
Asset
£000
Liability
£000
Total
£000
Derivatives carried at fair value through profit 
and loss (FVTPL)
Forward exchange contracts that are not designated 
in hedge accounting relationships 862 — — — 862
Derivatives that are designated and effective 
as hedging instruments carried at fair value
Forward exchange contracts 986 (14) 180 (21) 1,131
1,848 (14) 180 (21) 1,993
Further details of derivative financial instruments are provided in note 26.
22. Trade and other payables
Group Company
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade payables 4,669 3,737 3,638 3,107
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings — — 12,327 7,663
Accruals and deferred income 8,699 7,986 6,655 5,317
Other taxes and social security 615 1,534 549 431
Other payables 1,525 779 1,143 8
15,508 14,036 24,312 16,526
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. At 30 June 2015, the Group 
had an average of 39.3 days of purchases (2014: 32.8 days) outstanding in trade payables (excluding accruals and deferred income). Most 
suppliers do not charge interest for the first 60 days of the invoice. The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that 
all payables are paid within the credit timetable. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates 
to their fair value. 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
23. Commitments
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£000
Year ended
30 June 2014
£000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year:
– Land and buildings 2,822 2,600
At the balance sheet date, the Group and Company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under 
non-cancellable operating leases, all of which relate to land and buildings, which fall due as follows:
Group Company
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
Within one year 2,853 2,458 959 1,032
In the second to fifth years inclusive 4,052 5,544 1,855 2,802
After five years 528 — — —
7,433 8,002 2,814 3,834
The above table reflects the committed cash payments under operating leases, rather than the expected charge to the income statement 
in the relevant periods. The charge in 2015/16 on these operating leases is expected to be £2.8m for the Group and £0.9m for the Company. 
At the year end the Group had additional commitments of £1.0m relating to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets (2014: £nil).
24. Capital and reserves
Share capital
Group and Company
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
Issued and fully paid:
201,052,039 (2014: 200,446,300) ordinary shares of 0.2 pence each 402 401
The movement during the year on the Company’s issued and fully paid shares was as follows:
2015
Number
2015
£000
2014
£000
Balance at beginning of year 200,446,300 401 399
Issue of share capital 605,739 1 2
Balance at end of year 201,052,039 402 401
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. The share capital issued during the year arose from 
the exercise of share options.
Share premium
Group and Company
£000
Balance at 1 July 2013 16,395
Premium arising on issue of equity shares 1,297
Balance at 1 July 2014 17,692
Premium arising on issue of equity shares 1,830
Balance at 30 June 2015 19,522
There were no costs of issue incurred during the year or the previous year. Financial statements
100 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
24. Capital and reserves continued
Own shares
Group and Company
£000
Balance at 1 July 2014 (2,143)
Acquired in the year (1,001)
Disposed of on exercise of options 332
Balance at 30 June 2015 (2,812)
This balance represents the cost of 794,549 shares with a nominal value of £1,589 in Abcam plc (2014: 981,901 shares with a nominal value 
of £1,964) which were issued by the Company at market value and held by the Abcam Employee Share Benefit Trust. These shares are held 
in order to satisfy the Free Shares and Matching Shares elements of the SIP . See note 27 for further details of this scheme.
Reserves
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises foreign currency differences from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations.
Share-based payment reserve
The share-based payment reserve comprises the IFRS 2 charge for the fair value of share-based options and awards.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises gains and losses recognised on cash flow hedges and the associated deferred tax assets and liabilities created.
Tax reserve
In accordance with IAS 12 the tax reserve comprises the portion of the deferred tax arising on outstanding share options not taken to the 
income statement and the portion of current tax on exercised share options not taken to the income statement.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve comprises the premium issued on shares allotted as consideration for acquisitions where conditions for merger relief 
are satisfied.
25. Dividends
Year ended 
30 June 2015
£000
Year ended
30 June 2014
£000
Amounts recognised as distributions to the owners of the parent in the year:
Final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2014 of 5.62 pence (2013: 5.10 pence) per share 11,287 10,187
Interim dividend for the year ended 30 June 2015 of 2.29 pence (2014: 2.13 pence) per share 4,601 4,268
Total distributions to owners of the parent in the period 15,888 14,455
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2015 of 5.92 pence (2014: 5.62 pence) per share 11,902 11,265
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval of the shareholders at the AGM and has not been included as a liability in these 
financial statements.
26. Financial instruments
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern whilst maximising the return 
to stakeholders. The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to the owners of the parent, 
comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and 
the basis on which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument 
are disclosed in note 3. Foreign exchange contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and the yield curves derived 
from quoted interest rates matching maturities of these contracts. 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
26. Financial instruments continued
Categories of financial instruments
Group carrying value Company carrying value
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
Financial assets
Loans and receivables
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings — — 74,970 46,822
Trade receivables 13,226 12,141 3,827 3,928
Other receivables 1,126 1,194 — —
Cash and cash equivalents and term deposits 58,695 56,862 50,931 50,013
Total financial assets 73,047 70,197 129,728 100,763
Financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities at amortised cost
Trade and other payables
1
(14,893) (12,502) (23,763) (16,095)
Total financial liabilities (14,893) (12,502) (23,763) (16,095)
1 Financial liabilities at amortised cost within trade and other payables consist of trade payables, accruals, intercompany payables and other payables.
The Directors consider there to be no material difference between the book value and the fair value of the Group’s financial assets 
and liabilities at the balance sheet date. This is because most of the financial assets and liabilities are short term.
Fair value measurements recognised in the balance sheet
Financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value have been classified using a fair value hierarchy that 
reflects the significance of the inputs used in measuring the fair value of those instruments. The fair value hierarchy has the following levels:
• Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
• Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable 
for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
• Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based 
on observable market data (unobservable market inputs).
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities carried at fair value by valuation method.
30 June 2015
Level 1
£000
Level 2
£000
Level 3
£000
Total
£000
Assets
Derivative financial instruments — 3,479 — 3,479
Available-for-sale asset — — 678 678
Total assets — 3,479 678 4,157
Liabilities
Derivative financial instruments — (742) — (742)
Total liabilities — (742) — (742)
30 June 2014
Level 1
£000
Level 2
£000
Level 3
£000
Total
£000
Assets
Derivative financial instruments — 2,028 — 2,028
Available-for-sale asset — — 623 623
Total assets — 2,028 623 2,651
Liabilities
Derivative financial instruments — (35) — (35)
Total liabilities — (35) — (35)
There were no transfers between levels during the year. Financial statements
102 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
26. Financial instruments continued
Fair value measurements recognised in the balance sheet continued
Level 2 derivative financial instruments comprise forward foreign exchange contracts. These forward foreign exchange contracts have been 
fair valued using forward exchange rates that are quoted in an active market.
The Level 3 available-for-sale asset is an unlisted equity instrument stated at fair value, using the price of the last investment in the entity by 
a third party, less a discount for illiquidity. The Directors believe that no reasonably foreseeable changes to key assumptions would result in 
a significant change in fair value.
The Group’s finance department performs the valuations of financial assets required for financial reporting purposes, including Level 3 fair values. 
It reports directly to the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Discussions of valuation processes and results are held between the CFO and the 
valuation team at least once every six months, in line with the Group’s reporting dates.
Risk in relation to the use of financial instruments
Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group or the Company. 
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers spread across diverse geographical areas. The Group does not have a significant 
credit risk exposure to any single counterparty. Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of trade receivables and 
consideration is given as to whether there is any impairment in the value of any amounts owing.
The standard payment terms for receivables other than intra-group balances are 30 days. Any variation in these terms requires authorisation 
by senior management. Year-end debtor days are 32.5 days (2014: 35.3 days). All overdue debts are provided for where collectability 
is considered doubtful or the value of the debt is impaired. Objective evidence of impairment could include the Group’s past experience 
of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period of 32.5 days, 
as well as observable changes in international or local economic conditions.
The standard payment term for intra-group receivables is 45 days. There is not considered to be any risk of impairment of these receivables 
unless the financial assets of the entity holding the corresponding liability are impaired.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are major financial institutions. 
Funds are split between at least two institutions. The carrying amount best represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
Market risk
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Group 
enters into forward exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on the sales of goods and services denominated in US Dollars, 
Euros and Japanese Yen.
Foreign currency risk management
The Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. The Group’s policy is to maintain natural hedges where possible, 
by matching foreign currency revenue and expenditure. Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters utilising 
forward exchange contracts.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the reporting date, not denominated 
in the local functional currency, are as follows:
Liabilities Assets
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2014
£000
Euros (241) (96) 7,172 4,893
US Dollars (12,969) (8,824) 10,954 10,942
Japanese Yen (21) (10) 3,724 2,924
Chinese Renminbi — — 4,347 —
Australian Dollars — — 816 —
Hong Kong Dollars — — 139 82
(13,231) (8,930) 27,152 18,841 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
26. Financial instruments continued
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The Group’s principal functional currency is Sterling. The Group is mainly exposed to fluctuations in US Dollars, Euros, Japanese Yen 
and Chinese Renminbi (RMB) exchange rates.
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to an 8% increase and decrease in the Sterling exchange rate against the relevant foreign 
currencies on the Group’s profit before tax and equity. 8% represents management’s assessment of the reasonable possible change 
in foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and forward 
exchange contracts in the balance sheet at the end of the relevant accounting period and adjusts their translation at the period end for 
an 8% change in foreign currency rates. It does not represent the overall impact on Group profitability if the exchange rate sensitivity 
had been applied through the reporting period. A positive number indicates an increase in profit or other comprehensive income.
US Dollar currency impact Euro currency impact Yen currency impact RMB currency impact
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
Effect of an 8% strengthening of GBP 
against the relevant currency:
Income statement 436 311 516 356 277 216 332 —
Other comprehensive income 1,973 1,996 1,875 2,211 520 618 — —
Effect of an 8% weakening of GBP 
against the relevant currency:
Income statement (512) (366) (606) (417) (325) (254) (390) —
Other comprehensive income (2,315) (2,343) (2,202) (2,593) (611) (726) — —
In management’s opinion, the sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk since it is limited to the year-end 
exposure and does not reflect the exposure during the year.
Forward exchange contracts
It is the policy of the Group to enter into forward exchange contracts to manage the risk associated with anticipated sales transactions 
out to 18 months within 30% to 95% of the exposure generated. Upon maturity of a forward exchange contract, the Group may enter 
into a new contract designated as a separate hedging relationship.
Foreign currency forward contracts are valued using quoted forward exchange rates and the yield curves derived from quoted interest 
rates matching maturities of the contracts.
The following table details the forward exchange contracts outstanding as at the year end:
Outstanding contracts
Average 
rate 
30 June 2015
Foreign 
currency 
30 June 2015
000
Contract 
value 
30 June 2015
£000
Fair value
30 June 2015
£000
Sell US Dollars
Less than 3 months 1.63 $12,600 7,707 (307)
3 to 6 months 1.63 $11,037 6,762 (260)
7 to 12 months 1.56 $18,289 11,738 95
13 to 18 months 1.54 $9,181 5,976 131
1.59 $51,107 32,183 (341)
Sell Euros
Less than 3 months 1.23 €7,502 6,100 773
3 to 6 months 1.25 €9,646 7,721 857
7 to 12 months 1.31 €16,197 12,399 761
13 to 18 months 1.36 €6,908 5,094 62
1.29 €40,253 31,314 2,453
Sell Yen
Less than 3 months 171.36 ¥344,314 2,009 217
3 to 6 months 174.53 ¥339,272 1,944 174
7 to 12 months 181.24 ¥750,555 4,141 208
13 to 18 months 185.98 ¥250,274 1,346 26
178.43 ¥1,684,415 9,440 625
Total of outstanding forward contracts 72,937 2,737 Financial statements
104 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
26. Financial instruments continued
Forward exchange contracts continued
Outstanding contracts
Average 
rate 
30 June 2014
Foreign 
currency 
30 June 2014
000 
Contract 
value 
30 June 2014
£000
Fair value 
30 June 2014
£000
Sell US Dollars
Less than 3 months 1.55 $10,800 6,951 627
3 to 6 months 1.67 $9,571 5,715 111
7 to 12 months 1.67 $20,556 12,279 214
13 to 18 months 1.68 $12,142 7,240 86
1.65 $53,069 32,185 1,038
Sell Euros
Less than 3 months 1.19 €6,750 5,653 246
3 to 6 months 1.22 €8,369 6,851 128
7 to 12 months 1.22 €15,704 12,842 201
13 to 18 months 1.23 €11,075 9,015 69
1.22 €41,898 34,361 644
Sell Yen
Less than 3 months 150.92 ¥333,000 2,207 281
3 to 6 months 172.13 ¥350,381 2,036 8
7 to 12 months 171.43 ¥693,680 4,046 18
13 to 18 months 170.76 ¥391,512 2,293 4
167.14 ¥1,768,573 10,582 311
Total of outstanding forward contracts 77,128 1,993
At 30 June 2015, the fair value of contracts held as cash flow hedges is an asset of £2,200,000 (2014: asset of £1,131,000). The remaining 
contracts are not held as cash flow hedges. The loss on the financial assets at fair value through the profit and loss account was £325,000 
(2014: gain of £655,000). The gain of £1,068,000 (2014: £2,491,000) recognised through other comprehensive income is the net of fair value 
gains in the year of £2,125,000 (2014: £1,240,000) and transfers to the income statement of £1,057,000 (2014: £1,251,000 loss).
Liquidity risk management
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management 
framework for the management of the Group’s short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities, continually monitoring cash flows and matching 
the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group and Company hold cash deposits at call or with a maturity of up to five years. At 30 June 2015, the average maturity of balances 
was 430 days (2014: 805 days) of fixed rate deposits not sensitive to changes in interest rates. Sufficient funds are readily available to the 
Company to meet operational requirements.
Trade payables are normally payable within 30 days of invoice and the standard payment terms for intra-group receivables are 45 days.
Liquidity risk tables – financial liabilities
All trade and other payable balances are capital and do not include accrued interest.
Less than
six months
£000
Between
six months
and one year
£000
Total
£000
Group
2015
Trade and other payables (14,345) (548) (14,893)
(14,345) (548) (14,893)
Company
2015
Trade and other payables (10,948) (479) (11,427)
Trade payables owed to subsidiary undertakings (6,107) — (6,107)
Loans payable to subsidiary undertakings — (6,229) (6,229)
(17,055) (6,708) (23,763) 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
26. Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk tables – financial liabilities continued
Less than
six months
£000
Between
six months
and one year
£000
Total
£000
Group
2014
Trade and other payables (12,502) — (12,502)
(12,502) — (12,502)
Company
2014
Trade and other payables (8,432) — (8,432)
Trade payables owed to subsidiary undertakings (3,363) — (3,363)
Loans payable to subsidiary undertakings — (4,300) (4,300)
(11,795) (4,300) (16,095)
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
An increase of 0.25% in the average interest rate during the year would have resulted in an increase in interest received by the Group of 
£144,000 (2014: £119,000) and by the Company of £126,000 (2014: £95,000). A decrease of 0.25% in the average interest rate during the 
year would have resulted in a reduction in interest received by the Group of £144,000 (2014: £119,000) and by the Company of £126,000 
(2014: £95,000). 
The average cash and term deposits balance throughout the year has been used as the basis for the calculations. A 0.25% increase 
or decrease in interest rates represents management’s assessment of the reasonable possible change in interest rates.
27. Share-based payments
Equity-settled share option scheme
The Company operates a number of share option schemes for certain employees of the Group. The share-based payments charge relates 
to option awards from the EMI scheme, Unapproved Share Option Plan, the Abcam Inc share scheme, the Abcam 2005 share option scheme, 
the Abcam Company Share Option Plan (CSOP), the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and the Share Incentive Plan (SIP). Option grants under 
each scheme have been aggregated.
The vesting period ranges from one to four years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant the 
options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
The volatility of the options is based on the average of standard deviations of daily continuous returns on Abcam plc shares. The dividend 
yield is based on Abcam’s actual dividend yield in the past.
The risk-free rate is the yield on UK Government gilts at each date of grant. The employee exercise multiple is based on published statistics for a 
portfolio of companies. The employee exit rate is based on management’s expectations and, in accordance with IFRS 2, is applied after vesting.
The Group recorded a total equity-settled share-based payments expense of £1,747,000 in the year (2014: £941,000), of which £1,251,000 
(2014: £678,000) was included within administration and management expenses and £496,000 (2014: £263,000) was included within 
R&D expenses.
Summary of all schemes, excluding SIP , LTIP and deferred share awards
Options outstanding as at 30 June 2015 had an exercise price of between 56 pence and 464 pence (2014: 12.5 pence and 464 pence). 
The weighted average remaining contractual life is 7.28 years (2014: 7.28 years). The weighted average fair value of the options outstanding 
at the end of the year was 87.28 pence (2014: 68.37 pence). The Group recorded a total share-based payments expense of £309,000 
(2014: £568,000) in the year relating to all schemes excluding the SIP , LTIP and deferred share awards.
2015 2014
Number of 
share 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise
price
pence
Weighted 
average 
share price 
at date of 
exercise 
pence 
Number of 
share 
options 
Weighted
average
exercise
price 
pence
Weighted 
average 
share price 
at date of 
exercise 
pence 
Outstanding at beginning of year 2,035,466 331.77 — 2,371,600 260.95 —
Granted during year 569,094 406.00 — 687,945 464.00 —
Forfeited during year (95,525) 411.50 — (494,329) 392.32 —
Exercised during year (363,954) 244.83 448.51 (529,750) 122.80 446.36
Outstanding at end of year 2,145,081 364.60 — 2,035,466 333.63 —
Exercisable at end of year 741,511 250.33 — 660,947 162.95 — Financial statements
106 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
27. Share-based payments continued
Enterprise Management Incentive (EMI) Scheme
2015 2014
Number of 
share 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise
price 
pence
Weighted 
average 
share price 
at date of 
exercise
pence 
Number of 
share 
options 
Weighted
average
exercise
price 
pence
Weighted 
average 
share price 
at date of 
exercise 
pence 
Outstanding at beginning of year 147,495 58.89 — 278,710 60.57 —
Exercised during year (108,575) 58.34 422.66 (131,215) 62.45 465.99
Outstanding at end of year 38,920 60.42 — 147,495 58.89 —
Exercisable at end of year 38,920 60.42 — 147,495 58.89 —
The size of the Group means that since 2009 it is no longer able to grant awards under the EMI scheme.
The vesting dates and expected cash receivable on exercise relating to the options outstanding are detailed in the table below.
2015 2014
Vesting date Expiry date
Number of 
options 
outstanding
Exercise price
 pence
Cash receivable 
on exercise
£000 
Number of 
options 
outstanding
Exercise price 
pence
Cash receivable 
on exercise
£000 
27 May 2008 27 May 2015 — — — 7,900 12.5 1
7 September 2009 7 September 2016 12,060 56.0 7 19,270 56.0 11
8 November 2010 8 November 2017 26,860 62.4 17 120,325 62.4 75
Total 38,920 24 147,495 87
Unapproved Share Option Plan
2015 2014
Number of 
share 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise
price 
pence
Weighted 
average 
share price 
at date of 
exercise
pence 
Number of 
share 
options 
Weighted
average
exercise
price 
pence
Weighted 
average 
share price 
at date of 
exercise 
pence 
Outstanding at beginning of year 170,460 62.4 — 376,270 73.45 —
Exercised during year — — — (205,810) 82.60 426.00
Outstanding at end of year 170,460 62.4 — 170,460 62.40 —
Exercisable at end of year 170,460 62.4 — 170,460 62.40 —
Further grants of unapproved options are now being made under the Abcam 2005 Share Option Scheme.
The vesting dates and expected cash receivable on exercise relating to the options outstanding are detailed in the table below.
2015 2014
Vesting date Expiry date
Number of 
options 
outstanding
Exercise price
 pence
Cash receivable 
on exercise
£000 
Number of 
options 
outstanding
Exercise price 
pence
Cash receivable 
on exercise
£000 
8 November 2010 8 November 2017 170,460 62.4 106 170,460 62.4 106
Total 170,460 106 170,460 106 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
27. Share-based payments continued
The Abcam 2005 Share Option Scheme
2015 2014
Number of 
share 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise
price 
pence
Weighted 
average 
share price 
at date of 
exercise
pence 
Number of 
share 
options 
Weighted
average
exercise
price 
pence
Weighted 
average 
share price 
at date of 
exercise 
pence 
Outstanding at beginning of year 1,188,908 395.46 — 1,114,907 302.18 —
Granted during year 489,700 406.00 — 558,241 464.00 —
Forfeited during year (56,319) 418.60 — (410,597) 396.04 —
Exercised during year (147,831) 344.72 478.82 (73,643) 187.27 462.98
Outstanding at end of year 1,474,458 403.17 — 1,188,908 352.86 —
Exercisable at end of year 352,435 330.41 — 156,590 242.49 —
The vesting dates and expected cash receivable on exercise (subject to performance conditions being met for options yet to vest) relating 
to the options outstanding are detailed in the table below.
2015 2014
Vesting date Expiry date
Number of 
options 
outstanding
Exercise price
 pence
Cash receivable 
on exercise
£000 
Number of 
options 
outstanding
Exercise price 
pence
Cash receivable 
on exercise
£000 
6 November 2011 6 November 2018 34,200 92.4 32 45,100 92.4 42
9 November 2012 9 November 2019 25,875 180.8 47 28,375 180.8 51
2 December 2013 2 December 2020 52,788 345.0 182 83,115 345.0 287
1 November 2014 1 November 2021 122,452 370.0 453 201,410 370.0 745
1 November 2014 1 November 2022 117,120 385.0 451 149,475 385.0 575
1 November 2015 1 November 2022 118,998 385.0 458 128,559 385.0 495
1 November 2016 1 November 2022 72,295 385.0 278 74,714 385.0 288
25 November 2015 25 November 2023 204,626 464.0 949 211,746 464.0 983
25 November 2016 25 November 2023 149,517 464.0 694 160,472 464.0 745
25 November 2017 25 November 2023 102,377 464.0 475 105,942 464.0 492
4 November 2016 4 November 2024 221,856 406.0 901 — — —
4 November 2017 4 November 2024 141,357 406.0 574 — — —
4 November 2018 4 November 2024 110,997 406.0 451 — — —
Total 1,474,458 5,945 1,188,908 4,703
The Abcam CSOP
2015 2014
Number of 
share 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise
price 
pence
Weighted 
average 
share price 
at date of 
exercise
pence 
Number of 
share 
options 
Weighted
average
exercise
price 
pence
Weighted 
average 
share price 
at date of 
exercise 
pence 
Outstanding at beginning of year 528,603 359.39 — 601,713 310.46 —
Granted during year 79,394 406.00 — 129,704 464.00 —
Forfeited during year (39,206) 401.29 — (83,732) 374.11 —
Exercised during year (107,548) 295.80 432.95 (119,082) 218.91 449.64
Outstanding at end of year 461,243 378.68 — 528,603 358.68 —
Exercisable at end of year 179,696 312.67 — 186,402 270.40 — Financial statements
108 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
27. Share-based payments continued
The Abcam CSOP continued
The vesting dates and expected cash receivable on exercise (subject to performance conditions being met for options yet to vest) relating 
to the options outstanding are detailed in the table below.
2015 2014
Vesting date Expiry date
Number of 
options 
outstanding
Exercise price
 pence
Cash receivable 
on exercise
£000 
Number of 
options 
outstanding
Exercise price 
pence
Cash receivable 
on exercise
£000 
9 November 2012 9 November 2019 45,560 180.8 82 84,685 180.8 153
2 December 2013 2 December 2020 67,308 345.0 232 101,717 345.0 351
1 November 2014 1 November 2021 66,828 370.0 247 107,520 370.0 398
1 November 2015 1 November 2022 103,352 385.0 398 115,202 385.0 444
25 November 2016 25 November 2023 109,349 464.0 507 119,479 464.0 554
4 November 2017 4 November 2024 68,846 406.0 280 — — —
Total 461,243 1,746 528,603 1,900
Option fair values
The Abcam 2005 Share Option Scheme
The fair value of options issued after September 2006 with market-based performance criteria is calculated using the Monte Carlo model. 
The inputs into the Monte Carlo model are as follows:
Grant date
25 November 
2013 
25 November 
2013
25 November
 2013
4 November 
2014 
4 November 
2014
4 November
 2014
Share price at grant (pence) 464 464 464 406 406 406
Fair value at valuation date (pence) 75 110 115 66 75 97
Exercise price (pence) 464 464 464 406 406 406
Expected volatility 24% 31% 30% 25% 25% 30%
Expected life (years) 5 6 7 5 6 7
Expected dividend yield 1.70% 1.70% 1.70% 1.91% 1.91% 1.91%
Risk-free rate 0.52% 0.89% 1.28% 0.78% 1.10% 1.37%
Employee exercise multiple 2 2 2 2 2 2
Employee exit rate 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00%
The Abcam CSOP
Grant date
25 November
 2013
4 November
2014 
Share price at grant (pence) 464 406
Fair value at valuation date (pence) 108 77
Exercise price (pence) 464 406
Expected volatility 31% 25%
Expected life (years) 6 6
Expected dividend yield 1.70 1.91
Risk-free rate 0.89% 1.10%
Employee exercise multiple 2 2 
Employee exit rate 0.00% 0.00% 
Share Incentive Plan
All UK-based employees are eligible to participate in the SIP whereby employees buy shares in the Company. These shares are called 
Partnership Shares and are held in trust on behalf of the employee. For every Partnership Share bought by the employee up to a limit 
of £1,800 per tax year the Company will give the employee one share free of charge (Matching Shares), provided the employee remains 
employed by the Company for a period of at least three years. The employees must take their shares out of the plan on leaving the 
Company and will not be entitled to the Matching Shares if they leave within three years of buying the Partnership Shares. In addition, 
the Company can also award employees up to a maximum of the HMRC approval limit, which during the year was £3,600 of shares 
(Free Shares) per tax year. There are no vesting conditions attached to the Free Shares, other than being continuously employed 
by the Company for three years from the date of grant. 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
27. Share-based payments continued
Option fair values continued
Share Incentive Plan continued
Number of Free Shares Number of Matching Shares
2015 2014 2015 2014
Outstanding at beginning of year 576,230 591,272 159,230 154,857
Granted during year 165,318 109,818 42,025 31,168
Forfeited during year (40,497) (39,156) (11,365) (5,819)
Released during year (129,372) (85,704) (33,825) (20,976)
Outstanding at end of year 571,679 576,230 156,065 159,230
Exercisable at end of year 240,245 268,880 64,662 66,261
For the purposes of IFRS 2 the fair value of these Matching Shares and Free Shares is determined as the market value of the shares at the 
date of grant. No valuation model is required to calculate the fair value of awards under the SIP . The fair value of an equity-based payment 
under the SIP is the face value of the award on the date of grant because the participants are entitled to receive the full value of the shares 
and there are no market-based performance conditions attached to the awards.
The Group recognised a total expense of £586,000 (2014: £475,000) in the year relating to Matching and Free Share awards.
Long Term Incentive Plan
The Company approved a new LTIP in 2008. Full details of the performance conditions are outlined in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
All awards are nil-cost options which vest, subject to achievement of the relevant performance conditions, after three years and can be 
exercised over the following seven years. Save as permitted in the LTIP rules, awards lapse on an employee leaving the Company.
Details of performance share awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
LTIP awards
2015
LTIP awards
2014
Outstanding at beginning of year 1,168,872 1,771,767
Granted during year 150,333 190,224
Forfeited during year (307,592) (338,510)
Exercised during year
1
(70,304) (454,609)
Outstanding at end of year 941,309 1,168,872
Exercisable at end of year 451,934 522,307
1  The weighted average sales price for exercises in the year was 402 pence (2014: 435 pence). Of the 70,304 options exercised during the year 304 were exercised in exchange 
for cash (2014: 6,407).
The aggregates of the fair values of the awards made in the year were £400,767, £109,376 and £28,694, granted on 4 November 2014, 
31 March 2015 and 5 May 2015 respectively (2014: £856,137). 
The estimated fair values of the awards are calculated using the Monte Carlo Model, with the Black Scholes Model used to calculate those 
with a performance condition based on EPS. The inputs into the models for awards granted are as follows:
Grant date
25 November
2013
9 December
2013
4 November
2014
31 March
2015
5 May
2015
Weighted average exercise price (pence) — — — — —
Expected volatility 31% 29% 25% 24% 24%
Expected life (years) 3 3 3 3 3
Expected dividend yield 1.70% 1.66% 1.91% 1.63% 1.51%
Risk-free rate 0.87% 0.99% 1.10% 0.95% 0.93%
The Group recognised an expense of £166,000 (2014: a net credit of £102,000) in the year related to performance share awards under the LTIP . Financial statements
110 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
27. Share-based payments continued
Option fair values continued
Annual Bonus Plan – deferred share award
The Company approved a new component to the Annual Bonus Plan in 2013 whereby a portion of the annual amount awarded to certain 
senior management would be deferred in shares. The number of deferred shares granted is dependent on certain performance criteria, 
consisting of a one-year profit target, and achievement of strategic and personal objectives. There is a further two-year compulsory deferral 
period, at the end of which the deferred share awards will become exercisable subject to continued employment.
Details of performance share awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
Deferred 
share awards
2015
Deferred 
share awards
2014
Outstanding at beginning of year 68,886 —
Granted during year 118,229 72,326
Forfeited during year (1,260) (3,440)
Exercised during year — —
Outstanding at end of year 185,855 68,886
Exercisable at end of year — —
The aggregate of the fair values of the awards granted on 8 September 2014 was £509,600 (2014: £290,000).
The estimated fair values of the awards are calculated using the Black Scholes Model due to the grants having performance conditions 
based on non-market conditions. The inputs into the model for awards granted are as follows:
Grant date
10 September 
2013
8 September 
2014
Weighted average exercise price (pence) — —
Expected volatility 35% 32%
Expected life (years) 3 3
Expected dividend yield 1.32% 1.71%
Risk-free rate 0.40% 0.87%
The Group recognised an expense of £500,800 (2014: a net credit of £225,600) in the year related to deferred share awards under 
the Annual Bonus Plan.
Cash-settled share option scheme
In addition to the equity-settled schemes the Group operates a cash-settled scheme for certain overseas employees. The total charge 
for the year was £144,000 (2014: a net credit of £33,000).
28. Retirement benefit schemes
Defined contribution schemes
The UK-based employees of the Company have the option to be members of a defined contribution pension scheme managed by a third party 
pension provider. For each employee who is a member of the scheme the Company will contribute a fixed percentage of each employee’s 
salary to the scheme. The only obligation of the Group with respect to this scheme is to make the specified contributions.
Employees of the Group’s subsidiaries in the US, Japan, China and Hong Kong are members of state-managed retirement benefit schemes 
operated by the governments of the US, Japan, China and Hong Kong respectively. Depending on location, the subsidiaries are required to 
contribute a specified percentage of payroll costs to the retirement benefit schemes to fund the benefits. The only obligation of the Group 
with respect to the retirement benefit schemes is to make the specified contributions as required by law.
The total cost charged to the income statement in respect of these schemes during the year ended 30 June 2015 was £1,689,000 
(2014: £1,207,000). As at 30 June 2015 contributions of £156,000 (2014: £83,000) due in respect of the current reporting period had 
not been paid over to the schemes.
29. Business Combinations
Firefly BioWorks Inc
On 23 January 2015 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Firefly BioWorks Inc (Firefly), a private company incorporated in the 
United States specialising in novel assay technologies, for $26.4m. A further payment of $1.6m was made after the acquisition to settle the 
pre-existing liabilities. As a result of the acquisition, the Group is expected to produce marketable Micro RNA research products, extending 
the Group’s product portfolio in this increasingly important area of research. In addition the Group is expecting to leverage the acquired 
technology to produce a new series of protein immunoassays.
The goodwill of $12.0m (£8.0m) arising from the acquisition consists largely of the product pipeline opportunities and alternative future uses 
to be derived from the acquired technology and the value of the highly knowledgeable and skilled workforce. None of the goodwill recognised 
is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Financial statements
29. Business Combinations continued
Firefly BioWorks Inc continued
The following table summarises the consideration paid for Firefly and the provisional fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
at the acquisition date:
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
Fair value
£000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets (note 13) 17,704
Current assets
Cash 224
Trade and other receivables 21
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (1,323)
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liability (7,082)
Total identifiable assets acquired 9,544
Goodwill 8,013
Total consideration 17,557
Consideration at 23 January 2015 £000
Cash 17,557
Total consideration transferred 17,557
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (224)
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition 17,333
Acquisition-related expenses totalling £335,000 are included within administrative expenses in the Consolidated income statement for the 
year ended 30 June 2015.
The fair value of the acquired identifiable intangible assets consists of £17,088,800 in-progress R&D and £615,600 of software. The values 
have been formally assessed by a third party valuation expert. A related deferred tax liability has also been recognised. The book value 
has been deemed by management to equate to the fair value for the remaining balance sheet accounts.
During the period from the date of acquisition to the balance sheet date, Firefly contributed £151,000 to the Group’s revenue from sales 
to third parties and a loss before tax of £1,033,000 over the same period.
Had Firefly been consolidated from 1 July 2014, the consolidated income statement would show pro forma revenue of £144,122,000 
and profit before tax of £43,558,000.
30. Related party transactions
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Senior Leadership Team and the Executive and Non-Executive Directors, who are the key management personnel 
of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Further information 
about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Group and Company
30 June
2015
£000
30 June
2014
£000
Short-term employee benefits and fees 3,778 3,155
Post-employment benefits 64 107 
Share-based payments charge 190 190
4,032 3,452
Directors’ transactions
Dividends totalling £2,429,438 were paid in the year in respect of ordinary shares held by the Company’s Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
During the year the Company made sales to Horizon Discovery Limited, of which Jonathan Milner is a non-executive director, totalling 
£7,202 (2014: £5,413) and made purchases from Order Dynamics of £60,000 (2014: £nil), of which Michael Ross is an executive director. Financial statements
112 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
30. Related party transactions continued
Company transactions with its subsidiaries
The Company provided goods for resale to, purchased goods from, received dividends from, and was charged management fees 
by its subsidiaries in the current and prior years as summarised in the following table:
30 June
2015
£000
30 June
2014
£000
Sales of goods 76,308 62,812
Purchase of goods (11,887) (7,495)
Dividends received — —
Management fees charged (1,004) (1,209)
63,417 54,108
Amounts remaining outstanding at the year end can be seen in the notes to the Company balance sheet.
Ascent Scientific Ltd intra-group trade transfer
During the year the decision was made to hive-up the trade of Ascent Scientific Ltd (Ascent) into Abcam Plc. Consequently on 30 June 2015 
the trade and net assets of Ascent were transferred to the Company at their book value.
The cost of the Company’s investment in that subsidiary undertaking reflected the fair value of net assets and goodwill assessed at the 
time of acquisition to the Abcam Group (12 September 2011). As a result of the transfer, the value of the Company’s investment in Ascent 
fell below the amount at which it was stated in the Company’s balance sheet.
Schedule 1 to the Companies Act 2006 The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 
(SI 2008 No. 410) requires that the investment be written down accordingly and that the amount be charged as a loss in the Company’s 
profit and loss account. However, the Directors consider that, as there has been no overall economic loss to the Company, it would fail 
to give a true and fair view to charge that diminution to the profit and loss account for the year and it should instead follow predecessor 
accounting, reallocating the cost to goodwill and the identifiable fair value of net assets transferred. The allocation between assets 
acquired has been taken with reference to the original values assessed formally at the date Ascent was acquired by the Abcam Group.
The following table summarises the impact of adopting predecessor accounting for the trade transfer on the Company balance sheet:
Fair value
 recognised
£000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets (note 13) 602
Property, plant and equipment (note 14) 134
Current assets
Cash 54
Inventories (note 17) 1,596
Trade and other receivables 96
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (82)
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax (note 16) (119)
Total identifiable assets recognised 2,281
Cash consideration 1,798
Reduction in carrying value of investment (note 15) 8,370
Recognised directly in equity
1
(229)
Total consideration 9,939
Goodwill recognised 7,658
1 Amounts recognised directly to equity represent the change in the net assets of Ascent since acquisition on 12 September 2011.
The Group financial statements are not affected by this transfer.
31. Income statement for the Company
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has elected not to present its own income statement for the year. 
Abcam plc reported a profit for the year ended 30 June 2015 of £40,372,000 (2014: £29,300,000). Registered office
330 Cambridge Science Park
Milton Road
Cambridge CB4 0FL
UK
Websites
www.abcam.com
www.abcamplc.com
Registered number
3509322
Company Secretary
Suzanne Smith
Nominated advisor and joint broker
J.P . Morgan Cazenove
25 Bank Street
London E14 5JP
UK
Joint broker
Peel Hunt LLP
Moor House
120 London Wall
London EC2Y 5ET
UK
Auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants
Abacus House
Castle Park
Cambridge CB3 0AN
UK
Public relations advisor
FTI
200 Aldersgate 
London EC1A 4HD 
UK
Banker
National Westminster Bank plc
King’s Parade
Cambridge CB2 3PU
UK
Registrar
Capita Asset Services
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield HD8 0GA
UK
Shareholder information
Shareholder enquiries
Any shareholder with enquiries should, in the first instance, 
contact our registrar, Capita Asset Services, using the address 
provided in the Corporate Directory.
Share price information
London Stock Exchange Alternative Investment Market (AIM) 
symbol: ABC
Information on the Company’s share price is available on the 
Abcam investor relations website at www.abcamplc.com.
Investor relations
330 Cambridge Science Park
Milton Road
Cambridge CB4 0FL
UK
Email: corporate@abcam.com
Phone: +44 (0)1223 696000
Website: www.abcamplc.com
Financial calendar
Financial year end 30 June 2015
Full year results announced 14 September 2015
Annual General Meeting 5 November 2015
Ex-dividend date for final dividend 12 November 2015
Record date for final dividend 13 November 2015
Final dividend payment 4 December 2015
Corporate directory
The Group’s commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this Annual Report which 
has been printed on Cocoon 50% recycled silk which is made from 100% post-consumer 
fibres, FSC
®
 certified and PCF (Process Chlorine Free). Printed in the UK by Pureprint 
using their  and  environmental printing technology, and vegetable 
inks were used throughout. 
Pureprint 
is a CarbonNeutral
®
 company. Both manufacturing 
mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 
and are Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC) chain-of-custody certified.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this 
document have been reduced to net zero through a verified carbon offsetting project.
 
Design Portolio is committed to planting 
trees or every corporate communications 
project, in association with Trees or Cities. Abcam plc
330 Cambridge Science Park 
Cambridge CB4 0FL 
UK
Email: corporate@abcam.com 
Phone: +44 (0)1223 696000 
Fax: +44 (0)1223 215215
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
