 Growth
Innovation
Value
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 A leading developer  
and manufacturer of 
innovative and 
technologically 
advanced products for 
the global surgical, 
woundcare markets.
Company Overview
1 Highlights 2015
2 At a Glance
4 Our Brands
5 Our Locations and  
Key Performance Indicators
6 Our Vision and Strategy
7 Our Business Model
8 Strategy in Action
Strategic Report
10 Strategic Review
12 Business Units
12 Branded Direct
14 Branded Distributed
16 OEM
18 Bulk Materials
19 Operations
20 Quality and Regulatory Affairs
21 Corporate Social Responsibility
22 Chairman’s Statement
23 Chief Executive’s Statement
26 Financial Review
30 Board of Directors
32 Senior Management
Governance
34 Directors’ Report
38 Remuneration Report
46 Corporate Governance Report
51 Independent Auditor’s Report
Financial Statements
52 Consolidated Income Statement
52 Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
53 Consolidated Statement of Financial 
Position
54 Consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Equity
55 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
56 Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
84 Company Balance Sheet
84 Statement in Changes in Equity 
85 Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements
90 Five Year Summary
91 Notice of Meeting
94 Advisors 1
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
HIGHLIGHTS 2015
Financial
Business
2015 2014 
Reported 
growth
Growth at 
constant 
currency
1
Group revenue (£ million) 68.6 63.0 9% 11%
Adjusted
2
 operating margin (%) 25.4 24.7 70bps –
Adjusted
2
 profit before tax (£ million) 17.4 15.6 12% –
Profit before tax (£ million) 17.0 15.2 12% –
Adjusted
2
 diluted earnings per share (p) 6.86 6.26 10% –
Diluted earnings per share (p) 6.68 6.08 10% –
Net operating cash flow (£ million)
3
22.5 18.4 22% –
Net cash (£ million)
4
34.2 17.3 98% –
 + Proposed final dividend of 0.55p per share, making a total dividend for 
the year of 0.80p (2014: 0.70p), up 14.3%
 + Good sales progress across all Business Units on a constant 
currency basis; 
 - Branded Distributed up 37% to £14.6 million (2014: £10.7 million)
5
, 
and up 38% at constant currency
 - Branded Direct down 3% to £22.3 million (2014: £23.2 million)
5
, 
and up 3% at constant currency
 - OEM up 10% to £27.7 million (2014: £25.3 million), and up 8% at 
constant currency
 - Bulk Materials up 2% to £3.9 million (2014: £3.9 million), and up 
12% at constant currency
 + Strong performance in the U.S. with LiquiBand
®
 tissue adhesive range;
 - Revenues up 79% at constant currency to £8.0 million  
(2014: £4.1 million) 
 - As at 31 December 2015, market share by volume
6
 increased to 
16.8% (July 2015: 11.1%) in the combined hospital and non-
hospital market 
 + ActivHeal
®
 continued to make good progress in the U.K. NHS, with 
an 8% increase in revenue
 + Silver alginate revenues increased by 10% at constant currency to 
£15.5 million (2014: £13.7 million)
 + Hernia mesh fixation device, LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
, delivered £1.0 million 
of sales in the first full year and launched in 20 countries 
 + CE approval for antimicrobial foam including Polyhexamethylene 
Biguanide (PHMB) for Europe received on 27 August 2015 with 
launches expected in 2016
 + FDA approval for two new product claims for the octyl formulation 
product, LiquiBand
®
 Exceed
™
, giving it a competitive advantage in 
the U.S. topical skin adhesive market
 + FDA approval to market suture portfolio in the U.S. in line with 
strategy post acquisition of RESORBA
®
.
£68.6m 
GROUP REVENUE
(2014: £63.0m)
£17.4m 
ADJUSTED
2
 PROFIT BEFORE TAX
(2014: £15.6m)
£6.86p 
ADJUSTED
2
 DILUTED  
EARNINGS PER SHARE
(2014: £6.26p)
£34.2m 
NET CASH
4
(2014: £17.3m)
1 Constant currency removes the effect of currency 
movements by re-translating the current period’s 
performance at the previous period’s exchange rates
2 All items are shown before amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets which, in 2015, were £0.4 million  
(2014: £0.4 million) as defined in the financial review
3 Operating cash flow is arrived at by taking the operating 
profit for the period and adjusting it for depreciation, 
amortisation, working capital movements and other 
non-cash items
4 Net cash is defined as cash and cash equivalents plus 
short-term investments less financial liabilities and bank 
loans
5 £0.4 million of sutures for the dental market has been 
reclassified from the Branded Direct to the Branded 
Distributed segment. The 2014 revenues have been 
restated to aid comparison
6 Data supplied by Global Healthcare Exchange 2 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
AT A GLANCE 
We operate under 
four Business Units.
Each Business Unit is responsible for their respective sales, marketing 
and Research and Development (R&D) activities, and focuses on a 
different strategic route to market.
Our Business Units 
BRANDED DIRECT BRANDED DISTRIBUTED
OEM BULK MATERIALS
Sales of AMS Group brands: LiquiBand
®
 and RESORBA
®
, 
through our global network of distributors where the Group 
does not have a direct sales team.
Sales of bulk materials to converters and healthcare 
companies.
Direct sales of AMS Group brands: ActivHeal
®
, 
LiquiBand
®
 and RESORBA
®
, through our own sales 
teams in Germany, U.K. and Czech Republic.
Sales of finished products to our OEM 
partners.
See pages 12 and 13 for more information
See pages 16 and 17 for more information
See pages 14 and 15 for more information
See page 18 for more information 3
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
The Group is involved in the design, development, manufacture and distribution of novel, 
high performance materials for use in advanced woundcare products and surgical 
dressings, as well as medical adhesives and sutures for closing and sealing tissue. 
AMS products and markets
Surgical Woundcare
• Global advanced woundcare market 
$3.2bn, growth of 2% to 3%
• Focus on moist wound healing – 
faster, less pain and scarring
• Chronic wounds (e.g. ulcers, pressure 
sores – link to diabetes and obesity)
• Market size $7bn, growth of 4.5%
• Sutures, 45% of total market
• Tissue adhesives, growing at 8%
• U.S., dominant market for tissue 
adhesives
Surgical market: Woundcare market:
TOPICAL  
ADHESIVES
SUTURES
INTERNAL ADHESIVES
HAEMOSTATS
NEW 
TECHNOLOGIES
R&D
SILVER 
ALGINATES
PHMB FOAM
FOAM
ATRAUMATIC  
FOAMS
ALGINATES  
4 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
REPAIR AND REGENERATE
OUR BRANDS
Our products are sold in  
over 70 countries worldwide.
ActivHeal
®
AMS’s brand of advanced woundcare 
products that are sold to the NHS in the 
U.K., providing significant cost savings to 
the payor without compromising on 
clinical effectiveness.
LiquiBand
®
The Group’s range of medical adhesives, 
based on cyanoacrylate. The Group has a 
range of formulations and applicators for 
topical skin closure, as well as the 
approval to use the adhesive internally for 
hernia mesh fixation in Europe.
RESORBA
®
The Group’s comprehensive range of 
sutures, approved for use in Europe. 
Approval to sell the majority of the sutures 
in the U.S. was obtained in September 2015. 
The Group also has a range of haemostats 
approved for use in Europe. RESORBA
®
’s 
sutures and haemostats can be used for 
both surgical and dental applications. 1
2
4
6
7
3
5
 
5
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
1
2
4
6
7
3
5
WINSFORD, U.K. HEADQUARTERS: 
Woundcare manufacturing, R&D,  
sales & marketing
PLYMOUTH, U.K.: 
Tissue adhesives manufacturing,  
R&D, sales & marketing
ETTEN-LEUR, NETHERLANDS:
Bulk foam roll-stock manufacturing, sales
NEUSTADT, GERMANY:
Sutures manufacturing
NUREMBERG, GERMANY:
Haemostats manufacturing, R&D,  
sales & marketing
DOMAZLICE, CZECH REPUBLIC:
RESORBA
®
 sutures manufacturing, sales
MOSCOW, RUSSIA:
Sales
Our locations 
57%
11%
9%
11%
9%
13 12 14 15 11
REVENUE GROWTH (%)
1
 AT 
CONSTANT CURRENCY
94%
96%
99%
96%
89%
13 12 14 15 11
CUSTOMER SERVICE (OTIF)
2
24% 24%
25% 25%
19%
13 12 14 15 11
ADJUSTED
3
 OPERATING
MARGIN (%)
1
24%
6%
14%
10%
14%
13 12 14 15 11
ADJUSTED
3
 DILUTED EARNINGS 
PER SHARE GROWTH (%)
1
1. Includes twelve months contribution from RESORBA® acquisition in 2012
2. OTIF – ‘On time in full’
3. Before exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangible assets
Key performance indicators 6 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
OUR VISION AND STRATEGY
Market outlook Strategy for growth 
There is a rising incidence of both 
chronic and acute wounds. 
Predisposing factors are on the 
increase such as obesity, diabetes 
and old age. There is also an 
increasing demand from emerging 
healthcare markets.
A continuing trend towards minimally 
invasive surgery further provides 
opportunities for innovations and 
market growth. Healthcare 
economics demand cost-effective 
product solutions. AMS’s mission is to 
meet these needs.
Add value for payors in advanced 
woundcare and surgical markets
Continue to drive geographic 
expansion
Increase direct distribution of 
surgical products through AMS’s 
sales forces in target markets
Enhance product portfolio, 
technologies and pipeline 
through investment in  
in-house R&D, acquisitions  
and in-licensing
T o become the best developer, producer and 
supplier of innovative medical devices in the 
areas of accelerating healing and managing 
wounds, minimising adverse surgical 
outcomes, and sealing and closing tissue. 7
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
How our model works 
SURGICAL SURGICAL WOUNDCARE WOUNDCARE
BRANDS
Direct sales 
teams in 
Germany, U.K. & 
Czech Republic
Global network 
of >100 
distribution 
partners
(all sales made in 
Russia are included in 
this Business Unit)
Global advanced 
woundcare 
customer base
Convertors, 
packers, 
advanced 
woundcare 
partners
DIRECT OEM DISTRIBUTED BULK
THIRD PARTY
REPAIR AND REGENERATE 8 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGY IN ACTION
Setting the foundations  
for the future
We continue to grow our business by both 
expanding our geographical presence,  
as well as developing new products.
We help our OEM partners to obtain 
regulatory approval for our products in  
new territories as well as increasing our 
distributorship network to exploit markets 
where we do not have a direct sales 
presence.
This strategy is proving successful. We have 
increased our market share by volume to 
17% in the U.S. with LiquiBand
®
 by working 
with distributors that are able to access the 
whole of the U.S. We are also seeing 
continued growth of our silver alginate 
products through our OEM partners.
We continue to develop new products to 
increase our portfolio. We successfully 
launched LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
, our first approval 
for an internal application of tissue adhesives, 
and have developed antimicrobial and 
atraumatic foam dressings that will be 
launched in 2016 with both our OEM partners 
and in our ActivHeal
®
 range of dressings.
Some of the Research and Development 
projects we are working on include 
increasing the indication claims for 
LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
, developing new dressings 
with surgical applications, as well as 
developing antibiotic impregnated collagens.
We offer cost effective products without 
compromising on clinical outcomes. Our 
ActivHeal
®
 range of advanced woundcare 
dressings that we sell to the NHS includes 
aquafibres, foams, alginates, hydrogels and 
hydrocolloids. The range will be increased to 
include our new foams in 2016, increasing 
the size of the available market to us.
Following the FDA approval to market  
our suture portfolio in the US, we expect to 
make our first sales into the U.S. in 2016.
LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
2015 was the first full year of sales of our hernia 
mesh fixation device LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
, which is 
our first application using medical cyanoacrylate 
within the body. This product is now being sold 
in 20 countries and delivered £1 million of sales  
in 2015. Following the positive feedback from 
surgeons, we will be working to extend the 
indications that LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 can be used for. 9
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
New Foam Dressings
We will be launching our new non-adhesive 
antimicrobial foam dressing containing 
Polyhexamethylene Biguanide (PHMB) with our OEM 
partners and into our ActivHeal
®
 range of dressings in 
2016. PHMB has been shown to be effective against 
several bacteria such as MRSA and E-Coli. This, together 
with our new atraumatic wound dressing containing 
silicone, increases our foam dressing portfolio and 
market opportunity.
RESORBA
®
  
sutures in the U.S.
Following FDA approval to market our suture 
portfolio in the U.S., we expect to make our 
first sales in 2016. With our comprehensive 
range of sutures, we will be able to provide 
portfolio ranges to match the specific 
requirements that are needed by dental, 
ophthalmic or veterinary professionals. 10 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REVIEW
BUSINESS MODEL
The Group is primarily involved in the design, development, 
manufacture and distribution of novel, high performance 
materials for use in advanced woundcare products and 
surgical dressings as well as medical adhesives and sutures for 
closing and sealing wounds. The Group distributes its products 
to the global device market by selling to healthcare companies 
and distributors as well as selling directly into the hospital and 
dental markets in Germany, Czech Republic, Russia and to the 
NHS in the U.K.
The Group’s strategy is to:
• Innovate, design and develop market leading products 
• Leverage our existing routes as well as accessing new 
routes to market 
• Grow both our OEM partner business and our own brands 
• Not be over-reliant on any one partner or market 
• Drive operational efficiency improvements and eliminate 
non-value added activities 
• Make selective acquisitions that provide commercial and 
technological synergies 
The Group operates through four Business Units: Branded 
Direct, Branded Distributed, OEM, and Bulk Materials which 
are each responsible for their respective sales, marketing and 
R&D activities and focus on a strategic route to market. The 
Business Units are supported by Operations, Regulatory and 
Quality, HR, Finance, Legal and IT Group functions. There are 
harmonised policies, processes and procedures, across the 
Group.
This business structure provides clarity on accountability and 
responsibility and clear lines for decision making that supports 
the growth of the overall business.
While each of the Business Units has objectives and risks 
specific to that Business Unit, which are discussed in the 
relevant divisional reports below, there are some risks that are 
common throughout the Group.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FOR THE GROUP
Global Economic Conditions
The general economic conditions in a number of geographies, 
including the U.K. and Europe, are such that governments are 
looking to reduce spend on public services, including spend 
on healthcare. These actions have the potential to reduce 
demand. However, with ageing populations suffering from 
health problems and obesity, leading to increased chronic 
illnesses, the incidence of chronic wounds which are treated 
with advanced woundcare products continues to increase. 
Both the developed world and developing economies are 
experiencing increasing demand for surgery to treat health 
problems, as well as expecting to lead longer and more active 
lives, increasing the need for surgical products. Overall, the 
demographics are beneficial for the Group. The Group has a 
widespread geographical market coverage and a diverse 
customer base which helps to minimise the impact of any 
single one adverse event in any region or with any one 
customer.
Pricing Pressures and Commoditisation of Products
There are pricing pressure risks and continued competition 
from other products. The Group tries to provide differentiated 
products which are patented or covered by know-how 
whenever possible, as well as providing a complete service to 
its customers to mitigate this risk.
Regulatory Risk
The Group is subject to various regulatory requirements. With 
regulations becoming increasingly stringent there is always an 
element of compliance risk. Failure to achieve regulatory approval 
could result in the inability of the Group to supply goods into a 
market. To mitigate this risk the Group has a stringent compliance 
regime in place, is regularly audited by BSI (British Standards 
Institution), and TÜV (Technischer Überwachungsverein), as well 
as regulatory bodies in other countries. 11 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
Product Quality Risk
The Group operates in highly regulated markets with strict 
quality requirements. Any quality failure involving the Group’s 
products could lead to the loss of reputation, loss of revenues, 
the loss of a customer, recall costs as well as sanctions from a 
regulator. To mitigate this, the Group operates within a strictly 
controlled Quality Management System.
Development Risk
The Group continues to invest in R&D to develop its next 
generation of products. Not all research leads to successful 
new products but the Group believes that by monitoring 
progress against key milestones in a stage gate process it 
avoids excessive expenditure on projects that do not deliver a 
viable product.
There is also a risk that the Group will not identify a new 
technology or opportunity before its competitors and will miss 
an opportunity to gain competitive advantage. The Business 
Unit structure provides focus on the market reducing the risk of 
missed opportunities.
Finance Risk
The Group is subject to various financial risks and the following 
are considered the most significant. Currently the Group has 
no borrowings and over £34 million of cash, so does not 
consider liquidity or interest rates to be a significant risk.
Currency
The Group’s main currency exposure is to the U.S. dollar and 
to the Euro. The Group’s policy is to hedge significant 
transaction exposure by using forward contracts and options. 
The Group aims to have at least 70% of its estimated 
transactional exposure for the next twelve months on a rolling 
basis, hedged. Its currency exposure is reviewed regularly.
In 2015, 23% of the Group’s sales were in U.S. dollars and 30% 
of its sales were in Euros. If in 2015, the average U.S. dollar rate 
had depreciated against sterling by an additional 10%, there 
would have been a £1.6 million (2014: £1.2 million) adverse 
impact on revenue and the gross margin and profit would have 
been reduced by 70bps (2014: 50bps).
In 2015, if the average Euro rate had depreciated against 
sterling by an additional 10%, there would have been a  
£2.1 million (2014: £2.2 million) adverse impact on revenue  
and the gross margin and profit would have been increased  
by 10bps (2014: 0bps).
 
Euro impact is minimal as a significant proportion of our 
revenues are naturally hedged against our Euro cost base.
Credit Risk
The Group assesses the risk of contracting with each customer 
and sets credit limits which are carefully monitored. If a 
significant risk is identified, credit facilities are withdrawn and 
transactions are carried out on a cash before delivery basis.  
If a key partner was significantly affected by a difficult trading 
environment this would have a short-term impact on the Group.
Cost Pressures
The Group estimates that if material prices had increased by  
a further 5% in 2015 and the Group had been unable to pass 
the increase on, there would have been a negative impact of  
£0.7 million (2014: £0.7 million) to the cost and the gross margin 
would have reduced by 100bps (2014: 110bps).
Supplier Risk
Where possible the Group looks to reduce the reliance on 
single source suppliers to mitigate the risk resulting from 
problems in supply. The Group actively tries to dual source key 
components and where this is not possible looks to hold levels 
of inventory to prevent operational issues arising from delays. It 
also carries business interruption insurance to cover significant 
interruption of supply. 12 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
The Branded Direct Business Unit is responsible for driving  
sales of our own brands: ActivHeal
®
, LiquiBand
®
 and RESORBA
®
 
to end users in the U.K., Germany and Czech Republic where  
the Group has its own sales teams. This Business Unit is also 
responsible for directing R&D for sutures and collagens.
BUSINESS UNITS 
Branded Direct
ActivHeal
®
 is the Group’s brand of advanced woundcare dressings 
that it sells into the NHS in the U.K. The proposition of this brand  
is that it provides a range of ‘good value’, advanced woundcare 
dressings that deliver cost savings to the NHS without 
compromising on clinical outcomes or patient care. The ActivHeal
®
 
range is supported by a dedicated team of experienced healthcare 
professionals and by online education modules that provide training 
on the treatment of wounds. With the NHS operating under 
budgetary constraints, ActivHeal
®
 continues to provide a good 
growth opportunity for the Group. The range has now been 
extended to include our new atraumatic and antimicrobial foams.
The LiquiBand
®
 range of medical adhesives and sealants, based  
on cyanoacrylate, is used to close and protect wounds in a safe 
and secure way. In the U.K., LiquiBand
®
 is well recognised in the 
majority of Accident & Emergency (A&E) units where its high 
strength attribute makes it the product of first choice for closing 
trauma wounds. 
We also sell LiquiBand
®
 into the Operating Room (OR) in the U.K. 
and Germany where it is used to make the final topical skin closure 
following the surgical procedure. 
Until recently our LiquiBand
®
 products had only been approved  
for topical use. In 2014, our new, innovative LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 device 
was launched to the market, and in 2015 gained further claims to 
support its use with regards to hernia surgery. We expect to see 
further sales growth from this device, as it offers reduced risk of 
pain and trauma for hernia mesh fixation. 
RESORBA
®
’s high quality comprehensive suture range includes 
several brands such as CAPROLON
®
, GLYCOLON
®
, MOPYLEN
®
 
and RESOPREN
®
 that are sold into hospitals, private practices and  
to oral surgeons. 
RESORBA
®
’s haemostat range includes COLLAGEN-resorb and 
GENTA-COLL -resorb. The latter is a very pure collagen that includes 
the antibiotic gentamicin for use in wounds where there is a high  
risk of infection. Combining the suture and collagen technologies, 
RESORBA
®
 has developed products and brands that are particularly 
applicable to the oral surgery market, e.g. PARASORB
®
 Sombrero
®
  
is a collagen cone used for dental implants. 
Our model of providing ‘high quality good value’ ranges to the NHS 
is applicable to our RESORBA
®
 suture range and we are actively 
working to promote our RESORBA
®
 products within the NHS. We 
are also aiming to extend the use of RESORBA
®
’s sutures within  
the German hospital system.
The strategy is to increase market share of the Group’s 
brands in the U.K., Germany and the Czech Republic 
through the Group’s direct sales teams by: 
Strategy
RESORBA
®
 + Ensuring that RESORBA
®
 is included in German 
and U.K. hospital tender processes 
 + Targeting Group Purchase Organisations (GPOs) 
in Germany 
 + Increasing the usage in the OR in the U.K. through 
the U.K. surgical sales team by cross-selling 
RESORBA
®
 sutures and collagens with LiquiBand
®
 
products 
 + Developing the collagen range, e.g. adding new 
antibiotics 
LiquiBand
®
 + Increasing usage in the OR in the U.K.,  
Germany and Czech Republic through our  
existing sales teams 
 + Promoting the hernia mesh fixation device 
LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 into the OR in the U.K.  
and Germany 
ActivHeal
®
 
 + Ensuring ActivHeal
®
 is included on relevant  
NHS tenders 
 + Extending the ranges used in hospitals where 
ActivHeal
®
 is listed 
 + Converting new hospitals to ActivHeal
®
 
 + Extending the range of dressings offered, e.g. the 
new antimicrobial and atraumatic foam dressings 
will be included in the ActivHeal
®
 range  13 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
David Rennie
Business Unit Director
Part of the RESORBA
®
 
suture range.
Market share growth
Product launch
Increased pressures on 
healthcare budgets increases 
market and price competition 
Gaining market share takes 
longer than expected or  
that the cost of accessing  
the market is more than 
originally budgeted
The launch of products is 
delayed due to lack of 
regulatory approval. 
Regulatory approvals are 
increasingly taking longer  
to obtain 
Sales of a new product are 
slower than expected
 + Effective alignment of our strategy to consider the market 
changes and promote quality and cost
 + Regular reviews of progress against plan are taken and 
corrective action is taken, if necessary
 + The Group has an experienced regulatory team and  
works with partners and distributors where they have  
local expertise
 + Regular review of progress is made and corrective action 
taken, if necessary
 + Feedback from users and key opinion leaders is sought 
and acted on
 + Clinical papers and data supporting product are provided
+3% 
*
REVENUE
to £22.3m
* at constant currency
Risk Description Mitigating Action 14 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
The Branded Distributed Business Unit is responsible for driving 
sales of our LiquiBand
®
 and RESORBA
®
 brands to all markets 
where the Group does not have its own sales teams and sales 
are made through distributors. It is also responsible for directing 
R&D for medical adhesives and sealants.
BUSINESS UNITS CONTINUED
Branded Distributed
The Group works with many distributors 
worldwide accessing almost 70 countries.
The largest market for LiquiBand
®
 topical skin 
adhesives remains the U.S. and this continues 
to be a major focus for this Business Unit. We 
now have a range of formulations that provide 
quick, precision closure as well as 
formulations that are more film forming. The 
FDA approved two new product claims for 
LiquiBand
®
 Exceed
™
 in November 2015. This 
device can be used to cover wounds up to 30 
cm in length as well as a single device being 
suitable for intra-operative reuse for up to 90 
minutes on a single patient.
LiquiBand
®
 is also promoted and supported 
throughout the rest of the world.
This Business Unit is also responsible for 
LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 which uses the 
cyanoacrylate technology within the body for 
hernia mesh fixation. Work is progressing to 
extend the application range of this product.
The RESORBA
®
 suture and collagen ranges 
are sold throughout Europe and the Middle 
East. Dental collagens and related products 
are a focus for Europe. Approval to market the 
majority of our suture range in the U.S. was 
received in November 2015 and our first sales 
are expected in 2016.
This Business Unit also includes all sales 
made by our Russian subsidiary which are 
made both by the direct sales team in 
Moscow and by the distributor network that 
the Moscow sales team supports throughout 
the rest of Russia. 
The strategy of this Business Unit is to increase sales of the Group’s brands 
in all markets where the Group does not have a sales force by:
Strategy
Increasing the market share of 
LiquiBand
®
 in the U.S.:
 + Partner with key distributors that access the U.S. healthcare market 
 + Develop and launch new products 
 + Train partner personnel, and provide marketing and account 
support 
Developing and launching new 
products:
 + Next generation internal applications of cyanoacrylate for fixation 
including new indications for LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 and new product 
variations for open hernia repair
Maximising opportunities across Europe, 
Asia-Pacific, the Middle East, and Latin 
America:
 + Leverage the combined existing distributor network for LiquiBand
®
 
and RESORBA
®
Accessing new markets:
 + Gain regulatory approval for LiquiBand
®
 topical skin adhesives 
and LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 in select geographies
 + Progress approval for LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 in the U.S.
 + Progress collagen regulatory approvals
 + Identify new market opportunities 15 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
Jeffrey Willis
Business Unit Director
Risk Description Mitigating Action
Developing new 
markets through 
partners is not 
successful
Regulatory 
approval is not 
achieved or 
delayed
The Business Unit’s partners and distributors are not 
successful in developing new markets because the 
partner or distributor has underestimated the difficulty 
of accessing the market or the opportunity ceases to 
be a priority for them
Some countries are also actively encouraging locally 
manufactured products rather than imported products
The launch of products is delayed due to lack of 
regulatory approval in new markets outside Europe 
and the U.S. Regulatory approvals increasingly are 
taking longer to obtain
 + Contracts have agreed set minimas 
which allow terms to be renegotiated or 
agreements terminated
 + The Group’s diversified approach 
reduces the impact of any one project, 
partner or product causing a substantial 
risk to the overall business
 + The Group has an experienced 
regulatory team and works with partners 
and distributors where they have local 
expertise 
Slow adoption of 
advanced 
techniques 
impacts growth 
Foreign exchange 
risk reduces 
profitability
Some of the new products represent new surgical 
techniques and practices within target markets. 
Success is determined by the adoption of the 
techniques
This Business Unit has most exposure to foreign 
exchange risk through the U.S. dollar and potentially to 
the currencies of new export markets
 + The Group invests in clinical 
programmes, Key Opinion Leaders, 
clinical training and symposia to foster 
the adoption of new approaches
 + The Group hedges significant 
transaction exposure by using forward 
contracts and options and aims to have 
70% of its estimated transactional 
exposure for the next 12 months 
hedged
Economic 
conditions
Economic conditions in some markets deteriorate 
resulting in a decline of sales
 + The Group’s diversified approach to 
markets reduces the impact of any 
individuals geographical region
+38% 
*
REVENUE
to £14.6m
* at constant currency 16 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
The OEM Business Unit is responsible for supporting our 
business-to-business partners with a multi-product portfolio 
that is globally competitive, backed by intellectual property  
and know-how.
BUSINESS UNITS CONTINUED
OEM
In addition to providing innovative products a 
key differential from our competitors is that we 
provide a full service to our partners. This 
includes design, development, manufacture 
and distribution of products supported by 
regulatory capabilities, as well as clinical 
evidence and marketing support.
AMS works with many of the world’s leading 
healthcare companies, supplying them with 
finished packed products which is provided 
under the partner’s brand.
Our technologies include foams, fibres, 
collagens, hydrogels and hydrocolloids.  
In particular, antimicrobial dressings are  
a key growth driver for this Business Unit.  
We support our partners to access new 
markets and increase market share.
In 2015, regulatory approval was obtained for 
an antimicrobial foam containing 
Polyhexamethylene Biguanide (PHMB) in 
Europe. Launches are planned with our OEM 
partners during 2016. A range of atraumatic 
foam dressings containing silicone have also 
received market approval and will be launched 
in 2016 in Europe and the U.S. These two new 
products extend our foam portfolio. 
This Business Unit is responsible for directing 
R&D for advanced woundcare products and 
technologies.
The strategy of this Business Unit is to support the Group’s partners to be 
successful with the products we supply and to increase their market share in 
our areas of technical expertise by:
Strategy
Strong partner relationships
 + Key account management
 + Reliability of service and quality
 + Expansion of product portfolio
 + Regulatory support for expansion into new markets
 + Strong pipeline of innovative product. Links with global reputable 
universities for new emerging technologies
Securing new partners through:
 + Reputation for quality, customer service and regulatory capability 
to assist with expansion into new geographies
Develop new products including:
 + Expansion of the foam portfolio
 + Expansion of the fibre range
 + Enhanced product performance 17 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
Becky Walmsley
Business Unit Director
Risk Description Mitigating Action
Industry 
consolidation and 
reliance on key 
customers
The healthcare sector continues to experience 
business consolidation. This presents both 
opportunities and risks. There could be a loss of 
business if a partner was an acquired party. The loss 
of a key partner would have an adverse impact on this 
Business Unit’s revenues and profit in the short term
 + Minimisation of over reliance on any 
one customer
 + All customers have contracts with 
agreed termination clauses
New products are 
not successful
Increased global 
competition 
reduces 
profitability
Increased 
regulatory 
requirements for 
new products
Lack of success in launching new products or 
identifying a new technology could lead to the loss of 
a partner
There are increasing numbers of contract 
manufacturers across the world which may provide  
a low cost business case for partners
Increasing levels of complexity for class III device 
approvals in the E.U. and premarket approval 
applications (PMAs) in the U.S.
 + Strong links with partners reduce the 
risk of missed opportunities 
 + R&D progress is monitored against the 
stage gate process to ensure projects 
are progressing to plan and action is 
taken if necessary
 + Offering a full service including a strong 
regulatory and quality assurance 
together with product development, 
product differentiation and clinical 
support mitigates a pure cost of supply 
proposition 
 + Strong regulatory pathway to ensure 
that the increased regulatory 
requirements are met to gain approvals
 + Experienced regulatory team to 
manage process
+8% 
*
REVENUE
to £27.7m
* at constant currency 18 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
This Business Unit is responsible for providing Bulk Materials 
including foams, hydrocolloids, fibres and pattern coated 
films, to third party converters and partners who have their 
own converting capability. It is also responsible for supplying 
Bulk Materials within the Group.
BUSINESS UNITS CONTINUED
Bulk Materials
The strategy of this Business Unit is to:
Strategy
Extend the product offering 
through new product 
development
Expand commercial focus to 
new markets and customers
Reduce the cost of the foam 
process through operational 
improvements to support 
partners to be more 
competitive Becky Walmsley
Business Unit Director
+12% 
*
 
REVENUE
to £3.9m
* at constant currency
Risk Description Mitigating Action
Increased global 
competition
Reliance on key 
customers
There is increased competition from low cost suppliers 
for both foam and fibre
The loss of a key customer would have an adverse 
impact on this Business Unit’s revenues and profit in 
the short-term
 + Developing long-term relationships with 
partners and distributors based on a full 
service of quality and supply 
 + Develop more cost-effective processes 
 + Provide innovative formulations of foam 
and fibre with unique capabilities
 + Expansion of partner relationships 
diversifies customer reliance 
 + Customers have contracts with agreed 
termination clauses 
 + Development of new formulations of 
foam and fibre with unique capabilities Richard Stenton
Group Operations Director
OPERATIONS
Employee safety, customer service, 
operational efficiency and cost 
reduction are our areas of focus.
19 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
+12% 
*
 
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Measurable safety regimes have been implemented including 
Health, Safety and Environment Committees at each site which 
report regularly to the Senior Management Team (SMT) and to 
the Board. Risks are identified at the earliest opportunity, near 
miss events are highlighted and a common All Incident Rate 
(AIR) reporting metric is used. The health and safety of our staff 
and visitors to our facilities is a priority for the business and we 
focus on the prevention of accidents and incidents through 
proactive reporting of potential hazards.
ENVIRONMENT
Ensuring that the Group maintains excellent environmental 
standards is integral to AMS. The Group abides by all laws, 
directives and regulations pertinent to its operations and acts 
in a manner to minimise the effects of our operations on the 
environment.
CUSTOMER SERVICE
Our customer service metrics continue to show high levels of 
performance. We provide our customers with goods on time at 
the quality levels they demand.
COST
The management of cost is essential to improve the profitability 
of the Group. Cost reduction and waste elimination 
programmes help our products to be priced competitively.
CAPACITY
The Group aims to have sufficient capacity to meet its future 
growth. The focus is on obtaining improvements in Overall 
Equipment Effectiveness (OEE) and identifying plant and 
equipment constraints before they are business critical. Lean 
manufacturing regimes are in place on all sites and continue to 
be extended to improve operational performance.  20 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Rose Guang
Group Quality Assurance & 
Regulatory Affairs Director
QUALITY AND  
REGULATORY AFFAIRS
An effective Quality Management System, regulatory 
compliance, staff training and development are key 
to AMS’s Quality and Regulatory functions.
QUALITY
All manufacturing sites are compliant with ISO 13485 and FDA 
CFR 21 part 820 Quality System Regulations, using validated 
processes and process control techniques to ensure that the 
Group has an effective Quality Management System (QMS) in 
place. The quality team has been strengthened and training 
extended across the Group. In 2015 all of the Group’s 
manufacturing sites had un-announced audits by a variety 
of Notified Bodies, and on each occasion was found to 
be compliant.
REGULATORY
To grow the business new products require regulatory approval 
and new territories require product registrations. In 2015, the 
Group successfully achieved new product approvals in the U.S. 
and Europe, as well as extending regulatory registrations to 
other markets such as the Middle East. FDA 510(k) clearance 
for the majority of our absorbable and non-absorbable suture 
families has now opened the U.S. market for RESORBA
®
 
sutures while additional regulatory compliance to applicable 
drug regulations was required to market our PHMB foam 
dressing in Europe.
Early involvement in R&D projects ensures regulatory 
requirements are considered from the beginning of each 
project. The regulatory team has been strengthened to meet 
the constantly increasing regulatory requirements, and to  
help our distributors and OEM partners with local regulatory 
requirements.
The regulatory approval process for LiquiBand
®
 in China has 
proved difficult. We have therefore decided to withdraw our 
original file and re-start the submission process with our most 
recent formulations.
STAFF TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
With on-going increased regulatory requirements staff training 
and development is critical. We have invested in extending 
training across the Group in areas such as internal audit of 
quality, biocompatibility training, FDA inspection, clinical 
evaluation and use of Minitab six-sigma quality tools. 
UTILISING GROUP STRENGTHS
By sharing best practice, knowledge and experience from 
across the Group under the guidance of the Group Quality and 
Regulatory team, we are able to support the business and our 
customers to achieve regulatory approvals and registrations in 
global jurisdictions. 21 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT
The health and safety of our staff and visitors to our facilities is a 
priority for the business and we have established Health, Safety 
and Environment Committees at each site which meet monthly. 
These Committees report monthly to the SMT and to the Board. 
We focus on the prevention of accidents and incidents through 
proactive reporting of potential hazards.
Ensuring that the Group maintains excellent environmental 
standards is integral to AMS. It is the Group’s policy to abide by all 
laws, directives and regulations pertinent to its field of operations 
and to act in a manner so as to minimise the effects of our 
operations on the environment.
EMPLOYEES
AMS is focused on attracting and retaining the right calibre of 
people, which is critical for the Company’s long-term success. We 
are committed to supporting and developing our employees 
through training and communication.
We invest in our employees and build on their skills to provide our 
employees with career development opportunities. In 2015 we 
enhanced the existing Management Development Programme 
which provides managers with skills and equips them to deliver 
the goals of the business. We continue to educate employees on 
the principals of Lean Manufacturing across the Group to improve 
skills at all levels. We introduced the Insights Discovery Model in 
2015 for all employees to help individuals to understand and build 
stronger working relationships with each other.
We are successfully running a number of apprenticeship schemes 
and graduate recruitments across the Group. We will continue to 
expand the number of schemes we operate in 2016.
Additionally, employees are encouraged to put forward their views 
to the Company through both our monthly briefing meetings and 
also through our annual employee survey. The results of the 
annual survey are presented at each Group site to ensure 
employee engagement and encourage feedback. Employees are 
encouraged to participate in implementing improvements across 
the Group.
ETHICAL STANDARDS
We continue to focus on and review our core Company values of 
‘Determination to Succeed, Drive for Results, Inspired Standards, 
Positive Outlook, Collaboration and Honesty’ to ensure that there 
is an ethical culture within the Group that the employees embrace. 
We also review how we operate as a business to ensure that we act 
in a responsible and ethical way and are respectful of others. The 
Company has policies and procedures in place covering Anti-
Corruption and Bribery, Gifts and Hospitality and Whistleblowing.
COMMUNITY
We are developing our links with the local communities in which we 
operate. We consider involvement with both local and national 
charities to be important for the business. We sponsor a number of 
children in Africa and Asia through Plan International, a charity that 
promotes child rights and aims to end child poverty.
The Company successfully sponsored the 2015 Cheshire Classic 
Women’s Road Cycling Race organised by the Weaver Valley 
Cycling Club which was part of the British Cycling National Series. 
We also sponsored a running race organised by Head Office’s  
local running club, Vale Royal Athletics Club and actively 
encouraged our employees to train and take part.
We will also be sponsoring our local ladies football club, Winsford 
United Ladies FC who receive no other funding and are coached  
by one of our employees in their spare time.
We intend to provide ongoing support to these and other events.
We are committed to ensuring that our 
business is conducted in a responsible 
manner and consider corporate social 
responsibility to be integral to the business.
Commenting on the sponsorship, Race Director Mike Harrington 
of Vale Royal Athletic Club said: “We were delighted with 
Advanced Medical Solutions involvement in our 2015 Pie & Peas 
5 mile race. it is not often that a prominent local employer 
displays such commitment to its social responsibility and 
wellbeing of its staff with such enthusiasm. Their behind the 
scenes organisation was fantastic and the staff who took part in 
the race should be extremely proud of themselves as the course 
is five hard miles of multi-terrain running which tests even the 
most hardened local athletes. We look forward to welcoming 
them all back at our 2016 events.”  22 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
AMS continues to progress as a leading, 
international provider of high quality, high 
value, innovative and technologically 
advanced products for the advanced 
woundcare and wound closure markets, and 
has delivered another year of good growth.
The performance of LiquiBand
®
 in the U.S. was particularly 
strong. We continue to gain market share and are fast 
approaching our initial goal of building a 20% market share 
with our LiquiBand
®
 range in the U.S. We are also pleased with 
the success of our LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 hernia mesh fixation 
device, our first device using medical adhesive inside the body. 
It is now being sold in 20 countries and has achieved £1 million 
of sales in its first full year since launch. 
We have also received a number of product and market 
approvals in the year, demonstrating our continued success in 
innovation, with launches planned in 2016, supporting the 
sales growth in the Group. 
Financially, we are pleased to report a 9% increase in revenue 
to £68.6 million (2014: £63.0 million), representing growth of 
11% on a constant currency basis and an increase in adjusted
1
 
profit before tax of 12% to £17.4 million (2014: £15.6 million). 
The strong cash flow generation of the Group was again 
evident and we ended the year with net cash of £34.2 million 
(2014: £17.3 million). AMS continues to be in robust financial 
health and is well positioned to invest in internal and external 
opportunities in line with the Group’s strategy. 
1  All items are shown before amortisation of acquired intangible assets  
which, in 2015, were £0.4 million (2014: £0.4 million) as defined in the 
Financial Review
DIVIDEND 
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 0.55p per share, 
making a total dividend for the year of 0.80p per share, a 
14.3% increase on 2014. If approved at the Annual General 
Meeting on 2 June 2016, this will be paid on 10 June 2016  
to shareholders on the register at the close of business on  
20 May 2016.
PEOPLE
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our 
employees, customers, suppliers, business partners and 
shareholders for their support over the past year in helping 
AMS achieve its goals. 
Peter Allen
Chairman
Peter Allen
Chairman
AMS is well placed to drive 
growth and remains excited by 
the prospects for the future. 23 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report another strong set of results across 
the Group. 
BRANDED DISTRIBUTED
The Branded Distributed Business Unit reports the sales of our 
brands through third party distributors. 
Branded Distributed revenue was 37% higher at £14.6 million 
(2014: £10.7 million) and 38% higher at constant currency.  
The main contributor to this growth was LiquiBand
®
 sales in the 
U.S., which accounted for 55% of the Business Unit’s total sales.
LiquiBand
®
 in the U.S.
Sales of LiquiBand
®
 in the U.S. increased by 93% to £8.0 million 
(2014: £4.1 million) at reported currency and by 79% at 
constant currency. The latest data
2
 for December 2015 shows 
our volume market share in the U.S. hospital sector increasing 
to 16.0%, up from 9% at July 2015, while our volume market 
share in the U.S. non-hospital, or alternate site, market is now 
estimated
2
 at 22.2%, increased from 21.5% at June 2015, 
making an overall market share of 16.8% (11.1% at July 2015). 
The launch of our 2-octyl cyanoacrylate formulation,  
LiquiBand Exceed
™
, has extended our portfolio of products 
and has contributed to the momentum of growth. We now 
have a number of formulations of cyanoacrylate within our 
marketed LiquiBand
®
 product range, including very fast setting 
formulations with applicators allowing for quick, precision 
closure; film-forming formulations that are designed to close 
and provide a protective barrier layer over wounds as well as 
formulations that have properties in between. Our LiquiBand
®
 
products are now able to accommodate the full spectrum of 
wound closing needs, each in innovatively designed 
applicators favoured by surgeons. 
On 3 November 2015, the FDA approved two new product claims 
for LiquiBand Exceed
™
 giving it a competitive advantage in the 
topical skin adhesive market. These claims allow AMS and its 
distribution partners to differentiate LiquiBand Exceed
™
 from the 
market leader on wound coverage, volume of useable glue and 
ability to re-use during the same operational procedure, saving 
both time and cost. The two new claims include the use of a 
single device to cover wounds of up to 30cm in length, as well as 
a single device being suitable for intra-operative reuse for up to  
90 minutes on a single patient. Both claims are unique for the  
U.S. Topical Skin Adhesive Market and will help us to continue to 
provide a superior product for clinicians and a versatile solution for 
healthcare providers in this key market, helping AMS to grow its 
market share further.
LiquiBand
®
 in the EU and Rest of the World
Elsewhere, within the EU and ROW, LiquiBand
®
 sales through 
our distributors continued to show good growth. France and 
Italy remain our largest markets outside the U.S., U.K. and 
Germany. Overall sales increased by 12% to £1.7 million  
(2014: £1.5 million) at reported currency and constant currency. 
The regulatory approval process for LiquiBand
®
 in China has 
continued to be challenging. Given the difficulties that have 
been experienced due to changes in the regulatory pathway, 
we have withdrawn our original file and re-started the 
submission process with our most recent formulations and 
designs of LiquiBand Exceed
™
 and LiquiBand
®
 Flowcontrol
™
 
and are not expecting approval in the current year. 
Hernia Mesh Fixation Device – LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
We have been delighted with the response we have received from 
surgeons following the launch of LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
. Feedback has 
been extremely positive about the ease of use of this device and 
the benefit it brings to patients regarding the reduced risk of post 
operative pain. A number of surgeons have been keen to endorse 
the product and we are also receiving valuable feedback about 
other possible applications suitable for this type of device on 
which we are currently working. 
AMS received approval to market this highly innovative 
product, LiquiBand
®
 Fix 8
™
, in Europe in May 2014. This was 
the Group’s first application using medical cyanoacrylate 
technology inside the body. Through the accurate delivery of 
individual drops of cyanoacrylate adhesive, LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 is 
used to hold hernia meshes in place within the body instead of 
traditional tacks and staples. This accurate laparoscopic 
application of adhesive is expected to reduce surgical 
complications, in particular the potential pain associated with 
the use of tacks and staples, thereby improving the patient 
experience and reducing healthcare costs overall.
We were able to expand the indications of LiquiBand
®
 Fix 8
™
 in 
May 2015 and the device is now able to be used for the 
laparoscopic surgical mesh fixation for all types of abdominal 
hernia as well as for the closure of the membrane lining the 
abdominal wall (peritoneum). This was the first extension of the 
claims of LiquiBand
®
 Fix 8
™
 and we expect to develop further 
opportunities for this kind of application, broadening the 
market for the use of adhesives internally. 
2 Data supplied by Global Healthcare Exchange
Chris Meredith
Chief Executive Officer 24 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S STATEMENT CONTINUED
In the first full reporting year, £1.0 million of LiquiBand
®
 Fix 8
™
 
sales have been achieved across the Group, with £0.7 million 
(2014: £0.1 million) resulting from sales to distributors. The 
product is now launched in 20 countries. 
RESORBA
®
Sales of RESORBA
®
 products to all export markets (excluding 
Russia) declined by 7% at reported currency to £3.1 million 
(2014: £3.3 million)
3
, but increased by 4% at constant currency. 
France and Italy remain our largest markets for export and 
good growth was seen in both territorities, offset by a weak 
performance in China where sales declined 19%. Sales in 
Russia decreased by 10% at constant currency, but decreased 
40% to £0.8 million (2014: £1.3 million) at reported currency, 
reflecting both the weak economic conditions within Russia 
and the impact of the weak Rouble. 
We received approval from the FDA on 4 November 2015 that 
we had clearance to market the majority of our suture product 
portfolio, successfully adding to our first U.S. suture approval 
from early 2015. With only one more suture type still awaiting 
U.S. market approval, we are now well positioned to launch a 
comprehensive range of sutures into the U.S. in mid-2016 
through a combination of our branded and unbranded routes 
to market. The U.S. surgical suture market is estimated to be in 
excess of $1 billion in size and is dominated by a few major 
brands. Gaining U.S. approval for the RESORBA
®
 product 
range has been a strategic aim for the Group since we 
acquired the business in late 2011, providing a significant 
opportunity for AMS in the medium term.
In R&D our focus is on continuing to improve the formulations 
of the base monomers that are used in our adhesives as well 
as extending the applications of tissue adhesives for other 
internal uses.
BRANDED DIRECT
The Branded Direct Business Unit reports sales of our branded 
products through our own sales forces in the U.K., Germany and 
Czech Republic. Reported revenue declined 3% to £22.3 million 
(2014: £23.2 million)
3
 but grew by 3% at constant currency. 
2015 was a year of investment in this Business Unit with a 
number of senior management hires and, in particular, a new 
Business Unit Director was hired in June. As a consequence of 
these investments, a number of new initiatives have been put in 
place to drive the business forward in 2016.
ActivHeal
®
ActivHeal
®
, which delivers a high quality range of woundcare 
dressings that offer significant cost savings without 
compromising on clinical outcomes or patient care, continues 
to be a compelling proposition for the NHS. Sales of our 
ActivHeal
®
 range increased by 8% to £6.4 million (2014: £6.0 
million). We continue to broaden our product range to the NHS, 
including our recently approved anti-microbial and atraumatic 
foam dressings within our offering. 
3 £0.4m of sutures for the dental market has been reclassified from the 
Branded Direct to the Branded Distributed segment. The 2014 revenues  
have been restated to aid comparison
LiquiBand
®
Sales of LiquiBand
®
 into the Accident and Emergency Room 
(‘A&E’) in the U.K. fell 13% to £2.3 million (2014: £2.6 million). We 
expect the initiatives we have taken to restore growth in 2016. 
Sales into the OR increased 17% to £0.7 million (2014: £0.6 million). 
Sales of LiquiBand
®
 in Germany increased 27% at constant 
currency to £1.6 million and by 13% at reported currency. 
Within this, sales of LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 contributed £0.3 million 
(2014: nil). 
RESORBA
®
Sales of RESORBA
®
 branded products in Germany  
and the Czech Republic were 10% lower at £11.3 million  
(2014: £12.5 million)
3
 at reported level but flat at constant 
currency with some pricing pressure being seen. Within this 
sales of haemostats increased by 1% at constant currency  
to £3.3 million (2014: £3.6 million) and sales of sutures and 
collagens into the dental market increased 5% at constant 
currency to £3.1 million, whilst sales of sutures into hospitals  
fell 2%. 
We believe our ability to supply a comprehensive range of high 
quality sutures that provide cost savings to hospitals is 
compelling, and we are targeting smaller accounts where 
conversion will not be seen as such a difficult challenge. This 
strategy looks to be proving successful with a number of 
hospitals already agreeing to convert the suture ranges in their 
A&E departments in 2016.
In R&D, our focus is on extending the attributes of our collagens 
to meet the needs of dental practitioners and oral surgeons as 
well as including new antibiotics in our haemostats. 
OEM
The OEM Business Unit reports the sales of products that are 
sold under third parties’ brands.
OEM revenue increased by 10% at reported currency to £27.7 
million (2014: £25.3 million) and by 8% at constant currency. 
Our silver alginate ranges of dressings continued to perform 
well, with sales increasing by 13% at reported currency and by 
10% at constant currency to £15.5 million (2014: £13.7 million). 
Our partners continued to do well with the range of silver fibre 
dressings we provide, gaining market share as well as 
accessing new geographical markets. We continue to support 
them with regulatory approvals and marketing data. 
On 1 September 2015 we received CE approval in Europe for a 
new, non-adhesive, antimicrobial foam dressing containing 
Polyhexamethylene Biguanide (PHMB).
PHMB has been shown to be effective against several bacteria 
including, amongst others, Staphylococcus Aureus including 
the methicillin resistant type (MRSA) and Escherichia Coli 
(E-Coli). This antimicrobial foam wound dressing may be used 
throughout the healing process on moderate to heavily exuding 
chronic and acute wounds that are infected or are at risk of 
infection and may be used on pressure ulcers, leg and foot 
ulcers, diabetic ulcers and surgical wounds.  25 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
In addition, we also now have approval for an atraumatic wound 
dressing containing silicone which can be removed from a wound 
without damaging the skin. Contracts have been agreed to launch 
both the PHMB foam and the atraumatic foam with our OEM 
partners and are expected to launch in 2016. We expect that the 
launch of our antibiotic foam dressings may result in some initial 
substitution of our silver alginate dressings. 
Sales of our existing foam-based dressings were flat at £1.8 
million. With the expansion of our product portfolio, growth is 
expected in 2016.
Our other woundcare and skin protectant products delivered 
good growth and grew 6% to £9.7 million at constant currency 
(2014: £9.0 million), and 7% at reported currency.
We continue to work on extending our advanced woundcare 
ranges by looking to add other antimicrobial products to the 
range, improving the absorbancy of the dressings as well as 
combining a number of materials to enhance the performance 
of our dressings. 
 
BULK MATERIALS
The Bulk Business Unit reports sales of bulk materials to third 
party convertors.
Bulk Materials revenue increased by 2% at reported currency 
to £3.9 million (2014: £3.9 million) and by 12% at constant 
currency.
Rollstock foam contributed around 86% of Bulk revenue and 
good growth was seen by one significant customer that had 
destocked in 2014. Sales by some newer and smaller partners 
are also now starting to gain traction and are expected to bring 
benefits in 2016. 
In R&D, the focus is on developing new foam formulations  
with antimicrobials, working in conjunction with the OEM 
Business Unit. 
OPERATIONS
Efficiency and Gross Margins
We continue to make operational improvements by reducing 
set up times, eliminating non-value added activities and 
increasing outputs. These incremental efficiencies are helping 
to improve gross margins across the Group and have helped to 
generate an improvement of approximately 100 basis points in 
2015. We have invested in improving both our converting and 
packing capability in Winsford. This equipment has provided 
increased operational flexibility, improved efficiency and 
provided additional capacity. 
Capacity and Resource
The capacity of our collagen plant in Germany has been 
increased with a new freeze drier and ancillary services. The 
total cost of this investment is £0.8 million, of which £0.2 million 
was incurred in 2015. This plant is now fully running, following 
commissioning in February 2016 and has increased our 
collagen manufacturing capacity by 50%. 
We continue to invest in improving our ERP (Enterprise 
Resource Planning) management and reporting systems and 
having already successfully completed the implementation in 
Winsford, Plymouth and Etten Leur facilities, are now working 
on improvements to our systems in Germany. 
Regulatory and Quality Assurance
With the regulatory framework becoming increasingly complex, 
we have continued to invest in both Regulatory and Quality 
functions and systems to ensure that we are able to support 
our partners with winning approvals in new markets as well as 
obtaining approval for our own products. We have started work 
on scoping the process to gain approval to market LiquiBand
®
 
Fix8
™
 in the U.S. which will involve a full Pre Market Approval 
(PMA) and is likely to take at least three years. We are also 
working on identifying the regulatory pathway to include 
antibiotics in collagens. 
SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK
We have delivered a reported revenue growth of 9%, 11% at 
constant currency, and improved profitability and cash 
generation during the year. 
All Business Units have delivered growth at constant currency 
with the U.S. sales, in particular, delivering a very strong 
performance. We have been very pleased with the successful 
launch of our LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 hernia mesh fixation device. 
Sales in the first year have given us confidence that this 
product will drive growth and support our strategy of 
accessing the OR. 
We have also received a number of approvals in the year 
demonstrating our continued success with new products and 
underlining our commitment to investing in R&D. We expect to 
make further advancements in these activities and to launch 
new products as a result of our innovation. 
We are confident that the Group is well placed to drive growth 
and remain excited by the prospects for our future. 26 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
SUMMARY
Group revenue increased by 9% to £68.6 million (2014: £63.0 million). At constant currency, revenue growth would have been 11%. 
Comparisons with 2014 are made on a pre-amortisation of acquired intangible asset cost basis, as we believe that this provides a 
more relevant representation of the Group’s trading performance. Amortisation of acquired intangible assets was £0.4 million in 
the period (2014: £0.4 million). 
To aid comparison, the Group’s adjusted income statement is summarised in Table 1 below.
Table 1
Adjusted Income Statement
Year ended
31 Dec 2015
£’000
Year ended
31 Dec 2014
£’000 % Change
Revenue 68,596 63,010 9%
Gross profit 39,908 35,843 11%
Distribution costs (951) (853) 
Administration expenses
4 
(22,138) (19,681) 
Other income 589 250 
Adjusted operating profit 17,408 15,559 12%
Net finance (costs) / income (45) 48 
Adjusted profit before tax 17,363 15,607 11%
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (367) (389) 
Profit before taxation 16,996 15,218 12%
Taxation (2,877) (2,354) 
Profit for the period 14,119 12,864 10%
Adjusted earnings per share – basic
5
6.95p 6.39p 9%
Earnings per share – basic
5
6.78p 6.20p 9%
Adjusted earnings per share – diluted
5
6.86p 6.26p 10%
Earnings per share – diluted
5
6.68p 6.08p 10%
4 Administration expenses exclude amortisation of acquired intangible assets
5 See Note 14 Earnings per share for details of calculation
Revenues were negatively impacted by approximately £1.5 million due to the effects of currency movements in the year. This also 
had an impact on Group gross margins which were reduced by 30bps as a result. Gross margins were positively impacted by 
sales mix effect by 60bps, as well as the 100bps improvement made from operational efficiencies.
Adjusted operating profit increased by 12% to £17.4 million (2014: £15.6 million) and the adjusted operating margin increased by 
70bps to 25.4% (2014: 24.7%). Administration costs increased by 12% to £22.1 million (2014: £19.7 million) as investments were 
made in selling and marketing, particularly to support the Branded Direct Business Unit. Within this, the Group expensed to the 
income statement £1.8 million on R&D (2014: £2.1 million). Spend as a percentage of sales reduced to 2.6% (2014: 3.3%). 
Profit before tax for the year was 12% higher at £17.0 million (2014: £15.2 million). 
The Group’s effective rate of tax for the year was 16.9% (2014: 15.5%). This is reflective of the utilisation of previously 
unrecognised brought-forward tax losses in the U.K., together with Patent Box and R&D relief. It also reflects the impact of 
blending profits and losses from different countries and the different tax rates associated with these countries. The effective tax 
rate of the Group is expected to increase as the Group is no longer classified as a Small Medium Enterprise (SME) and will no 
longer be able to gain R&D relief at the SME rate from 2017. 
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Mary G Tavener
Chief Financial Officer 27 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
A reconciliation between the standard rate of taxation in the U.K. and the Group’s effective rate is summarised in Table 2 below.
Table 2
Taxation %
Standard taxation rate 20.25
Loss utilisation and recognition (1.58)
Impact of differential between U.K. and overseas tax rate 2.09
Patent box relief (2.58)
R&D relief (1.91)
Expenses not deductible, prior year adjustments, depreciation & share-based payments 0.65
Effective taxation rate 16.92
Earnings (excluding amortisation of acquired intangible assets) increased by 9% to £14.5 million (2014: £13.3 million), resulting in a 
9% increase in adjusted basic earnings per share to 6.95p (2014: 6.39p) and a 10% increase in diluted adjusted earnings per 
share to 6.86p (2014: 6.26p). 
Profit after tax increased by 9% to £14.1 million (2014: £12.9 million), resulting in a 9% increase in basic earnings per share to 
6.78p (2014: 6.20p) and a 10% increase in diluted earnings per share to 6.68p (2014: 6.08p).
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 0.55p per share, to be paid on 10 June 2016 to shareholders on the register at the 
close of business on 20 May 2016. This follows the interim dividend of 0.25p per share that was paid on 30 October 2015 and 
would make a total dividend for the year of 0.80p per share (2014: 0.70p), a 14.3% increase on 2014.
The operational performance of the Business Units is shown in Table 3 below. The adjusted profit from operations and the 
adjusted margin are shown after excluding amortisation of acquired intangibles. To aid comparison and in determining the 
operational margins of the individual Business Units, the revenue of the Bulk Materials Business Unit sales made to other 
Business Units of £0.8 million (2014: £0.7 million) is included. 
Table 3
Operating Result by Business Unit
Year ended 31 December 2015
Branded 
Direct
£’000
Branded 
Distributed
£’000
OEM
£’000
Bulk 
Materials
£’000
Revenue
6
22,344 14,631 27,675 4,772
Profit from operations 5,235 4,366 7,139 814
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 214 127 25 –
Adjusted profit from operations
7
5,449 4,493 7,164 814
Adjusted operating margin
7
24.4% 30.7% 25.9% 17.1%
Year ended 31 December 2014
Revenue 23,194 10,663 25,275 4,580
Profit from operations 6,012 2,999 6,225 485
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 227 135 27 –
Adjusted profit from operations
7
6,239 3,134 6,252 485
Adjusted operating margin
7
26.9% 29.4% 24.7% 10.6%
6  £0.4 million of sutures for the dental market has been reclassified from the Branded Direct to the Branded Distributed segment. The 2014 revenues have been 
restated to aid comparison
7  Excludes amortisation of intangible assets 28 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
BRANDED DIRECT
The adjusted operating margin of this Business Unit reduced to 24.4% (2014: 26.9%) and is lower than the position at H1 2015 
(26.7%). Operating margin was reduced, partly as a result of some pricing pressure in Germany, as well as the investment we 
have made in our direct sales teams which we highlighted at the half year. We expect the benefit of this investment to start 
coming through in 2016. 
BRANDED DISTRIBUTED 
The adjusted operating margin of this Business Unit increased to 30.7% (2014: 29.4%), reflecting the improved profitability from 
the increase in sales in this Business Unit and, in particular, from sales to the U.S. The growth in sales to the U.S. mitigated the 
impact in the reduction in margin from sales made into Russia and continued the improvement in margin seen at H1 2015 (26.5%). 
 
OEM 
The adjusted operating margin of this Business Unit was at a higher level to the prior year at 25.9% (2014: 24.7%), and lower than 
the margin reported at H1 2015 (26.8%) due to the mix of business. 
BULK MATERIALS 
The adjusted operating margin of this Business Unit increased to 17.1% (2014: 10.6%), and improved from the position in H1 2015 
(12.6%). Margins were affected by the higher volumes of production and sales. 
GEOGRAPHIC BREAKDOWN OF REVENUES
The geographic breakdown of Group revenues in 2015 is shown in Table 4 below:
Table 4
Geographic Breakdown of Group Revenues
2015
£millions % of total
2014
£millions % of total
Europe (excluding U.K. & Germany) 19.1 27.8 18.7 29.7
Germany 13.4 19.5 14.0 22.3
U.K. 16.7 24.3 15.3 24.3
U.S. 17.8 25.9 13.8 21.9
Rest of World 1.6 2.3 1.1 1.8
47% of the Group’s sales are in Europe (excluding the U.K.), however, only around 30% of sales are denominated in Euros. 
Approximately 85% of all sales to the U.S. are denominated in U.S. dollars. The Group hedges significant transactional exposure by 
using forward contracts and options, and aims to have 70% of its estimated transactional exposure for the next twelve months hedged. 
The Group estimates that a 10% movement in £: U.S.$ or £: Euro exchange rate will impact Sterling revenues by approximately 
2.3% and 3.0% respectively and in the absence of any cash flow hedging this would have an impact on profit of 1.3% and 0.1%. 
CASH FLOW
Table 5 summarises the Group’s cash flows.
Table 5
Group Cash Flows
Year ended 31 December
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Adjusted operating profit (Table 1) 17,408 15,559
Non-cash items 3,153 2,993
EBITDA 20,561 18,552
Working capital movement 1,983 (104)
Net operating cash flow 22,544 18,448
Capital expenditure and capitalised R&D (2,675) (2,406)
Net interest (paid) / received (47) 45
Tax paid (1,253) (1,876)
Free cash flow 18,569 14,211
Dividends paid (1,521) (1,307)
Proceeds from share issues 494 65
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 17,542 12,969
Note: EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, intangible asset amortisation and share-based payments 29 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
EBITDA increased by 11% to £20.6 million (2014: £18.6 million).
Working capital decreased in the year mainly due to the effects of translating overseas working capital balances held in Euros into 
Sterling. Inventory across the Group slightly increased to 4.4 months of supply (2014: 4.2 months of supply). Trade debtor days 
were slightly lower than the prior year at 41 days (2014: 42 days) while trade payable days decreased slightly to 34 days (2014: 36 
days). 
The Group generated net cash from operating activities of £22.5 million (2014: £18.4 million) (see Table 5) and had net cash of 
£34.2 million (2014: £17.3 million) at the end of the year.
We invested £2.7 million in capital equipment, software and capitalised R&D in the year (2014: £2.4 million). We have invested in 
equipment around the Group that improves converting and packaging in Winsford as well increasing capacity in Germany. 
The Group generated a free cash flow of £18.6 million in the year (2014: £14.2 million). The conversion of adjusted operating profit 
into free cash flow was 107% (2014: 91%).
The Group paid its final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of £0.94 million (2014: for the year ending 2013, £0.85 
million) on 29 May 2015, and its interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of £0.59 million (2014: £0.46 million) on 30 
October 2015.
In December 2014 the Group entered into a new, five-year, £30 million, multi-currency revolving credit facility with an accordion 
option under which AMS can request up to an additional £20 million on the same terms. The previous facility for £4 million was 
due to expire in 2015. The Group chose to take advantage of favourable credit conditions to put in place a more suitable facility to 
support its growth ambitions. The new facility is provided jointly by the Group’s existing bankers, HSBC, as well as The Royal 
Bank of Scotland. It is unsecured and has not been drawn down. This facility carries an annual interest rate of LIBOR or EURIBOR 
plus a margin that varies between 0.65% and 1.75% depending on the Group’s net debt to EBITDA ratio.
 
At the end of the period, the Group had net cash of £34.2 million (2014: £17.3 million). The movement in net cash from the start of 
the year to net cash at the end of the year is reconciled in Table 6 below:
Table 6
Movement in Net Cash £’000
Net cash as at 1 January 2015 17,280
Exchange rate impacts (621)
Free cash flow 18,569
Dividends paid (1,521)
Proceeds from share issues 494
Net cash as at 31 December 2015 34,201
The Group’s going concern position is fully described in Note 2.  30 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Peter V Allen 
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN 
Mr Allen was appointed as Non-Executive 
Chairman of the Group in January 2014 
replacing Don Evans, having joined as a 
Non-Executive Director in December 
2013. He is currently the Non-Executive 
Chairman of LSE listed Future plc, AIM 
listed Clinigen plc, and Diurnal plc, 
together with privately owned Oxford 
Nanopore Technologies Limited. He is a 
qualified chartered accountant.
Mr Allen has extensive experience in the 
healthcare industry, having held key 
senior positions in a number of 
companies and playing a significant role 
in their development. This includes 12 
years at Celltech Group plc (1992-2004) 
as CFO and Deputy CEO, 6 years as 
Chairman (2007-13) and interim CEO 
(2010-11) of ProStrakan Group plc, and 
three years as Chairman of Proximagen 
Neurosciences plc (2009-12).
Chris Meredith
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
Mr Meredith was appointed Group Chief 
Executive Officer in January 2011. He 
joined AMS as Group Commercial 
Director in July 2005 following a 
successful 18-year career in international 
healthcare sales, marketing and business 
development. His experience prior to 
joining AMS covered business-to-
business contract manufacturing, product 
development and clinical research as well 
as branded product sales all within the 
medical device, pharmaceutical or 
consumer healthcare markets. He was 
appointed Managing Director of 
Advanced Woundcare in February 2008 
and in January 2010 he became Chief 
Operating Officer for the Group. Mr 
Meredith has previously held senior 
positions at Smiths Industries, Cardinal 
Health, Banner Pharmacaps, and Aster 
Cephac.
Mary G Tavener
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Ms Tavener joined AMS as Finance 
Director in 1999. Prior to this she was the 
Group Financial Controller at BTP plc 
during a period of considerable corporate 
activity and was involved in the acquisition 
and disposal of several businesses that 
repositioned BTP plc as a fine chemical 
company prior to it being sold to Clariant 
AG. Her experience has been gained in 
several manufacturing companies and 
she has held financial positions with 
Cadburys Ltd and Parker Hannifin, a U.S. 
Engineering Corporation. Prior to BTP plc 
she was the Finance Director of Churchill 
Tableware Ltd. She is a qualified 
accountant and member of the 
Association of Corporate Treasurers. 31 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
Penny Freer
SENIOR INDEPENDENT  
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Ms Freer was appointed as Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director of 
AMS in March 2010. She is a partner of 
London Bridge Capital Partners, a 
corporate advisory business, and a 
Non-Executive Director of Empresaria 
Group plc, Crown Place VCT plc and 
Sinophi Healthcare.
With 25 years’ experience in investment 
banking she was formerly Head of 
Equities for Robert W Baird in London and 
prior to this held senior positions at Credit 
Lyonnais and NatWest Markets.
Stephen G Bellamy 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Mr Bellamy was appointed as Non-
Executive Director of AMS in February 
2007. He is currently Chairman of Becrypt 
Ltd (data security and protection 
technology) and Benefex Limited (online 
employee benefits solutions) and a 
founding partner of Accretion Capital LLP 
(provider of strategic capital and advice to 
European emerging technology 
companies).
Formerly an Executive Director of 
Sherwood International plc and Brierley 
Investments’ London operations,  
he has also held a number of other  
Non-Executive Directorships and advisory 
roles. He is a New Zealand qualified 
chartered accountant.
Peter Steinmann
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Mr Steinmann was appointed as Non-
Executive Director of AMS in July 2013. 
He is a Swiss national with over twenty 
years of commercial experience in 
Medical Devices and Diagnostics.  
He has held senior roles within Johnson  
& Johnson, Medtronic International and 
Boehringer Mannheim. Most recently,  
he was Regional Vice President Global 
Surgery and Shared Services, Medical 
Devices and Diagnostics, Austria, 
Germany and Switzerland at Johnson  
& Johnson AG, Switzerland as well as 
Chairman of the Board.
Having worked throughout Europe  
and North America, he has extensive 
knowledge of the global medical devices 
market. He is currently Chairman of 
Advanced Perfusion Diagnostics SA  
and is a Board Observer with Orthimo 
AG, and has held a number of other  
Non-Executive Directorships prior to 
joining AMS. 
 DENOTES CHAIRMAN
 COMPANY SECRETARY
 AUDIT COMMITTEE
 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
 NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Registered Office
Premier Park, 33 Road One,
Winsford Industrial Estate,
Winsford,
Cheshire CW7 3RT
Registered Number
2867684 32 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
1. VICKI CANDLER 
Group HR Manager
Vicki joined AMS in January 2007 as HR Manager having qualified as a 
Member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development in 
1997. Vicki has over 20 years’ Human Resource management 
experience from several major multinational manufacturing companies. 
Prior to joining AMS she had roles with ICI Chemicals and Polymers Ltd 
and Compass Minerals where she worked in partnership with the senior 
management team to develop and deliver their strategic plans.
Vicki was appointed Group HR Manager in November 2012.
2. SIMON COATES 
Group IS Manager
Simon joined AMS in 2002 as Group Information Systems Manager and, 
during the Company’ s growth since then, he has overseen many key  
IT projects including implementing ERP systems across the Group, 
integrating acquisitions and relocating the business into its existing 
Winsford site.
Simon has over 25 years’ experience in IT infrastructure, systems 
implementation and software development gained from a number of 
different industries. Prior to joining AMS he was Worldwide IT manager at 
Whitford Plastics Ltd, a manufacturer of fluropolymer coatings, 
supporting them through a period of rapid growth, managing multiple 
sites and key IT projects including ERP implementation and adoption of 
the Euro for the European offices.
Simon was appointed to the Senior Management T eam in January 2015.
3. ROSE GUANG
Group Quality Assurance/ 
Regulatory Affairs (QA/RA) Director
Rose joined AMS in May 2013 as Group QA/RA Director having 
completed her Masters Degree in Precision Engineering from Nanyang 
T echnology University in Singapore. Rose has over 20 years’ experience 
working for medical device companies and has a strong background in 
setting up effective quality systems. Rose has worked for Bausch & 
Lomb International Healthcare, Nypro and spent nine years at Medical 
House Products plc as Director of Quality, Regulatory Affairs and 
Operations. Prior to joining AMS, Rose was Head of Quality and 
Regulatory Affairs at Bespak, part of Consort Medical plc.
Rose is also a 6 Sigma Master Black Belt.
4. EDDIE JOHNSON 
Group Financial Controller
Eddie joined AMS on 5 October 2011. Having gained a first class degree 
in Maths and Computer Science from Keele University in 1993, he 
qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1996.
Since moving into industry in 1996 Eddie has held a number of senior 
finance roles in various sectors including, more recently, Head of 
Commercial Finance at Norcros plc and Western European Financial 
Controller for Sumitomo Electrical Wiring Systems, where he 
implemented Sarbanes-Oxley (Japanese equivalent).
In November 2012, Eddie was appointed Group Financial Controller.
5. DAVID RENNIE
Business Unit Director, Branded Direct
David joined AMS in June 2015 as Director of the Branded Direct 
Business Unit.
David graduated from the University of West of Scotland in 1994, with a 
degree in Economics and Marketing. His previous career spanned 18 
years with Johnson & Johnson in a number of different roles, which 
started with international business development in the North African and 
Levantine markets.
Since then, David held several senior executive positions, and has held 
three General Management roles for different medical device businesses 
within the Johnson & Johnson Group, most recently as General Manager 
for the Ethicon Surgical Care business.
SENIOR MANAGEMENT
1. 2.
4.
3.
5. 33 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
6. RICHARD STENTON
Group Operations Director
Richard was Managing Director of MedLogic Global Ltd, now Advanced 
Medical Solutions (Plymouth) Limited, when it was acquired by Advanced 
Medical Solutions in May 2002.
Richard was subsequently appointed as General Manager with 
responsibility for R&D and Operations for the wound closure and  
sealants business.
Richard spent 14 years in engineering and manufacturing with  
CR Bard Ltd, three years as a project director installing medical device 
manufacturing processes in Europe, South Africa and the Far East  
before joining HG Wallace – Smiths Industries Medical Systems in 1989 
as Manufacturing Manager covering six medical device manufacturing 
sites in the U.K.. He joined Medlogic Global Ltd in 1997 and was 
responsible for setting up and managing the U.K. operation for their 
tissue adhesives business.
Richard was appointed Group Operations Director in July 2010.
7. PIETER VAN HOOF 
Operations Manager, Winsford
Pieter joined AMS B.V. in November 2009. Having completed a Masters 
degree in Engineering in Chemistry and Biochemistry at the Katholieke 
Universiteit Leuven (Belgium). Pieter joined Janssen Pharmaceutica 
working as a production supervisor in the manufacturing unit for sterile 
injectable products before joining the DuPont Engineering Polymers 
business in September 1999. At DuPont Engineering Polymers Pieter 
worked in a number of business process improvement roles in Supply 
Chain, certifying as a 6 Sigma Master Black Belt, before moving into 
Sales & Marketing, gathering experience in account management and 
business development. Before joining Advanced Medical Solutions B.V. 
Pieter held the position of European Customer Services Manager for 
DuPont Engineering Polymers.
Pieter was appointed Director of our Bulk Materials Business Unit in 
November 2012 and became the Operations Manager for our Winsford 
and Etten-Leur sites in February 2015.
8. BECKY WALMSLEY
Business Unit Director, OEM and Bulk Materials
Becky joined AMS in July 2015 as Business Unit Director of OEM and 
Bulk Materials.
Becky graduated with a degree in Modern Languages (French and 
German) with International Studies from South Bank University in 1993 
and completed an Executive Masters of Business Administration at 
Lancaster University in 2000.
Becky has more than 13 years’ experience in the Medical Device sector, 
having held various senior management roles, most recently as European 
Sales Director for Scapa Healthcare.
9. JEFF WILLIS 
Business Unit Director, Branded Distributed
Jeff joined AMS in October 2005 as Vice President Business 
Development, Americas.
Jeff graduated with a degree in Biomedical Engineering from the 
University of Florida in 1996 and completed a Masters programme in 
Management of T echnology at Georgia Institute of T echnology in 2001. 
He spent ten years with Kimberly-Clark Health Care in various R&D, 
Product Development, and New Business Development roles. In 2004, 
Jeff joined Abbott Laboratories in Columbus, Ohio as Manager of 
Licensing and Business Development supporting the medical nutritional 
and consumer products division.
In October 2009, Jeff assumed the role of Vice President of Group 
Marketing for AMS, relocating to the U.K. In December 2011, Jeff also 
took responsibility for the Integration of RESORBA
®
.
Jeff was appointed Director of our Branded Distributed Business Unit in 
November 2012 and now resides in Atlanta in the U.S.
Mary Tavener
Company Secretary
25 April 2016
6.
8.
7.
9. 34 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 34
The Directors present their report, incorporating the Chairman’s 
Statement, the Strategic Report, the Chief Executive’s Statement, 
the Financial Review, and the audited financial statements for the 
year ended 31 December 2015.
BUSINESS REVIEW AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS
The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to 
include a Strategic Report. The information that fulfils the 
requirements of the Strategic Report can be found on 
pages 10 to 33 which are incorporated in this report by 
reference. This report details the strategy and key risks of the 
Group, the performance for the year ended 31 December 2015 
and its prospects for the future.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The Group attaches a high priority to research and 
development aimed at developing new products and updating 
existing products. The Group has expensed to the income 
statement in the year ended 31 December 2015 £1,817,000 
(2014: £2,120,000) on research and development. In 
accordance with International Accounting Standards a further 
£373,000 (2014: £581,000) has been capitalised. Following a 
review of development, £nil (2014: £92,000) impairments were 
made in 2015.
DIVIDENDS
The Group made a profit before tax for the year to 
31 December 2015 of £17.0 million (2014: £15.2 million).  
The Directors are recommending payment of a final dividend  
of 0.55p per share. The final dividend will, subject to 
shareholders’ approval, be paid on 10 June 2016 to 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on  
20 May 2016. This will make a total dividend of 0.80p for the 
full year (2014: 0.70p).
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The Directors have monitored the performance of the Group with 
particular reference to the relevant key performance indicators:
• Revenue growth • Operating margin
• Customer service (OTIF) • Earnings per share growth
The Group monitors progress on a regular basis. Performance 
against the key performance indicators can be found on page 5.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
The Group is debt free. A five-year, £30 million, multi-currency, 
revolving, credit facility was agreed in December 2014 with an 
accordion option under which AMS can request up to an 
additional £20 million on the same terms. The new facility is 
provided jointly by the Group’s existing bank HSBC, as well as 
The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and replaced the previous 
£4 million facility. It is unsecured on the assets of the Group 
and is currently undrawn.
GOING CONCERN
After making enquiries and on the basis outlined in the 
Corporate Governance Report on pages 46 to 50, the 
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future and for this reason they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
SHARE LISTING
The Company’s Ordinary Shares are admitted to and traded on 
the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock 
Exchange (AIM), a market operated by the London Stock 
Exchange. Further information regarding the Company’s share 
capital, including movements during the year, are set out in 
Note 29 to the financial statements.
SHARE CAPITAL AND ISSUE OF ORDINARY SHARES
At 8 April 2016, the Group’s issued share capital comprised:
Number £000
% of 
 Total Share 
Capital
Ordinary shares of 5p each 209,075,180 10,454 100%
The issued share capital of the Company is set out in Note 29 
to the financial statements on page 77.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS
As at 8 April 2016 the Company had been notified of, in 
accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, or 
was otherwise aware of, the following substantial interests of 
3% or more in the Ordinary Share capital of the Company. 
Shares %
AXA Investment Managers UK 16,839,237 8.05
Octopus Investments 16,427,264 7.86
BlackRock Investment Mgt (UK) 13,822,762 6.61
Hargreave Hale 12,373,251 5.92
Investec Wealth & Investment 11,217,661 5.37
Schroder Investment Mgt 9,801,000 4.69
Aviva Investors 9,406,888 4.50
Invesco Asset Management 6,914,034 3.31
DIRECTORS
The names of the current Directors together with brief 
biographies are shown on pages 30 and 31. 
The Directors who were in office during the year ended 
31 December 2015, the terms of the Directors’ service 
contracts and details of the Directors’ interests in the shares of 
the Company, together with details of share options granted 
and any other awards made to the Directors, are disclosed in 
the Remuneration Report commencing on page 38.
Directors are re-appointed by ordinary resolution at a General 
Meeting of shareholders. The Board can appoint a Director 
during the year but that Director must be elected by an 
ordinary resolution at the next General Meeting. At the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Mary Tavener and Penny 
Freer have indicated their willingness to be re-elected and will 
retire by rotation. The Directors continue to contribute 
effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles. Details 
of the notice period in their service agreements are disclosed in 
the Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 45.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 35 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
35
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS
The Directors of the Company at 31 December 2015 and their interests, all of which are beneficially held, in the share capital of 
the Company were:
Ordinary Shares of 5p each 31 December 2015 Ordinary Shares of 5p each 31 December 2014
Shares DSBs LTIPs
Deferred
Bonus
2
Shares DSBs LTIPs
Deferred 
Bonus
1
C. Meredith 1,187,891 25,116 938,439 49,580 1,185,207 21,019 887,078 22,203
M. Tavener 1,825,698 12,637 568,155 36,538 1,774,470 18,494 624,611 17,207
S. Bellamy 100,000 – – – 100,000 – – –
P. Allen 50,000 – – – 50,000 – – –
P. Freer 13,888 – – – 13,888 – – –
1 Deferred Bonus shares are in respect of the bonus earned relating to 2013 financial year. 
2 Deferred Bonus shares are in respect of the bonus earned relating to 2013 and 2014 financial years.
Further details of the Directors’ remuneration and benefits are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 45.
The Board has agreed procedures for considering and, where 
appropriate, authorising Directors’ conflicts or potential 
conflicts of interest. Only independent Directors i.e. those who 
have no interest in the matter under consideration will be able 
to take the relevant decision. In taking the decision the 
Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be 
most likely to promote the Company’s success. Directors will 
be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation 
if they believe it is appropriate. The Board will report annually 
on the Company’s procedures for ensuring that the Board’s 
power of authorisation in respect of conflicts of interest 
operated effectively and that procedures have been followed. 
None of the Directors had any interest during or at the end of 
the year in any contract relating to the business of the 
Company or its subsidiaries.
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS’ LIABILITY INSURANCE
Insurance cover is in force in respect of the personal liabilities 
which may be incurred by Directors and Officers of the 
Company in the course of their service with the Group, as 
permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
EMPLOYEES
The Group depends on the skills and engagement of its 
employees in order to achieve its objectives. Staff at all levels 
are encouraged to make the fullest possible contribution to the 
Group’s success. The Group is an equal opportunities 
employer. It is committed to eliminating all forms of 
discrimination and giving fair and equal treatment to all 
employees and job applicants in terms of recruitment, pay 
conditions, promotions, training and all employment matters 
regardless of their age, disability, race, sex, sexual orientation, 
marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, 
gender reassignment, religion or belief. An Equality Policy is in 
force which aims to ensure that all employees are selected, 
trained, compensated, promoted and transferred solely on the 
strength of their ability, skills, qualifications and merit. The aim 
is to encourage a culture in which all employees have the 
opportunity to develop as fully as possible in accordance with 
their individual abilities and the needs of the Group. The Group 
also believes that all employees have a right to work in an 
environment free from harassment and bullying, and there is an 
emphasis upon providing a safe and healthy working 
environment.
The Group ensures that every consideration is given to 
applications for employment from disabled persons. Should an 
employee become disabled, every effort would be made to 
retrain the employee if required and offer suitable alternative 
employment within the Group.
The Group’s policy is to consult and discuss with employees, 
through meetings, both formal and informal, those matters likely to 
affect employees’ interests. The Employees’ Consultative 
Committee in the U.K., which comprises representatives of 
employees and management, and the Work’s Council in Germany 
meet regularly to discuss business issues and areas of concern. 
Management also communicates with staff through regular team 
briefs. Details of policies, procedures and other information of 
interest are regularly updated and are easily accessed by all 
employees on the Group’s intranet page. The Group undertakes 
an annual Employee Opinion Survey and takes into account 
comments and feedback received when updating and formulating 
policies and procedures. 
The Group’s aim is to recruit and retain sufficient skilled and 
motivated employees to meet the needs of the business. The 
Group operates to the internationally recognised medical device 
standard ISO 13485. Staff work within a defined quality system, 
and have Personal Development Plans that identify their training 
requirements to help them progress their careers and 
development. Employees are encouraged to become involved in 
the financial performance of the Group through participation in the 
Group’s share option plans and are incentivised directly through 
the Company’s bonus scheme, performance reviews and training 
and development opportunities.
EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES
Employees, except for participants in the Long-Term Incentive 
Plan (2014 LTIP), may be eligible after a period of service to be 
granted options over shares in the Company under the 
Company Share Option Plan or Executive Share Option 
Scheme. The Group received HMRC approval in 2010 to adopt 
a Company Share Option Plan (CSOP). Under the CSOP, 
employees are allowed to receive up to £30,000 of options in a 
tax-efficient manner. Options granted under these schemes are 
not offered at a discount. Further details are included in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 45. 36 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 36
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
The Company also operates a Deferred Share Bonus Scheme 
(DSB) in which employees are invited to participate. The DSB 
encourages employee share ownership which helps to align 
the employees’ interests with those of the shareholders. The 
details on the DSB Scheme are provided in the Remuneration 
Report on page 40. The original DSB was set up in 2006 and 
having reached the end if its ten-year life a new DSB scheme 
was introduced on the same terms as the existing scheme 
following shareholder approval at the 2015 Annual General 
Meeting.
The Company no longer satisfies the requirements for granting 
tax-efficient options under its EMI scheme. Options already 
granted under this scheme will be allowed to vest in 
accordance with the rules of the scheme.
1,170,000 Ordinary Shares (2014: 983,346) were issued during 
the year to employees exercising their share options and 
options over other share incentive schemes. Details are given 
in Note 31 to the Group financial statements.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
The Group is committed to high standards in health, safety and 
environmental performance. It is the Group’s policy to abide by, 
and where appropriate exceed, all laws, directives and 
regulations pertinent to its field of operations and to act in a 
manner so as to minimise the effects of its operations on the 
environment. The Group provides safe places and systems of 
work, safe plant and machinery, safe handling of materials and 
ensures appropriate information, instruction and training is 
given. Employees are encouraged to identify ‘near misses’ to 
ensure preventative actions are taken to avoid any unsafe work 
practices and a common All Incident Rate (AIR) reporting 
metric is used across the Group. Emphasis is placed on all 
employees having a responsibility to maintain a safe working 
environment. Health & Safety Committees at all sites assist 
with advice on safe working practices and ensure any 
corrective action is taken where necessary. Health and Safety 
reports are regularly received from Group sites and are 
reviewed by the Board. Regular audits are undertaken to 
evaluate compliance with Group policy. Health and Safety is a 
key component of the Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility 
policy.
ENVIRONMENT
Where possible, the Group aims to reduce its impact on the 
environment. The facility at Winsford has been built with a high 
level of thermal insulation to reduce the Group’s carbon footprint. 
It incorporates a solar wall, a renewable energy source that 
captures the sun’s warmth and supplements the building’s 
heating system. Lighting is controlled by movement sensors to 
avoid wastage and the heating system is fully programmable. 
Further details are available in the Corporate Social Responsibility 
Report on page 21.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
AMS is committed to ensuring that the business operates in a 
responsible way across these key areas: 
• Ethical standards
• Employees
• Environment
• Health and safety
• Customer and community
The Group has implemented a Corporate Social Responsibility 
policy and further details are included on page 21.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors 
are required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Parent 
Company financial statements in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law including 
FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”). Under company 
law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company 
for that period.
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements the 
Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently; 
• make judgments and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; 
• state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have 
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the financial statements; and 
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business. 
In preparing the Group financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies; 
• present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; 
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and 
• make an assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.  37 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
37
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. The 
Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; 
• the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report include a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business 
and the position of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face; and 
• the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a 
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Group’s performance, business model and strategy. 
AUDITOR
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of 
this Annual Report confirms that:
• so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and 
• the Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to 
have taken as Director in order to make himself/herself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the Company’s auditor is aware of that information. 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of S418 of the Companies 
Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP has expressed their willingness to continue in 
office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be 
proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS FOR THE ANNUAL 
GENERAL MEETING
Details of the business to be conducted at the Annual General 
Meeting to be held on 2 June 2016 are contained in the Notice 
of the Annual General Meeting on pages 91 to 93. In the 
opinion of the Directors, the passing of these resolutions is in 
the best interest of the shareholders. Details of the Special 
Business to be conducted are outlined below. 
SPECIAL BUSINESS
The effect of Resolution 7, to be proposed at the meeting 
would be to allow the Company to allot shares conferred by 
S551 of the Companies Act 2006.
The effect of Resolution 8, to be proposed at the meeting 
would be to disapply the statutory pre-emption rights conferred 
by S570 of the Companies Act 2006.
The effect of Resolution 9, to be proposed at the meeting 
would be to allow the Company to purchase its own shares 
conferred by S701 of the Companies Act 2006.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00am on 2 June 
2016 at the offices of Investec Bank plc, 2 Gresham Street, 
London, EC2V 7QP. Details of the Notice of the Annual General 
Meeting are given on pages 91 to 93. The Annual General 
Meeting provides an opportunity for private shareholders to 
question your Board and to meet informally with the executive 
management after the meeting.
On behalf of the Board
Mary Tavener
Company Secretary 
25 April 2016 38 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 38
REMUNERATION REPORT
The Board presents the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
As an AIM quoted company, Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc is not required to comply with the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report regulations requirements under Main Market UK Listing Rules or those aspects of the Companies Act applicable to listed 
companies. The following disclosures are made voluntarily.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the three Non-Executive Directors of the Group and the Chairman: Penny Freer 
(Chairman), Peter Allen, Steve Bellamy and Peter Steinmann. They have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, 
in the matters to be decided. They have no conflict of interest arising from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in 
running the business. They do not participate in any bonus, share option or pension arrangements. The Committee met four 
times during the year. All the meetings were attended by all members. The Board has accepted the Remuneration Committee’s 
recommendations in full.
The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, and in consultation with the Chief Executive, determines the Group’s policy 
on executive remuneration, employment conditions and the individual remuneration packages of the Executive Directors of all 
Group companies and management earning in excess of £100,000 per annum. It administers the share option schemes, 
determines the design of performance-related pay schemes, sets the targets for such schemes and approves payment under 
such schemes. The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee are reviewed each year and are available on the 
Company’s website, ‘www.admedsol.com’.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 2 June 2016 asking them to consider and approve 
this Report.
SUMMARY OF 2015 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE BUSINESS
Month Principal Activities
February – Review of 2014 personal objectives and setting of 2015 personal objectives for Executive Directors
– Approval of 2014 Remuneration Report
–  Review of 2014 Executive Director and Senior Management Team (‘SMT’) bonus and Deferred Annual 
Bonus awards
– Review of compliance with Executive Shareholding Policy for Executive Directors and SMT
–  Approval to continue with the existing Deferred Share Bonus Plan
May – Consideration and ratification of LTIP and share option awards for SMT
– Consideration and ratification of remuneration for SMT
– Review of legal and corporate governance developments
September – Consideration and approval of Executive Director LTIP awards
December – Consideration and approval of 2016 basic salary for Executive Directors and SMT
– Review of compliance with Executive Shareholding Policy for Executive Directors and SMT
– Discussion on pension arrangements for Executive Directors and SMT
– Review of results of Committee Self Assessment questionnaire
– Consideration of remuneration market trends
REMUNERATION POLICY
The remuneration policy is formulated around the need to offer competitive packages to attract and retain high calibre Senior 
Executives and motivate them to develop and implement the Company’s business strategy in order to optimise long-term 
shareholder value, whilst at the same time not paying more than is necessary for this purpose. A cohesive reward structure 
consistently applied with links to corporate performance is seen as crucial in ensuring attainment of the Group’s strategic goals. It 
is the intention of this policy to conform to best practice as far as reasonably practicable. It will continue to apply for 2016 and 
subsequent years, subject to regular review and supported by independent advice. The Committee retains the right for discretion, 
although no discretion was used in 2015. The policy is based around the following key principles:
• total rewards will be set at levels that are sufficiently competitive to enable the recruitment and retention of high calibre Senior 
Executives;
• total incentive-based rewards will be earned through the achievement of performance conditions consistent with shareholder 
interests;
• the design of long-term incentives will be prudent and will not expose shareholders to unreasonable financial risk; and
• in considering the market positioning of reward elements, account will be taken of the performance of the Group and of each 
individual Executive Director.
Kepler, part of Mercer (previously Kepler Associates), was engaged in February 2012 to advise the Remuneration Committee with 
regard to the remuneration of the Executives and SMT and provided further guidance in 2013 and 2014. The Remuneration 
Committee took into account its recommendations which included the introduction of an Executive Shareholding Policy in 2014  39 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
39
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
requiring the Executive Directors and SMT to hold a minimum of 100% and 50% respectively, of their pre-tax annual salary in 
Company shares within five years of attaining office, as well as changes to the bonus scheme. As a result of the Committee’s 
recommendations a Deferred Annual Bonus (DAB) Scheme was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and options issued 
under the DAB in 2014 and 2015. 
Each Executive Director’s remuneration package consists of basic salary, bonus, LTIPs, health and insurance benefits, and pension 
contributions. The Committee ensures that there is a balance between fixed and performance related remuneration elements. 
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS
In formulating the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee takes into account guidance issued by shareholder 
representative bodies, including the Investment Association, the NAPF and ISS. The Committee also takes into consideration any 
views expressed by shareholders during the year (including at the AGM) and encourages open dialogue with its largest 
shareholders. Major shareholders would be consulted in advance about changes to the remuneration policy.
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT GENERAL MEETING
At the 2015 AGM, the percentages of votes cast ‘for’, ‘against’ and ‘withheld’ in respect of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
were as follows:
Resolution
No. of 
shares
Votes 
cast ‘for’
Votes cast 
‘against’ or 
withheld
To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report 112,409,296 99.87% 0.13%
OVERVIEW OF DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
Directors’ Policy Table
 
Element of 
remuneration
Purpose and how it 
supports strategy How the element operated Framework used to assess performance
Base salary To attract and retain 
Executive Directors 
and members of the 
SMT of the right 
calibre and to provide 
a core level of reward 
for the role.
In line with the policy outlined above 
salary levels of Executive Directors and 
the SMT are set after taking into account 
experience, responsibilities and 
performance, both on an individual and 
business perspective, and external 
market data (benchmarked against 
companies of a similar size and 
complexity and other companies in the 
same industry sector). 
Salaries are reviewed annually (normally 
December, with any changes effective 
from 1 January). Details of the current 
salaries of the Executive Directors are set 
out below. This review was last carried 
out in December 2015. Any salary 
increase will ordinarily be in line with the 
typical increase (as a percentage of 
salary) applied to the U.K. workforce.
Where there is a change in 
responsibility, progression in the role, 
change in size or structure of the 
Group or increased experience of the 
Executive Director or member of the 
SMT, the Remuneration Committee 
retains the discretion to award a higher 
increase than the U.K. workforce. 40 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 40
Element of 
remuneration
Purpose and how it 
supports strategy How the element operated Framework used to assess performance
Annual 
Performance 
Bonus
Drives and rewards 
performance against 
annual financial and 
operational goals 
which are consistent 
with the medium to 
long-term strategic 
needs of the business.
Each of the Executive Directors is entitled 
under the terms of their service 
agreements to receive an annual bonus 
to be determined by the Remuneration 
Committee based on the Group’s 
financial performance and the 
achievement of specific personal targets 
set by the Remuneration Committee.
The maximum annual bonus potential is 
125% of salary for the Chief Executive 
and 100% of salary for the Chief Financial 
Officer. Bonuses are paid in mixture of 
cash and shares with an element 
deferred under the Deferred Annual 
Bonus scheme.
The annual performance bonus is 
focused on the delivery of strategically 
important performance targets. These 
include demanding financial and 
non-financial measures. The financial 
targets are currently set against Group 
revenue, Group profit before tax and 
Earnings Per Share. 85% of the award 
is dependent upon the financial 
performance of the Group and 15% is 
achievable for meeting personal 
objectives. The SMT are entitled to 
receive up to 50% of their salary in 
bonus, of which 86% of the award is 
dependent on financial performance 
targets and 14% on personal 
objectives. However, the Committee 
may use different measures and/or 
weightings for future bonus cycles to 
take into account changes in the 
strategic needs of the business.
Deferred Annual 
Bonus
Key tool for retention 
of staff and provides 
mechanism to 
exercise malus 
provisions.
Following advice from Kepler regarding 
corporate governance developments in 
remuneration, the Remuneration 
Committee introduced a Deferred Annual 
Bonus (2014 DAB) Scheme after 
receiving shareholder approval at the 
2014 AGM whereby both Executive 
Directors and the SMT are required to 
defer up to 25% of their annual bonus 
into share awards that will vest after three 
years.
N/A
Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan 
(DSB)
To align the interests 
of the Executive 
Directors, the SMT 
and the employees 
with shareholders and 
incentivise long term 
value creation.
The Deferred Share Bonus Plan is 
available to all employees and allows for 
the payment of bonus to be made in the 
form of shares. It also allows for the 
provision of matching shares if the bonus 
shares are held for a set period. The DSB 
encourages employees to acquire shares 
in the Company and retain those shares 
to receive additional free shares from the 
Company. It acts as a valuable retention 
tool aligning employees’ interests with 
those of shareholders. The first year that 
the DSB operated was in 2007. The 
existing scheme received shareholder 
approval at the 2015 AGM. 
N/A
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 41 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
41
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
Element of 
remuneration
Purpose and how it 
supports strategy How the element operated Framework used to assess performance
Long Term 
Incentive Plan 
(LTIP)
To align the interests 
of the Executive 
Directors and the SMT 
with shareholders and 
incentivise long-term 
value creation.
The Company introduced a new 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (2014 LTIP) at 
the 2014 AGM, replacing the existing 
LTIP which was due to 
expire in 2015. The LTIP permits an 
annual grant of shares that vest subject 
to performance and continued 
employment. The LTIP awards will be 
granted in accordance with the rules of 
the plan and the discretions contained 
therein. Individuals who are entitled to 
awards under the 2014 LTIP are not 
eligible to receive options under the 
Company’s Share Option Plan or the 
Executive Share Option Scheme.
Under the rules of the LTIP, the maximum 
award size is 200% of salary. Details of 
the proposed award level for 2015 are set 
out below. Awards under the LTIP may 
be granted in the form of nil-cost options 
or cash (where the award cannot be 
settled in shares). Awards are currently 
structured with a consideration of £1.
The Executive Directors and the SMT are 
also subject to an Executive 
Shareholding requirement to build and 
maintain a shareholding in the Company 
which is equivalent to 100%/50% 
respectively of their pre-tax annual salary 
within 5 years of appointment. Both 
Executive Directors exceeded this 
requirement at the end of 2015. 
50% of the Award is determined based 
on the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 
performance of the Company 
compared with the AIM All-Share 
Supersector Health Care Index over the 
vesting period and 50% of the Award is 
determined by the growth in the 
average Earnings Per Share (EPS) per 
year of the Company over the three-
year vesting period. 
Of the 50% of the Award that is 
determined by reference to the AIM 
Healthcare Share Index, no shares will 
be awarded if the Company is ranked 
below the median. Awards will vest on 
a sliding scale from 25% to 100% for 
performance above median to upper 
quartile performance against the Index. 
The performance measurement for 
EPS will be based on the percentage 
increase of the Company’s EPS over 
the vesting period. Awards will vest on 
a sliding scale from 25% to 100% for 
an average increase of EPS from target 
EPS to an average increase of EPS of 
20% over the vesting period. No 
awards will be made for an average 
increase of EPS below target EPS. In 
2015 the EPS target was set at 5%.
The Committee has the flexibility to make 
appropriate adjustments to the 
performance conditions to ensure that 
the Award achieves its purpose. Any 
vesting is also subject to the Committee 
being satisfied that the Company’s 
performance on these measures is 
consistent with the underlying 
performance of the business.
Benefits To attract and retain 
Executive Directors 
and SMT members of 
the right calibre by 
providing a market 
competitive level of 
benefit provision.
The range of benefits that may be provided 
by the Committee after taking into account 
local market practice. The Executive 
Directors' benefits currently comprise 
private medical insurance. Additional 
benefits may be provided as appropriate.
N/A 42 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 42
Element of 
remuneration
Purpose and how it 
supports strategy How the element operated Framework used to assess performance
Pensions To provide a market 
competitive 
remuneration package 
to enable the 
recruitment and 
retention of the 
Executive Directors 
and SMT.
All employees are entitled to become 
members of the Group Pension and Life 
Assurance Scheme which was set up with 
effect from 1 February 1999. The Scheme 
entitles Executive Directors to contribute up 
to 10% of salary with the Group 
contributing 10%. All other employees 
contribute 3% of their salary which is 
matched by a 6% contribution from the 
Group. The Pension Plan is a money 
purchase scheme. In 2011, the Group 
made further arrangements allowing 
individuals to sacrifice their salary for 
pension contributions. Automatic 
enrolment has been implemented for all 
U.K. based employees. 
N/A 
DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS – SINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION
The various elements of the remuneration for each Executive Director in 2014 and 2015:
Salary and fees Annual bonus
Deferred annual 
bonus LTIPs vested 
Gains on DSBs 
vested Benefits Pensions
Total 
remuneration
Name
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Chris Meredith 255 245 181 106 60 35 218 219 – 14 1 1 26 25 741 645
Mary Tavener 180 156 118 75 39 25 169 113 – 11 1 1 40 35 547 416
Total 435 401 299 181 99 60 387 332 – 25 2 2 66 60 1,288 1,061
The table above summarises the payments made and additional amounts earned by the Executive Directors for the 2014 and 
2015 financial years. The Deferred Annual Bonus recorded in the table above is in respect of the 2014 and 2015 financial years, to 
be paid or deferred into shares, which will not be received until 2017 and 2018 respectively. The Executive Directors were granted 
further LTIPs as detailed below.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Executive Directors. No Director or Senior Manager shall be 
involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration. Non-Executive Directors receive travel expenses but do not participate in 
any incentive arrangements. Details of the Non-Executive Director fees are outlined below. 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS – FEES
Base fees Additional fees 
Total  
remuneration
Name
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
 2015
 £’000
2014
 £’000
Peter Allen 68 63 – – 68 63
Steve Bellamy 38 37 3 – 41 37
Penny Freer 38 37 3 – 41 37
Peter Steinmann 34 34 – – 34 34
Total 178 173 6 – 184 173
Additional fees relate to the supplementary fee paid to the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees. All Directors 
have confirmed that, save as disclosed in the single figures of remuneration tables above, they have not received any other items 
in the nature of remuneration.
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 43 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
43
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
ANNUAL PERFORMANCE BONUS
The bonus for the 2015 financial year is accrued. Overall the 2015 bonus payments were as follows:
Name
Bonus paid in 2015
(2014 Financial Year) Percentage of salary Maximum % of salary 
Chris Meredith £141,264 57.7 100%
Mary Tavener £99,749 57.7 100%
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN THE LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (LTIP)
The maximum number of shares to be allocated to the Executive Directors under the LTIP, in each case for an aggregate 
consideration of £1, are as follows:
As at 
31 December
2014
Exercised in
the year
Issued in
the year
Lapsed in
the year
As at 
31 December
2015
Market price
at date of 
grant
(p)
First vesting
date
Chris Meredith 188,628 – – – 188,628 88.00 15 April 2014 (vested)
260,586 – – 116,955 143,631 76.75 6 September 2015 (vested)
227,111 – – – 227,111 90.00 19 September 2016 
210,753 – – – 210,753 116.25 6 June 2017
– – 168,316 – 168,316 151.50 10 September 2018
Mary Tavener 97,829 97,829 – – – 88.00 15 April 2014 (vested)
201,954 – – 90,640 111,314 76.75 6 September 2015 (vested)
176,011 – – – 176,011 90.00 19 September 2016
148,817 – – – 148,817 116.25 6 June 2017
– – 132,013 – 132,013 151.50 10 September 2018
The entitlement to shares under the LTIP is subject to achieving the performance conditions referred to on page 41. The figures shown 
are maximum entitlements and the actual number of shares (if any) will depend on these performance conditions being achieved.
Following a review of the Performance Conditions of the LTIPs granted in September 2012, 55.1% of the Award vested in 
September 2015. Awards made have no performance re-testing facility.
APPROACH TO REMUNERATION OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON RECRUITMENT
In the cases of appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of all the existing components of remuneration. 
The salaries of new appointments will be determined by reference to the experience and skills of the individual, relevant market 
data, internal relativities and their current salary. New appointments will be eligible to receive a personal pension, benefits and to 
participate in the Company’s share schemes. 
SERVICE AGREEMENTS
Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee and 
are designed to recruit, retain and motivate Directors of the quality required to manage the Company. The service contract of 
each Executive Director is terminable by either party giving not less than 12 months notice in writing. Executive Directors’ 
contracts are available to view throughout the year at the Company’s registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of the service contracts for the Executive Directors and letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are as follows:
Executive Director Date of Contract
Unexpired Term (months) 
or Rolling Contract
Notice 
Period 
(months)
Chris Meredith 3 May 2005 Rolling Contract 12
Mary Tavener 28 June 1999 Rolling Contract 12
Non-Executive Directors
Peter Allen 4 December 2013 Rolling Contract 6
Penny Freer 1 March 2010 Rolling Contract 6
Steve Bellamy 1 February 2007 Rolling Contract 6
Peter Steinmann 1 July 2013 Rolling Contract 6 44 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 44
POLICY ON PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE – EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Company will consider termination payments on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the relevant contractual terms, the 
circumstances of the termination and any applicable duty to mitigate. There are no special provisions in the event of loss of office 
or for payment in lieu of notice (PILON). The Remuneration Committee considers the circumstances of individual cases of early 
termination and determines compensation accordingly. 
If such circumstances were to arise, the Executive Director concerned would have no claim against the Company for damages or 
any other remedy in respect of the termination. The Remuneration Committee would apply general principles of mitigation to any 
payment made to a departing Executive Director and will honour previous commitments as appropriate, considering each case 
on an individual basis.
The table below summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and LTIP are typically treated in different leaver scenarios and on 
a change of control. Whilst the Remuneration Committee retains overall discretion on determining ‘good leaver’ status, it typically 
defines a ‘good leaver’ in circumstances such as retirement, ill health or injury, disability, redundancy and the employing company 
ceasing to be under the control of the Group (Annual Bonus/2014 LTIP) and ceasing to be a Director or employee of a Group Company 
where not a ‘bad leaver’ (2014 DAB). Final treatment is subject to the Committee’s discretion. 
Event Timing of vesting/award Calculation of vesting/payment
Annual Bonus
‘Good leaver’ • Annual bonus payment would be negotiated as 
part of the terms of the leaving arrangements at the 
discretion of the Remuneration Committee
• Unvested deferred annual bonus share awards vest 
at the normal vesting date (or earlier at the 
Remuneration Committee’s discretion)
• No automatic entitlement to annual bonus on a 
pro-rata basis 
‘Bad leaver’ • Not applicable • Individuals lose the right to their annual bonus 
and unvested deferred share awards
Change of control • Annual bonuses are paid and unvested deferred 
share awards vest on the date of notification to the 
Executive Directors regarding the change of control
• Annual bonus is paid only to the extent that 
any performance conditions have been 
satisfied and is pro-rated for the proportion of 
the financial year worked to the effective date 
of change of control 
LTIP
‘Good leaver’ •  On normal vesting date (or earlier at the 
Remuneration Committee’s discretion)
• Unvested awards vest to the extent that any 
performance conditions have been satisfied 
and a pro-rata reduction applies to the value of 
the awards to take into account the proportion 
of vesting period not served
‘Bad leaver’ • Unvested awards lapse • Unvested awards lapse on cessation of 
employment
Change of control • Unvested awards vest on the date of notification to 
the Executive Directors regarding the change of 
control
• Unvested awards vest and a pro-rata reduction 
applies for the proportion of the vesting period  
not served
• Outstanding deferred shares vest in full
Upon exit or change of control DSB awards will be treated in line with the DSB plan rules.
If employment is terminated by the Company, the departing Executive Director may have a legal entitlement (under statute or 
otherwise) to additional amounts, which would need to be met. In addition, the Committee retains discretion to settle other 
amounts reasonably due to the Executive Director.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing Executive Directors 
including (but not limited to) settlement and/or consultancy arrangements. These will be used sparingly and only entered into 
where the Remuneration Committee believes that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to do so.
 
There are no agreements between the Group and its Directors or employees for loss of office or employment (whether through 
resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise) that occurs because of a takeover bid.
PRIVATE HEALTHCARE
Executive Directors and other senior employees are entitled to private healthcare and permanent health insurance.
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 45 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
45
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
50
100
150
200
250
Total shareholder return (rebased to 100)
AMS
FTSE All Share
FTSE Techmark All Share
FTSE All Share Health Care
FTSE Small Cap
FTSE AIM All Share 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
50
100
150
200
250
Share price (rebased to 100)
AMS
FTSE All Share
FTSE Techmark All Share
FTSE All Share Health Care
FTSE Small Cap
FTSE AIM All Share 
SHARE OPTIONS
Employees, except for participants in the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), may be granted options over shares in the Company 
under the Company Share Option Plan and Executive Share Option Scheme, under which either approved or unapproved options 
may be granted. Options granted under these schemes are not offered at a discount.
The exercising of options under these schemes is conditional on certain performance conditions which are pre-determined by the 
Remuneration Committee. Options are exercisable normally only after the third anniversary of the date of grant (or such later time 
as may be determined at the time of grant) and cannot, in any event, be exercised later than the tenth anniversary of the date of 
grant. Awards will not vest if the Group is not profitable at the end of the performance period. Full details are included in Note 31 
on pages 78 to 82.
COMPANY SHARE OPTION PLAN (CSOP)
The Company received approval for a Company Share Option Plan (CSOP) on 2 June 2010. This was adopted after HMRC 
approval on 13 August 2010. This Plan allows relevant employees to receive up to £30,000 of Company shares by reference to 
the market value of these shares on the grant date and to benefit from the growth in value of those shares.
2009 EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION SCHEME
Up until 2010, the Company was able to offer options under an Enterprise Management Incentive (EMI) Scheme. The Company 
no longer satisfies the requirements for operating this scheme, however, options already granted will be allowed to vest in 
accordance with the scheme rules.
SHARE PERFORMANCE – 2015 
The opening share price for 2015 was 127p and the closing price on the last trading day of the year, was 181.25p. The range 
during the year was 186p (high) and 124p (low). (Source: daily official list of the London Stock Exchange.)
FIVE-YEAR SHARE PERFORMANCE
For the five-year period ending 29 February 2016 the Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc share price has outperformed the 
FTSE All Share Index by 124%, FTSE Techmark All-Share Index by 64%, FTSE All-Share Health Care Index by 90%, the FTSE 
Small Cap Index by 96%, and FTSE AIM All-Share Index by 157%.
For the five-year period ending 29 February 2016 the Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc total shareholder return (TSR), defined as 
share price growth plus reinvested dividends, has outperformed the FTSE All Share Index by 110%, FTSE Techmark All-Share Index by 
43%, FTSE All-Share Health Care Index by 64%, the FTSE Small Cap Index by 84%, and FTSE AIM All-Share Index by 160%.
Mary Tavener
Company Secretary 
25 April 2016 46 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 46
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 
GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
The Company’s shares are listed on the AIM market and are subject to the AIM Admission Rules of the London Stock Exchange 
and consequently are not required to comply with the provisions or report in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the Code) issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2014. However, the Board is committed to the principles of good 
corporate governance covering leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and shareholder relations as outlined in the 
Code. The Directors have applied the Code as far as is practicable and appropriate for a public company of the Group’s size.
ROLE OF THE BOARD
The role of the Board is to establish the vision and strategy for the Group, to deliver shareholder value and is responsible for the 
long-term success of the Company. Individual members of the Board have equal responsibility for the overall stewardship, 
management and performance of the Group and for the approval of its long-term objectives and strategic plans.
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the role of the Chairman and that of the Chief Executive of the Company and 
the roles are clearly set out in writing and reviewed by the Board. The primary responsibility of the Chairman is to lead and 
manage the Board and that of the Chief Executive is to manage the business of the Group. 
THE CHAIRMAN
Peter Allen was appointed as Chairman on 1 January 2014 following his appointment as a Non-Executive Director on 4 December 
2013 and is considered to be independent. The Chairman is responsible for leading and managing the Board and ensuring its 
effectiveness in all aspects of its role. He works closely with the Chief Executive on developing Group strategy and provides 
general advice and support.
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
Chris Meredith is the Company’s Chief Executive. His principal responsibility is to manage the Group’s business and to lead the 
Senior Management Team (SMT) in delivering the Company’s strategic and operational objectives.
THE SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
Penny Freer was appointed as Senior Independent Director in 2010. Where the Chairman is not present, the Senior Independent 
Director chairs meetings of the Board. She is also responsible for the chairing of meetings of Non-Executive Directors if, and 
when, required.
THE NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Non-Executive Directors are all considered by the Board to be independent, in both character and judgement, in accordance 
with the recommendations of the Code.
THE OPERATION OF THE BOARD
The Board has the authority for ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and achieves the strategic objectives it sets. To 
achieve this, the Board reserves certain matters for its own determination including matters relating to Group strategy, approval of 
interim and annual financial results, dividend policy, major capital expenditure, budgets, monitoring performance, treasury policy, 
risk management, corporate governance and the effectiveness of its internal control systems. It has a schedule of matters 
specifically reserved for its approval. Matters are delegated to the Board Committees, Executive Directors and the Senior 
Management Team where appropriate. The Board performs its responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings and by 
continuous monitoring of the performance of the Group.
Matters considered by the Board in 2015 included: 
• Finance and operations review 
• Annual budget 
• Risk review 
• Strategic plans 
• Health and safety
• Potential merger and acquisition targets 
• Reports from the Board Committees 
• Board evaluation
The Board also delegates a number of its responsibilities to committees and management as described below. 
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board has delegated specific authority to the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee. 
Peter Allen, Penny Freer, Steve Bellamy and Peter Steinmann are members of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees. Chris Meredith is a member of the Nomination Committee.
The Terms of Reference of all three Board Committees are available on our corporate website ‘www.admedsol.com’. 47 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
47
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
0 – 3 years 
 
8+ years 4 – 7 years
 
 
 
3
2
1
BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS
The Board meets on a formal basis regularly, and met formally ten times in 2015. Members are supplied with financial and 
operational information in good time for review in advance of the meetings. Most Board Committee meetings are scheduled 
around Board meetings. 
The Directors attended the following meetings in the year ended 31 December 2015:
Board
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Peter Allen 10 2 4 1
Chris Meredith 10 2* 3* 1
Mary Tavener 10 3* 2* 0
Steve Bellamy 10 3 4 1
Penny Freer 10 3 4 1
Peter Steinmann 10 3 4 1
* By invitation
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. The Board approves the appointment and 
removal of the Company Secretary. The Non-Executive Directors are able to contact the Executive Directors, Company Secretary 
or Senior Managers at any time for further information.
EFFECTIVENESS
Board Composition 
The Board comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors. The Directors’ 
profiles appear on pages 30 and 31 and detail their experience and suitability for leading and managing the Group. Together they 
bring a valuable range of expertise and experience to the Group. No individual or group of individuals dominates the Board’s 
decision making process. The Chairman fosters a climate of debate and challenge in the boardroom, built on his challenging but 
supportive relationship with the Chief Executive which sets the tone for Board interaction and discussions.
Diversity
Vacancies on the Board are filled following a rigorous evaluation of candidates who possess the required balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience, using recruitment consultants where appropriate. The process for the appointment of Non-Executive 
Directors is managed by the Nomination Committee, whose responsibilities are outlined on page 48. We recognise the 
importance of diversity at Board level and our Board members comprise a number of different nationalities with a wide range of 
skills and experiences from a variety of business backgrounds. Our current female representation on the Board is 33.3%, already 
above the minimum representation level which was to be achieved by 2015. Additionally, the Senior Management Team also has a 
diverse experience. Its members comprise of several nationalities and female representation is also 33.3%. 
Appointment of Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors are appointed to the Board following a formal, rigorous and transparent process, involving external 
recruitment agencies, to select individuals who have a depth and breadth of relevant experience, thus ensuring that the selected 
candidates will be capable of making an effective and relevant contribution to the Board. The process for the appointment of Non-
Executive Directors is managed by the Nomination Committee, whose responsibilities are outlined on page 48.
Terms of Appointment and Time Commitment
All Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years subject to satisfactory performance. After this time they 
may serve additional three year terms following review by the Board. All Non-Executive Directors are expected to devote such 
time as is necessary for the proper performance of their duties. Directors are expected to attend all Board meetings and 
committee meetings of which they are members and any additional meetings as required.
Further details of their terms and conditions are summarised in the Remuneration Report on pages 42 and the terms and 
conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available at the Company’s Registered Office.
Tenure Chart
The size of the Board  
during 2015 was six. 48 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 48
Induction and Professional Development
New Directors are given a formal induction process including details of how the Board and Committees operate, meetings with 
Senior Management and information on Group strategy, products and performance. Training and development needs of Directors 
are reviewed regularly. The Directors are kept appraised of developments in legal, regulatory and financial matters affecting the 
Group from the Executive Chief Financial Officer, the Deputy Company Secretary, and the Group’s external auditors and advisers.
Professional Advice, Indemnities and Insurance
There is provision for Directors to take independent professional advice relating to the discharge of their responsibilities should 
they feel they need it. The Company has arranged Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance against certain liabilities and defence 
costs. However, the Directors’ insurance does not provide protection in the event of a Director being found to have acted 
fraudulently or dishonestly.
Board and Committee Evaluation
The performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and Directors is undertaken by the Chairman annually and implemented 
in collaboration with the Committee Chairmen. The 2015 Board and Committee evaluations were conducted by way of each 
Director and Committee member completing comprehensive questionnaires. The results were collated, discussed and acted 
upon by the Board and Committees. The Board reviews the outcomes of the Committee evaluations and assesses their 
performance. The Chairman confirms that the performance of the Non-Executive Directors continues to be effective.
Election and Re-election of Directors
The Company’s Articles of Association require all Directors to retire and submit themselves for re-election at the first AGM after 
appointment and thereafter at least every three years. The Notice of AGM will give details of those Directors seeking re-election.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises Penny Freer (Chairman), Steve Bellamy, Peter Steinmann and Peter Allen. The 
Committee has Terms of Reference that are reviewed at least annually and were updated at the end of 2015. The Deputy 
Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee met four times in 2015. The Committee, in consultation with the Chief Executive, determines the 
Group’s policy on Executive remuneration, employment conditions and the individual remuneration packages of Executive 
Directors of all Group companies and all Management earning in excess of £100,000 per annum. It also approves all new 
incentive schemes, the grants of options under the Group’s share option schemes and the grant of shares under the Group’s 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). The report of the Committee is included on pages 38 to 45.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises Peter Allen (Chairman), Penny Freer, Steve Bellamy, Chris Meredith and Peter Steinmann and meets 
as and when it is necessary to do so. The Committee has Terms of Reference that are reviewed at least annually and were updated at the 
end of 2015. The Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. The Committee met once during the year.
The Committee’s role is to:
• ensure that appropriate procedures are in place for the nomination and selection of candidates for appointment to the Board 
considering the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board;
• make recommendations to the Board regarding re-election of Directors, succession planning and Board composition, having 
due regard for diversity, including gender; and
• consider succession planning for Senior Management and membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Steve Bellamy (Chairman), Penny Freer, Peter Steinmann, and Peter Allen. Steve Bellamy, a 
qualified Chartered Accountant, chairs the Committee. The Committee has Terms of Reference that are reviewed at least annually 
and were updated at the end of 2015. The Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee met three times during the year. The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, 
external audit partner and internal auditor attended a number of these meetings. The Audit Committee also met with the external 
audit partner without the Executives and Senior Managers present. The role of the Committee is to:
• consider the appointment, fees, independence and effectiveness of the auditor and the audit process, and discuss the scope 
of the audit and its findings; 
• review audit and non audit services and fees;
• monitor the Group’s accounting policies;
• review and challenge the Group’s assessment of business risks and internal controls to mitigate these risks;
• review the annual and interim statements prior to their submission for approval by the Board; 
• review and challenge the Going Concern assumptions for the Group; 
• review the Group’s Whistle-blowing, Bribery and Gifts policies; 
• review the internal audit plan and the reports of the internal auditors; and
• annually assess the performance of the external auditor.
It is the task of the Audit Committee to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are 
provided by the auditor. To ensure auditor objectivity and independence there is a process in place to approve any non-audit work.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED 49 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
49
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
The Audit Committee provides advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and provides the necessary 
information shareholders require to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy. In doing so, the following 
issues have been addressed:
• review of key strategic risks – the Audit Committee conducts a review of the key strategic risks every six months. The review 
highlights the key risks based on a combination of likelihood and impact and then also considers what appropriate mitigation 
has been and should be implemented. The key risks are included in the Strategic Review;
• review of judgements made by management, including the discount rate used in determining whether there has been an 
impairment of goodwill; and
• Going Concern – the conclusion of the review of the Going Concern assessment is included in Note 2.
The Board is confident that the collective experience of the Audit Committee enables them to act as an effective Committee. The 
Audit Committee has access to the financial expertise of the Group and its auditors and can seek professional advice at the 
Company’s expense if required.
Risk Management
The Group’s corporate objective is to maximise long-term shareholder value. In doing so, the Directors recognise that creating 
value is the reward for taking and accepting risk. The recent challenging business climate has resulted in a sustained focus on our 
approach to risk. The Directors consider risk management to be crucial to the Group’s success and give a high priority to 
ensuring that adequate systems are in place to evaluate and limit risk exposure.
Management report to the Audit Committee regularly on their review of risks, how the risks are managed and monitored, and 
what actions have been assigned in relation to those risks. The Audit Committee reviews the inherent risks, including the key risks 
and the system of control necessary to manage such risks. The Audit Committee also reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s 
procedures in managing risk and, therefore, believes it meets the requirements of the FRC guidance on Risk Management, 
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting. The business risks and controls to mitigate the risks are formally 
reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board at least twice a year. The Board are satisfied that there is an ongoing process, 
which operated throughout the year, for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
In September 2014 the FRC issued guidance on ‘Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial & Business Reporting’. 
The new guidance was applied in the Group’s 2015 accounting period.
Internal Control 
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, taking guidance from the 
Audit Committee. In the context of the Group’s business any such system can only reasonably be expected to manage rather 
than eliminate risks arising from its operations. It can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material loss or misstatement.
Key features of the internal control system are as follows:
• the Group has an organisational structure with clear responsibilities and lines of accountability. The Group promotes the values 
of integrity and professionalism. The members of the Board are available to hear, in confidence, any individual’s concerns 
about improprieties; 
• the Board has a schedule of matters expressly reserved for its consideration. This schedule includes potential acquisitions, 
major capital projects, treasury, risk management policies, approval of budgets and health & safety; 
• the Board monitors the activities of the Group through the management accounts, monthly forecasts and other reports on 
current activities and plans. The Senior Management Team regularly monitors financial and operational performance in detail; 
• the Group has set appropriate levels of authorisation which must be adhered to as the Group concludes its business; 
• the Group operates a ‘whistle-blowing’ policy enabling any individual with a concern to approach the Non-Executive Directors 
in confidence; and 
• the Group has appointed a third party to carry out internal audits on behalf of the Group which is managed by the Audit Committee. 
Internal Audit
Following a review of the Group in 2012, the Audit Committee proposed, and the Board accepted, that a separate internal audit 
function be set up. This was achieved by outsourcing to RSM UK (formerly Baker Tilly LLP). The Audit Committee has prepared 
the Terms of Reference and will continue to utilise RSM UK’s service as required in 2016. Findings and recommendations are 
received by the Audit Committee, who also review progress on corrective actions. The Audit Committee:
• approves the appointment, and the termination, of the internal auditors; 
• reviews and approves the charter of the internal audit function and ensures the function has the necessary resources and 
access to information to enable it to fulfill its mandate and is equipped to perform in accordance with appropriate professional 
standards for internal auditors; 
• ensures the internal auditor has direct access to the Board Chairman and to the Committee Chairman and is accountable to 
the Committee; 
• reviews and assesses the annual internal audit work plan; 
• receives a report on the results of the internal auditors work on a periodic basis; 
• reviews and monitors management’s responsiveness to the internal auditor’s findings and recommendations; 
• meets with the internal auditor at least once a year without the presence of management; and 
• monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Company’s controls in the context of the Company’s overall risk management 
system.  50 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 50
All internal audit reports are discussed with the Audit Committee and the external auditor, and the recommendations considered 
and acted upon. RSM UK attends Audit Committee meetings every six months and updates the Audit Committee in writing ahead 
of each Committee meeting.
In 2015, the Internal Auditor undertook detailed audits of the sales processing cycle in Germany as well as the planning and 
production process in Germany and Czech Republic. The recommendations of Internal Audit were accepted by the Audit 
Committee and acted upon.
The Group also calls on the services of external bodies to review the controls in certain areas of the Group. The quality assurance 
systems are reviewed by the Group’s notified bodies, the British Standards Institution (BSI) and TÜV Rheinland, on a regular basis.
Going Concern
In carrying out their duties in respect of going concern, the Directors have carried out a review of the Group’s financial position 
and cash flow forecasts for the next 12 months from signing of the accounts. These have been based on a comprehensive review 
of revenue, expenditure and cash flows, taking into account specific business risks and the current economic environment.
With regard to the Group’s financial position, it had cash and cash equivalents at the year end of £34.2 million (2014: £17 .3 million) and 
was debt free (2014: debt free). The Group agreed a new, five-year, £30 million, multi-currency, revolving credit facility in December 2014 
with an accordion option under which AMS can request up to an additional £20 million on the same terms. The new facility is provided 
jointly by the Group’s existing bank HSBC, as well as The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and replaces the previous £4 million facility. It is 
unsecured on the assets of the Group and is currently undrawn.
While the current economic environment is uncertain, AMS operates in a market whose demographics are favourable, 
underpinned by an increasing need for products to treat chronic and acute wounds. Consequently, market growth is predicted. 
The Group has a number of long-term contracts with customers across different geographic regions and also with substantial 
financial resources, ranging from government agencies through to global healthcare companies.
Having taken the above into consideration, the Directors have reached the conclusion that the Group is well placed to manage its 
business risks in the current economic environment. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
Remuneration
The level of remuneration of the Directors is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 45.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board appreciates that effective communication with the Company’s shareholders and the investment community as a whole is a 
key objective. The Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Statement and the Strategic Report and Financial Review, together with the 
information in the Annual Report of the Group, provides a detailed review of the business. The views of both institutional and private 
shareholders are important, and these can be varied and wide-ranging, as is their interest in the Company’s strategy, reputation and 
performance. The Executive Directors have overall responsibility for ensuring effective communication and the Company maintains a 
regular dialogue with its shareholders, mainly in the periods following the announcement of the interim and final results, but also at other 
times during the year. The views of shareholders are sought through direct contact and via feedback from advisors and are 
communicated to the Board as a whole. The Board encourages the participation of shareholders at its Annual General Meeting, notice 
of which is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting. The AMS website ‘www.admedsol.com’ is regularly 
updated and provides additional information on the Group including information on the Group’s products and technology.
Annual General Meeting
This year’s AGM will, as last year, include a presentation by the Chief Executive on the current progress of the business and allow 
the opportunity for questions on this or any of the resolutions before the meeting. The Company proposes separate resolutions 
for each issue and specifically relating to the reports and accounts. The Company ensures all proxy votes are counted and 
indicates the level of proxies on each resolution along with the abstentions after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
After the meeting, shareholders have the opportunity to talk informally to the Board and raise any further questions or issues they 
may have. The outcome of the AGM, a copy of the AGM presentation and details of the poll results will be posted on the 
Company’s website after the meeting.
Mary Tavener
Company Secretary 
25 April 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED 51 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
51
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
We have audited the financial statements of Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 which 
comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of 
Changes in Equity and the related Notes 1 to 33, the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related Notes 1 to 7. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for 
the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion 
on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any 
information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at  
31 December 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union;
• the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Timothy Edge BSc ACA (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Manchester, United Kingdom
25 April 2016
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS  
OF ADVANCED MEDICAL SOLUTIONS GROUP PLC 52 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 52
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
  Note
Year ended 
31 December 
2015
Total
£’000
Year ended 
31 December 
2014
Total 
£’000
Revenue 4 68,596 63,010
Cost of sales   (28,688) (27,167)
Gross profit 39,908 35,843
Distribution costs (951) (853)
Administration costs (22,505) (20,070)
Other income 589 250
Profit from operations 4, 5 17,041 15,170
Finance income 10 73 49
Finance costs 11 (118) (1)
Profit before taxation 16,996 15,218
Income tax 12 (2,877) (2,354)
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent   14,119 12,864
Earnings per share      
Basic 14 6.78p 6.20p
Diluted 14 6.68p 6.08p
Adjusted diluted 14 6.86p 6.26p
The above results relate to continuing operations.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
 
Year ended
31 December
2015
£’000
Year ended
31 December
2014
£’000
Profit for the year 14,119 12,864
Items that will potentially be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss:
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (3,348) (4,200)
Loss arising on cash flow hedges (3) (1,173)
Other comprehensive expense for the year (3,351) (5,373)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 10,768 7,491 53 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
53
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AT 31 DECEMBER 2015
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Acquired intellectual property rights 15 8,359 9,238
Software intangibles 15 2,009 1,835
Development costs 15 1,803 1,850
Goodwill 18 34,579 36,696
Property, plant and equipment 16 15,795 16,003
Deferred tax assets 17 135 1,108
Trade and other receivables   13 22
62,693 66,752
Current assets
Inventories 19 8,843 7,532
Trade and other receivables 20 10,817 12,969
Current tax assets 9  – 
Cash and cash equivalents 21 34,201 17,280
    53,870 37,781
Total assets   116,563 104,533
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 9,139 7,649
Current tax liabilities 806 584
Other taxes payable 234 259
Obligations under finance leases 23 1 2
    10,180 8,494
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 415 472
Deferred tax liabilities 17 2,311 2,513
Obligations under finance leases 24 – 1
    2,726 2,986
Total liabilities   12,906 11,480
Net assets   103,657 93,053
Equity
Share capital 29 10,451 10,393
Share premium 33,196 32,742
Share-based payments reserve 2,253 1,563
Investment in own shares 30 (152) (148)
Share-based payments deferred tax reserve 437 278
Other reserve 30 1,531 1,531
Hedging reserve 30 (525) (522)
Translation reserve 30 (8,215) (4,867)
Retained earnings   64,681 52,083
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent   103,657 93,053
The financial statements of Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc (registration number 2867684) on pages 52 to 83 were 
approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 25 April 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Chris Meredith
Chief Executive Officer
25 April 2016 54 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 54
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Share-
based
payments
£’000
Investment
in own
shares
£’000
Share-based 
payments 
deferred tax 
£’000
Other
reserve
£’000
Hedging
reserve
£’000
Translation
reserve
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2014 10,343 32,364 1,326 (144) 158 1,531 651 (667) 40,526 86,088
Consolidated profit for the 
year to 31 December 2014 –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 12,864 12,864
Other comprehensive 
expense –  –  –  –  –  – (1,173) (4,200) – (5,373)
Total comprehensive 
income –  –  –  –  –  – (1,173) (4,200) 12,864 7,491
Share-based payments – – 592 – 120 – – – – 712
Share options exercised 50 378 (355) – – – – – – 73
Shares purchased by EBT – – – (190) – – – – – (190)
Shares sold by EBT – – – 186 – – – – – 186
Dividends paid – – – – – – – – (1,307) (1,307)
At 31 December 2014 10,393 32,742 1,563 (148) 278 1,531 (522) (4,867) 52,083 93,053
Consolidated profit for the 
year to 31 December 2015 –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 14,119 14,119
Other comprehensive 
expense –  –  –  –  –  – (3) (3,348) – (3,351)
Total comprehensive 
income –  –  –  –  –  – (3) (3,348) 14,119 10,768
Share-based payments –  – 709 – 159 –  –  –  – 868
Share options exercised 58 454 (19) –  –  –  –  –  –  493 
Shares purchased by EBT –  –  – (262) –  –  –  –  – (262)
Shares sold by EBT –  –  – 258 –  –  –  –  – 258
Dividends paid –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (1,521) (1,521)
At 31 December 2015 10,451 33,196 2,253 (152) 437 1,531 (525) (8,215) 64,681 103,657
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
ATTRIBUTABLE TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE GROUP 55 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
55
Year ended
31 December
2015
£’000
Year ended
31 December
2014
£’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit from operations 17,041 15,170
Adjustments for:
Depreciation 1,745 1,750
Amortisation – intellectual property rights 367 389
   – software intangibles 289 228
   – development costs 410 331
Impairment of development costs – 92
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (1,501) 221
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 2,148 (1,623)
Increase in trade and other payables 1,336 1,298
Share-based payments expense 709 592
Taxation (1,253) (1,876)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 21,291 16,572
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of software (472) (408)
Capitalised research and development (373) (581)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (1,907) (1,478)
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 77 61
Interest received 73 50
Net cash used in investing activities (2,602) (2,356)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid (1,521) (1,307)
Finance lease (2) (4)
Issue of equity shares 498 69
Shares purchased by EBT (262) (190)
Shares sold by EBT 258 186
Interest paid (118) (1)
Net cash used in financing activities (1,147) (1,247)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 17,542 12,969
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 17,280 5,257
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (621) (946)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 34,201 17,280
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 56 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 56
1 REPORTING ENTITY
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc (the Company) is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and 
Wales (registration number 2867684). The Company’s registered address is Premier Park, 33 Road One, Winsford Industrial 
Estate, Cheshire, CW7 3RT.
The Company’s Ordinary Shares are traded on the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange plc. The consolidated financial 
statements of the Company for the 12 months ended 31 December 2015 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together 
referred to as the Group).
The Group is primarily involved in the design, development and manufacture of novel high performance polymers (both natural 
and synthetic) for use in advanced woundcare dressings, and distribution of medical adhesives, for closing and sealing tissue, 
and sutures and haemostats for sale into the global medical device market.
2 BASIS OF PREPARATION
The Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), as adopted by 
the EU. 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis of accounting except as disclosed in the accounting 
policies set out below.
The individual financial statements for each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which it operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the Consolidated Financial Statements, the results and financial 
position of each Group company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the 
presentation currency for the Consolidated financial statements.
In carrying out their duties in respect of going concern, the Directors have carried out a review of the Group’s financial position 
and cash flow forecasts for the next 12 months. These have been based on a comprehensive review of revenue, expenditure and 
cash flows, taking into account specific business risks and the current economic environment. 
With regards to the Group’s financial position, it had cash and cash equivalents at the year end of £34.2 million. The Group also 
has in place a five year, unsecured, multi-currency, revolving credit facility for £30 million which was undrawn during 2015.
While the current economic environment is uncertain, the Group operates in markets whose demographics are favourable, 
underpinned by an increasing need for products to treat chronic and acute wounds. Consequently, market growth is predicted. 
The Group has a number of long-term contracts with customers across different geographic regions and also with substantial 
financial resources, ranging from government agencies through to global healthcare companies.
After taking the above into consideration, the Directors have reached a conclusion that the Group is well placed to manage its 
business risks in the current economic environment. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
accounts.
The Group has adopted IFRS 1 Clarification of the meaning of effective IFRSs’, IFRS 3 Clarification of the scope exclusion for joint 
ventures, IFRS 13 Clarification of the scope of portfolio exemption, IAS 40 Clarification of the relationship between IFRS 3 and IAS 
40, IAS 19 Defined benefit plans: employee contributions, Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 cycle (Dec 2014) and Annual 
improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 cycle (Dec 2013). These have had no significant impact on this set of financial information.
3 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Use of critical Estimates and Judgments
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expense. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting 
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. 
Impairment of Goodwill
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the 
assets have been allocated. The value in use calculation requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise 
from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate to calculate present value.
Capitalisation of Development Costs
In determining the development expenses to be capitalised, estimates and assumptions are required based on expected future 
economic benefits generated by products that are the result of these development costs. Other important estimates and 
assumptions in this assessment process are the required internal rate of return, the distinction between research and 
development and the estimated useful life.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 57 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
57
Share-based Payments
The charge to the income statement in relation to options and incentive plans is based on the Black-Scholes Merton or the Monte 
Carlo Option Pricing Model valuation technique. These techniques require a number of assumptions to be made such as those in 
relation to share price volatility, movement in interest rates, dividend yields and staff behavioural patterns.
Inventory Impairment Provisions
The Group makes provisions for inventory deemed to be obsolete or slow-moving. This provision is established on each individual 
stock keeping unit (SKU) based on the age of the stock, the forward order book, management’s experience and its assessment 
of the present value of estimated future cash flows.
Receivables Impairment Provisions
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Group’s 
management based on prior experience and their assessment of the present value of estimated future cash flows.
Tax
A deferred tax asset is recognised when it is judged probable that the Group will generate taxable profits which can be offset 
against tax losses.
In accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, management is required to develop estimates as to whether a tax benefit should be 
recognised in the consolidated financial statements, based on whether it is more likely than not that the technical merits of the 
position will be sustained. The measurement of the tax benefit recognised in the consolidated financial statements is based upon 
the largest amount of tax benefit that, in management’s judgement, is likely to be realised.
Basis of Consolidation
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and 
operating policies of an entity so as to retain benefits from its activities. The financial statements of the subsidiaries are included in 
the consolidated financial statements on the basis of acquisition accounting, from the date that control commences until the date 
that control ceases.
Intercompany transactions and balances between Group entities are eliminated upon consolidation.
Business Combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the 
aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, the equity instruments issued 
by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the issue of debt or equity. Acquisition 
related expenses are accounted for as expenses in the period in which the costs are incurred and the services rendered, with the 
exception of directly attributable costs incurred as a result of raising equity, which are off-set against share premium, and raising 
debt, which are capitalised and amortised over the term of the debt. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for 
non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for 
Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the 
business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
recognised. If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the 
identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially 
recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill which is 
recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss 
and is not subsequently reversed.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue represents the fair value of sales of the Group’s products to external customers at amounts excluding value added tax, 
and is recognised when the products have been delivered and title has passed. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. 
Revenue from royalty income receivable under licence agreements from external customers at amounts excluding value added 
tax is recognised as the products under licence are sold and the revenue can be reliably measured.  58 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 58
3 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Other Income
This represents non-refundable up-front licence payments received for the grant of rights for the development and marketing of 
products, and other sundry income. The income is recognised in the income statement, over the life of each development project, 
in proportion to the stage of completion of each project.
Finance Income
Finance income relates to interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, 
by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Finance Costs
Finance costs relate to finance payments associated with financial liabilities. They are recognised in the income statement as they 
accrue using the effective interest method.
Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that 
necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, are added to the cost of those assets, until such 
time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is 
deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable 
that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be 
made of the amount of the obligation.
Foreign Currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that 
date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of 
the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at 
foreign exchange rates ruling at the date the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are 
translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenue and expenses of foreign operations are 
translated at an average rate for the year where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates at the dates of the 
transactions. Exchange differences arising on consolidation are recognised in equity.
Hedging
The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives, embedded derivatives and non-derivatives in 
respect of foreign currency risk, as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations. 
Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges. At the inception of the hedge 
relationship, the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk 
management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge 
and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair 
values or cash flows of the hedged item. Note 25 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging 
purposes. Movements in the hedging reserve in equity are detailed in Note 30.
Taxation
Taxation expense includes the amount of current income tax payable and the charge for the year in respect of deferred taxation.
The income tax payable is based on an estimation of the amount due on the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit is different 
from profit before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expenditure which are not 
taxable or deductible in the year as a result of either the nature of the item or the fact that it is taxable or deductible in another 
period. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated by using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is accounted for on a basis of temporary differences, except to the extent where it arises from the initial recognition 
of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to 
the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 59 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
59
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, 
in which case it is dealt with within equity. It is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset 
is realised or the liability is settled based on tax laws enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Intangible Assets
Acquired Intellectual Property Rights
Intellectual property rights that are acquired in a business combination are initially recognised at their fair value. Intellectual 
property rights purchased outright are initially recognised at cost. Intellectual property rights are capitalised and amortised over 
their estimated useful economic lives, usually not exceeding 18 years. In determining the useful economic life each asset is 
reviewed separately and consideration given to the period over which the Group expects to derive economic benefit from 
the asset.
Development Costs
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge, is recognised in 
the income statement as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, where research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or 
substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised once it can be demonstrated that the product or process is clearly 
identifiable, technically and commercially feasible, will generate future economic benefits, that the development costs of the asset 
can be measured reliably and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development. Expenditure capitalised is stated as 
the cost of materials and direct labour less accumulated amortisation.
Where development expenditure results in new or substantially improved products or processes and it is probable that recovery 
will take place, it is capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the product’s useful life starting from the date on which 
serial production commences, which is between one and ten years. Patents and trademarks are measured initially at purchase 
cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which is between three and twenty years.
Software Intangibles
Where computer software is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment its costs are capitalised and categorised as 
intangible assets. Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis over its economic useful life, which is in the range of three to 
ten years.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Land and buildings and plant and equipment held for use in the production of goods and services or for administrative purposes 
are carried in the balance sheet at cost less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated 
impairment losses.
The Group elected to use the fair value as the deemed cost in respect of land and buildings at the date of transition to IFRS. Fair 
value was calculated by reference to their existing use at the date of transition.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost, less estimated residual values, of all property, plant and equipment, over the 
expected useful life of the asset from the date that the asset is brought into use. It is calculated at the following rates:
• Freehold property and improvements – 4% per annum on cost
• Leasehold improvements – over the length of the lease
• Plant and machinery – 6.7% to 33.3% per annum on cost
• Fixtures and fittings – 33.3% per annum on cost
• Motor vehicles – 25% per annum on cost
Property, plant and equipment in the course of construction for production are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment 
loss. Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property, plant and equipment assets, commences when the 
assets are ready for their intended use.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Impairment of Tangible and Intangible Assets Excluding Goodwill
The carrying amount of the Group’s assets other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet 
date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is 
estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable 
amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. 60 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 60
3 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated to reduce the carrying amount of the assets in the 
unit on a pro rata basis. A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are 
largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Calculation of Recoverable Amount
The recoverable amount of the Group’s receivables carried at amortised cost is calculated as the present value of estimated 
future cash flows. As the Group’s receivables are of short duration they are not discounted.
Reversal of Impairment
An impairment loss in respect of a receivable carried at amortised cost is reversed if the subsequent increase in recoverable 
amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist 
and there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Inventory
Inventory is valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable direct labour 
costs, that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition and an attributable proportion of 
manufacturing overheads based on normal levels of activity.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further costs to completion and disposal.
The Group makes provision for inventory deemed to be irrecoverable or where the net realisable value is lower than cost. This 
provision is established on a stock keeping unit (SKU) basis by reference to the age of the stock, the forward order book, 
management’s experience and its assessment of the present value of estimated future cash flow.
Financial Instruments
Classification of Financial Instruments
Financial instruments are classified as financial assets, financial liabilities or equity instruments.
Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions:
• They include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets that are potentially 
unfavourable to the Group; and 
• Where the instrument will or may be settled in the Group’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no 
obligation to deliver a variable number of the Group’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Group 
exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. 
Recognition and Valuation of Financial Assets
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and cash deposits and amounts under short-term guarantees 
usually three months or less than are held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments and are subject to 
insignificant risk in change in value and which are readily convertible to a known amount of cash. Cash held in accounts with more 
than 90 days notice that are not required to meet short-term cash commitments are shown as an investment. 
Investments
Cash held in accounts with more than 90 days notice that are not required to meet short-term cash commitments are shown as 
an investment. The Group invests funds which are surplus to requirements in fixed rate deposits operating within parameters for 
credit ratings and credit limits for individual institutions that are approved and monitored by the Board.
Under IAS 39 “Financial instruments; recognition and measurement”, such investments are classified as loans and receivables 
and are recognised at fair value on initial recognition and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Trade and Other Receivables
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount. An impairment 
is made when it is likely that the balance will not be recovered in full. The recoverable amount is calculated as the present value of 
estimated future cash flows. Estimated future cash flows are not discounted due to the relatively short period of time between 
recognition of trade receivables and receipt of cash.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 61 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
61
Recognition and Valuation of Equity Instruments
Equity instruments are stated at par value. Any premium on issue is taken to the share premium account.
Recognition and Valuation of Financial Liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Trade payables
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently recognised at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Other loans
Other loans are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently recognised at amortised cost.
Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (FVTPL)
A derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument is classified as held for trading. Financial liabilities are 
classified as at FVTPL where the financial liabilities are held for trading.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. Fair value is 
determined in the manner described in Note 25.
Derivative Financial Instruments
The Group enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to manage its exposure to foreign exchange rate risk. Further details of 
derivative financial instruments are disclosed in Note 25 to the financial statements.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to 
their fair value at each balance sheet date. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss (administrative costs) 
immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition 
in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship. The Group currently designates certain derivatives as hedges of 
highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency risk of firm commitments (cash flow hedges). A derivative with 
a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a 
financial liability. 
Derivatives with remaining maturity of less than 12 months are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Leased Assets
Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to 
the Group. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held as finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the 
minimum lease payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease. Lease payments are apportioned between the 
reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the 
remaining balance of the liability. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of 
the assets and the lease term.
Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance sheet. Rental payments are charged directly to the income 
statement. Lease incentives, primarily up-front cash payments or rent-free periods, are capitalised and spread over the period of 
the lease term on a straight line basis unless another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern of the users’ 
benefit. Payments made to acquire operating leases are treated as prepaid lease expenses and amortised over the life of 
the lease.
Pensions
The Group operates a money purchase pension scheme. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group 
in an independently administered fund. The amount charged against the income statement represents the contributions payable 
to the scheme in respect of the accounting period.
Share-based Payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payments’. IFRS has been applied to all options granted after 
7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2006.
The Group issues equity–settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are 
measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value as determined at the grant date of equity–settled share-based payments 
is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of options that will eventually vest. 62 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 62
3 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes Merton or Monte Carlo model. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, 
based on management’s best estimate, for the effect of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Capital Management
For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group had net funds with no borrowings. Capital is managed by maximising retained 
profits. Working capital is managed in order to generate maximum conversion of these profits into cash and cash equivalents 
thereby maintaining capital. 
Capital includes share capital, share premium, investment in own shares, share-based payments reserve, share-based payments 
deferred tax reserve, other reserve, translation reserve and retained earnings reserve. There are no externally imposed capital 
requirements on the Group.
Employee Benefit Trusts
The Group operates an Employee Benefit Trust (EBT): ‘Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc UK Employee Benefit Trust’.
The Group has de facto control of the assets, liabilities and shares held by the Trust and bear their benefits and risks. The Group 
records assets and liabilities of the Trust as its own.
In compliance with IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation Group’, shares held by the EBT are included in the consolidated 
balance sheet as a reduction in equity. Gains and losses on Group shares are recognised directly in reserves.
IFRS not yet effective and not adopted early
The following IFRSs have been issued but have not been adopted by the Group in these financial statements, as they are not yet 
effective; it is unlikely that they will have a material effect on the Group’s results, operations or financial position except for IFRS 16 
which will impact the recognition measurement and disclosure of operating leases. It is considered that a material amount of lease 
assets and liabilities will require recognition on the Group balance sheet. It is anticipated that a portion of operating lease changes 
will require reclassification in the Group income statement:
• IFRS 16 Leases
• IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
• IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
Amendments to other IFRSs not yet effective and not adopted early
• IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements
• IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements
• IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets
• IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer plants
• IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements
• IFRS 10 / IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
• IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses
• IFRS 10 / IFRS 12 / IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the consolidation exception
Unless otherwise listed above, no other standard, amendment or interpretation is likely to have a material effect on the Group’s 
results, operations or financial position.
4 SEGMENT INFORMATION
As referred to in the Chief Executive’s Report, the Group is organised into four Business Units: Branded Direct, Branded 
Distributed, OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) and Bulk Materials. These Business Units are the basis on which the Group 
reports its segment information. 
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a 
reasonable basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly investments, and related revenue, corporate assets, head office expenses, 
income tax assets and the Group’s external borrowings. These are the measures reported to the Group’s Chief Executive for the 
purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance.
Business Segments
The principal activities of the Business Units are as follows:
Branded Direct
Selling, marketing, and innovation of the Group’s branded products sold directly by the Group’s sales teams.
Branded Distributed
Distribution, marketing and innovation of the Group’s brands sold by distributors in markets not serviced by the Group’s sales team.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 63 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
63
OEM
Selling, marketing and innovation of the Group’s products supplied to partners under their brands.
Bulk Materials
Selling, marketing and innovation of bulk materials to medical device partners and convertors. 
Segment information about these businesses is presented below. 
Year ended 31 December 2015
Branded 
Direct
£’000
Branded 
Distributed
£’000
OEM
£’000
Bulk 
Materials
£’000
Eliminations
 £’000
Consolidated
£’000
Revenue
External sales 22,344 14,631 27,675 3,946 – 68,596
Inter-segment sales –  –  –  826 (826) – 
Total revenue 22,344 14,631 27,675 4,772 (826) 68,596
Result            
Segment result 5,235 4,366 7,139 814 – 17,554
Unallocated expenses (513)
Profit from operations           17,041
Finance income 73
Finance costs           (118)
Profit before tax 16,996
Tax           (2,877)
Profit for the year           14,119
At 31 December 2015
Other Information
Branded 
Direct
£’000
Branded 
Distributed
£’000
OEM
£’000
Bulk 
Materials
£’000
Consolidated
£’000
Capital additions:
Software intangibles 111 15 333 13 472
Research & development 102 67 200 4 373
Property, plant and equipment 730 332 663 182 1,907
Depreciation and amortisation (855) (431) (1,309) (217) (2,812)
Balance sheet
Assets
Segment assets 57,264 20,913 32,874 5,347 116,398
Unallocated assets 165 
Consolidated total assets 116,563
Liabilities
Segment liabilities 5,353 2,888 3,930 735 12,906
Consolidated total liabilities 12,906
Year ended 31 December 2014
Branded 
Direct
£’000
Branded 
Distributed
£’000
OEM
£’000
Bulk 
Materials
£’000
Eliminations
£’000
Consolidated
£’000
Revenue
External sales 23,194 10,663 25,275 3,878 – 63,010
Inter-segment sales – – – 702 (702) – 
Total revenue 23,194 10,663 25,275 4,580 (702) 63,010
Result
Segment result 6,012 2,999 6,225 485 – 15,721
Unallocated expenses (551)
Profit from operations 15,170
Finance income 49
Finance costs (1)
Profit before tax 15,218
Tax (2,354)
Profit for the year 12,864 64 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 64
4 SEGMENT INFORMATION continued
At 31 December 2014
Other Information
Branded 
Direct
£’000
Branded 
Distributed
£’000
OEM
£’000
Bulk  
Materials
£’000
Consolidated
£’000
Capital additions:
Software intangibles 88 11 272 37 408
Research & development 200 113 262 6 581
Property, plant and equipment 586 179 617 96 1,478
Depreciation and amortisation (903) (356) (1,188) (251) (2,698)
Balance sheet
Assets
Segment assets 55,456 17,207 27,200 4,462 104,325
Unallocated assets 208
Consolidated total assets 104,533
Liabilities
Segment liabilities 5,257 2,159 3,531 533 11,480
Consolidated total liabilities 11,480
Geographical Segments
The Group operates in the U.K., Germany, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic, with a sales office in Russia and a sales 
presence in the U.S. In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenue is based on the 
geographical location of customers. Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets.
The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s sales by geographical market, irrespective of the origin of the goods/
services, based upon location of the Group’s customers:
 
Year ended
31 December
2015
£’000
Year ended
31 December
2014
£’000
United Kingdom 16,657 15,308
Germany 13,371 14,042
Europe excluding United Kingdom and Germany 19,223 18,747
United States of America 17,766 13,786
Rest of World 1,579 1,127
68,596 63,010
The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s total assets by geographical location.
Year ended
31 December
2015
£’000
Year ended
31 December
2014
£’000
United Kingdom 62,785 46,049
Germany 50,592 52,887
Europe excluding United Kingdom and Germany 3,060 5,506
United States of America 126 91
116,563 104,533
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 65 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
65
5 PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS
 
Year ended
31 December
2015
£’000
Year ended
31 December
2014
£’000
Profit from operations is arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,754 1,750
Amortisation of: 
– acquired intellectual property rights 367 389
– software intangibles 289 228
– development costs 410 331
Operating lease rentals – plant and machinery 250 228
   – land and buildings 896 912
Research and development costs expensed to the income statement 1,817 2,120
Cost of inventories recognised as expense 27,836 26,286
Staff costs 20,500 19,342
Net foreign exchange loss/(gain) 391 (1,029)
6 AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION
Amounts payable to Deloitte LLP and their associates in respect of both audit and non-audit services:
Year ended
31 December
2015
£’000
Year ended
31 December
2014
£’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 19 30
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services to the Group 
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 67 58
Total audit fees 86 88
Audit related assurance services 13 13
Taxation compliance services – 2
Other services
– Corporate finance services 55 –
Total non audit fees 68 15
154 103
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor, Deloitte LLP and its associates, for non-audit services to the Company are not required 
to be disclosed in subsidiaries’ accounts because the Consolidated Financial Statements are required to disclose such fees on a 
consolidated basis.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report which 
includes explanations of how the audit objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit service are provided by the 
auditor.
7 EMPLOYEES
The average monthly number of employees of the Group during the year, including Executive Directors, was as follows:
 
Year ended
31 December
2015
Number
Year ended
31 December
2014
Number
Production 274 268
Research and development 29 26
Sales and marketing 107 103
Administration 78 75
488 472 66 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 66
7 EMPLOYEES continued
Year ended
31 December
2015
£’000
Year ended
31 December
2014
£’000
Staff costs for all employees, including Executive Directors, consists of:
Wages and salaries 16,674 15,994
Social Security costs 2,347 2,122
Pension costs 770 634
Share-based payments (see Note 31) 709 592
20,500 19,342
8 DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS
 
Year ended
31 December
2015
£’000
Year ended
31 December
2014
£’000
Remuneration for management services 1,018 789
Pension 66 60
Amounts paid to third parties 30 26
Share-based payments 207 173
1,322 1,048
Executive Directors
Year ended
31 December
2015
£’000
Year ended
31 December
2014
£’000
Salaries and short-term employee benefits 835 644
Pension 66 60
Share-based payments 207 173
1,108 877
Highest paid Director
 
Year ended
31 December
2015
£’000
Year ended
31 December
2014
£’000
Salaries and short-term employee benefits 497 386
Pension 26 25
Share-based payments 121 100
644 511
Retirement benefits are accruing to the following number of Directors under money purchase schemes 2 2
9 REMUNERATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL
The key management of the Group comprises the Directors of the Group together with senior members of the management team. 
Their aggregate compensation is shown below:
 
Year ended
31 December
2015
£’000
Year ended
31 December
2014
£’000
Salaries and short-term employee benefits 2,225 2,201 
Pension 114 110 
Termination payments – 213 
Share-based payments 356 282 
  2,695 2,806 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 67 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
67
10 FINANCE INCOME
Year ended
31 December
2015
£’000
Year ended
31 December
2014
£’000
Bank interest
73 
 49 
73
49
11 FINANCE COSTS
Year ended
31 December
2015
£’000
Year ended
31 December
2014
£’000
Finance leases –  1 
Amortisation of facility fees 118 –
Total interest expense 118 1
12 TAXATION
Year ended
31 December
2015
£’000
Year ended
31 December
2014
£’000
a) Analysis of charge for the year
Current tax:
Tax on ordinary activities – current year 1,743 1,482
Tax on ordinary activities – prior year 58 194 
  1,801 1,676
Deferred tax:
Tax on ordinary activities – current year 1,055 678
Effect of reduction in future U.K. corporation tax rates 21 –
  1,076 678
Tax charge for the year 2,877 2,354
Year ended
31 December
2015
£’000
Year ended
31 December
2014
£’000
b) Factors affecting tax charge for the year
The tax assessed for the year is lower (2014: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the U.K. 
(20.25%) (2014: 21.49%) as explained below:
Profit before taxation 16,996 15,218
Profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the U.K. of 20.25% (2014: 21.49%) 3,442 3,272
Effects of:
Overseas tax rate versus U.K. corporate tax rate 356 259
Net expenses/(income) not deductible/(taxable) for tax purposes and other timing differences 43 (26)
Depreciation for period less than capital allowances (1) (9)
Patent Box Relief (438) (545)
Utilisation and recognition of trading losses (269) (550)
Research and development relief (324) (287)
Share-based payments 10 46
Adjustments in respect of prior year – current tax 58 194 
Taxation 2,877 2,354 68 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 68
12 TAXATION continued
Legislation to reduce the main rate of U.K. corporation tax to 19% and 18% was passed by parliament in October 2015 to take 
effect from 1 April 2017 and 1 April 2020. The reduction in the main rate to 18% had been substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date and, therefore, the deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated in these financial statements at this rate.
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, the Group has recognised directly in equity:
• excess tax deductions related to share-based payments on exercised options together with 
• changes in excess deferred tax deductions related to share-based payments, totalling £159,000 deficit (2014: £121,000 deficit).
13 DIVIDENDS
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:
Year ended
31 December
2015
£’000
Year ended
31 December
2014
£’000
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 0.48p (2013: 0.41p) per Ordinary Share 935  851 
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 0.25p (2014: 0.22p) per Ordinary Share 586  456 
 1,521  1,307 
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 0.55p (2014: 0.48p) per ordinary share 1,150 935
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by the shareholders and has not been included as a liability in these financial 
statements.
14 EARNINGS PER SHARE
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
 
Year ended
31 December
2015
£’000
Year ended
31 December
2014
£’000
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share being net profit attributable to equity 
holders of the Parent 14,119 12,864
Number of shares ‘000 ‘000
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 208,376 207,529
Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares:
share options, deferred share bonus, LTIPs 2,902 3,991
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 211,278 211,520
£’000 £’000
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 14,119 12,864
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 367 389
Adjusted profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 14,486 13,253
Earnings per share pence pence
Basic 6.78 6.20
Diluted 6.68 6.08
Adjusted basic 6.95 6.39
Adjusted diluted 6.86 6.26
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 69 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
69
15 ACQUIRED INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, SOFTWARE INTANGIBLES AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS
Acquired
intellectual
property 
rights
£’000
Software
intangibles
£’000
Development
costs
£’000
Total
£’000
2015
Cost
At beginning of year 12,089 2,402 2,994 17,485
Additions – 468 357 825
Exchange differences (548) (11) (11) (570)
At end of year 11,541 2,859 3,340 17,740
Amortisation
At beginning of year 2,851 567 1,144 4,562
Charged in the year 367 289 410 1,066
Exchange differences (36) (6) (17) (59)
At end of year 3,182 850 1,537 5,569
Net book value
At 31 December 2015 8,359 2,009 1,803 12,171
At 31 December 2014 9,238 1,835 1,850 12,923
Acquired intellectual property rights were initially recognised on the acquisition of MedLogic Global Limited representing patents 
and on the acquisition of RESORBA
®
 representing brand names, know how and customer listings and contracts.
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis and the amortisation is recognised within administration costs. The largest 
intangible asset being RESORBA
®
 ‘know-how’ which is being amortised over 10 years with 6 years remaining, with the exception 
of the RESORBA
®
 brand name, which the Directors believe has an unlimited useful economic life and has a carrying value of 
£7,617,000. In reaching this assessment, the Directors have considered that the RESORBA
®
 brand has existed for over 80 years 
and is widely recognised as a market leader in the surgical market.
 
Acquired
intellectual
property rights
£’000
Software
intangibles
£’000
Development
costs
£’000
Total
£’000
2014
Cost
At beginning of year 12,762 2,006 2,515 17,283
Additions – 409 581 990
Impairment – – (92) (92)
Exchange differences (673) (13) (10) (696)
At end of year 12,089 2,402 2,994 17,485
Amortisation
At beginning of year 2,506 344 813 3,663
Charged in the year 389 228 331 948
Exchange differences (44) (5) – (49)
At end of year 2,851 567 1,144 4,562
Net book value
At 31 December 2014 9,238 1,835 1,850 12,923
At 31 December 2013 10,256 1,662 1,702 13,620 70 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 70
16 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Freehold land, 
property and 
improvements
£’000
Short leasehold 
improvements
£’000
Plant and 
machinery
£’000
Fixtures and 
fittings
£’000
Motor  
vehicles
£’000
Assets under 
construction
£’000
Total
£’000
2015
Cost
At beginning of year 4,657 12 20,578 647 619 591 27,104
Additions 26 – 1,604 35 170 72 1,907
Transfer of assets into use – – 591 – – (591) –
Disposals (33) – (186) – (118) – (337)
Exchange adjustment (207) – (157) (3) (30) – (397)
At end of year 4,443 12 22,430 679 641 72 28,277
Depreciation
At beginning of year 360 10 10,379 281 71 – 11,101
Provided for the year 111 – 1,465 60 118 – 1,754
Disposals – – (179) – (76) – (255)
Exchange adjustment (20) – (99) (1) 2 – (118)
At end of Year 451 10 11,566 340 115 – 12,482
Net book value
At 31 December 2015 3,992 2 10,864 339 526 72 15,795
At 31 December 2014 4,297 2 10,199 366 548 591 16,003
At 31 December 2015, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 
amounting to £783,000 (2014: £900,000).
The net book value of plant and equipment includes £nil of plant and machinery (2014: £2,000) held under finance leases. The 
related depreciation charge for the year was £2,000 for plant and machinery (2014: £4,000).
The net book value of plant and equipment includes £188,000 of plant and machinery (2014: £282,000) of capitalised borrowing 
costs relating to the Winsford site.
 
Freehold land, 
property and 
improvements
£’000
Short leasehold 
improvements
£’000
Plant and 
machinery
£’000
Fixtures and 
fittings
£’000
Motor  
vehicles
£’000
Assets under 
construction
£’000
Total
£’000
2014
Cost
At beginning of year 4,871 12 20,234 602 562 58 26,339
Additions 37 – 533 47 270 591 1,478
Transfer of assets into use – – 58 – – (58) –
Disposals – – (33) – (175) – (208)
Exchange adjustment (251) – (214) (2) (38) – (505)
At end of year 4,657 12 20,578 647 619 591 27,104
Depreciation
At beginning of year 247 10 9,094 230 51 – 9,632
Provided for the year 131 – 1,436 52 131 – 1,750
Disposals – – (33) – (110) – (143)
Exchange adjustment (18) – (118) (1) (1) – (138)
At end of Year 360 10 10,379 281 71 – 11,101
Net book value
At 31 December 2014 4,297 2 10,199 366 548 591 16,003
At 31 December 2013 4,624 2 11,140 372 511 58 16,707
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 71 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
71
17 DEFERRED TAX
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current 
and prior reporting year.
Share-based 
payment
£’000
Tax losses
£’000
Advanced 
capital 
allowances
£’000
Intangible 
assets
£’000
Research and 
development 
assets
£’000
Total
£’000
At 31 December 2013 422 2,123 (468) (2,754) (349) (1,026)
Charge to income (135) (454) (118) 62 (33) (678)
Charge to equity 120 – – – – 120
Exchange adjustment – – – 179 – 179
At 31 December 2014 407 1,669 (586) (2,513) (382) (1,405)
Charge to income (4) (1,079) (78) 56 29 (1,076)
Charge to equity 159 – – – – 159
Exchange adjustment – – – 146 – 146
At 31 December 2015 562 590 (664) (2,311) (353) (2,176)
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) 
for financial reporting purposes:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Deferred tax liabilities (1,017) (968)
Deferred tax assets 1,152 2,076
135 1,108
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of £8.0 million (2014: £9.8 million) available for offset against future 
profits. A deferred tax asset of £0.6 million (2014: £1.7 million) has been recognised in respect of such losses. No deferred tax 
asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining £4.7 million (2014: £1.4 million) of such losses due to the unpredictability of 
future profit streams.
18 GOODWILL
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 36,696 39,278
Exchange differences (2,117) (2,582)
At 31 December 34,579 36,696
Goodwill arose on the acquisition of Advanced Medical Solutions B.V. on 30 September 2009 and the acquisition of RESORBA on 
the 22 December 2011.
The goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful economic life have been allocated to the relevant business units in 
proportion to profit from operations on a consistent basis for all four segments, as follows:
At 31 December 2015
Branded 
Direct
£’000
Branded 
Distributed
£’000
OEM
£’000
Bulk 
Materials
£’000
Total
£’000
Goodwill 26,480 6,671 314 1,114 34,579
Intangible assets with indefinite useful life 6,379 1,704 – – 8,083
32,859 8,375 314 1,114 42,662 72 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 72
18 GOODWILL continued
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently, if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. 
The recoverable amounts have been determined based on a value-in-use calculation on a cash generating unit basis, which uses 
cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Directors covering a 12 month period. These budgets have 
been adjusted for specific risk factors that take into account sensitivities of the projection. The base 12 months projection is 
extrapolated using reasonable growth rates specific to each cash generating unit up to year five of between 0% and 10%, and 
has not been inflated for years 6 to 20 which management believes does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the 
industry or the forecast company growth; the growth rate would have to fall signficantly in order for an impairment to be required. 
A discount rate of between 6 and 7.5% per annum (2014: 8%), being the Group’s current pre-tax weighted average cost of capital 
adjusted for risk, has been applied to these cash flows, being an estimation of current market risks and the time value of money. 
The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test. The Directors believe that any reasonably possible further 
change in the key assumptions on which the recoverable amount is based would not cause any of the carrying amounts to 
exceed the relevant recoverable amount.
19 INVENTORIES
 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Raw materials 4,376 3,721
Work in progress 1,699 1,164
Finished goods 2,768 2,647
  8,843 7,532
There is no material difference between the replacement cost of stock and the amount at which it is stated in the financial 
statements. 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Total gross inventories 9,764 8,217
Inventory impairment (921) (685)
Net inventory 8,843 7,532
Inventory impairment
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
At beginning of year (685) (540)
Income statement charge (694) (495)
Provision released 36 64
Provision utilised 422 286
At end of year (921) (685)
20 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Due within one year
Trade receivables 9,376 10,846
Other receivables 41 22
Prepayments and accrued income 1,400 2,101
10,817 12,969
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Amount receivable for the sale of goods 9,644 11,089
Provision for impairment (268) (243)
  9,376 10,846
The Group’s principal financial assets are cash and trade receivables. The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade 
receivables.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 73 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
73
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 41 days (2014: 42 days). No interest is charged on the receivables within the 
contracted credit period. Thereafter, interest may be charged at 2% per month on the outstanding balance. In determining the 
recoverability of a trade receivable the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date 
credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the Group’s large and 
unrelated customer base. Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the 
allowance for impairments.
Before accepting any new customer, the Group assesses the potential customer’s credit quality and defines credit limits by 
customer. Limits are reviewed on an ongoing basis and reflect current payment history.
Included in the Group’s trade receivable balance are debtors which are past due at the reporting date for which the Group has not 
provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable – a large 
proportion of debts overdue over 30 days were recovered post the balance sheet date. The Group does not hold any collateral or 
other credit enhancements over these balances. The carrying amount and ageing of these debtors are summarised below:
Ageing of Overdue but not Impaired Receivables
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
31-60 days overdue 187 739
61 to 90 days overdue 56 126 
>90 days overdue – 135 
Total 243 1,000
Movement in Provision for Impairment
 
Year ended
31 December 
2015
£’000
Year ended
 31 December 
2014
£’000
Balance at the beginning of the year 243 215
Impairment losses recognised 147 83
Amounts written-off as uncollectible (9) (28)
Amounts recovered during the year (113) (27)
Balance at the end of the year 268 243
Ageing of Impaired Trade Receivables
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Not yet due 82 2 
0 to 30 days overdue – 51 
31 to 60 days overdue 3 36 
61 to 90 days overdue – 7 
Over 90 days overdue 183 147 
Total 268 243
Analysis of Customers
In the year ended 31 December 2015, there were no customers accounting for more than 10% of revenue (2014: same).
21 INVESTMENTS, CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 34,201 17,280
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. The 
carrying amount of these assets is approximately equal to their fair value. 74 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 74
22 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Current liabilities
Trade payables 3,339  2,256 
Other payables 1,367  1,267 
Derivative financial instruments 525  522 
Accruals and deferred income 3,908  3,604 
  9,139  7,649 
Non-current liabilities
Other payables 415  472 
Trade payables, other payables and accruals and deferred income principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases 
and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 34 days (2014: 36 days). No interest is charged on trade payables that are 
within pre-agreed credit terms. Thereafter, interest may be charged on the outstanding balances at various interest rates. The 
Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the pre-agreed credit terms. 
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
23 CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Obligations under finance leases (see Note 26) 1  2 
24 NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Obligations under finance leases (see Note 26) – 1 
25 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Categories of Financial Instruments.
All financial instruments held by the Group, as detailed in this note, are classified as ‘Loans and Receivables’ (trade and other 
receivables, cash and cash equivalents), ‘Held to maturity investments’ (short-term investments), ‘Financial Liabilities Measured at 
Amortised Cost’ (trade and other payables, financial liabilities and obligations under finance leases), ‘Derivative instruments in 
designated hedge accounting relationships (cash flow hedges)’ and ‘Fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)’ (derivative financial 
instruments) under IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ and finance leases under IAS 17 ‘ Leases’.
Carrying value
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Financial assets
Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents) 43,631 28,170 
Financial liabilities
Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 525 522 
Amortised cost 9,555 8,124 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 75 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
75
In December 2014 the Group entered into a multi-currency facility with the Royal Bank of Scotland and HSBC. The principal 
features of the facility are:
• the committed value of the facility is £30m
• there is an uncommitted accordion of an additional £20m
• it is unsecured
• facility will expire in December 2019
• the interest payable on drawings under the loan is based on inter-bank interest (EURIBOR or, if sterling denominated LIBOR) 
plus a sliding scale margin determined by the Group’s leverage: the margin is currently 0.65%
• the facility has two covenants – interest cover (ratio of EBITDA to net finance charges) must be above 4:1 and leverage (ratio of 
Total Net Debt to adjusted EBITDA) should not exceed 3:1
• it was undrawn at the end of the year
Page 11 of the Strategic Report provides an explanation of the financial risks faced by the Group and the objectives and policies 
for managing those risks. The information below deals with the financial assets and liabilities. 
(a) Maturity of Financial Liabilities
The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities, of which other loans and finance lease obligations are at fixed rates and 
denominated in Sterling whilst derivative financial instruments are non-interest bearing, is as follows:
 
On demand
or within
one year
£’000
Between
one and
two years
£’000
Between
two and
five years
£’000
Five
years 
or more
£’000
Total
financial
liabilities
£’000
Interest
rate
%
2015
Trade and other payables 9,139 53 158 204 9,554 –
Finance lease creditors 1 – – – 1 24%
At 31 December 2015 9,140 53 158 204 9,555  
On demand
or within
one year
£’000
Between
one and
two years
£’000
Between
two and
five years
£’000
Five
years 
or more
£’000
Total
financial
liabilities
£’000
Interest
rate
%
2014
Trade and other payables 7,649 53 158 261 8,121 –
Finance lease creditors 2 1 – – 3 24%
At 31 December 2014 7,651 54 158 261 8,124
Fixed rate financial 
liabilities weighted average 
period for which rate is fixed
Financial liabilities on which 
no interest is paid weighted 
average period until 
maturity
2015
years
2014
years
2015
years
2014
years
Finance lease creditors 5 5 – –
(b) Interest Rate and Currency of Financial Assets
The currency and interest rate profile of the financial assets of the Group is as follows:
Investments and cash and cash equivalents
Floating
£’000
Non-interest
bearing
£’000
Total
£’000
Currency
Sterling 5,543  24,048  29,591 
U.S. dollar 51  528  579 
Euro 2,192  1,839  4,031 
At 31 December 2015 7,786 26,415 34,201 76 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 76
25 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
 
Floating
£’000
Non-interest
bearing
£’000
Total
£’000
Currency
Sterling 10,000 5,408 15,408
U.S. dollar – 100 100
Euro 1,534 238 1,772
At 31 December 2014 11,534 5,746 17,280
Trade and other receivables
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Sterling 5,963 7,849
U.S. dollar 1,874 2,190
Euro 2,980 2,930
10,817 12,969
The financial assets all mature within one year.
(c) Currency Exposures
At 31 December 2015, the Group had unhedged U.S. dollar currency exposures of £nil (2014: £nil) and unhedged Euro currency 
exposures of £nil (2014: £nil).
Risk Sensitivity
See Strategic Report (page 11) for risk sensitivities in respect of U.S. dollar denominated revenue and material prices.
Forward Foreign Exchange Contracts
It is the policy of the Group to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover specific foreign currency payments 
and receipts.
The following table details the forward foreign currency contracts outstanding as at the year-end:
Outstanding contracts
Cash flow hedges
Average exchange rate Foreign currency Contract value Fair value difference
2015
USD:GBP
2014
USD:GBP
2015
USD ‘000
2014
USD ‘000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Sell U.S. dollars
Less than 3 months 1.606 1.606 5,100 4,100 3,176 2,553 (257) (78)
3 to 6 months 1.527 1.633 4,000 3,400 2,619 2,082 (80) (102)
7 to 12 months 1.526 1.667 8,600 6,400 5,634 3,838 (167) (275)
Over 12 months 1.524 1.596 3,000 8,100 1,969 5,075 (56) (126)
20,700 22,000 13,398 13,548 (560) (581)
Average exchange rate Foreign currency Contract value Fair value difference
2015
EUR:GBP
2014
EUR:GBP
2015
EUR ‘000
2014
EUR ‘000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Sell Euros
Less than 3 months 1.309 1.255 600 600 459 478 21 11
3 to 6 months 1.358 1.253 650 480 479 383 2 9
7 to 12 months 1.358 1.250 1,900 1,960 1,399 1,568 9 32
Over 12 months 1.356 1.247 350 300 258 241 1 7
      3,500 3,340 2,595 2,670 33 59
The fair value difference amounts presented above are the difference between the market value of equivalent instruments at the 
balance sheet date and the contract value of the instruments. No profits or losses are included in operating profit in the year 
(2014: £nil) in respect of FVTPL contracts. The loss of £526,000 (2014: £522,000 loss) in respect of cash flow hedges has been 
taken to reserves.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 77 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
77
26 OBLIGATIONS UNDER FINANCE LEASES
Minimum lease payments Present value of lease payments
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Amounts payable under finance leases:    
Within one year 1 2 1 2
In the second to fifth years inclusive – 1 – 1
Present value of lease obligations 1 3 1 3
Less: Amount due for settlement within  
12 months (shown under current financial liabilities) (1) (2) (1) (2)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months – 1 – 1
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its fixtures and equipment under finance leases. The average lease term is 5 years (2014: 
5 years). For the year ended 31 December 2015, the average effective borrowing rate was 24% (2014: 24%). Interest rates are fixed 
at the contract date.
All lease obligations are denominated in Sterling.
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
27 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
The Directors consider that the fair value of the Group’s financial instruments do not differ significantly from their book values.
28 FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES
 
Average rate Closing rate Percentage change
2015 2014 2015 2014
Average
%
Closing
%
Currency
U.S. dollar 1.5315 1.6525 1.4833 1.5587 (7) (5)
Euro 1.3740 1.2385 1.3625 1.2839 11 6
29 SHARE CAPITAL
Number of ordinary shares of 5p each
Allotted, called up
and fully paid
‘000
At 1 January 2014 206,869
Share options exercised 983 
At 31 December 2014 207,852
Share options exercised 1,170
At 31 December 2015 209,022
During the year, employees exercised share options and options over LTIPs for 1,002,578 shares (2014: 689,941) at a range of 
option prices from 11p to 88p.
During the year, 167,422 (2014: 194,912) shares were issued under the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme at the nominal value of 
5p per share. At the balance sheet date, 450,000 (2014: 478,000) shares are retained by the Trust to meet the matching 
requirements of the scheme.
Ordinary Shares of 5p each
Allotted, called up
and fully paid
£’000
At 1 January 2014 10,343
Share options exercised 50
At 31 December 2014 10,393
New issues in the year 58 
At 31 December 2015 10,451 78 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 78
30 RESERVES
Investment in Own Shares
This is the nominal value of the shares held in trust on behalf of employees in respect of the DSB scheme.
Other Reserve
This represents Advanced Medical Solutions Limited’s share premium account arising from merger accounting.
Hedging Reserve
The hedging reserve represents the cumulative amount of gains and losses on hedging instruments deemed effective in cash flow 
hedges. The cumulative deferred gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in profit or loss only when the hedged 
transaction impacts the profit or loss, or is included as a basis adjustment to the non-financial hedged item, consistent with the 
applicable accounting policy.
Translation Reserve
Exchange differences relating to the translation of the net assets of the Group’s foreign operations, which relate to subsidiaries 
only, from their functional currency into the parents functional currency, being Sterling, are recognised directly in the translation 
reserve. Gains and losses on hedging instruments that are designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations are 
included in the translation reserve.
A £3,348,000 loss has been recorded in the translation reserve during the period, which would otherwise have been recognised 
in Administration costs (2014: £4,200,000 loss), if hedge accounting had not been adopted.
31 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The charge for share-based payments under IFRS 2 arises across the following schemes: 
 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme, Enterprise Management Incentive Scheme and Company 
Share Option Scheme 98 114
Long Term Incentive Plan 360 309
Deferred Share Bonus Scheme and Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme 251 169
  709 592
Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme and Enterprise Management Incentive Scheme (EMI) and Company Share 
Option Plan (CSOP)
The fair value of the Executive options is calculated based on a Black-Scholes Merton model assuming the inputs below:
Grant Date 21/09/2006 12/04/2007 16/04/2008 20/04/2009 16/04/2010 15/04/2011 08/09/2011 10/05/2012
Share price at grant date 11.25p 16.75p 32.25p 33.75p 42.0p 88.0p 86.25p 69.08p
Exercise price 11.25p 16.75p 32.25p 33.75p 42.0p 88.0p 86.25p 69.08p
Expected life 3.5 yrs 3.5 yrs 3.5 yrs 3 yrs 3 .5yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs
Contractual life 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs
Risk free rate 4.50% 5.00% 5.00% 2.40% 2.40% 1.92% 1.92% 0.39%
Expected volatility 30% 27% 38% 34% 34% 18% 18% 34%
Expected dividend yield 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0.7% 0.7% 0.7%
Fair value of options 1p 2p 8p 6p 9p 9p 9p 13p
Grant Date 20/06/2012 06/09/2012 26/04/2013 21/05/2013 19/09/2013 15/04/2014 19/09/2014 02/04/2015
Share price at grant date 67.5p 76.75p 77.5p 74.0p 90.0p 115.75p 121.75p 132.0p
Exercise price 67.5p 76.75p 77.5p 74.0p 90.0p 115.75p 121.75p 132.0p
Expected life 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs
Contractual life 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs
Risk free rate 0.39% 0.17% 0.36% 0.49% 0.86% 0.80% 0.80% 0.80%
Expected volatility 34% 34% 36% 36% 36% 36% 36% 31%
Expected dividend yield 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% 0.7%
Fair value of options 12p 17p 15p 14p 14p 23p 24p 22p
Under the terms of the Company’s Share Option Schemes, approved by Shareholders in 2010, the Board may offer options to 
purchase ordinary shares in the Company to all employees of the Company at the market price on a date to be determined prior 
to the date of the offer. Since 2005, individuals who are entitled to awards under the LTIP are no longer eligible to receive options 
under the Company’s Share Option Schemes.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 79 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
79
Performance targets are assessed over a three-year period from the date of grant. Once options have vested they can be 
exercised during the period up to ten years from the date of grant.
The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historic volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous 
three years.
Options have been granted over the following number of ordinary shares which were outstanding at 31 December 2015.
Date of
grant
Option
price (p)
Weighted
average
price at
exercise (p)
No of options
as at 
1 January
2015
Remaining
life as at
1 January
2015 
(years) Issued Lapsed Exercised
No of options
as at 
31 December
2015
Remaining
life as at
31 December
2015 
(years)
Unapproved Executive
Share Option Scheme
16.04.10 42.00 – 5,000 5.3 – – – 5,000 4.3
20.06.12 67.50 149.40 515,144 7.5 – – (396,754) 118,390 6.5
06.09.12 76.75 157.50 15,000 7.7 – – (15,000) – 6.7
26.04.13 77.50 – 15,000 8.3 – – – 15,000 7.3
21.05.13 74.00 – 451,454 8.4 – – – 451,454 7.4
19.09.13 90.00 – 3,000 8.7 – – – 3,000 7.7
15.04.14 115.75 – 563,719 9.3 – (79,040) – 484,679 8.3
19.09.14 121.75 – 127,680 9.7 – – – 127,680 8.7
02.04.15 132.00 – – – 395,296 (30,000) – 365,296 9.3
Enterprise Management 
Incentive Scheme
21.09.06 11.25 152.85 1,000 1.7 – – (1,000) – 0.7
12.04.07 16.75 152.85 19,000 2.3 – – (4,000) 15,000 1.3
16.04.08 32.25 139.00 15,000 3.3 – – (15,000) – 2.3
20.04.09 33.75 176.50 24,000 4.3 – – (15,000) 9,000 3.3
16.04.10 42.00 164.70 142,868 5.3 – – (24,368) 118,500 4.3
Company Share 
Option Plan
20.10.10 64.00 176.50 15,000 5.8 – – (15,000) – 4.8
15.04.11 88.00 – 19,000 6.3 – – – 19,000 5.3
08.09.11 86.25 144.67 19,000 6.7 – – (16,000) 3,000 5.7
10.05.12 69.08 153.96 88,000 7.4 – – (37,000) 51,000 6.4
20.06.12 67.50 155.36 333,923 7.5 – – (205,332) 128,591 6.5
06.09.12 76.75 154.92 35,000 7.7 – (10,000) (22,500) 2,500 6.7
26.04.13 77.50 – 110,000 8.3 – (25,000) – 85,000 7.3
21.05.13 74.00 – 149,865 8.4 – (30,000) – 119,865 7.4
15.04.14 115.75 – 181,281 9.3 – (45,960) – 135,321 8.3
19.09.14 121.75 – 116,320 9.7 – – – 116,320 8.7
02.04.15 132.00 – – – 99,704 – – 99,704 9.3
2,965,254 495,000 (220,000) (766,954) 2,473,300  
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options outstanding at 31 December 2015 is 7.8 years (2014 8.1 years).
 
2015 2014
Number of 
Options
Weighted 
average
exercise 
price (p)
Number of 
Options
Weighted 
average
exercise 
price (p)
Outstanding at beginning of the year 2,965,254 84.32 2,377,380 65.84
Granted 495,000 132.00 989,000 117.23
Exercised (766,954) 149.70 (175,163) 37.04
Lapsed (220,000) 106.20 (225,963) 72.08
Outstanding at end of the year 2,473,300 97.52 2,965,254 84.32
Exercisable at end of year 469,981 59.70 259,868 46.58 80 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 80
31 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The fair value of the LTIP is calculated based on a binominal tree model assuming the inputs below:
Grant date 15/04/2011 20/06/2012 06/09/2012 21/05/2013 19/09/2013 06/06/2014 02/04/2015 10/09/2015
Share price of grant date 88.00p 67.5p 76.75p 74.0p 90.0p 117.0p 132.0p 151.5p
Exercise price 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p
Expected life 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs
Contractual life 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs
Risk free rate 1.92% 0.39% 0.39% 0.49% 0.86% 0.80% 0.80% 0.86%
Expected volatility 33% 34% 34% 35% 36% 36% 29% 27%
Expected dividend yield 0% 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% 0.7%
Probability of performance conditions 52% 44% 49% 64% 70% 75% 75% 75%
Fair value of option 76.5p 28.8p 36.4p 46.3p 60.9p 85.9p 64.4p 75.5p
The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historic volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous 
three years.
The entitlement to shares under the LTIP is subject to achieving the performance conditions referred to on page 41. The 
number shown are maximum entitlements and the actual number of shares (if any) will depend on these performance conditions 
being achieved.
Date of 
grant
Market
price at 
date of 
grant (p)
Number of 
LTIPs at
1 January
2015
Remaining
life as at
1 January
2015
(years) Issued Lapsed Exercised
Number of 
LTIPs
31 Dec
2015
Remaining 
life as at
31 Dec
2015
(years)
Long-Term Incentive Plan
15.04.11 88.00 286,457 7.3 – – (97,829) 188,628 6.3
20.06.12 67.50 350,000 7.5 – (157,087) (137,795) 55,118 6.5
06.09.12 76.75 462,540 7.7 – (207,595) – 254,945 6.7
21.05.13 74.00 100,000 8.4 – – – 100,000 7.4
19.09.13 90.00 403,122 8.8 – – – 403,122 7.8
06.06.14 117.00 857,957 9.5 – – – 857,957 8.5
02.04.15 132.00 – – 494,357 – – 494,357 9.3
10.09.15 151.50 – – 300,329 – – 300,329 9.7
    2,460,076   794,686 (364,682) (235,624) 2,654,456  
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the LTIPs outstanding at 31 December 2015 is 8.3 years (2014: 8.5 years).
 
2015
Number of
Options
2014
Number of
Options
Outstanding at beginning of the period 2,460,076 2,396,384
Granted 794,686 907,957
Exercised (235,624) (514,778)
Lapsed (364,682) (329,487)
Outstanding at end of the period 2,654,456 2,460,076
Exercisable at end of period 498,691 286,457
The exercise price of these options is £1 for each issue of LTIPs.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 81 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
81
Deferred Share Bonus Scheme (DSB)
The fair value of the DSB are calculated based on a Black-Scholes Merton model assuming the inputs below:
Grant date 12/04/2007 12/04/2007 02/05/2008 23/04/2009 05/05/2010 05/05/2010 11/05/2011 11/05/2011
Share price at grant date 18.25p 18.25p 35.50p 34.00p 40.32p 40.32p 83.00p 83.00p
Exercise price 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p
Expected life 3.5 yrs 3.5 yrs 3.5 yrs 3.0 yrs 5 yrs 3 yrs 5 yrs 3 yrs
Contractual life 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs
Risk-free rate 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% 2.40% 2.40% 2.40% 1.92% 1.92%
Expected volatility 27% 27% 38% 30% 34% 34% 18% 18%
Expected dividend yield 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0.7% 0.7%
Probability of performance conditions 100% 66.70% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Fair value of option 14p 9p 30p 29p 34p 34p 72p 72p
Grant date 10/05/2012 10/05/2012 02/07/2013 02/07/2013 30/04/2014 30/04/2014 29/04/2015 29/04/2015
Share price at grant date 70.625p 70.625p 74.125p 74.125p 126.0p 126.0p 141.5p 141.5p
Exercise price 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p
Expected life 5 yrs 3 yrs 5 yrs 3 yrs 5 yrs 3 yrs 5 yrs 3 yrs
Contractual life 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs
Risk-free rate 0.39% 0.39% 0.69% 0.69% 0.80% 0.80% 0.80% 0.80%
Expected volatility 34% 34% 36% 36% 36% 36% 31% 31%
Expected dividend yield 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% 0.7%
Probability of performance conditions 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Fair value of option 61p 62p 63p 64p 110p 110p 124p 124p
The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historic volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous 3 years.
The entitlement to shares under the DSB is subject to a 3 year holding period. Additionally, for certain levels of share matching, 
additional performance conditions also need to be achieved. The actual number of shares that will be matched will depend on 
these performance conditions. Details on the DSB are given on page 40.
Date of 
grant
Market
price at 
date of 
grant (p)
Number of 
 DSB 
matching 
shares at
1 January
2015
Remaining
life as at
1 January
2015
(years) Issued Lapsed Exercised
Number of
 DSB 
matching 
shares at
31 December
2015
Remaining
life as at
31 December
2015
(years)
Deferred Share Bonus Plan
12.04.07 18.25 57,352 2.3 – (39,382) 17,970 1.3
02.05.08 35.50 20,462 3.3 – (5,414) 15,048 2.3
23.04.09 34.00 90,389 4.3 – (37,114) 53,275 3.3
05.05.10 40.32 150,017 5.3 – (50,567) 99,450 4.3
11.05.11 83.00 69,656 6.4 – (9,148) 60,508 5.4
10.05.12 70.625 64,229 7.4 – (12,758) 51,471 6.4
02.07.13 74.125 387,380 8.5 (2,420) (5,055) 379,905 7.5
30.04.14 126.000 181,919 9.6 (4,623) (5,782) 171,514 8.6
29.04.15 141.500 – – 264,812 (10,047) (2,202) 252,563 9.6
    1,021,404   264,812 (17,090) (167,422) 1,101,704  
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the DSBs outstanding at 31 December 2015 is 7.3 years (2014: 7.2 years). 82 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 82
31 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
Deferred Share Bonus Scheme (DSB)
 
2015
Number of
Options
2014
Number of
Options
Outstanding at beginning of the period 1,021,404 1,203,523
Granted 264,812 194,912
Exercised (167,422) (310,325)
Forfeited (17,090) (66,706)
Outstanding at end of the period 1,101,704 1,021,404
Exercisable at end of period 297,722 387,876
The exercise price of the matching shares is £nil.
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme (DABs)
The fair value of the DAB are calculated based on a Black-Scholes Merton model assuming the inputs below:
Grant date 21/05/2014 15/04/2015
Share price at grant date 115.4p 129.0p
Exercise price 0p 0p
Expected life 3 yrs 3 yrs
Contractual life 10 yrs 10 yrs
Risk-free rate 0.80% 0.80%
Expected volatility 31% 31%
Expected dividend yield 0.7% 0.7%
Probability of performance conditions 100% 100%
Fair value of option 115p 129p
The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historic volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous 3 years.
The Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme (DAB) began on 21 May 2014. Participants compulsorily defer part of their bonus for the 
relevant financial year and vest at the end of a three year period determined by the remuneration committee at the time of grant. 
Date of
grant
Market
price at 
date of 
grant (p)
Number of 
 DAB matching 
shares at
1 January
2015
Remaining
life as at
1 January
2015
(years) Issued Lapsed Exercised
Number of
 DAB matching 
shares at
31 December
2015
Remaining
life as at
31 December
2015
(years)
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan
21.05.2014 115.40 52,398 9.6 – – – 52,398 8.6
15.04.2015 129.00 – – 81,961 – – 81,961 9.6
52,398 9.6 81,961 – – 134,359
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the DABs outstanding at 31 December 2015 is 9.2 years (2014: 9.6).
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme (DAB)
2015
Number of
Options
2014
Number of
Options
Outstanding at beginning of the period 52,398 – 
Granted 81,961 52,398 
Outstanding at end of the period 134,359 52,398 
Exercisable at end of period – – 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 83 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
83
32 COMMITMENTS UNDER OPERATING LEASES
As at 31 December 2015, the Group had outstanding commitments under operating leases, which fall due as follows:
 
2015
Land and
buildings
£’000
2015
Other
£’000
2014
Land and
buildings
£’000
2014
Other
£’000
Amounts payable under operating leases:
Within one year 885 73 893 71
In two to five years 3,561 87 3,594 162
After five years 3,087 – 4,026 – 
  7,533 160 8,513 233
33 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are 
not disclosed in this note.  84 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 84
  Note
2015
£’000
2014
Restated
£’000
Non current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 3 52,082 52,078
Trade and other receivables 4 – 59
    52,082 52,137
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 4 212 328
Cash and cash equivalents 28,693 14,444
    28,905 14,772 
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 5 (5,120) (8,719)
Net current assets   23,785 6,053
Net assets 75,867 58,190
Equity shareholders’ funds      
Share capital 6 10,451 10,393
Share-based payments reserve 2,253 1,563
Investment in own shares (152) (148)
Share premium  33,196 32,742
Retained earnings 30,119 13,640
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent   75,867 58,190 
STATEMENT IN CHANGES IN EQUITY 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
Share 
 capital
£’000
Share-
based 
payments
£’000
Investment 
in own 
shares 
£’000
Share 
premium
£’000
Retained 
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2015 10,393 1,563 (148) 32,742  13,640 47,797
Share-based payments –  709  – –  – 709 
Share options exercised 58 (19) – 454  – 435
Shares purchased by EBT –  – (262) –  – (262)
Shares sold by EBT –  –  258  –  – 258
Profit for the year –  –  –  – 18,000 18,000
Dividends paid –  –  –  – (1,521) (1,521)
At 31 December 2015 10,451 2,253 (152) 33,196 30,119 65,416
The financial statements of Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc (registration number 2867684) on pages 84 to 89 were 
approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 25 April 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
C MEREDITH
Chief Executive Officer
25 April 2016
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 85 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
85
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Preparation
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework 
(“FRS 101”).
In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (“Adopted IFRSs”), but makes amendments where necessary in 
order to comply with Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions has 
been taken.
In these financial statements, the company has adopted FRS 101 for the first time.
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in 
relation to share-based payments, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of a cash flow statement, presentation 
of comparative information in respect of certain assets, standards not yet effective, impairment of assets, business combinations, 
discontinued operations and related party transactions.
IFRS 2 Share-based payment has not been applied to any equity instruments that were granted on or before 7 November 2002, 
nor has it been applied to equity instruments granted after 7 November 2002 that vested before 1 January 2005. This treatment is 
consistent with the transitional provisions taken when the Company adopted FRS 20, the U.K. equivalent standard. 
In the transition to FRS 101 from UK GAAP, the Company has made measurement and recognition adjustments which are 
detailed below.
The Company’s prior financial statements were prepared in accordance with previously extant United Kingdom generally 
accepted accounting practice (UK GAAP). These financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2015 are the first the 
Company has prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (“FRS 101”). In 
preparing these financial statements, the Company has started from an opening balance sheet as at 1 January 2014, the 
Company’s date of transition to FRS 101, and made those changes in accounting policies and other restatements required for the 
first-time adoption of IFRSs. As such this note explains the principal adjustments made by the Company in restating its balance 
sheet as at 1 January 2014 prepared under previously extant UK GAAP and its previously published UK GAAP financial 
statements for the period ended 31 December 2014.
On transition to FRS 101 the Company has applied the transitional arrangements set out in IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of 
International Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. There are no transition adjustments on the date of transition, however 
there are IFRS adjustments affecting the results for the period to 31 December 2014 and the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 
2014 which is shown in the reconciliation of equity detailed below. 
Reconciliation of equity
At  
31 December 
2015
£’000
At  
31 December 
2014
£’000
Equity reported under previous UK GAAP 30,085 13,582
Recognition of financial assets
1
34 58
Reclassification of long-term receivables
2
– –
Equity reported under FRS 101 30,119  13,640
1 This adjustment relates to recognition of derivative financial instruments in accordance with IAS 39. On transition to FRS 101, the fair value of derivative financial 
instruments held have been brought onto the balance sheet in accordance with IAS 39. As such, the Company has recognised an asset of £34,000 (2014: £58,000) 
and a corresponding charge to the income statement.
2 On transition to FRS 101, long term receivables of £nil (2014: £59,000), recognised as equivalent to fixed asset investments under previous UK GAAP, have been 
reclassified to long-term receivables due after more than one year as a result of FRS 101 not permitting long-term receivables as equivalent to investments.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, have been applied consistently to all periods presented in 
these financial statements.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis. These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires management to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The 
estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be 
reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of 
assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The 
judgements, estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of 
assets and liabilities are discussed below.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 86 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 86
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
(i) Impairment of Investments and Intragroup Receivables 
Investment and receivable carrying values are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying amount of an asset or cash generating unit is not recoverable. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value, as 
supported by management valuation, less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows 
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Investments in Subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Foreign Currencies
Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the 
transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are 
retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in 
a foreign currency are not retranslated. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period.
Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Current Tax
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at 
the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred Tax
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial 
reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Temporary differences in respect of the initial recognition of 
assets and liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit are not provided for. The amount of deferred tax provided is 
based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted 
or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the asset can be utilised.
Trade and Other Creditors
Trade and other creditors are non-interest bearing and recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition they are 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Finance Charges
Finance charges comprise interest payable on interest-bearing loans and borrowings and fair value losses on interest rate swap 
derivative financial instruments. Finance charges are recognised in the Income Statement on an effective interest method.
Finance Income
Finance income comprise interest receivable on funds invested and fair value gains on interest rate swap derivative financial 
instruments. Finance income is recognised in the Income Statement on an effective interest method.
Financial Instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Company’s Balance Sheet when the Company becomes a party to 
the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows from 
the financial assets expire or are transferred. Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is 
discharged, cancelled or expires.
Derivatives
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks arising from operational, financing 
and investment activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, the Company does not hold or issue derivative financial 
instruments for trading purposes. However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading 
instruments. Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value and re-measured at each period end. The gain or 
loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Income Statement. The Company has elected not to apply 
hedge accounting. Forward currency contracts are recognised at fair value in the Balance Sheet with movements in fair value 
recognised in the Income Statement for the period. The fair value of the instruments is the estimated amount that the Company 
would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the reporting date, taking into account current interest rates and the respective risk 
profiles of the swap counterparties.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 87 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
87
Derivatives are presented as assets when the fair values are positive and as liabilities when the fair values are negative.  
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 
12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months. 
Share-based Payments
The Company has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are 
measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments 
is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the 
number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market based vesting conditions. The impact of the 
revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised 
estimates with a corresponding adjustment to the equity-settled employee benefits reserve.
2. PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account 
for the year. AMS Group plc reported a profit for the financial year ended 31 December 2015 of £18,000,000 (2014: Profit of 
£5,691,000).
The auditor’s remuneration for audit and other services is disclosed in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
The average number of employees in the year was 11 (2014: 11). The Directors’ remuneration is detailed in Note 8 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
3. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Investments
in subsidiaries
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2015 (restated) 80,748
Additions 4 
At 31 December 2015 80,752
Provisions for impairment
At 1 January 2015 (restated) 28,670
At 31 December 2015 28,670
Net Book value
At 31 December 2015 52,082
At 31 December 2014 (restated) 52,078
In the year to 31 December 2014, a loan of £59,000,000 with Advanced Medical Solutions (Germany) GmbH was converted to an 
investment in Advanced Medical Solutions (Europe) Limited.
Shares in Group undertakings have been written down to recognise losses in subsidiary companies. 88 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 88
3. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES continued
The following were subsidiary undertakings at the end of the year and have all been included in the consolidated accounts.
Name
Country of
Operation
Proportion of
voting rights
 and ordinary
share capital
Held Nature of business
Advanced Medical Solutions Limited England 100% Development and manufacture of medical products
Advanced Medical Solutions (UK) Limited England 100% Holding Company
Advanced Medical Solutions Trustee Company 
Limited England 100% Trustee Company
Advanced Medical Solutions (Plymouth) Limited England 100% Development and manufacture of medical products
Advanced Healthcare Systems Limited England 100%* Dormant
Advanced Medical Solutions Group Inc. USA 100%† Holding Company
Advanced Medical Solutions (US) Inc. USA 100%§ Marketing support of medical products
MedLogic Global Holdings Limited England 100%¶ Holding Company
Innovative Technologies Limited England 100%‡ Dormant
Advanced Medical Solutions B.V. Netherlands 100% Development and manufacture of medical products
Advanced Medical Solutions (Germany) GmbH Germany 100%^ Holding Company
Resorba Medical GmbH Germany 100%# Development and manufacture of medical products
Resorba s.r.o. Czech Republic 100%# Manufacture and sales office of medical products
Resorba ooo Russia 100%# Sales office of medical products
MPN Medizin Produkte Neustadt GmbH Germany 100%# Manufacturer of medical products
Advanced Medical Solutions (USA) Inc. USA 100% Marketing support of medical products
Advanced Medical Solutions (Europe) Limited England 100% Providing financial support to other Group entities
* Held indirectly through Advanced Medical Solutions Limited.
‡ Held indirectly through MedLogic Global Holdings Limited.
† Held indirectly through Advanced Medical Solutions (UK) Limited.
^  s.291 of German Commercial Code invoked: No consolidated financial statements prepared for the German companies. (Von der befreienden Wirkung nach s.291 
HGB wird hiermit gebrauch gemacht.)
§ Held indirectly through Advanced Medical Solutions Group Inc.
¶ Held indirectly through Advanced Medical Solutions (Plymouth) Limited.
# Held indirectly through Advanced Medical Solutions (Germany) GmbH.
The above table reflects the situation at the year-end.
4. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Due within one year  
Prepayments and accrued income 178 270
Derivative financial instruments 34 58
  212 328
Due after more than one year
Amounts owed by Group undertakings – 59
 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Amounts owed by Group undertakings
Cost
At 1 January 2,399 2,399
Movement (59) –
At 31 December 2,340 2,399
Provisions for impairment
At 1 January 2,340 2,340
At 31 December 2,340 2,340
Net book value
At 31 December – 59
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 89 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
89
5 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Trade creditors 31 34 
Other creditors 7 10 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 2,862 6,817 
Accruals and deferred income 2,220 1,858 
  5,120 8,719 
6. SHARE CAPITAL
Details on the share capital of the Company are provided in Note 29 to the Group’s accounts.
7. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The charge for share-based payments under IFRS 2 arises across the following schemes: 
 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme, Enterprise Management Incentive Scheme and Company 
Share Option Scheme 98 114
Long-Term Incentive Plan 360 309
Deferred Share Bonus Scheme and Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme 251 169
  709 592
Details on the share-based payments of the Company are provided in Note 31 on pages 78 to 82 in the notes to the Group’s 
accounts. 90 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 90
FIVE YEAR SUMMARY
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Consolidated income statement (pre-exceptional items)
Revenue 68.6  63.0  59.5  52.6  34.4 
Profit from operations 17.0  15.2  13.7  12.3  6.4 
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 14.1  12.9  11.4  10.5  6.7 
Basic earnings per share 6.8p 6.2p 5.5p 5.2p 4.3p
Consolidated statement of financial position
Net assets employed
Non-current assets 62.7  66.8  71.3  71.9  74.2 
Current assets 53.9  37.8  25.8  25.7  25.3 
Total liabilities (12.9) (11.5) (11.0) (23.9) (33.3)
Net assets 103.7 93.1 86.1 73.7 66.2
Shareholders’ equity
Share capital & investment in own shares 10.3  10.2  10.2  10.2  10.2 
Share-based payments reserve 2.3  1.6  1.3  1.1  0.8 
Share-based payments deferred tax reserve 0.4  0.3  0.2  0.2  0.6 
Share premium account 33.2  32.8  32.4  31.9  31.7 
Other reserve 1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5 
Hedging reserve (0.5) (0.5) 0.7 (0.1) – 
Translation reserve (8.2) (4.9) (0.7) (1.4) (0.1)
Retained equity 64.7  52.1  40.5  30.3  21.5 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 103.7  93.1  86.1  73.7  66.2  91 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
91
NOTICE OF MEETING
Notice is hereby given that the twenty-second Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 11.00 a.m. on 2 June 2016 
at the offices of Investec Bank plc, 2 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7QP, for the following purposes:
AS ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1. To receive the Report of the Directors and the Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015 
(together with the report of the auditor thereon). 
2. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2015. 
3. To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration. 
4. To re-elect Mary Tavener (who retires by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association) as a Director of the Company. 
5. To re-elect Penny Freer (who retires by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association) as a Director of the Company.
6. To declare a final dividend of 0.55p per Ordinary Share, payable on 10 June 2016 to shareholders on the register at close of 
business on 20 May 2016. 
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS:
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass Resolution 7, which will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution, and Resolutions 8 and 9, 
which will be proposed as Special Resolutions.
7. To authorise the Directors generally and unconditionally for the purposes of section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘2006 
Act’) to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert 
any security into shares in the Company (each an allotment of ‘relevant securities’) up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£3,484,586 provided that this authority is for a period expiring upon the earlier of the date of the Company’s next Annual 
General Meeting and fifteen months after the date of the passing of this Resolution but the Company may before such expiry 
make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors 
may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the authority conferred by this 
Resolution has expired. This authority is in substitution for all subsisting authorities, to the extent unused. 
8. Subject to the passing of Resolution 7 above, to authorise the Directors pursuant to section 570 of the 2006 Act to allot equity 
securities (within the meaning of section 560 of the 2006 Act) wholly for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 
7 above as if section 561(1) of the 2006 Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the 
allotment of equity securities: 
(a) in connection with an offer of such securities by way of rights to holders of Ordinary Shares in proportion (as nearly as may 
be practicable) to their respective holdings of such shares, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the 
Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems under 
the laws of any territory, or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange; 
(b) otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above up to an aggregate nominal amount of £1,045,375; and 
(c) which shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and fifteen months 
after the date of the passing of this Resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement 
which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in 
pursuance of any such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the power conferred by this Resolution has expired. 
9. That the Company is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 701 of the 2006 Act to make 
market purchases (within the meaning of Section 693(4) of the 2006 Act) of any of its Ordinary Shares of 5p each in the capital 
of the Company on such terms and in such manner as the Directors may from time to time determine provided that: 
(a) the maximum number of Ordinary Shares which may be purchased is 10,453,759; 
(b) the minimum price which may be paid for each Ordinary Share is 5p which amount shall be exclusive of expenses, if any; 
(c) the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for each Ordinary Share shall not be more than 5% above 
the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily 
Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the ordinary share is purchased; 
(d) unless previously renewed, revoked or varied, this authority shall expire upon the earlier of the date of the Company’s next 
Annual General Meeting and fifteen months after the date of the passing of this Resolution; and 
(e) under this authority the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares which would or might be executed 
wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority, and may make purchases of Ordinary Shares pursuant to it as if this 
authority had not expired. 
By order of the Board
Mary Tavener
Company Secretary
25 April 2016
Registered office:
Premier Park, 33 Road One, Winsford Industrial Estate,
Winsford, Cheshire, CW7 3RT. 92 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 92
NOTICE OF MEETING CONTINUED
NOTES
1. A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting convened by the notice set out above may appoint a proxy to attend, 
speak and, on a poll to vote in his place. A holder of more than one ordinary share may appoint different proxies in relation to 
each or any of those ordinary shares. 
2. A member may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares. 
A member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share. To appoint more than one proxy 
notice must be given to the Company’s Registrars not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the 
meeting. 
3. A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting to represent you. Details of how to 
appoint the Chairman of the meeting or another person as your proxy using the proxy form are set out at Note 1 of the proxy 
form. If you wish your proxy to speak on your behalf at the meeting you will need to appoint your own choice of proxy (not the 
Chairman) and give your instructions directly to them. 
4. On a vote on a Resolution on a show of hands at the meeting, a proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has 
been appointed by more than one member and the proxy has been instructed by one or more of the members to vote for the 
resolution and by one or more other member to vote against it. 
5. Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its 
powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares. 
6. A form of proxy is enclosed for use by members. To be effective, it must be completed and arrive not later than 48 hours 
before the time fixed for the Meeting at Capita Asset Services, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU. You 
may also deliver by hand to The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU during usual business hours. 
7. The Register of Directors’ Interests in the shares of the Company will be available for inspection at the registered office of the 
Company during usual business hours on any weekday (public holidays excepted) until the date of the Meeting and also on 
that date and at the place of the Meeting from 9.00 a.m. until the conclusion of the Meeting. 
8. The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those 
shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company as at 6:00 p.m. on 31 May 2016 shall be entitled to attend 
or vote at the aforesaid Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their names at that time. 
Changes in the entries in the relevant register of Securities after 6:00 p.m. on 31 May 2016 shall be disregarded in determining 
the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting. 
NOTES ON SPECIAL BUSINESS
Resolution 7: Authority to Allot Shares and other relevant securities
This Resolution would give the Directors the authority to allot Ordinary Shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 
£3,484,586 (representing 69,691,726 Ordinary Shares of 5p each). This amount represents approximately one-third of the issued 
Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2016, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
The authority sought under this resolution will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 
2017 or, if earlier, 15 months after the passing of the resolution.
While the Directors have no present intention of issuing any of the authorised but unissued share capital, it is considered prudent 
and appropriate to maintain the flexibility that this authority provides.
Resolution 8: Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights
Your Directors also require additional authority from shareholders to allot shares or grant rights over shares or sell treasury shares 
where they propose to do so for cash and otherwise than to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings. 
Accordingly, Resolution 8 will be proposed as a Special Resolution to grant such authority. Apart from rights issues, open offers 
or any other pre-emptive offer as mentioned the authority will be limited to the issue of shares and sales of treasury shares for 
cash up to an aggregate nominal value of £1,045,375 (being 10% of the Company’s issued Ordinary Share capital at 31 March 
2016, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice). This is in keeping with the extent for which such authority has 
been sought and given at each previous Annual General Meeting of the Company since 2006.
Allotments made under the authorisation in paragraph (a) of Resolution 8 would be limited to allotments by way of a rights issue 
only (subject to the right of the Directors to impose necessary or appropriate limitations to deal with, for example, fractional 
entitlements and regulatory matters).
If given, this authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2017 or, if earlier, 15 
months after the passing of the Resolution. 93 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
93
Resolution 9: Purchase by the Company of its own Shares
In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Company to purchase its own shares. Under Section 701 of the 2006 
Act, the Directors of a company may make market purchases of that Company’s shares if authorised to do so. Your Directors 
believe that granting such approval would be in the best interests of shareholders in allowing Directors the flexibility to react 
promptly to circumstances requiring market purchases.
Accordingly, Resolution 9, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution, will give the Directors the authority to purchase issued 
shares of the Company under Section 701 of the 2006 Act.
The authority contained in this Resolution will be limited to an aggregate nominal value of £522,687 (representing 5% of the issued 
Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2016 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice; 
representing 10,453,759 Ordinary Shares of 5p each). The price which may be paid for those shares is also restricted as set out in 
the Resolution.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2017 or, if earlier, 15 months 
after the passing of the Resolution.
The Board has no present intention of exercising this authority. However, this will be kept under review, and the Board will use this 
power only if and when, taking account of market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate 
gearing levels and the overall financial position of the Group, they believe that the effect of such purchases will be in the best 
interests of shareholders generally and that they will result in an increase in earnings per share.
Shares purchased under this authority may be held as treasury shares. Shares held in treasury do not carry voting rights and no 
dividends will be paid on any such shares. Shares held in treasury in this way can be sold for cash or cancelled. This would allow 
the Company to manage its capital base more effectively and to replenish its distributable reserves.
If and when the Board resolves to exercise its authority to make market purchases, it will at that time decide whether shares 
purchased are to be cancelled or held in treasury.
As at 31 March 2016, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice, there were share options outstanding over 
Ordinary Shares, representing 3% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital. The Company has no warrants in issue in 
relation to its shares. If the buyback authority was to be exercised in full, these options would represent 3% of the Company’s 
ordinary issued share capital. 94 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 94
ADVISORS
NOMINATED ADVISOR AND BROKER
Investec Bank plc
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
AUDITOR
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
PO Box 500
2 Hardman Street
Manchester M60 2AT
TAX ADVISER
PwC
101 Barbirolli Square
Lower Mosley Street
Manchester M2 3PW
SOLICITORS
Brown Rudnick LLP
8 Clifford Street
London W1S 2LQ
REGISTRARS AND TRANSFER OFFICE
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
BANKERS
HSBC
99–101 Lord Street
Liverpool L2 6PG
Royal Bank of Scotland
2nd Floor
1 Spinningfields Square
Manchester M3 3AP
PATENT ATTORNEYS
Marks & Clerk
Manchester Office
1 New York Street
Manchester M1 4HD
Foley & Lardner LLC
975 Page Mill Square
Palo Alto CA 94304-1013
PUBLIC RELATIONS
Consilium Strategic Communications
41 Lothbury
London EC2R 7HG 95 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
95
NOTES 96 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015 96
NOTES  Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Registered Office:
Premier Park, 33 Road One
Winsford Industrial Estate
Winsford, Cheshire, CW7 3RT
Company Number: 2867684
Tel: +44 (0)1606 863500
Fax: +44 (0)1606 863600
e-mail: info@admedsol.com
Web: www.admedsol.com
