 Amec Foster Wheeler plc
Annual report and accounts 2015
Connected
excellence Our vision is to be the most trusted partner 
for our customers by consistently delivering 
excellence – bringing together the knowledge, 
expertise and skills of our people from across 
our global network.
W elcome to Amec F oster Wheeler
Strategic report: overview
01 Performance highlights
02 Amec Foster Wheeler at a glance
06 Chairman’s statement
07 Chief Executive’s statement
Strategic report: strategic review
12 Our business model
14 Delivering excellence
18 Principal risks and uncertainties
22 Sustainability
23 Global market trends
24 Our markets
Strategic report: performance review
28 Financial review
Governance
40 Chairman’s governance overview
41 Leadership and effectiveness
41 Our board of directors
44 Amec Foster Wheeler governance structure
45 Board role and responsibilities
46 Board composition
47 The Chairman and Chief Executive
47 Senior Independent Director
48 Non-executive directors
49 Board meetings
50 Conflicts of interest
51 Professional development
52 Evaluation
53 Nominations committee
55 Our Group Leadership T eam
56 Management committees
57 Accountability
57 Risk management and internal control systems
58 Audit committee
63 Health, safety, security, environmental and ethics (HSSEE) committee
65 Remuneration
65 Remuneration committee
67 Directors’ remuneration report
81 Engagement
81 Relations with shareholders
82 Directors’ report
85 Responsibility statements of the directors
Financials
86 Independent auditor’s report to the members of Amec Foster Wheeler plc
94  Report of independent registered public accounting firm  
on internal control over financial reporting
95 Report of independent registered public accounting firm
96 Consolidated income statement
97 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
98 Consolidated balance sheet
99 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
102 Consolidated cash flow statement
104 Notes to the consolidated accounts
157 Company balance sheet
158 Company statement of changes in equity
159 Notes to the company accounts
Additional information
166 History and development
167 Risk factors
172 Performance measures
175 Prior year operating results
180 Information for shareholders
181 Other information
192 Cross reference to Form 20-F
194 Related undertakings
202 Five-year record (unaudited)
203 Glossary
204 F orward-looking statements Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
01
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Additional information
2015 was a year of contrasting forces.
P erformance highlights
Key performance indicators
We use a variety of other key performance indicators to track 
our progress towards our goals. These relate to the elements 
of our business model and can be found in the strategic report 
on pages 12 and 13.
Adjusted performance measures used by the Group are 
explained and reconciled to the equivalent IFRS measures 
in the section entitled Performance measures on  
pages 172 to 174.
1  C ontinuing oper ations . 2  Figures for 2012 and 2011 have been restated to reflect the reclassification 
in 2013 of the UK conventional power business as a discontinued operation 
and the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ .
3  Adjusted profit before tax represents profit before tax before 
exceptional items, the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, 
asbestos-related costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), 
and the Group’s share of tax on the results of joint ventures.
4  Adjusted diluted earnings per share represents profit for the year before 
exceptional items, the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, 
asbestos-related costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), 
and the tax effect of those items, divided by the diluted number of 
ordinary shares.
5  The dividend values disclosed in cents were calculated at the following year 
end exchange rates: 
31 December 2015 – 1.4739 
31 December 2014 – 1.5593 
31 December 2013 – 1.6563 
31 December 2012 – 1.6255 
31 December 2011 – 1.5541 
This represents an estimate and no representation can be made that 
the dividend could have been converted into US dollars at this rate, and 
as a result these figures have been included in square brackets in the 
table above. 
Revenue
1
£m 
5,455
2015
3,993
2014
3,974
2013
4,088
2012
3,133
2011
Adjusted profit  
before tax
1, 2, 3
£m 
334
2015
317
2014
332
2013
327
2012
323
2011
Dividend per share
5
p/c 
29.0p
2015
43.3p
2014
42.0p
2013
36.5p
2012
30.5p
2011
Adjusted diluted EPS
1, 2, 4
p 
67.7
2015
79.5
2014
87.2
2013
78.6
2012
73.2
2011
Profit/(loss)  
before tax
1, 2
£m 
2015
(235)
155
2014
255
2013
254
2012
264
2011
[47.4c]
[59.3c]
[69.6c]
[67.5c]
[42.7c] 02
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Amec F oster Wheeler at a glance
Employees 2015
40k
Total revenue 2015
£5.5bn
Amec F oster Wheeler operates across the whole 
of the oil & gas value chain – from production 
to refining, processing and distribution of 
derivative products – in mining, clean energy 
and the environment & infrastructure markets, 
employing around 40,000 people in more than 
55 countries. 
Split of employees
% 
 Americas 
 NECIS  
 AMEASE 
 Global Power Group
41
21
32
6
Split of revenue
% 
 Americas 
 NECIS  
 AMEASE 
 Global Power Group
48
19
27
6
Office locations Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
03
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Additional information
Our operations
Our operations are structured into four business units – 
three with geographic remits and one with a global remit 
(see overviews below). 
This structure has been designed to further enable 
collaboration and promote greater growth opportunities.
Delivering 
ground breaking 
energy-related 
projects around 
the world. 
Global Power Group
Operating three 
manufacturing facilities, 
two cogeneration plants, 
10 engineering and service 
centres in seven countries 
and employing around 2,500 
employees, this business unit 
designs, supplies and erects 
steam generating, auxiliary 
and air pollution control 
equipment, as well as a wide 
range of aftermarket products 
and services.
Delivering projects and 
services virtually anywhere 
in the world, we enable 
utilities, independent power 
producers and industrial 
customers to achieve their 
power, process steam and 
environmental goals.
Northern Europe & CIS 
(NECIS)
Northern Europe & 
the Commonwealth of 
Independent States has 
around 12,500 employees 
operating in more than 120 
locations across 20 countries, 
with its expertise extending 
into many more. 
The unit has broad-based 
customer reach across three 
of our markets: in environment 
& infrastructure; clean energy 
– notably in the nuclear 
industry, including asset 
support, decommissioning 
and new-build programmes; 
and oil & gas – across the 
value chain and lifecycle for 
projects onshore and offshore, 
from pre-feasibility consulting 
to late-life management and 
decommissioning.
Asia, Middle East, Africa and 
Southern Europe (AMEASE)
The Asia, Middle East, 
Africa & Southern Europe 
(AMEASE) unit has over 8,000 
employees, spread across 
more than 40 locations, 
with strong capabilities and 
customer reach across each 
of our oil & gas, environment 
& infrastructure and 
mining markets.
In addition to our regional 
locations, we also have our E&I 
and clean energy group which 
works across all markets and 
is focused on delivering major 
construction projects and 
specialty consulting services 
across key geographies 
throughout AMEASE 
and beyond.
Americas
The largest of our business 
units, with around 16,000 
employees and approximately 
150 offices in 10 countries, 
across North and 
South America.
The business is balanced 
across our markets. In oil 
& gas, we are delivering 
world scale projects across 
a portfolio of upstream, 
midstream and downstream 
business, with a leadership 
position in the oil sands 
of Canada, a strong US 
position onshore and in 
the Gulf of Mexico and a 
growing presence in Mexico. 
We provide a full-service 
solution in the mining 
market from our leading 
position in consulting, project 
delivery and remediation. 
In clean energy, we have a 
strong renewables business 
supporting the development 
of solar and wind projects, a 
robust nuclear position and 
a growing development of 
gas power. Throughout our 
geographies we are a leading 
environmental consultancy. 04
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Amec F oster Wheeler at a glance continued
Our customers include
BP
ConocoPhilips
Duke Energy
EDF
Enterprise Products Operating LLC
Equistar Chemicals LP
ExxonMobil
Georgia Pacific
Georgia Power
K&S Potash Canada
KOC
Kuwait National Petroleum Co
Louisville Gas & Electric Co
Newmont
Owens Corning
PEMEX
Sempra
Shell
T alisman Sinopec
Zadco
Order book
£6.6bn
Order book
% 
 Americas 
 NECIS 
 AMEASE 
 Global Power Group
31
27
36
6
Our four markets
Our diversified approach with operations across four markets 
balances risk and maximises opportunity over the long term. 
We provide similar services across our markets (see pages 
24 to 25), winning work through strong customer relationships 
and our proven ability to deliver projects successfully. Many 
of the skills and services we provide to our customers are 
transferable across markets.
Oil & Gas
We are involved in every part of the project delivery phase 
across the oil & gas value chain, but we specifically do not 
operate in early cycle exploration or drilling.
Clean Energy
In renewables we provide a full-service engineering, 
procurement and construction solution on wind, solar, biomass 
and biofuels projects. We also support the full lifecycle of 
nuclear energy and are a respected leader in the design and 
supply of combustion and steam generation equipment.
Mining
We offer mining consultancy (including ore resource estimation, 
mine planning and feasibility studies), design, project and 
construction management services.
Environment & Infrastructure (E&I)
We are a leading consulting, engineering and project 
management firm with strong market positions, especially 
in the water, transportation and infrastructure, government 
services and industrial sectors. 
A diversified 
customer proposition 
in four distinct, yet 
complementary 
markets. Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
05
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Additional information
Our sectors
Government
Comprehensive  
environmental, engineering  
services and design
Water
Global expertise in every  
aspect of water, from  
source to ocean
T ransmission & Distribution
Innovative and high-value  
added solutions 
Mining 
Expertise and delivery  
from concept to closure
Industrial/Pharmaceutical
Offering a whole world of  
technical expertise and full  
lifecycle services
T ransportation & 
Infrastructure 
Innovative solutions for  
complex transportation needs
Conventional Power
High-value services,  
equipment and technology  
for power plants
Renewables/Bioprocess
A century of experience  
supporting today’s  
renewable energy
Nuclear
Expertise spanning the  
entire lifecycle of complex  
nuclear assets
Downstream
Executing downstream  
projects in refining, chemicals  
and petrochemicals
Midstream
Providing transportation  
for the midstream oil &  
gas industry
Upstream
Full lifecycle for the upstream  
oil & gas industry – offshore  
and onshore 06
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
 X Roy Franklin, currently Chairman of Keller Group plc, deputy 
chairman of Statoil ASA and a non-executive director of 
Santos Ltd, was appointed an independent non-executive 
director and member of the nominations committee, with 
effect from 1 January 2016
 X As reported above, Samir Brikho stepped down from his 
position as Chief Executive on 17 January 2016. Ian McHoul 
was appointed interim CEO, in addition to his role as Chief 
Financial Officer with effect from 17 January 2016
Full biographical details of your board can be seen on pages  
41 to 43.
Diversity remains another key area of focus for your board and 
your company has made great strides in this area – not just the 
diversity of human capital (individual characteristics, skills and 
gender) but also, as I have mentioned previously, in thought 
diversity. Collaboration, teamwork and respect for each other, 
combined with an assiduous attention to health, safety, security 
and the environment will ensure that we remain at the top of our 
game, despite competitive pressures and market conditions. 
And here again we see further benefits from the merged 
operating practices following our acquisition of Foster Wheeler 
where we have created a best of both approach.
I also want to comment on health and safety, which remains an 
absolute priority throughout the organisation. The Chief Executive 
reports to the board on this at every meeting and our Health, 
Safety, Security, Environmental & Ethics Committee (see page 63) 
has an increasingly key role to ensure we protect our people, 
our customers and everyone associated with our projects. 
Y our company will benefit from our best-in-class approach, 
which is clearly understood and upheld throughout the group.
Y our Company’s performance 
The tough market conditions will continue for longer than 
originally expected and these have been reflected in the 
performances of your company across our four markets – 
oil & gas, mining & metals, clean energy and environment & 
infrastructure (more details can be seen on pages 24 to 25). 
Our 2015 trading profit
1
 was £374m and our proposed final 
dividend is 14.2p per share, making a total of 29.0p per share 
for the year. If approved at your Company’s annual general 
meeting on 27 April 2016, it will be paid on 4 July 2016 to those 
shareholders on the register at close of business on 27 May 2016.
Conclusion
My fellow directors and I remain strongly convinced of Amec 
Foster Wheeler’s potential. We believe that your company’s 
strategy, strength & depth of customer relationships and 
breadth of skills & capabilities will enable us to optimise our 
performance in these down markets and position your company 
to take advantage of better markets when they return.
Difficult times call for strong leadership and I would like to thank 
our leadership team and everyone in Amec Foster Wheeler for  
their valued contribution to date and their commitment to 
delivering our future potential.
John Connolly 
Chairman 
10 March 2016
Chairman’s statement
The last year has been one of significant challenge and change 
in your company.
Having completed the acquisition of Foster Wheeler at the 
end of 2014, the group tackled the task of integrating the 
two companies to create the new Amec Foster Wheeler. 
This took place during a year when the significant oil price 
decline and consequent actions across the oil & gas sector 
produced extremely turbulent and challenging markets for 
our business. Whilst we will continue for some time to operate 
in these harsh markets, your board remains confident that the 
strategic rationale for the Amec Foster Wheeler combination 
remains sound.
As we announced, Samir Brikho stepped down from the Chief 
Executive role on 17 January and left the company, with Ian 
McHoul appointed interim CEO from that date. Samir was Chief 
Executive for nine years and made a significant contribution 
to the development of the group during that period and, on 
behalf of the board, I want to thank him for his commitment and 
contribution during his tenure. I also want to thank Ian McHoul 
for stepping into this role to steer the company forward in the 
period ahead. The board has progressed the search for a new 
CEO, supported by Korn Ferry, and we anticipate making an 
announcement on this in due course.
In the Chief Executive’s statement on page 7 , Ian McHoul 
reports on progress and our near term priorities. As already 
announced your board concluded that an appropriate 
action in these markets is to lower the dividend (see below). 
A priority was to execute a refinancing and in March 2016 we 
announced that the new financing for the company’s medium 
term was in place, with total facilities of £1.7 billion, which 
gives us substantial headroom and marks another important 
step towards further strengthening our balance sheet. The 
executive team continue to execute a clear strategic plan to 
optimise the group’s performance during these challenging 
market conditions.
Y our board
There have been a number changes to your board since the 
start of 2015:
 X Kent Masters, formerly the Chief Executive Officer at Foster 
Wheeler AG, was appointed a non-executive director on 
13 February 2015 for an initial term of three years, which will 
end at the 2018 AGM
 X Neil Carson was appointed Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of our Remuneration Committee on 14 May 2015 
following the previously-announced retirement from the 
board of Simon Thompson at the close of the annual general 
meeting, having served two three-year terms as a Director
John Connolly
Chairman
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 172 to 174) Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
07
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Additional information
Dividend per share for the year
29.0p
Adjusted diluted EPS for 2015
67.7p
Chief Executive’s statement
Following a board meeting on 17 January, the Company 
announced the departure of Samir Brikho on 18 January 2016, 
since when I have fulfilled the dual roles of Chief Financial 
Officer and interim CEO. My finance report can be found on 
page 28 and I would, for the record, like to wish Samir all the 
best for the future.
2015 was a year of contrasting forces. We successfully launched 
our new operating model on 1 January, so creating the platform 
from which to develop and grow our business. However, market 
conditions and commodity prices continue to dictate the flow 
of multiple projects on which we have been working.
Despite the market downturn and the industry-wide mantra 
about the conditions being ‘tougher for even longer’ , we have 
achieved notable successes in helping our customers achieve 
greater efficiencies – and we have continued to win projects 
and contracts across all of our four business units.
In November, in recognition of the harsh environment and 
future outlook, we announced our intention to reduce our future 
dividend payments – thereby bringing them back in line with 
our existing policy of around two times earnings cover.
T ough times call for tough actions and we continue to reduce 
costs – raising our synergy targets, streamlining our business, 
focusing our offering, creating greater efficiencies through 
innovation and partnership and being more flexible to even 
better support the needs of our customers. 
The Group Leadership T eam and I are working on creating 
the most efficient platform for growth in both the current and 
hopefully more positive market conditions in the mid- to near 
term future.
2015 results
The challenging backdrop of economic uncertainty continued 
into 2015 and was exacerbated by the continuing price 
decline in many of our core commodities. We have delivered a 
trading profit
1
 of £374m, on reduced revenues of £5,455m and 
proposed a final dividend of 14.2p per share – in line with our 
November 2015 guidance. 
Our cash conversion rate
1
 was 104% and adjusted earnings 
per share
1
 of 67 .7p. As I am also Chief Financial Officer, I will give 
more depth and insight into our financial performance in the 
Financial Review on pages 28 to 37 . 
We have continued to win interesting and exciting projects 
in each of our four key markets and across our four business 
units, resulting from increased collaboration, skills transfer 
and knowledge sharing.
Ian McHoul 
Chief Financial Officer and interim CEO
A year of  
contrasting 
forces. 
Order book
£6.6bn 08
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s statement continued
Challenges create a 
platform from which to 
showcase our best work.
Tough environments provide 
opportunities for diverse 
thought leaders.
The industry is 
now saying: ‘tougher 
– for even longer’ .
Delivering on promises
We operate throughout the oil & gas value chain, from 
production and transportation, through processes that go 
beyond simple separation and dehydration, to refining or 
processing crude oil into finished fuel products. This remains 
the major part of our business, accounting for 54% of our 
revenues and so the low price of crude oil has had a dramatic 
impact on our business. 
In 2015 we have concentrated on developing innovative ways 
of working and providing more cost-efficient solutions for 
our customers, who are also feeling the pain. Our More4Less 
initiative, which established more momentum during the year, 
is just one example of how our lean and scalable engineering 
processes and integrated delivery approach has been proven 
to deliver notable savings.
During 2015, we won more than 1,000 new projects with a 
mix of new and existing customers; however, the start dates 
of a number of these contracts have been delayed by market 
conditions. Our order book, at £6.6bn, is up on 2014, but does 
not take into account work won with no confirmed start date.
Our employees continue to work on many of the more 
interesting and ground-breaking work in our chosen markets, 
as befits the talent and skills we have. More detail can be found 
on pages 24 to 25. 
In oil & gas we have strengthened our relationship with BP , 
winning North Sea contracts, have won work in T exas, US 
with D’ Arcinoff, and been awarded projects with SKS, Orpic 
and the Government of Timor-Leste in Malaysia, Oman and 
Timor-Leste respectively.
Our clean energy business has seen us win a range of contracts 
from steam generating and air pollution control to nuclear 
assessment and solar generation. We have been recognised 
as a key supplier and strategic player for Mexico’s growing heat 
recovery steam generator market, with four project wins during 
2015; and have won nuclear projects in Canada, France, Japan, 
UK and USA.
We have seen notable innovation in our environment & 
infrastructure markets, winning further work for the US Air 
Force with the Contract Augmentation Program IV in the US and 
for the design and construction of special facilities in Guam. 
Our mining business has been impacted by commodity prices, 
but notable wins included providing front-end engineering 
services for the expansion of the Çöpler Gold Mine in T urkey 
and an engineering procurement and construction contract 
with Petra Diamonds for its Cullinan Mill Extension Project 
in South Africa. Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
09
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Additional information
Safety is at the heart of all that we do and we successfully 
launched our Beyond Zero initiative – meaning zero harm every 
minute of every day, whatever we do at work or at home. 
It includes the tools to enable all our employees to help 
us achieve a world-class Health, Safety, Security and 
Environmental performance and includes preparing the ground 
for a new programme for 2016.
Designed to enable our safety leaders to effectively identify 
hazard and intervene when they consider safety is being 
compromised, we call it HEART (for Harm Elimination and 
Recognition T raining). 
HEART will equip our safety leaders at supervisory and 
management levels of our organisation with the confidence 
and skills to use the technique. 
Outlook
Current thinking indicates that low commodity prices will 
continue to be the largest disruptive factor in our markets for 
the immediate future – especially in our oil & gas and mining 
operating units – so we see another tough year ahead in 
some markets.
However, I have taken great heart from the way our people 
have buckled down to the challenges set across our business, 
as the ‘tougher for even longer’ mantra continues to have a 
major impact on customer decision-making, capital expenditure 
and project implementation.
In particular, I believe the benefits of our diverse model are 
already differentiating us, with good opportunities in down 
stream oil & gas, renewables, government work and UK T&D. 
We have almost sixty years’ experience in decommissioning 
highly complex nuclear assets and the expertise we have can 
be used to benefit other areas such as retiring UK North Sea 
oil and gas platforms.
We will continue to partner with our customers to deliver the 
most innovative, efficient and effective results possible and are 
looking to put our global resources, people and thinking to work 
even harder to achieve this. 
Our business platform is in place, our operating model is 
embedded, we are reviewing underperforming assets, we plan 
to halve our debt by mid 2017 and we are looking to build our 
business by doing the right thing, delivering on promises and 
delivering full potential.
Ian McHoul 
Chief Financial Officer and interim CEO
10 March 2016
Developing full potential
We have blended the skills within our organisation to benefit the 
needs of our customers and created a platform for long-term 
growth which, while the slings and arrows of commodity prices 
may temporarily hurt us, is the right approach for our business 
in the long term.
Our company has been delivering ground-breaking, 
energy-related projects and improving the lives of billions 
of people since 1848. 
Operating in over 55 countries, our approach is to forge strong 
working partnerships with our customers – which include 
governments, multi-national businesses and communities 
– to create some of the world’s leading industrial projects.
Our 40,000-strong, skilled workforce ranges from 
archaeologists to zoologists and almost every profession 
in between.
And we are good at what we do – designing, delivering and 
maintaining strategic and complex assets to time and budget. 
For example, despite the challenging conditions, our Danjing 
4 biomass power plant project in South Korea reached 
commercial operation two weeks ahead of schedule.
We have embedded the concept of using our specifically 
resourced offices in India as further support for the businesses 
and we have added greater risk management protocols through 
our Identify, Acquire, Deliver process. 
We deliberately maintain our strong and established positions 
in mining, clean energy, power generation, environment & 
infrastructure alongside the oil & gas market to develop 
complementary skills and services as well as to provide revenue 
diversification and a form of hedging against market trends.
Diversity is also evident in our approach to life, in the 
methodology we apply to solving our customers’ problems 
and in our business strategy. 
We have to empower our employees and maintain their career 
paths and excitement about our future and, as a part of the 
integration process, we have introduced new systems to further 
harness our combined potential in living our values and creating 
a culture of safety, honesty and collaboration – with customer 
needs at the heart of everything we do. 
The Academy, which provides our people with development 
opportunities towards reaching their full potential, also shifted 
towards delivering more free and accessible solutions globally, 
supporting the business need for improved efficiency.
Doing the right thing
Without ethical or safe behaviour we would be just another 
company, so we aspire to be the best at both.
During the year we introduced our new Code of Business 
Conduct by which we operate and accompanying online 
programmes for Code of Business Conduct and anti-bribery 
and corruption training. 
Both are mandatory for all staff to ensure that all our 
employees, and those working on our behalf, are aware of the 
laws applicable to us and act in accordance with those laws. 
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 172 to 174) 10
Connected
excellence
thr ough deep 
customer 
knowledge
Long-term client relationships help to safeguard 
the future of our business. Our work with EDF 
Energy, under a lifetime enterprise agreement, 
provides technical support and expertise for 
EDF Energy Generation’s current UK nuclear 
reactor fleet. 
EDF Energy operates 15 reactors at eight 
nuclear power plants across the UK. Amec 
F oster Wheeler was chosen to provide services 
because of our unique range of skills and 
capabilities in nuclear engineering, combined 
with a long-standing relationship between the 
two organisations.
The services we provide will enable EDF Energy 
to continue delivering the secure, reliable, 
low-carbon electricity the UK needs now and 
into the future. Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
11
Additional information
Jo Skelton, Section Lead 
– Remote Operations, fits
a cowl in the gap between
fuel guide tubes on Amec
Foster Wheeler’s Hot Box
Dome rig at Birchwood,
Warrington, UK. The Hot
Box Dome project is one
of the projects within EDF’s
fleet‑critical programme. 12
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
W e convert the talents of our people and their 
customer relationships into a low-risk business. 
T o succeed we need to deliver excellence to 
our customers.
Our business model
What this means
People are our principal asset
Read more on page 14
Our employees are clever people. Their skills are a scarce 
resource.
Our highly skilled engineers, project managers, consultants 
and scientists deliver for our customers, creating long-term 
customer relationships and a strong reputation for excellence.
We are investing in our High-Value Execution Centres 
(HVECs) to increase our capability and capacity to take 
on work cost effectively.
We are customer focused
Read more on page 15
We have a wide range of customers around the world.
They include some of the largest international oil companies 
such as ExxonMobil and BP , chemical companies such as Dow, 
miners such as Rio Tinto, utility companies such as EDF and 
government bodies such as US DoD.
Customers rely on our services and solutions
Read more on page 16
We provide high-value services – consulting, engineering, 
project and construction management, and supply 
chain management.
These skills are critical to the successful development 
and operation of our customers’ assets – right across 
their lifecycle.
We have a particularly strong reputation for delivering 
engineering solutions for complex projects.
We have a flexible and low‑risk business model
Read more on page 17
The majority of our contracts reimburse us for our people’s 
time. We often also get additional payments by achieving 
pre-agreed performance measures. Many of these are 
long-term contracts.
In selected circumstances we take on fixed-price work. 
The breadth of our market and customer exposure gives 
us great growth opportunities, and reduces the impact during 
lower levels of activity in one market.
Delivering excellence Strategic report: strategic review
13
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Additional information
Managing the challenges
We win business because of our reputation for delivery and the strength of our 
long‑term customer relationships.
Our diversified customer base limits our dependence on any one customer.
We are adaptable to ensure we offer our customers the right services when and 
where they need them.
We must be able to deliver these services in a cost‑effective way. 
We work across a range of cyclical markets, which can impact demand for 
our services.
Our reputation for delivery is very important to our continued success.
We take fixed‑price work when we know the customer and the project well. 
We have a good track record predicting earnings from each project and contract.
How we measure success
We look at the utilisation rate of 
employees, gender diversity and 
employee‑instigated turnover. 
We measure the engagement of our 
people and the development activity 
that has taken place and a number 
of safety measures.
Read more on page 14
We track levels of customer satisfaction 
and look to improve our win‑to‑bid ratio. 
Read more on page 15
We track our revenue growth and our 
margin progression. 
We also look at the mix of services 
we provide and where they sit in the 
lifecycle of our customers’ assets.
Read more on page 16
Our profit margin and cash conversion 
reflect the quality of project delivery. 
We also have a range of non‑financial 
measures, including greenhouse gas 
emissions and completion of project 
and peer reviews.
Read more on page 17
u We listen, understand and respond
u We agree on clear expectations
u We aspire to consistent excellence
 
u We invest in our people
u We embrace diversity and inclusion
u We connect globally as one team
 
u We put safety first
u We act ethically and with integrity
u We care about our communities
Delivering 
on promises
Developing 
full potential
Doing the 
right thing
Our values
Our future success relies on attracting, developing and retaining the best people.  
We need to be flexible, using our people as cost effectively and efficiently as possible. 
We maintain the highest standards of safety and ethics.
We are committed to encouraging and providing mechanisms for employees to 
become shareholders in Amec Foster Wheeler and our SAYE share option schemes 
(Sharesave) allow employees to participate in Amec Foster Wheeler’s share price 
growth. Sharesave is open to employees in all major countries of operation who 
meet a minimum service qualification. Offers to participate are currently being made 
on a regular basis. 14
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Delivering excellence
Our success depends upon our people delivering 
projects successfully for our customers. 
T o foster the right culture in which our people can 
succeed, our values (see page 13) are entrenched 
throughout our business.
We perpetuate the very highest standards of safety, mutual 
respect and ethical behaviour that we can and this, combined 
with caring for the environment in which we operate, underpins 
our approach to being a sustainable people business (read 
more about our commitment to sustainability on page 22 and 
on our dedicated sustainability microsite on amecfw.com).
Operating model 
On 1 January 2015, we introduced our new operating model.
Key principles include global standards for execution of 
projects, creating centres of excellence and multi-office delivery.
Investing in talent
We have developed both technical and leadership training 
to ensure we maintain a pipeline of skilled talent to meet 
our growth aspirations.
Group-wide training is led by the Academy, our in-house 
development programme. 
Adapting to dynamic markets 
Delivering a project for our customers requires us to put 
together teams of people to match the needs of the project 
and the customer. 
During 2015 we recruited approximately 12,000 people, the vast 
majority into project teams. Of these new hires, more than 90% 
were recruited directly. We have also seen a similar number of 
people leave as projects finish, or their roles change. T ogether 
this means that our utilisation rates remain very high.
Diversity and inclusion 
The business case is clear. An organisation that enjoys diversity 
enjoys a richness of ideas that leads to better solutions for 
the customer. 
Gender is just one part of this. Of our directly employed 
workforce, 23% (or 8,247 people) is made up of women and 
77% (or 27 ,610) is made up of men; of our executive grade 
employees, 10% (41) are women and 90% (369) are men; of 
our Group Leadership T eam one person (10%) is a woman and 
nine people (90%) are men; and of our board 25% (two people) 
are women and 75% (six people) are men. 
Age, gender and ethnicity are all important and assessed, 
but diversity of thought, for instance, cannot be measured 
as accurately. Our approach is to survey our employees, 
to ask how they feel and feed the findings into the Group 
Leadership T eam.
We are committed to providing a safe and secure workplace, 
where people are free from harassment and where diversity and 
inclusion are the norm, with equal opportunities for progression 
and development for all.
Our Code of Business Conduct highlights our commitment 
to human rights and we respect those of any individual, or 
community, with whom we are involved and we support the 
elimination of child labour.
Participation
We are committed to encouraging and providing mechanisms 
for employees to become shareholders in Amec Foster Wheeler 
and our savings-related share option schemes (Sharesave) 
allow employees to participate in Amec Foster Wheeler 
share price growth. Sharesave is open to all employees in all 
major countries of operation who meet a minimum service 
qualification. Offers to participate are currently being made 
on a regular basis.
Priorities for 2016
As usual, the most important priority remains that our people 
are safe at work and that we continue to attract, develop and 
retain skilled employees.
 
P eople are our principal asset
Split of employees
% 
 Americas 
 NECIS 
 AMEASE 
 Global Power Group
41
32
21
6 Strategic report: strategic review
15
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Additional information
W e have a wide range of customers and work 
for some of the world’s largest corporations and 
government bodies, designing and maintaining 
critical assets. Our customers expect us to deliver 
excellence every day. W e are very proud of the 
high proportion of repeat business we generate.
Our customers include some of the largest international oil 
companies such as ExxonMobil and BP , chemical companies 
such as Dow, miners such as Rio Tinto, utility companies such 
as EDF, and government bodies, such as the US Department 
of Defense. 
Our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 31% 
of revenue. 
Strategic customer management 
Developing long-term and worldwide relationships with 
key customers is a priority. 
With additional service offerings and new customers 
across a broader geographic footprint, there are much 
greater opportunities to cross-sell and a strategic approach 
to managing our customer relationships is no longer a 
nice-to-have – it is a necessity. We now have three tiers 
of customer relationship: global, regional and local.
Global accounts are managed centrally by the business 
development team. We expect to expand this over the 
coming years. 
By utilising strategic account management and global 
accounts, we are ‘upping our game’ to expand and deepen 
our relationships with our most significant customers. 
Our goal is to get closer to our customers and be their trusted 
partner. Regional and local account management will remain 
an important component.
Achievements in 2015
Despite the challenging conditions in our end markets, 
we are pleased that the customer satisfaction scores have 
remained high.
During 2015, work has continued on a number of significant 
projects for customers such as BP , ExxonMobil, K+S, Sempra, 
EDF and Honeywell.
We have also begun new projects for customers such as:
 X Maersk Oil in the UK North Sea – where our cost-effective 
approach (More4Less) was key in winning a new contract 
 X Yuhuang Chemicals in Louisiana – where we are utilising 
the breadth of our US-based engineering and construction 
capabilities, combined with a strong relationship with Air 
Liquide to win a major contract to build a new methanol plant 
 X Petra Diamonds in South Africa – where we have begun work 
at the Cullinan diamond mine mill extension 
 X UK Power Networks – where we have begun a 12-year 
partnership to upgrade electricity infrastructure in the UK 
Priorities for 2016
The development of long-term and worldwide customer 
relationships will continue to be our key priority. 
Integrating the former AMEC and Foster Wheeler relationships 
will provide us with significant new opportunities, particularly 
in the mid- and downstream oil & gas market. 
For example, we can offer enhanced project delivery to 
our combined upstream and downstream customers across 
new-build and brownfield projects. We are now offering 
environmental services to former Foster Wheeler customers 
for the first time too. 
We are also planning to expand the geographic reach of 
our services, for instance by offering brownfield services 
in new countries.
W e are customer focused
Diversified customer base
% 
 T op 10 
 11-20 
 Others 
10
59
31 16
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Delivering excellence continued
In each market or sector , the range of services 
provided to our customers is similar . 
W e are experts in designing, delivering and 
maintaining strategic and complex assets, 
offering total life of asset support from feasibility 
planning right through to decommissioning.
Our diversified service offering partially offsets the cyclical 
nature of our customers’ capital expenditure plans, and reduces 
our dependence on any one part of the energy mix. 
Core services
Our core services include: engineering, project management, 
construction and construction management, hook-up 
and commissioning, decommissioning, and related 
consultancy work.
We have a reputation for delivering engineering solutions for 
complex projects and operating in remote and harsh locations.
Our clean energy offering also includes Circulating 
Fluidised Bed (CFB) and heat recovery steam generators, 
condensers and emission control equipment for improved 
environmental performance. 
Working through the lifecycle 
We provide high-value services across the lifecycle of our 
customers’ assets and the range of services we are able to 
provide is similar in each of our four markets. 
Many of our services are provided through long-term contracts, 
giving us the opportunity to provide critical services in 
partnership with our customers. For instance, we have been 
supporting the current fleet of UK nuclear reactors for more 
than 50 years. Some of these contracts have been renewed 
several times.
Project delivery team
Our operating model has an enhanced project delivery 
function with responsibility for ensuring the identification 
and management of project risks, driving the use of common 
systems and tools, supporting the development and 
mobilisation of our teams and ultimately helping us to deliver 
excellence on all our projects.
Achievements in 2015
Contract wins announced in 2015 include: 
 X Algeria: Consultancy project to de-bottleneck Hassi R’Mei  
gas field (Sonatrach) 
 X Belgium: Detailed engineering for Zeebrugge LNG terminal 
expansion (Felguera) 
 X Canada: Remediation work at Port Granby long-term waste 
management facility (Canadian Nuclear Laboratories) 
 X China: Three-year project management contract at a 
coal-chemical complex (Shenhua Ningxia Coal) 
 X Guam: Design and construction of specialist facilities  
(U.S. Air Force) 
 X Malaysia: Consultancy services to a new refinery and 
pet-chem complex in Kedah (SKS) 
 X Oman: Three-year technical services contract for refinery 
and polypropylene facilities (Orpic) 
 X Philippines: Design and supply two 150MW CFB boilers 
in Cebu (Hyundai) 
 X Poland: Design, supply, construction and commissioning 
of 220MW CFB boiler in Zabrze (Fortum Zabrze) 
 X T urkey: Initial phase reimbursable EPC for the Çöpler Gold 
Mine (Anagold Madencilik) 
 X UAE: Three-year extension to project management 
consultancy (PMC) services contract on Upper Zakum project 
(Zadco) 
 X UK: Five-year integrated services contract in the UK North Sea 
(Maersk) 
 X UK: Three-year contract to supply regulatory, technical and 
training services to MoD nuclear safety authority (UK MoD) 
 X USA: Engineering and logistics support worldwide AFCAP IV 
(U.S. Air Force)
 X USA: Early stage EPC for new methanol plant in Louisiana 
(Yuhuang Chemicals) 
 X Vietnam: Front-end engineering design (FEED) for Dun Quat 
refinery upgrade (Vietnam National Oil and Gas Group) 
Priorities in 2016
Our main priority is to continue to adapt our services so that 
customers choose us to deliver and maintain their projects – 
safely and cost effectively.
Customers rely on our services 
and solutions
Core services
% 
 Project delivery 
 Professional services 
Other 
45
53
2 Strategic report: strategic review
17
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Additional information
W e have a flexible and low-risk business  
model; the majority of our contracts are on  
a cost-plus basis. 
When we agree fixed-price work we take the time 
to get to know the customer and the project first. 
By using common systems we can deliver work 
consistently and share work across offices and 
time zones.
W e are also able to adapt the type of work we 
do as our customers’ plans change – offering 
a mix of engineering, project management and 
full-scope project delivery packages. 
As a result, our business is more flexible and 
sustainable, and our financial performance less 
volatile than others’ .
In the majority of our contracts, our customers reimburse us 
for our people’s time and any materials we consume. We often 
arrange to get additional payments if we achieve pre-agreed 
performance measures. 
In selected circumstances we take on fixed-price work. 
T ypically, we will do this where we know the customer and 
the project well. 
Where this is not possible, we may look to partner with others 
to gain access to projects which would otherwise be unavailable 
to us. 
Each year we do work on numerous contracts – some of which 
are multi-year, this, together with the breadth of our market 
and customer exposure, reduces the impact of lower levels 
of activity in any one area of our business. 
Flexibility
The Global Power Group has a different business model to our 
engineering and project management business.
In addition to engineering and project delivery, it includes 
fabrication in its typical scope of activities.
Enhanced risk management
This plays a vital role in ensuring that we win projects with the 
greatest possible opportunity for success: maximising the value 
we get for our resources and addressing risks that are part of 
contracting in our industry.
We use a detailed workflow system which addresses the risks 
associated with tenders (for both lump sum and reimbursable 
contracts) in areas such as technical challenges, financial 
and pricing terms, joint venture/partner risks; as well as a full 
range of governance issues, such as human rights, safety and 
environmental risks.
Achievements in 2015
Our order book finished 2015 at £6.6bn and we have 
successfully adapted to lower levels of upstream oil & gas 
work by increasing our exposure to downstream and clean 
energy projects. 
In April we announced the completion of Copper Mountain 
solar 3 project in Nevada, where we provided EPC services 
for one of the largest photovoltaic (PV) solar plants in the US, 
ahead of schedule and under budget. 
In December we entered into a joint venture with Khan Offshore 
to deliver commissioning services for facilities as they are being 
constructed in South Korean yards – creating an opportunity 
to expand the addressable market for commissioning services 
which has been growing well since we acquired Qedi in 2011. 
Priorities for 2016
Despite some tough market conditions, we want to win 
new contracts which will maintain our low-risk and flexible 
business model. 
We will continue to increase collaboration across the Group – 
between teams from different sectors and countries, as well as 
substantially increasing the share of work carried out through 
multi-office delivery.
Revenue by contract style
% 
 Reimbursable 
 Fixed price 
 Other 
W e have a flexible and low-risk 
business model
70
1 29 18
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Principal risks and uncertainties
Amec F oster Wheeler operates in more than 
55 countries, serving a broad range of markets 
and customers. As such, the Group is subject 
to certain general and industry specific risks. 
Where practicable, the Group seeks to mitigate 
exposure to all forms of risk through effective 
risk management and risk transfer practices.
The board has overall responsibility for risk management, for 
determining the risk appetite in relation to the principal risks, 
for implementation of the risk management policy and for 
reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management systems. 
Risk management process
A global mandatory procedure detailing the risk management 
process is used at project, operating unit, business unit 
and group levels to identify the key risks that could have a 
significant impact on Amec Foster Wheeler’s ability to achieve 
its objectives. These are recorded in risk registers and evaluated 
to determine the likely impact and probability of occurring. 
Control actions are developed to mitigate or eliminate risks 
that are considered unacceptable. Risk owners are identified 
and given responsibility for ensuring actions are implemented 
with appropriate review dates.
The risk registers are reviewed and updated at least quarterly 
with the relevant risk owners.
Reporting and monitoring
The risk committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets 
at least twice each year to: 
 X review and advise the board on Amec Foster Wheeler’s risk 
appetite in relation to the principal strategic risks, taking 
account of the current and prospective macro-economic, 
financial, political, business and sector environments 
 X review and approve the risk management strategy, policies, 
procedures and processes 
 X review and report to the board on the effectiveness of the risk 
management systems 
 X review the Amec Foster Wheeler plc risk register and make 
recommendations as appropriate 
 X review any new or emerging risks and any potential impact 
they may have on risk appetite and the ability of Amec Foster 
Wheeler to manage such risks 
 X review any issues raised by other committees of the board 
that impact on the risk profile of Amec Foster Wheeler 
 X review and consider reports on key risk issues such as  
new business and geographical locations for operations 
or projects 
 X consider any internal or external risk trends and 
concentrations 
The terms of reference of the risk committee have been 
amended to reflect the requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2014.
Roles and responsibilities
Business unit 
presidents
Chief Executive/ 
risk committee
Project manager
Operating unit 
heads
Group function heads
Leadership teams/ 
function heads
Leadership teams/ 
function heads
Project team
Head of Risk 
Management
Business Unit 
Head of Commercial/ 
Head of Project 
Delivery
Operating Unit 
Head of Commercial/ 
Head of Project 
Delivery
Project risk owners
Risk oversight
X  ensure appropriate risk management
processes are in place
X  ensure management is positioned
to identify and respond to risk
X  ensure relevant information is raised
to the appropriate level
Risk owner/risk manager
X  participate in the identification of risk
X  participate in the identification of risk
management action plans
X  ensure action plans are implemented
X  monitor and report on risk status
Risk co‑ ordinator
X  ensure risk management process
is followed
X  facilitate risk management reviews
X  collate and issue risk management
reports/registers
X  promote learning and consistency
Group internal audit
Projects Operating 
unit
Business 
units
Board
plc Strategic report: strategic review
19
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Additional information
Principal business and strategic risks
The table below shows Amec Foster Wheeler’s principal business and strategic risks. Each is specific to the Group and could have 
a material impact on it. Actions have been taken to mitigate these risks and these are also shown.
Other financial risks that may impact the Group are shown on pages 136 to 141 – note 19 Capital and financial risk management.
Risk Mitigation
Geopolitical and economic conditions
Amec Foster Wheeler expects to derive the majority of its revenues from 
Europe, the US and Canada and is therefore particularly affected by political 
and economic conditions in those markets.
Changes in general economic conditions may influence customers’ decisions 
on capital investment and/or asset maintenance, which could lead to volatility 
in the development of Amec Foster Wheeler’s order intake. These may also 
lead to change in the customer base, competition and in the way customers 
procure the services we provide. An increase in competition for new contracts 
may lead to different, less favourable contract terms and conditions.
Continuing and escalating unrest and insurgency activity in the Middle East 
may have a negative impact on existing and future opportunities in the region.
Amec Foster Wheeler seeks to maintain a balanced geographic presence 
and, through acquisitions and organic growth, will continue to increase 
its exposure to other attractive regions of the world.
The risk associated with economic conditions resulting in a downturn 
and affecting the demand for Amec Foster Wheeler’s services has been 
addressed, as far as practicable, by seeking to maintain a balanced business 
portfolio in terms of geographies, markets, clients and service offering/
business model.
In light of continuing global economic uncertainties, steps have been taken to 
assess and monitor any potential impact on Amec Foster Wheeler’s business 
opportunities and address potential increased supply chain and, more 
broadly, counterparty risk.
The strategy and business development function is focused on realising 
the synergies across our customers, markets, geographies, service offerings 
and relationships.
Changes in commodity prices
A sustained and significant reduction in oil & gas or commodity prices would 
have an adverse impact on the level of customer spending in Amec Foster 
Wheeler’s markets and consequently represents a risk to organic growth.
The fall in oil prices has had an impact on the investment behaviour of Amec 
Foster Wheeler customers in this sector, with pressure on capital expenditure 
leading to a greater focus on smaller projects and operating expenditure and 
an increase in competition for new contracts.
This risk is mitigated by maintaining a balanced business portfolio  
of geographies, markets, clients and service offerings.
Improved efficiencies through increased workflow between offices  
and the effective use of centres of excellence and HVEC.
Project delivery
Failing to maintain discipline and meet customer expectations on project 
delivery could result in damage to reputation, loss of repeat business and 
potentially lead to litigation and/or claims against Amec Foster Wheeler.
The project delivery function provides assurance, drives project execution 
and supports the development, training and mobilisation of personnel to 
enhance execution competencies.
In addition the system of globally applied policies and procedures, combined 
with comprehensive management oversight, the risk management process, 
project reviews, internal audit, peer reviews and customer feedback, mitigate 
the risk to successful project delivery.
Lump sum contracts
Lump sum contracts carry different risks than reimbursable contracts, with 
the contractor agreeing the contract price at the start of the contract and 
accepting the risk of cost overruns in completing the project.
This risk is mitigated by having skills and competencies fully aligned with the 
project scope. It is further mitigated by having a clear, delegated authority 
structure in place, combined with the formal global mandatory procedures 
relating to contracting principles and the tender review process. In addition, 
the project delivery function, referred to in the project delivery risk above, 
performs reviews, provides assurance and drives project execution.
Staff recruitment and retention
An inability to attract and retain sufficient high-calibre employees 
could become a barrier to the continued success and growth of 
Amec Foster Wheeler.
Senior management departures or prolonged absences could also 
adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy and manage 
our operations efficiently. 
This risk is mitigated with a clear HR strategy, which is aligned to the 
business strategy and focused on attracting, developing and retaining the 
best people for the Group with succession planning as appropriate. It is 
underpinned by an employee framework which describes how we manage 
our people consistently.
In addition, there is a continual review of compensation and benefits to ensure 
sector and geographic competitiveness and there are localised recruitment 
teams capable of recruiting large numbers into Amec Foster Wheeler.
Amec Foster Wheeler Academy delivers development activities to enhance 
delivery and prepare employees for more advanced roles. 20
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Risk Mitigation
Health, safety, security and environment
Amec Foster Wheeler is involved in activities and environments that have the 
potential to cause serious injury to personnel or damage to property or the 
environment and damage to our reputation.
These activities may involve operations such as design, construction, 
commissioning and decommissioning, which have potential to cause serious 
environmental damage, pollution and habitat destruction.
In order to control risk and prevent harm, Amec Foster Wheeler is focused on 
achieving the highest standards of health, safety and security management. 
This is achieved through setting of an effective policy and putting in place 
clear standards which underpin our health, safety, security and environmental 
management systems.
We have put in place processes to assure that our systems work effectively 
throughout the organisation and health and safety performance is regularly 
reviewed against agreed targets to facilitate continual improvement.
Amec Foster Wheeler employs environmental and engineering specialists 
to support projects in implementing comprehensive project management 
planning at all stages of a project. These processes are governed by 
appropriate quality management systems and are supported by risk 
identification tools aimed at identifying and managing all aspects of project 
environmental risk.
Environmental licences
Amec Foster Wheeler’s build/own/operate facilities and fabrication/
manufacturing sites rely on maintaining environmental licences to operate, 
which includes protecting the environment and achieving legally enforceable 
operating parameters. Failure to maintain these standards may result in 
the revocation of all or part of the licence and the suspension of operation, 
resulting in criminal or civil action and/or financial risk to the business. Failure 
to maintain assets and/or pollution abatement equipment may result in a 
failure to meet legally binding objectives and targets for the operation.
Environmental management systems are in place to monitor and mitigate 
this risk.
Planned preventative maintenance schedules are in place to further mitigate 
this risk.
Information technology (IT)
Amec Foster Wheeler is exposed to the risk that the IT systems on which it 
relies fail and/or that sensitive data held by the Group is lost due to ineffective 
data governance or as a result of unauthorised access to Amec Foster 
Wheeler systems or malware attacks.
Appropriate controls are in place to mitigate the risk of systems failure and 
data loss, including systems back-up procedures, data security breach 
response plan, disaster recovery plans and globally distributed data 
centres providing a secure and reliable environment for hosting critical 
applications. There is also appropriate virus protection, malware detection 
and remediation, network security controls and penetration testing and 
encryption of mobile devices.
Ethical breach
A substantive ethical breach and/or non-compliance with laws or regulations 
could potentially lead to damage to Amec Foster Wheeler’s reputation, fines, 
litigation and claims for compensation.
Amec Foster Wheeler has a number of measures in place to mitigate 
the risk of a substantive ethical breach and/or non-compliance with 
laws or regulations, including: 
 X embedded policies and procedures 
 X Code of Business Conduct 
 X segregation of duties 
 X management oversight 
 X financial and operational controls 
 X independent whistle-blowing mechanism 
 X appointment of ethics and compliance officers 
 X anti-fraud and other internal audits 
 X legal team advice 
 X training programmes supporting the Code of Business Conduct and 
anti-bribery and corruption 
 X oversight by the ethics committee of the board (now the HSSEE committee 
– see pages 63 and 64) 
Pensions
Amec Foster Wheeler operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes, 
where careful judgement is required in determining the assumptions for 
future salary and pension increases, discount rate, inflation, investment 
returns and member longevity. There is a risk of underestimating this liability.
This risk to Amec Foster Wheeler’s pension schemes is mitigated by: 
 X maintaining a relatively strong funding position over time 
 X taking advice from independent qualified actuaries and other 
professional advisers 
 X agreeing appropriate investment policies with the trustees 
 X close monitoring of changes in the funding position, with reparatory action 
agreed with the trustees in the event that a sustained deficit emerges 
See note 14 on page 128 for further details on our pension schemes. Strategic report: strategic review
21
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Additional information
Risk Mitigation
Legacy risks
Litigation and business claims from divested and non-core businesses remain 
a risk to Amec Foster Wheeler.
Managing non-core legacy assets until divestment may require skills that are 
not common to the rest of the Company.
Ground contaminants remain at some former Amec Foster Wheeler 
operational localities where the pollutant may have been as a result of the 
Company’s operations, or the Company is responsible for its clean-up. 
There is a risk that pollution may result in a risk to human health or the 
environment. There is potential for civil and/or criminal action against the 
Company for such pollutants.
The established legacy team manages these claims with internal and external 
legal advice. The aim is to seek cost-effective management of litigation and 
promote commercially sensible settlements where appropriate.
Amec Foster Wheeler has made provisions for the legacy issues that are 
believed to be adequate and is not aware of any other current issues relating 
to disposed businesses which are likely to have a material impact. Specialist 
teams with the appropriate knowledge are brought in as required.
In the case of any known contaminated land, strategies have been developed 
to minimise the risk posed by such contaminated land, including asset 
management and land remediation projects and they remain under 
continuing review.
Asbestos liability
The legacy Foster Wheeler business is exposed to significant numbers 
of claims relating to alleged exposure to asbestos. The quantum of these 
claims is actuarially forecast each year and provisions are held against these 
loss projections. However there is a risk that these loss projections will be 
exceeded and the provisions could be inadequate to meet the liabilities.
There is a dedicated in-house finance and legal resource including a team 
of specialist asbestos lawyers who manage the claims, assisted by National 
Co-ordinating Counsel (NCC) and local counsel. A claims strategy has been 
developed with the NCC and regular reviews are undertaken.
The team monitors legal developments in these claims and the strategy 
to deal with them on a regular basis.
The quantum of these claims is actuarially forecast each year and provisions 
are held against the ultimate loss projections.
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of The UK Corporate Governance Code (September 2014 revision) the directors have 
performed a robust assessment of the principal risks detailed on pages 19 to 21 for the next three years and have concluded that 
they have a reasonable expectation that Amec Foster Wheeler will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they 
fall due over this three-year period.
The directors have selected a three-year period for this assessment, in line with the three-year business planning process and this 
also reflects the average duration of the larger customer contracts entered into by the Company.
In making this assessment the directors have taken into account the Company’s current trading performance and prospects, 
the stated strategy concerning the review of underperforming assets and the board’s appetite for risk. The Company refinanced 
its banking facilities in early March 2016 and the assessment confirms that we are compliant with the covenants and undertakings 
contained within these new facilities over the three-year period.
The approach adopted for this assessment was a detailed review of the principal risks by a senior management team with 
representatives from finance, commercial, legal, tax and treasury, strategy, internal audit and risk to consider which of these risks 
might threaten the Group’s viability. The assessment of these risks included modelling them in severe but plausible scenarios 
taking account of: 
 X varying impacts of specific risks across business units or market sectors as appropriate 
 X any potential risk interdependencies 
 X the risk mitigation measures currently in place 
The analysis of the principal risks has been weighted towards downside risk and a sensitivity analysis has been used to stress 
test the risk events most likely to negatively impact the company. Specific scenarios have been tested and include: 
 X a further fall in oil prices, increasing pressure on customer spending and impacting prospects for future projects 
 X project delivery failure resulting in delayed payments, settlement payments, reputational damage and reduced future work 
 X risk of cost overruns on lump sum contracts 
 X a substantive ethics breach and/or non-compliance with laws or regulation which could result in reputational damage, 
fines, litigation and claims for compensation 
 X a serious environmental incident causing third party damage and/or injury and reputational damage  22
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Sustainability
Sustainable development is shaping our business 
every day. It is at the heart of our values.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Y ear ended 31 October
2015
CO2e 
emissions in 
tonnes
2014
CO2e 
emissions in 
tonnes
Combustion of fuel and operation  
of facilities 838,073 24,355
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 
purchased for own use 59,682 35,434
Per employee 22.83 2.17
Per £1m revenue* 164.57 15.74
*
*Based on AMEC revenue only for 2014.
The figures show scope one and two emissions from our global 
business where we have operational control. 
The 12-month period to 30 September (the carbon reporting 
year), rather than the calendar year, has been used. 
This ensures actual data can be reported, even for those 
regions where energy/fuel usage is more difficult to access. 
By reducing reliance on estimation, a more accurate footprint 
can be provided in a timely manner.
We have use accepted methods of calculation based on 
the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (revised edition). We have used national 
conversion factor guidelines (eg Environmental Protection 
Agency, Environment Canada) where appropriate. 
Our 2015 footprint is markedly different from previous year 
due to the inclusion of emissions from two power generation 
facilities which came as part of the Foster Wheeler acquisition. 
Our 2014 data represents the AMEC business only. The 2015 
footprint represents the Amec Foster Wheeler business (with 
Foster Wheeler data being incorporated into the carbon report 
from 1 January 2015).
Our approach to sustainable business
Our growth aspirations will only be achieved by focusing 
on our customers and how we deliver our projects safely 
and sustainably.
In 2015 we developed and launched our sustainability strategy 
for Amec Foster Wheeler – Resilient World, where natural 
resources are cleaner and more efficient, and we work in 
partnership with others to respond to changing demands for 
a stable and secure supply of natural resources. Our strategy 
focuses on the opportunities to work with others to help solve 
these challenges, as well as manage our risks, to deliver value 
to Amec Foster Wheeler and its customers. Our strategy 
focuses on three key areas:
People
Investing for tomorrow by developing a diverse, inclusive and 
talented workforce which exhibits our values and behaviours 
to drive sustainability.
Growth in demand drives the competition for skills and 
expertise within the industry that we need to deliver a resilient 
world. We will resource for a diverse and inclusive workforce, 
introducing new people (both experienced and new entrants) 
to the resource pools in order to create a business with genuine 
diversity of thought.
Innovation
Delivering innovative technologies, solutions and services 
that add business value for our customers whilst minimising 
environmental impacts.
We will drive long-term growth for Amec Foster Wheeler by 
developing and encouraging a growing portfolio of innovative 
environmental technologies, solutions and services which add 
value to our customers and our business.
Delivery
Being a trusted partner by embedding a consistent 
sustainability standard across our projects.
Our customers demand high standards, and sustainability is a 
fundamental part of this. We will ensure a consistent approach to 
inherently embedding sustainability into the core of our projects, 
and implement a value-add sustainability framework to be used 
for those clients with advanced sustainability objectives.
We want to ensure that sustainability is integrated into the very 
core of our business and within our decision-making processes. 
We want to be acknowledged as a leader in sustainable 
business practice, continually validating our social licence 
to operate by ensuring employees’ behaviours and actions are 
in line with our values. Further details on our approach and our 
strategy can be found on our dedicated sustainability site at 
www.amecfw.com/sustainability
Additionally we: 
 X developed and launched our Resilient World 
sustainability strategy 
 X launched an online interactive sustainability report  
on our new sustainability website 
 X re-committed to the UN Global Compact principles  
as Amec Foster Wheeler 
 X continue to support SOS Children as our global strategic 
charity – in 2015 we raised just over £140,000 for them, 
reaching 5,568 beneficiaries. We also developed a new 
memorandum of understanding with the International 
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC),  
to support them in designing transitional shelters to be used 
in disaster situations 
 X collated and reported a new carbon footprint baseline for the 
Amec Foster Wheeler business from which future reduction 
targets will be set 
 X became a partner of 100 Resilient Cities (100RC) – pioneered 
by the Rockefeller Foundation to give urban centres across the 
world access to ground-breaking tools allowing them to better 
plan for potentially destructive weather events 
 X convened a working group to address the due diligence 
and operational processes required to address the Modern 
Slavery Act  Strategic report: strategic review
23
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Additional information
Global market trends
With nearly $400bn of projects in the oil & gas 
industry cancelled in the past 12 months, we are  
facing an unprecedented upheaval in our 
largest market.
The fundamentals for energy consumption 
and infrastructure investment remain positive 
in the long term. 
In the short term we will need to continue 
to adapt to customers’ needs. 
Our asset-light business model and mix of end 
markets and services has provided us with some 
protection from commodity market volatility.
Short‑ term challenges
At the time of writing, in early 2016, the oil price has fallen to 
$40, and has recently been below $30. At this price research 
shows that more than 10% of current production cannot cover 
its operating costs. 
We have also seen hundreds of new projects cancelled or 
deferred as our clients cut costs and capital commitments.
Despite this, the global oil market remains over-supplied and 
stocks have continued to grow.
This situation looks set to continue for a while yet – with 
forecasts for the market to re-balance in 2017 at the earliest.
During 2016 we also expect to see Iran begin exporting more 
oil as international sanctions are lifted. Estimates vary from 
250,000 to 500,000 extra barrels of oil entering the market 
during the first few months. While this may increase the 
over-supply of oil in the short term, the opening up of Iran 
is also an opportunity for us. In September 2015 we joined a 
British government delegation in T ehran to meet with potential 
Iranian customers. 
Long‑ term outlook
Despite the current weakness, long-term forecasts for global 
energy demand and supply have not changed significantly over 
the past year. The International Energy Agency (IEA) World 
Energy Outlook 2015 predicts a 37% increase by 2040. 
Long-term oil demand is expected to increase more than 20% 
from just over 90 to 110 million barrels of oil per day by 2035.
Changing hydrocarbon production mix
A change from today’s production mix is still expected, with 
crude oil falling and a greater share being taken by natural gas 
liquids and unconventional sources. 
In recent years the rapid increase in tight oil production – 
mainly from the oil sands in Canada and shale oil in the US – 
together with huge investments in liquefied natural gas projects 
has changed the nature of the energy market, and created 
regional trade imbalances. 
In 2005 the US imported more than 12 million barrels of oil per 
day, and it is now forecast to be self-sufficient during the 2030s. 
Over the same period, China is expected to import more than 
13 million barrels per day, and to become the largest importer.
Changing energy mix
Concerns around resource depletion, dangerous emissions, 
stricter regulation and consumer preference are driving 
renewable forms of energy, including nuclear, to increase their 
share of total energy production. Amongst fossil fuels, gas is 
expected to grow its share, with oil and coal reducing.
The nuclear industry remains a fragmented market with 
a consequence that our opportunities vary significantly. 
We expect to see new build in the UK, Eastern Europe and in 
some countries in Asia; reactor life extensions in the UK, Europe 
and North America; and decommissioning work in the UK, 
Europe and North America. Overall, the IEA forecasts nuclear 
will be used to generate around 12% of electricity in 2035, 
slightly above today’s level. 
Emissions controls and the need for greater efficiency are also 
driving change. T oday, many renewable technologies benefit 
from local and regional subsidies, which is currently supporting 
their growth. 
World leaders gathered in Paris at the end of 2015 to agree 
on a pact to cut carbon emissions. We remain well placed to 
benefit from these developments – with our increased exposure 
to gas and LNG since the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, and 
our long-standing market positions in renewable and nuclear 
energy markets.
Strong resource fundamentals remain
More than 1.5bn people in emerging markets are expected to 
become urbanised in the period to 2035, a key underlying driver 
of long-term growth for the mining industry. 
However, lower commodity prices and general economic 
uncertainty have caused the postponement or cancellation 
of some projects in the near term. 
In addition, a number of major mining companies have 
announced delays to projects and cost reduction programmes.
Energy mix
% 
 Oil & Gas 
 Coal 
 Renewable 
 Nuclear 
 Hydro 
 Other 
Source: BP energy outlook 2016 summary tables
57
3
4
Oil price 
At year end
$ per barrel 
Source: Factset,  
Brent (USD/barrel)
57.33
2014
36.61
2015
110.80
2013
111.11
2012
107.38
2011
28
7 1 24
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Our markets
W e provide similar services in each of our markets.
W e win work through strong customer 
relationships and our proven ability to deliver 
projects successfully.
Many of our services are transferable 
across markets.
We have benefited from our ability to operate across many 
markets – focusing our efforts on retaining a diverse, adaptable 
and scalable business model. 
We have also shifted resources between markets – for instance 
offsetting the weakness in upstream with significant growth in 
downstream oil & gas. 
In the UK we have transferred some senior project management 
staff from the oil & gas market into nuclear – allowing us to 
expand our role on a nine-year contract with EDF. 
In the US we have created a combined project delivery team 
– which can work across the oil and gas and clean energy 
markets to ensure we execute to the highest standards possible 
every time.
Business review
In November 2015 we announced a review of our market 
positions. Our aim is to identify a path to improved performance, 
or to sell businesses if this is not likely. We are making good 
progress on this plan, and expect to update shareholders later 
in 2016.
Competitive environment
There is no one competitor operating in all the same markets, 
with the same geographic footprint and with a similar approach 
to risk as Amec Foster Wheeler.
Oil & Gas
We do not operate in early cycle exploration or drilling, but we 
are involved in every part of the project delivery phase across 
the oil & gas value chain. 
In the upstream market, the majority of our activity is for 
offshore assets, where we support fixed platforms and floating 
production units, largely above the waterline. 
We are a market leader in UK North Sea brownfield services 
and provide integrated solutions to new entrant operators 
in the region. 
We also support onshore oil & gas fields, booster stations, 
gathering centres, tank farms, gas-oil separation plants 
and pipelines. 
 
Recent advances in the extraction of gas reserves in onshore 
locations around the world have made gas monetisation one 
of the fastest growing sectors in the global oil & gas industry, 
where we hope to build on our extensive experience.
In the downstream market we work on new-builds and major 
expansions and revamps, including clean fuels projects to 
meet new legislation and residue upgrading to produce 
higher-value products. 
We have more than 60 years of experience in the chemicals 
industry, encompassing plants producing olefins, aromatics, 
fertilizers and a wide range of specialty and fine chemicals.
In the downstream/petrochemical markets, we provide a full 
service EPC offering.
W e operate in more than 55 countries, 
focusing on four markets:
X Oil & Gas
X Clean Energy
X Mining
X Environment & Infrastructure
2015 revenue by end market
% 
 Oil & Gas 
 Mining  
 Clean Energy 
 Environment & Infrastructure
54
27
7
12
Oil & Gas revenue
% 
 Upstream 
 Midstream 
 Downstream
4
48
48 Strategic report: strategic review
25
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Additional information
Clean Energy
In renewables, our focus is on delivering projects for our 
customers, most of which are local utilities. We provide a full 
service EPC solution on wind, solar, biomass and biofuels 
projects. This is mostly in North America, however we also plan 
to expand our positions in the Middle East. 
Over the past three years we have seen strong growth in the 
US for solar power, spurred on by subsidies which have recently 
been extended to at least 2019. 
Our nuclear capability has been developed over 60 years, 
positioning us to support the full lifecycle of nuclear energy, 
from new-build and reactor support (including lifetime extension) 
to nuclear decommissioning and waste management. We have 
experience of a wide range of nuclear technology. 
Our nuclear customers include major utilities, governments, 
national regulators, reactor suppliers and other significant 
stakeholders. We have a particularly strong presence in the  
UK and Canada, a growing business in the US, a good presence 
in Central and Eastern Europe and South Africa, and nascent 
propositions in Asia.
We also have a long-standing relationship in the UK and 
a growing presence in Canada with the transmission and 
distribution system owners. 
We offer a full range of steam generator equipment, clean 
air technologies, aftermarket products and services to the 
power, industrial, and waste-to-energy sectors. In addition 
to engineering and procurement, we offer fabrication facilities 
located in Europe and Asia to deliver our products.
Our experience comes from designing, servicing and improving 
fossil generating plants that come from over 200 million hours 
of successfully and reliably logged operation. 
Mining 
We support our customers’ projects in a diverse range of 
commodities, including potash, iron ore, copper and gold. 
We offer mining consultancy (including ore resource estimation, 
mine planning and feasibility studies), design, project and 
construction management services and have whole-life service 
capabilities. 
We are a leading international consultancy, with a leading 
position in the North and South American EPCM markets. 
In addition to our established position in Australia, we are 
growing our African business.
Environment & Infrastructure (E&I)
The environmental consulting and engineering market includes 
services provided to all four of our markets, with skills that are 
easily transferable across customers.
By positioning ourselves as a trusted partner right at the 
beginning of a project – often the early site development and 
permitting stage – we can deliver comprehensive solutions 
across the lifecycle of our customers’ assets.
We are currently operating predominantly in the US, Canada 
and the UK, with an emerging presence in the Middle East, 
Africa and Australasia. 
Our E&I market alone consists of four sectors: 
Water
Our primary areas of focus are water resource management, 
water policy, coastal management, asset planning and 
management, and wastewater collection and treatment. 
Water services are also commonly provided to customers  
in our other markets, including mining and oil & gas. 
T ransportation/Infrastructure 
We provide programme management, planning and design, 
project and construction management, asset development  
and long-term asset support. Our customers include 
government transportation agencies, national and local 
customers and private developers in Canada and the US.  
We have over 50 years’ experience in the sector. 
Government
We provide a broad range of services to various clients, 
including the US Federal Government, which is the largest 
procurer of environmental services in the world. Customers 
also include various branches of the military and state/
provincial agencies. Services range from remediation 
programmes to design and delivery of infrastructure facilities, 
including airfield facilities, housing and site improvements 
at installations globally. 
Industrial/Pharmaceutical
We provide compliance and due diligence services, ranging 
from geotechnical and environmental to materials and water 
resources consulting. 26
Florida’s springs and rivers have tremendous 
ecological value. Our work with the St Johns River 
Water Management District to investigate and 
evaluate the health of 14 different spring systems 
in North and Central Florida, supports the 
shaping of a safe, sustainable future for the area.
The scientific diving taking place on the 
project requires high levels of skill, focus and 
determination. Ensuring we have the right people 
in place to take on complex projects like these,  
is key to the success of our business. 
Our evaluation of the eco‑ system will help create data‑ driven solutions to protect 
the Florida Springs, through 
collecting aquatic flora and 
fauna and measuring water 
velocity. Strategic report: strategic review
27
Financials Governance Additional information
through 
customer 
insight
Connected
excellence through 
talented 
people 28
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial review
Reported under IFRS
£m unless stated 2015 2014 Change
Continuing operations
Revenue 5,455 3,993 +37%
(Loss)/profit before net 
financing expense (205) 148 −
(Loss)/profit before tax (235) 155 −
Cash flow from operations 220 200 +10%
Diluted earnings per share (66.1)p 35.1p −
Dividend per share 29.0p
1
43.3p -33%
1  Includes the proposed final dividend for 2015 of 14.2p per ordinary share.
Adjusted measures 
£m unless stated 2015 2014 Change
Underlying 
change
7
 
Continuing operations
Revenue 5,455 3,993 +37% -7%
T rading profit
1
374 321 -19%
T rading margin
2
6.9% 8.0% -110bps
Adjusted profit 
before tax
3
334 317 +5%
T rading cash flow
4
388 283 +37%
Cash conversion
5
104% 88%
Adjusted diluted 
earnings per share
6
67.7p 79.5p -15%
1  T rading profit represents profit before net financing expense before the 
amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, asbestos-related costs 
(net of insurance recoveries) and exceptional items, but including the 
Group’s share of the trading profit of joint ventures.
2  T rading margin represents trading profit expressed as a percentage 
of revenue.
3  Adjusted profit before tax represents profit before tax before 
exceptional items, the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, 
asbestos-related costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), 
and the Group’s share of tax on the results of joint ventures.
4  T rading cash flow represents cash generated from operations before 
cash flows arising from exceptional items, asbestos-related payments 
(net of insurance recoveries), the difference between retirement benefit 
contributions and the current service cost, legacy settlements and 
discontinued operations, and currency translation differences on working 
capital, but including dividends received from joint ventures.
5  Cash conversion represents trading cash flow expressed as a percentage 
of trading profit.
6  Adjusted diluted earnings per share represents profit for the year from 
continuing operations before exceptional items, the amortisation and 
impairment of intangible assets, asbestos-related costs and interest 
expense (net of insurance recoveries), and the tax effect of those items, 
divided by the diluted number of ordinary shares.
7  Underlying change excludes the effect of flow-through procurement, 
acquisitions and disposals of businesses and currency exchange 
rate movements.
Ian McHoul
Chief Financial Officer and Interim CEO Strategic report: performance review
29
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Additional information
Basis of preparation
Accounting policies
The Group’s consolidated financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRS as adopted for use in the EU and those parts of 
the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS. From the Group’s perspective, there are 
no differences between IFRS as adopted for use in the EU and 
IFRS as issued by the IASB. 
The Group’s principal accounting policies during 2015 were 
unchanged compared with 2014. 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
As outlined in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, 
management considers that the most significant areas of 
judgement and estimation made in preparing the consolidated 
financial statements arise in relation to the accounting for 
long-term contracts, business combinations, defined benefit 
pensions and other retirement benefits, the estimation of 
liabilities in respect of uncertain tax positions, and provisions 
(including asbestos-related liabilities), and in assessing the 
recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets.
Restatement
On 13 November 2014 (the acquisition date), the Group 
acquired 95.3% of the issued share capital of Foster Wheeler 
AG. Due to the relatively short period of time between the 
acquisition date and 31 December 2014, management had 
not finalised its assessment of the fair values of certain of 
Foster Wheeler’s assets and liabilities at the time that the 2014 
financial statements were completed, and as a result, the 2014 
financial statements reflected the provisional assessment of 
the fair values as at the acquisition date.
During 2015, management has completed the fair value 
assessment and the comparative amounts shown in the 
Balance Sheet, Statement of Comprehensive Income, 
Statement of Changes in Equity and Cash Flow Statement have 
been restated to reflect changes made to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities recognised on the acquisition of Foster 
Wheeler, details of which are set out in note 24.
As the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG in November 2014 
represented more than 90% of Foster Wheeler’s issued share 
capital, the acquisition qualifies for merger relief under section 
612 of the Companies Act 2006 from crediting the share 
premium that arose on the new shares issued in consideration 
for Foster Wheeler to a share premium account. The balance 
sheet as at 31 December 2014 has been restated to present the 
excess of the nominal value of the shares issued of £877m  
as a merger reserve.
Adjusted performance measures
We report adjusted performance measures because they 
provide both management and investors with useful additional 
information about the underlying trading performance of 
the business.
The adjusted performance measures that we reported 
excluded the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 
and exceptional items and, where relevant, the tax effects of 
those items.
Adjusted performance measures used by the Group are 
explained and reconciled to the equivalent IFRS measures in 
the section entitled Performance measures on pages 172 to 174.
Continuing operations
Revenue
Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, revenue for 
the period at £5,455m was 37% higher than last year 
(2014: £3,993m). Following its acquisition in November 2014, 
Foster Wheeler contributed £274m to the Group’s revenue 
in 2014.
Revenue increased by £462m in the Americas, by £199m 
in NECIS and £534m in AMEASE, and in addition there was 
a full year’s revenue in the Global Power Group of £364m 
(2014: £53m).
On a pro-forma basis and excluding the effect of currency 
movements and bolt-on acquisitions, underlying revenue 
decreased by 7%. Underlying revenue from E&I was up 14% 
underpinned by growth in US government work and clean 
energy was up 2%, but oil & gas was down 8% with mining 
and GPG down 24% and 20% respectively. 
Scope revenue at £5,176m was 6% lower than last year 
(2014: £5,493m). This includes scope revenue of £2,577m  
in the Americas, £1,448m for NECIS and £884m for AMEASE.
Seasonality
The Group’s revenue is generally higher in the second half of 
the year, principally because weather conditions in the northern 
hemisphere are typically more conducive to project activity. 
Administrative expenses
Administrative expenses were £872m (2014: £354m), including 
exceptional items, intangibles amortisation and impairment and 
asbestos-related costs (net of insurance recoveries) of £538m 
(2014: £135m). 
Administrative expenses before intangibles amortisation 
and impairment, exceptional items and asbestos-related items 
increased by £115m following the Foster Wheeler acquisition, 
the impact of which was partly offset by the impact of cost 
savings achieved to date.
Corporate costs, which comprise the costs of operating central 
corporate functions and certain regional overheads, were £23m 
higher at £54m (2014: £31m) reflecting the enlarged group.
(Loss)/profit before net financing expense
There was a loss before net financing expense of £205m 
(2014: profit of £148m) as the profit generated by Foster 
Wheeler has been offset by an impairment charge of 
£308m in the Global Power Group business and higher 
intangible amortisation resulting from the intangible assets 
recognised on the acquisitions of Foster Wheeler and Scopus 
in 2014. 30
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
T rading profit and trading margin
£m unless stated 2015 2014 Change 
Underlying 
change
Revenue
1
5,455 3,993 +37% -7%
(Loss)/profit before 
net financing 
expense (205) 148
–  Amortis ation and 
impairment of 
intangibles 444 49
–  Net asbestos-
related (income)/
costs (13) 8
–  Exceptional items 108 94
–  Share of trading 
profit of joint 
ventures 40 22
T rading profit
1
 374 321 +17% -20%
T rading margin
1
6.9% 8.0% -110bps -100bps
Order book £6.6bn £6.3bn +5%
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 172 to 174).
T rading profit increased by 17% to £374m (2014: £321m). 
T rading margin decreased by 110 basis points to 6.9% 
(2014: 8.0%). 
On a proforma basis and excluding the effect of currency 
movements and bolt on acquisitions, trading profit was £83m 
lower than 2014 with reductions in the Americas and NECIS 
were partly offset by growth in AMEASE. Within the Americas, 
trading profit fell by 36% on an underlying basis, as a result 
of pricing pressure in the oil & gas market and trading margin 
was down by 350 basis points compared with 2014, due to 
an increased proportion of EPC in our scope, particularly in 
downstream oil & gas and clean energy. 
Within NECIS, trading profit decreased by 5% but trading 
margin was 9.0%, up 100 basis points compared with 2014, 
with less procurement, favourable contract settlements and 
cost savings initiatives boosting the margin. 
In AMEASE trading profit rose by 18%, reflecting higher 
contributions from oil & gas and E&I. T rading margin was 6.5%,  
up 130 basis points compared with 2014, due to the early benefits 
of cost saving initiatives and favourable contract settlements.
Financial review continued
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets
Intangible assets principally comprise goodwill and identifiable 
intangible assets that were recognised in relation to acquired 
businesses. Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to an 
annual impairment test. 
The results of the Global Power Group for 2015 and forecasts 
for 2016 and beyond are well down on earlier expectations 
giving rise to an impairment in goodwill of £308m. In addition, 
there has been a £7m impairment to the order backlog 
intangible asset arising on the Foster Wheeler acquisition. 
No impairments were recognised in 2014. 
Intangibles amortisation was £129m (2014: £49m) reflecting 
the full-year amortisation of intangible assets recognised on the 
acquisitions of Foster Wheeler and Scopus completed in 2014.
Exceptional and asbestos-related items
Net exceptional and asbestos-related costs totalling £115m 
(2014: £107m) were recognised in arriving at profit before 
tax from continuing operations, as follows:
 X costs of £97m relating to the integration of Foster Wheeler 
and AMEC (including internal staff costs associated with 
identifying and achieving cost synergies) 
 X a £5m loss incurred following an unauthorised payment  
made from the Australian business and not expected  
to be recovered 
 X £13m amortisation of facility fees associated with the 
acquisition of Foster Wheeler
 X During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group 
recognised net asbestos-related income of £6m (2014: 
costs of £9m) in profit before net financing expense, which 
related to the movement in the discount rate applied to the 
net asbestos-related liabilities assumed on the acquisition of 
Foster Wheeler of £5m and experiential gains of £9m as the 
liability is reassessed on an annual basis. In addition, there 
was an asbestos-related interest expense of £7m related to 
the unwinding of the discount applied to the liability and costs 
of £1m associated with managing the liability Strategic report: performance review
31
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Additional information
Net financing expense 
The net financing expense was £58m (2014: £5m). Of this, 
expenses of £20m (2014: £5m) have been presented separately 
on the income statement relating to £13m amortisation of the 
facility fees associated with the Foster Wheeler acquisition 
and £7m (2014: £1m) due to the unwinding of the discount 
on asbestos-related liabilities (net of insurance recoveries).
Of the remaining £38m there was bank interest payable of £31m 
(2014: £7m), net foreign exchange losses of £1m (2014: £nil), 
and a net interest expense on pension assets and liabilities 
of £2m (2014: income of £1m) and other costs classified 
as financing of £4m (2014: £1m). 
A net currency exchange loss of £3m (2014: £4m) was 
recognised in the translation reserve in respect of foreign 
currency borrowings and derivatives held in designated 
net investment hedging relationships.
Share of results of joint ventures
The Group’s share of joint ventures’ profit for the year was  
£28m (2014: £12m).
(Loss)/profit before tax 
Loss before tax was £235m (2014: profit of £155m) 
after intangibles amortisation and impairment of £444m 
(2014: £49m), exceptional and asbestos-related items of 
£115m (2014: £107m) and the Group’s share of joint ventures’ 
tax expense of £10m (2014: £6m). 
Adjusted profit before tax was 5% higher at £334m 
(2014: £317m).
T axation
Our tax policy is to manage our obligations in compliance 
with all relevant tax laws, disclosure requirements and 
regulations. We seek to ensure that our approach to tax and 
the tax payments that we make in all territories in which we 
have operations are fully consistent with local requirements, 
taking into account available tax incentives and allowances, 
and are aligned with the group’s wider business strategy. 
We seek to develop good, open working relationships with tax 
authorities and to engage with them proactively, recognising 
that tax legislation can be complex and may be subject to 
differing interpretations.
The group’s effective tax rate on continuing operations 
(including its share of joint ventures’ income tax expense 
but before exceptional items, intangibles amortisation and 
impairment and asbestos-related items) reduced to 22.0% 
(2014: 23.0%). 
We expect the effective tax rate to remain below 25%.
During 2015, there was a tax credit on exceptional items of 
£18m (2014: tax credit of £6m), and a tax credit of £27m on 
intangibles amortisation and impairment (2014: £12m).
The group’s share of joint ventures’ income tax expense was 
£10m (2014: £6m).
(Loss)/profit for the year from continuing operations
The loss for the year from continuing operations was £253m 
(2014: profit of £106m) after intangibles amortisation and 
impairment of £444m (2014: £49m), the net asbestos-related 
income of £6m (2014: expense of £9m), net exceptional items 
of £121m (2014: £98m), and an income tax credit on those 
items of £45m (2014: charge of £18m).
Adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations was 
7% higher at £261m (2014: £244m).
Non-controlling interests
During 2015, there was a loss of £1m attributable 
to non-controlling interests (2014: loss of £3m). 
Earnings per share
The diluted loss per share was (67 .2)p (2014: EPS 26.5p), 
comprising a loss per share of (66.1)p (2014: EPS 35.1p) from 
continuing operations and a loss of (1.1)p (2014: 8.6p) from 
discontinued operations.
Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations was 67 .7p 
(2014: 79.5p), the reduction being due to the decline in the 
profit for the year from continuing operations and the increase 
in the number of shares in issue as a consequence of the 
acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
Dividend
The Board recommends a final dividend of 14.2p per share, 
which, together with the interim dividend of 14.8p per share, 
results in a total dividend of 29.0p per share (2014: 43.3p), 
a reduction of 33%. Subject to approval by shareholders at 
the AGM on 27 April 2016, the final dividend will be payable 
on 4 July 2016 to shareholders on the register at the close 
of business on 27 May 2016.
Dividend cover for 2015 is 2.3 times (2014: 1.8 times) based 
on adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations. 
As announced in November 2015, it is the current intention of 
the board that ordinary dividends in 2016 will be approximately 
half that declared in 2014, with approximately one-third paid at 
the interim, and two-thirds as a final dividend. 32
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial review continued
Northern Europe and CIS (NECIS)
£m unless stated 2015 2014 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 1,492 1,705 -12% -13%
Profit before net 
financing expense 60
–  Int angible s 
amortisation and 
impairment 41
– Exceptional items 13
–  Share of trading 
profit of joint 
ventures 20
T rading profit
1
134 137 -2% -5%
T rading margin
1
9.0% 8.0% +100bps
Order book £2.4bn £2.3bn +4%
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 172 to 174). 
Revenue in NECIS fell by 12% to £1,492m (2014: £1,705m), 
primarily due to a downturn in oil & gas project activity. 
Excluding the effect of bolt-on acquisitions and currency 
movements, underlying revenue was also down 13%.
T rading profit decreased by 2% to £134m (2014: £137m). 
T rading margin was 9.0%, up 100 basis points compared 
with 2014. Less procurement, favourable contract settlements 
and cost savings initiatives boosting the margin.
Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe (AMEASE)
£m unless stated 2015 2014 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 1,050 1,031 +2% +2%
Profit before net 
financing expense 13
–  Int angible s 
amortisation and 
impairment 23
– Exceptional items 28
–  Share of trading 
profit of joint 
ventures 4
T rading profit
1
68 53 +27% +18%
T rading margin
1
6.5% 5.2% +130bps
Order book £1.8bn £1.6bn +6%
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 172 to 174). 
Revenue in AMEASE was up 2% year on year at £1,050m 
(2014: £1,031m), driven by an increase in US government work 
and reduction in mining work. Excluding the effect of bolt-on 
acquisitions and currency movements, underlying revenue 
was up 2%.
T rading profit rose by 27% to £68m (2014: £53m), reflecting 
higher contributions from oil & gas and E&I. T rading margin 
was 6.5%, up 130 basis points compared with 2014, due to 
the early benefits of cost saving initiatives and favourable 
contract settlements.
Results by operating segment  
(presented on a pro forma basis)
Americas
£m unless stated 2015 2014 Change 
Underlying
 change
1
Revenue 2,646 2,705 -2% -3%
Profit before net 
financing expense 94
–  Int angible s 
amortisation and 
impairment 46
– Exceptional items 22
–  Share of trading 
profit of joint 
ventures (1)
T rading profit
1
 161 258 -38% -36%
T rading margin
1
6.1% 9.6% -350bps
Order book £2.0bn £2.0bn –
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 172 to 174). 
Revenue in Americas was £2,646m (2014: £2,705m), a 
decrease of 2%. Excluding the effect of bolt-on acquisitions 
and currency movements, underlying revenue was down 3%. 
Growth in underlying revenue in the downstream oil & gas, 
clean energy and E&I, was offset by declines in upstream  
oil & gas and mining.
T rading profit fell by 38% to £161m (2014: £258m), as a result 
of pricing pressure in the oil & gas market. T rading margin was 
6.1%, down by 350 basis points compared with 2014, due to 
an increased proportion of EPC in our scope, particularly 
in downstream oil & gas and clean energy.  Strategic report: performance review
33
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Additional information
Discontinued operations included a profit on disposals of 
£1m (2014: loss £23m) arising from movements in indemnity 
provisions and costs associated with businesses sold in prior 
years. In 2014, the loss on disposals included a provision of 
£11m in respect of a new claim received in the year related to 
a contract completed by the built environment business which 
was sold in 2007 .
Discontinued operations generated an overall loss for the year 
of £4m (2014: £27m). 
Acquisitions
There were no acquisitions during 2015.
Acquisition of Foster Wheeler in 2014
On 13 November 2014, the Group acquired a 95.3% interest in 
Foster Wheeler AG by way of a public tender offer. Consideration 
payable for the interest acquired totalled £1,915m, of which 
£979m was settled in cash, £919m was settled by the issue 
of approximately 85m of the Company’s ordinary shares and 
£17m was settled by the grant of replacement share options 
and awards.
During 2015, management completed its assessment of the net 
identifiable assets of Foster Wheeler as at the acquisition date. 
This resulted in the recognition of goodwill of £1,726m on the 
acquisition of Foster Wheeler. 
In January 2015, the Group acquired the remaining 4.7% 
interest in Foster Wheeler AG by way of a ‘squeeze-out merger’ 
under Swiss law for consideration of £85m, of which £51m was 
paid in cash and £34m was settled by the issue of 4.3m of the 
Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs.
Further details of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler are set out 
in note 24 to the accompanying financial information.
Liquidity and capital resources
T rading cash flow
T rading cash flow of £388m was £105m higher than last year 
(2014: £283m), principally due to the increase in trading profit 
following the acquisition.
Cash conversion was 104% (2014: 88%).
Cash generated from operations
Cash generated from operations was £220m (2014: £200m), 
a increase of £20m which was largely with the £105m 
increase in trading cash flow partly offset by an increase 
of £41m in the cash outflow on exceptional items (principally 
integration-related costs). 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment  
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets were £36m (2014: £31m). Additionally, in 2014, 
purchases of computer software amounting to £33m were 
financed using deferred payment arrangements.
Global Power Group
£m unless stated 2015 2014 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 364 454 -20% -20%
Profit before net 
financing expense (302)
– Intangibles 
amortisation and 
impairment 334
– Exceptional items 4
– Share of trading 
profit of joint 
ventures 15
T rading profit
1
51 69 -26% -31%
T rading margin
1
14.0% 15.2% -120bps
Order book £0.4bn £0.4bn –
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 172 to 174). 
Revenues in GPG fell by 20% to £364m (2014: £454m), 
primarily driven by a decline in project activity. On an underlying 
basis, revenue was also down 20%.
T rading profit fell by 26% to £51m (2014: £69m). T rading margin 
was 14.0%, down 120 basis points, driven by pricing pressure 
in weak market conditions and lower resource utilisation, and 
reflecting the non-recurrence of £20m one-off income from 
a license settlement in 2014.
Investment Services
During the periods under review, Investment Services 
principally comprised the Incheon Bridge PPP project in Korea 
and the Lancashire Waste project (which the group exited 
in 2014), the Group’s insurance captive, the Group’s wind 
development activities and a range of other non-core activities. 
Revenue in Investment Services was £15m (2014: £6m). 
Investment Services made a profit before net financing expense 
of £10m (2014: loss of £16m), after deducting an exceptional 
loss on disposal of businesses of £2m (2014: £21m). T rading 
profit was £14m (2014: £9m) of which £2m (2014: £3m) was 
derived from joint ventures.
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations represent the residual assets and 
retained obligations of businesses sold in prior years, together 
with the UK conventional power business that was classified 
as a discontinued operation during 2013. 
Discontinued operations generated a trading loss before 
tax of £6m (2014: loss of £10m) and after a tax credit of 
£1m (2014: £2m) generated a loss for the year of £5m 
(2014: loss of £8m). During 2014, negative revenue of £13m 
was recognised due to the settlement of final accounts and 
additional provisions on certain contracts within the UK 
conventional power business. 34
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Net debt comprised:
As at 31 December
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 307 377
Cash deposits 33 118
Cash deposits >3m 23 21
Financial derivatives 14 −
Bank loans (net of facility fees) (1,264) (1,258)
Finance lease obligations (59) (61)
Net debt (946) (803)
Cash balances
We manage our cash balances such that there is no 
significant concentration of risk in any one bank or other 
financial institution. We monitor closely the credit quality 
of the institutions that hold the Group’s deposits. Similar 
consideration is given to the Group’s portfolio of derivative 
financial instruments. 
As at 31 December 2015, the Group had cash balances totalling 
£363m (2014: £516m), of which 63% was held in institutions 
with a long term credit rating of at least A- (or equivalent) 
by at least two of Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s or Fitch.
Borrowings
Borrowing facilities 
We seek to maintain a balanced capital structure comprising a 
mix of debt and equity, which is determined by considering the 
Group’s business profile and strategy, financial policies and the 
availability and cost of funding. We target the Group’s long-term 
net debt to be no more than two times trading profit.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group had committed banking 
facilities of £1,768m (2013: £1,863m).
In February 2014, the Group entered into a US$2,160m 
credit facility agreement with a syndicate of lenders. In July 
2014, the facility agreement was amended to, among other 
things, increase the financing available under the facility to 
US$2,260m. As at 31 December 2015, the facilities available 
under the agreement were as follows:
 X Facility B, a US$830m bridge facility maturing August 2016 
(with a six-month extension available at the Group’s option 
 X Facility C, a US$830m term loan maturing in equal 
instalments in 2017 , 2018 and 2019
 X Facility D, a US$350m revolving credit facility maturing 
May 2016
Financial review continued
Acquisitions and disposals
During 2015 there was a cash outflow of £5m in respect of 
deferred consideration arrangements on prior year acquisitions. 
There was a cash outflow of £54m from the acquisition of the 
non-controlling interests in Foster Wheeler and Kromav, this is 
presented within financing activities in the cash flow statement.
During 2014, consideration paid on the acquisition of 
businesses was £1,049m, which comprised £982m for Foster 
Wheeler (including a currency hedging loss of £3m) and 
£67m for Scopus. The net cash outflow on acquisitions was 
£781m, after deducting cash and cash equivalents of £268m 
(2014: £nil) held by the acquired businesses.
Movement in net (debt)/cash
The movement in net (debt)/cash may be analysed as follows: 
Y ear ended 31 December
2015
£m
2014
£m
T rading cash flow 388 283
Write off of finance arrangement fees (12) –
Net asbestos-related payments (22) (5)
Excess of retirement benefit contributions 
over current service cost (3) (2)
Cash outflow on exceptional items (72) (58)
Legacy settlements and  
discontinued operations (36) (9)
Dividends received from joint ventures (42) (14)
Exchange rate movements 19 5
Cash generated from operations 220 200
Income taxes paid (net) (79) (54)
Interest paid (net) (35) (3)
Capital expenditure (net of disposals) (36) (31)
Acquisitions and disposals (net) (51) (876)
Ordinary dividends (167) (124)
Net share movements 10 6
Dividends received from joint ventures 42 14
Exchange and other movements 33 (7)
Cash movement in net debt (63) (875)
Non-cash movements (80) (49)
Movement in net debt (143) (924)
Opening net debt (803) 121
Closing net debt (946) (803) Strategic report: performance review
35
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Additional information
Facilities B and C were for the purpose of financing the 
acquisition of Foster Wheeler, including the payment of all 
fees, costs and expenses associated with the acquisition and 
the repayment of the Group’s £100m 12-month term loan 
that matured in April 2014. Facility D is available for general 
corporate purposes but may not be used for the same purposes 
as Facilities B and C. Facility D is currently utilised only for 
providing bank guarantees. We also have a five-year £377m 
multi-currency revolving credit facility that matures in July 2017 . 
On 1 March 2016 the Group entered into a new syndicated 
facility comprising of three tranches; a three-year £650m 
term loan, a five-year £650m term loan and a five-year £400m 
revolving credit facility. This new facility replaces the company’s 
existing £377m revolving credit facility and the Foster Wheeler 
acquisition facility of $2,260m.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group had committed borrowing 
headroom of £442m (in addition to cash, cash equivalents and 
bank deposits of £363m):
Facility 
£m
Drawings 
£m
Headroom 
£m
Credit facility agreement
– Facility B 563 563 0
– Facility C 563 563 0
– Facility D 237 62 175
Revolving credit facility 377 110 267
Project debt 26 26 –
Other 2 2 –
Finance leases 59 59 –
Committed facilities 1,827 1,385 442
Interest rate profile
The majority of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in US 
dollars and bear interest at floating rates. 
Our policy is to maintain between 30% and 70% of the Group’s 
borrowings at fixed rates of interest. We achieve this by using 
interest rate swaps and other interest rate derivatives. As at 
31 December 2015, only 28% of the Group’s borrowings were 
effectively at fixed interest rates due to the ongoing refinancing 
activity in 2015. This will be reviewed in Q1 2016 following the 
completion of the refinancing. 
As at 31 December 2015, the weighted average effective cost of 
the Group’s outstanding borrowings was 3.4% and the effective 
interest maturity was 11 months.
Borrowing covenants
We are subject to customary covenants, representations 
and warranties in relation to our borrowing facilities. Our debt 
financing facility contains certain financial covenants as defined 
in the facility agreement including: 
 X the ratio of consolidated net total borrowings to adjusted 
consolidated EBITDA must not exceed 3.25 times EBITDA 
 X the ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated net finance 
costs must not be less than 3.0 times 
We satisfied these financial covenants by a comfortable margin 
for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Currency profile of debt
We aim to maintain the currency of the Group’s debt in 
proportion to the currencies in which the net assets of 
the Group’s businesses are denominated. We achieve the 
desired currency profile of the Group’s debt by borrowing 
in the relevant currency and also by entering into currency 
derivative contracts. 
As at 31 December 2015, the effect of our hedging activity 
on the currency profile of the Group’s debt was as follows: 
Debt before 
hedges 
£m
Effect of 
hedges 
£m
Debt after 
hedges 
£m
Currency:
– Sterling 137 23 160
– US dollar 1,160 (448) 712
– Euro 26 207 233
– Canadian dollar 0 218 218
1,323 0 1,323
Other assets and liabilities
Goodwill and other intangibles
As at 31 December 2015, the carrying amount of goodwill was 
£2,192m (2014: £2,516m), with the reduction during the year 
principally an impairment of £308m recognised against the 
goodwill attributable to the Global Power Group business.  
See note 12 for further details.
As at 31 December 2015, the carrying amount of other 
intangibles was £833m (2014: £927m), which comprised 
acquired identifiable intangible assets of £753m (2014: 
£849m) and computer software of £80m (2014: £78m). 
There was an impairment charge of £7m recognised against 
the order back log intangible asset arising as part of the 
Foster Wheeler acquisition.
Amortisation of £129m (2014: £49m) reflects a full year’s 
amortisation of the intangible assets arising on the Foster 
Wheeler and Scopus acquisitions, both in 2014.
Research and development
Our engineering, project management and consultancy 
businesses seek to develop advanced engineering solutions 
for our customers targeted towards the achievement of new 
or improved functions and performance of their assets. Our 
businesses are involved in front-end and detailed engineering 
design and implementation and testing activities across a broad 
range of markets including the Oil & Gas, Mining, and Clean 
Energy sectors.
GPG also conducts research and development activities 
in the areas of combustion; solid, fluid and gas dynamics; 
heat transfer; materials; and solid mechanics. GPG licenses 
its technology to a limited number of third parties in select 
countries or markets.
In the UK, the US and Canada, the Group claims research and 
development government credits. Research and development 
expenditure net of amounts recoverable from customers and 
government credits claimed is not material to the Group’s 
operating results. 36
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Property, plant and equipment
As at 31 December 2015, property, plant and equipment 
amounted to £127m (2014: £150m), with a reduction of £23m 
during the year due as the additions of £16m were more than 
offset by depreciation of £26m and other smaller movements. 
We hold the majority of the properties through which the Group 
operates under operating leases which are for varying periods 
and on differing terms. The Group has a network of over 350 
offices worldwide, which range from regional hubs, with a 
headcount of between 1,000 and 2,500 employees, to smaller 
offices with more local focus. It is expected that the number 
of properties that are occupied by the Group will be reduced 
following the integration of Foster Wheeler’s businesses.
Due to the geographical spread of the Group’s operations, 
there is no individual facility the loss of which would have a 
material adverse impact on the Group’s operations. Equally, 
there are no plans to construct, expand or improve facilities 
that would, on completion or cancellation, significantly affect 
the group’s operations.
Post-retirement benefits
The Group has a number of defined benefit pension plans in 
a number of countries. There are three principal plans: two in 
the UK and one in the US. Each of these plans is closed to new 
entrants and the two legacy Foster Wheeler plans are also closed 
to future service accruals. Following an employee consultation 
exercise at the end of 2015, the Company has now confirmed 
its intention to close its UK Staff and Executive Defined Benefit 
pension schemes to future accrual from 1 April 2016 and 
replace them with a new Defined Contribution arrangement. 
Subject to gaining the necessary T rustee approvals, all legacy 
Defined Contribution plans in the UK will be merged into the 
new arrangement by 30 June 2016. As at 31 December 2015, 
there was a net surplus of £63m on the Group’s defined benefit 
pension plans (2014: deficit of £86m) principally due to actuarial 
gains in the defined benefit liability. During 2015, the Group 
contributed £36m (2014: £32m) to defined benefit pension 
plans and expects to contribute £36m in 2016, including special 
contributions of £6m.
Further information on the Group’s retirement benefit plans is 
provided in note 14 to the accompanying financial information.
Provisions
Provisions held at 31 December 2015 amounted to £664m 
(2014: £756m), with the substantial reduction during the year 
arising principally due to the utilisation of brought forward 
provisions of £64m. Otherwise, additional provisions of £33m 
were created and unutilised provisions amounting to £38m 
were released during 2015. In addition, there was an exchange 
movement of £22m on the opening balances.
Provisions may be summarised as follows:
As at 31 December
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Asbestos-related litigation 378 400
Legal claims and actions 154 217
Obligations relating to disposed 
businesses 78 86
Property-related provisions 19 19
Other provisions 35 34
664 756
Asbestos-related obligations
The Group is subject to claims by individuals who allege that 
they have suffered personal injury from exposure to asbestos 
primarily in connection with equipment allegedly manufactured 
by certain of their subsidiaries during the 1970s or earlier. 
As at 31 December 2015, the Group recognised:
 X an asbestos-related provision of £414m (after the effect of 
discounting of £74m), which included estimates of indemnity 
amounts and defence costs for open and yet to be asserted 
claims expected to be incurred in each year in the period 
to 2050 
 X insurance recoveries of £118m (after discounting of £4m) 
Management expects that there will be a net cash outflow 
of £22m during 2016 due to the excess of forecast indemnity 
payments and defence costs over insurance proceeds.
Details of the provisions held by the group are set out in note 21 
to the accompanying financial information. 
Non-controlling interests
As at 31 December 2015, non-controlling interests in equity 
amounted to £9m (2014: £22m), with the reduction during the 
year being principally due to the acquisition via a squeeze out 
merger, of the 4.7% non-controlling interest in Foster Wheeler 
AG that existed when the Group took control of Foster Wheeler 
in November 2015 and was subsequently acquired by the Group 
in January 2016.
Distributable reserves
As at 31 December 2015, the Company’s distributable reserves 
stood at £564m (2014: £726m).
£m
As at 31 December 2014 726
Dividends paid during 2015 (167)
Dividends received from subsidiaries 100
Impairment charges (14)
Integration costs (30)
Other costs (51)
As at 31 December 2015 564
In total there was a write down of £351m against the investments 
in subsidiary undertakings. Of this, £337m was charged against 
the merger reserve, and so has no impact on distributable 
profits, and £14m against the profit and loss account reserve.
During 2012, the Company generated a significant profit from a 
Group restructuring which becomes distributable as qualifying 
consideration is received by the Company in settlement of the 
associated loan. There were no repayments of this loan during 
2015 or 2014.
Financial review continued Strategic report: performance review
37
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Additional information
Contractual obligations 
As at 31 December 2015, the Group’s contractual obligations were as follows:
Earliest period in which payment due
T otal 
£m
Less than 
one year 
£m
Between one 
and two years 
£m
Between two 
and five years 
£m
After more 
than five years 
£m
Bank and other loans
– Principal 1,264 679 192 386 7
– Interest
1
47 16 15 16 –
Derivative financial instruments
1, 2
25 21 1 3 –
Finance leases 59 4 18 24 13
Operating leases 385 86 80 144 75
Post-retirement benefits
3
36 36 – – –
T otal
4
 1,816 842 306 573 95
1  Floating rate interest payments and payments on the floating rate legs of interest rate derivatives are estimated based on market interest rates as at 
31 December 2015.
2 Payments on foreign currency derivatives are estimated based on market exchange rates as at 31 December 2015.
3  Post-employment benefit obligations represent contributions to which the Group is committed and are not subject to potential future adjustment to reflect 
investment performance and other actuarial factors.
4  Future payments relating to the Group’s uncertain tax positions are not included because it is not practicable to estimate reliably the timing of these 
cash outflows.
Off‑ balance sheet arrangements
At 31 December 2015, the Group had no off-balance sheet 
arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a 
current or future effect on the Group’s financial condition, 
revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital 
expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. 
Details of the Group’s operating lease commitments are 
set out in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Outlook for 2016
2016 is expected to be another year of challenging market 
conditions across upstream Oil & Gas and Mining. However, our 
exposure to a number of end markets, including downstream 
Oil & Gas, renewables and government work means we expect 
to see only a slight fall in like-for-like revenue, and a reduction in 
trading margins significantly less than the decline in 2015.
Going concern
Based on internal forecasts and projections that take into 
account reasonably possible changes in the Group’s trading 
performance, the directors consider that the Company and 
the group have adequate financial resources to continue in 
operation. Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the Company’s and the 
group’s financial statements. 
We outline on pages 18 to 21 the principal risks and 
uncertainties that may affect the Group’s results, cash flows 
and financial position.
Directors’ approval statement
The strategic report, as set out on pages 1 to 37 , has been 
reviewed and approved by our board of directors.
Ian McHoul 
Chief Financial Officer and interim CEO
10 March 2016 38
The proposed nuclear power 
station at Moorside in 
Cumbria will supply 3.4GW 
of electricity – 7% of the 
UK’s requirements – when  
it begins operating in 2024.
Connected
excellence
thr ough sharing 
skills acr o s s  
our mark et s Strategic report: performance review
39
Financials Governance Additional information
Our Analytical Services Laboratories are some of 
the largest in the UK, carrying out radiochemical 
analysis for a wide range of clients.
In 2015 our E&I division announced two separate 
contracts with Nugeneration Ltd (NuGen) on its 
Moorside project in W est Cumbria. 
E&I has engaged specialist radiological protection 
support and commissioned radiochemistry work 
from our clean energy colleagues during the 
course of the project, collaborating effectively 
across the business to deliver the best results 
for the client. 40
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Good corporate governance helps to underpin 
long-term effective company performance. 
Y our board is responsible for the governance 
structure at Amec F oster Wheeler and is 
committed to delivering the highest standards 
for the benefit of all of the Group’s stakeholders.
Dear shareholder,
The objective of this report is to set out what we believe to be 
essential to ensure that our strong governance frameworks are 
applied throughout your Company. This section of the report 
specifically examines the details of the work of your board over 
the past 12 months and the processes we implemented.
I mentioned in my letter last year that we support current best 
practice for boards to engage an external specialist to review 
their activity every three years. Following the 2014 engagement 
of Lintstock to assist us in this, I am pleased to report that, 
during 2015, every director had in-depth assessment interviews 
with one of their external facilitators.
In September 2014, the UK Financial Reporting Council issued 
a revised version of the UK Corporate Governance Code and we 
are reporting against this framework for the first time in respect 
of our 2015 financial year. Designed to strengthen our focus 
on and enhance the quality of information around long-term 
health, strategy and sustained value creation, the revised code 
includes significant changes including the introduction of a 
viability statement and a requirement for the board to report 
on the effectiveness of risk management in your Company.
2015 is also the first year when your Company needed to be 
compliant with provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002 on management’s assessment of internal control over 
financial reporting, which we successfully achieved, on target, 
by 31 December 2015. This process has added additional 
requirements to your board’s committee activities.
In my Chairman’s report on page 6, I outline the board changes 
which have occurred since the start of 2015. Ian McHoul was 
appointed interim CEO on 17 January 2016 following Samir 
Brikho stepping down as Chief Executive. The search for a new 
CEO, with which Korn Ferry has been appointed to assist us, 
is progressing well and an announcement will be made in due 
course once a decision has been reached.
Since my last report, Simon Thompson retired from the 
board and Neil Carson took on the roles of Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
Roy Franklin joined the board on 1 January 2016.
Chairman’s governance overview
In addition to filing an annual report in the UK, we are required 
to also file our annual report in the US on Form 20-F, which 
complies with the reporting requirements of the New Y ork Stock 
Exchange, US securities laws and the rules of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission applicable to foreign private issuers. We 
have produced for the second time a combined annual report 
and annual report on Form 20-F to ensure consistency in the 
information provided to our UK and US investors. 
In the UK, the UK Corporate Governance Code* (the Code) 
is the standard against which we are required to measure our 
corporate governance practices and provides the framework 
for our governance report. In the opinion of the directors, 
your Company has complied with the provisions of the 
September 2014 edition of the Code in respect of the year 
ended 31 December 2015. The governance report examines 
how we have applied these provisions. As required by the SEC, 
a summary outlining the significant differences between the 
Company’s corporate governance practices as a UK listed 
company and those followed by US companies can be found 
on page 191. 
In 2016 the board will continue to apply the highest standards 
of governance to assure your Company achieves optimal 
performance in these very challenging markets.
John Connolly
Chairman
10 March 2016
*Printed copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code can be obtained from 
www.frcpublications.com 41
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Leadership and effectiveness
Our board of directors
Our board members are selected to ensure and 
maintain an effective balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the areas in 
which Amec F oster Wheeler operates and in the 
duties and responsibilities associated with being 
a director of a listed company.
John Connolly
Chairman of the board, Chairman of the nominations committee  
and a member of the remuneration committee
A chartered accountant, John spent his career until May 2011 with global 
professional services firm Deloitte. John joined the firm in 1980, serving 
in various roles of increasing responsibility. During his time at Deloitte, he 
held a wide range of senior leadership positions in the United Kingdom and 
internationally. He was Global Chairman between 2007 and 2011 and Global 
Managing Director from 2003 to 2007 . He was Senior Partner and CEO of the 
UK Partnership from 1999 until his retirement from the Partnership in 2011.
John is chairman of G4S plc and also of a number of private companies. 
Beyond commercial business roles, John is Chairman of the Board of T rustees 
of Great Ormond Street Hospital Charity and a member of the CBI President’s 
Advisory Council.
T erm of office
John was appointed as non-executive Chairman on 1 June 2011 and was 
considered to be independent on appointment in accordance with the 
requirements of the Code.
His term of office was extended in March 2015 for a second three-year term 
to the date of the 2018 AGM. 42
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Our board of directors continued
Linda Adamany
Non-executive Director, Chairman 
of the health, safety, security, 
environmental and ethics (HSSEE) 
committee and a member of the 
audit, remuneration and nominations 
committees
Linda has over 40 years’ business 
experience, with 27 in the 
international energy sector. Between 
1980 and 2007 Linda held a number 
of executive positions at BP plc in 
the UK and US. During that time, 
she held various executive roles in 
refining and marketing, exploration 
and production and petrochemicals, 
including Chief Executive of BP 
Shipping and Group Vice President 
and Commercial Director, BP 
Refining & Marketing.
In March 2013, Linda was appointed 
a non-executive director of Coeur 
Mining, Inc., a US-based publicly 
quoted primary silver producer, 
where she serves as chairman of the 
audit committee and is a member 
of the environmental, health, 
safety and social responsibility 
committee. In March 2014, Linda was 
appointed to the board of directors 
of Leucadia National Corporation, 
a US-based, NYSE-listed, diversified 
holding company engaged through 
its consolidated subsidiaries in 
a variety of businesses, where 
she is a member of the audit and 
the nominating and corporate 
governance committees. From 2006 
to 2012, prior to joining Amec Foster 
Wheeler, Linda was a non-executive 
director of National Grid plc and a 
member of their audit, nominations 
and safety, environment and health 
committees. Linda is a qualified 
accountant (CPA) with a BSc in 
Business Administration from 
John Carroll University, Ohio, and 
has also undertaken post-graduate, 
non-degree executive programmes 
at Harvard, Cambridge and 
T singhua universities.
T erm of office
Linda was appointed a non-executive 
director on 1 October 2012. 
In January 2016, her term of office 
was extended for a second three-year 
term to the date of the 2019 AGM.
Neil Carson
Senior Independent Director, 
Chairman of the remuneration 
committee and a member of 
the audit and health, safety, 
security, environmental and ethics 
(HSSEE) committees
Neil was Chief Executive of Johnson 
Matthey Plc, the FTSE 100 speciality 
chemical company, from 2004 to 
June 2014 and stepped down as a 
member of the board in September 
2014. He joined the company in 1980 
after completing an engineering 
degree and held a number of senior 
management positions in both the 
UK and US, including Managing 
Director of Catalysts & Chemicals 
from 1999 to 2004 and Division 
Director of Catalytic Systems from 
1997 to 1999.
In July 2014, Neil became a 
non-executive director of PayPoint 
plc, where he also serves as 
chairman of the remuneration 
committee and senior independent 
director. In May 2015, Neil joined 
the board of TT Electronics plc as 
Chairman. He is currently Honorary 
President of the Society for Chemical 
Industry (SCI) and co-chair of the 
Chemistry Growth Partnership, 
which is working with the 
government to stimulate growth in 
the industry in the United Kingdom. 
Neil was previously a founding 
member of the Prince of Wales’ 
Corporate Leaders Group on Climate 
Change. Neil received an engineering 
degree from Lanchester Polytechnic 
(now Coventry University) and has 
been awarded an Honorary Doctor of 
Business Administration from Anglia 
Ruskin University.
T erm of office
Neil was appointed a non-executive 
director on 31 August 2010. His term 
of office was extended in February 
2014 for a second three-year term 
to the date of the 2017 AGM.
Colin Day
Non-executive Director, Chairman  
of the audit committee and a 
member of the remuneration and 
nominations committees
Colin has more than 25 years of 
experience of blue chip companies 
including Aegis Group Plc, ABB 
Group, De La Rue Group Plc and 
British Gas. Colin was appointed 
Chief Executive Officer of Essentra 
plc (formerly Filtrona plc) on 
1 April 2011, prior to which he was 
Chief Financial Officer of Reckitt 
Benckiser Group plc from 2000 to 
2011. Between 1995 and 2000, he 
served as Group Finance Director 
of Aegis Group plc. He spent six 
years in a number of divisional 
finance director positions with ABB 
Group and served as Group Finance 
Director of ABB Kent Instrumentation 
and ABB Kent plc from 1988 to 
1994. Colin started his career in 1973 
as a trainee accountant at Kodak. 
He is a Fellow of the Association of 
Chartered Certified Accountants and 
holds an MBA from Cranfield School 
of Management, UK.
Colin has been a director of 
FM Global since January 2014 and 
was appointed as a non-executive 
director and chairman of the audit 
committee of Meggit plc on 1 
October 2015. He was previously a 
non-executive director of WPP plc 
from 2005 to June 2015. Colin was 
appointed to the FRC Audit Advisory 
Group on 3 July 2014.
T erm of office
Colin was appointed a non-executive 
director on 14 October 2010. His term 
of office was extended in February 
2014 for a second three-year term 
to the date of the 2017 AGM.
Ian McHoul
Chief Financial Officer and interim CEO
Ian qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant with KPMG in 1984. 
His early career was spent in the 
brewing industry. Between 1985 and 
1995 he held various positions with 
the Foster’s Brewing Group, including 
General Manager, Strategy. He was 
Finance & Strategy Director of the 
Inntrepreneur Pub Company Limited 
from 1995 to 1998 and then served at 
Scottish & Newcastle plc from 1998 
to 2008, first as Finance Director 
of Scottish Courage and later as 
Group Finance Director of Scottish 
& Newcastle plc. Ian holds a BSc in 
Mathematics from the University 
of Bristol.
T erm of office
Ian was appointed interim CEO on 
17 January 2016 and Chief Financial 
Officer on 8 September 2008 and 
has no fixed term of office. His 
service contract is terminable on six 
and twelve months’ notice by him 
and the Company respectively.
External appointments
Ian has been a non-executive director 
of Britvic plc since March 2014 and 
was a non-executive director of 
Premier Foods plc from July 2004 
to April 2013. 43
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
We will continue to seek to 
build upon and complement 
the board’s existing skills 
set, including a focus on 
increased diversity, whether 
this is through gender, 
race, nationality or general 
background. The review of the 
effectiveness of the board in 
2014 identified the need for 
additional expertise in oil & 
gas markets and this led to 
Roy Franklin’s appointment 
at the beginning of 2016.
Independence of non-executive 
directors
The board considers that, with 
the exception of Kent Masters, 
whose previous employment by 
Foster Wheeler precludes him from 
meeting the required independence 
criteria, the non-executive 
directors are independent and 
free from any relationships or 
circumstances that could affect 
their independent judgement.
Stephanie Newby
Non-executive Director, member 
of the audit and health, safety, 
security, environmental and ethics 
(HSSEE) committees
Stephanie is the Chief Executive 
Officer of Crimson Hexagon, a big 
data social analytics company. Prior 
to Crimson Hexagon she founded 
Golden Seeds in 2004, an investment 
company that provides investment 
capital to early-stage, high-growth 
companies. Previously, she spent 
20 years working in the financial 
services industry in Sydney, London 
and New Y ork, with the majority of 
her career spent with J.P . Morgan, 
where she headed several global 
businesses serving as Global Head 
of Futures and Options, Head of 
International Private Banking, Chief 
Operating Officer of Global Equities 
and Head of eCommerce.
Appointed in 2004, Stephanie 
was a member of the Foster Wheeler 
AG board until the completion of 
the acquisition by AMEC, serving 
on the audit and governance and 
nominating committees. She also 
previously served as a non-executive 
director and member of the audit and 
compensation and HR committees  
of RiskMetrics Group, Inc.
T erm of office
Stephanie was appointed a non-
executive director on 13 November 
2014 for an initial term of three years, 
which will end at the 2018 AGM.
Roy A Franklin
Non-executive Director and member 
of the nominations committee
Roy has more than 40 years’ 
experience as an executive in the 
oil & gas industry. He spent 18 years 
at BP , latterly as Head of M&A, 
BP Exploration, after which he was 
Group MD of Clyde Petroleum and 
then CEO of Paladin Resources until 
its acquisition by T alisman Energy 
in 2005. Since then Roy has served 
on a number of international energy 
boards in non-executive roles.
Roy is currently chairman of Keller 
Group plc, deputy chairman of Statoil 
ASA and a non-executive director 
of Santos Ltd. He is also currently 
chairman of privately-owned 
Cuadrilla Resources Holdings Ltd, 
and a member of the advisory board 
of Kerogen Capital LLC.
T erm of office
Roy was appointed a non-executive 
director on 1 January 2016 for an 
initial term of three years, which will 
end at the 2019 AGM. 
In accordance with the Company’s 
articles of association, Roy will retire 
from office at the forthcoming AGM 
and offer himself for election.
Kent Masters
Non-executive Director and 
member of the health, safety, 
security, environmental and ethics 
committee (HSSEE)
Kent was the Chief Executive Officer 
of Foster Wheeler AG from 2011 until 
the completion of the acquisition 
by AMEC in November 2014. Prior 
to joining Foster Wheeler, he served 
as a member of the Executive Board 
of Linde AG, a world leading gases 
and engineering company, from 
2006 to 2011. At Linde, Kent had 
responsibility for the Americas, 
Africa, the South Pacific, the global 
business unit Healthcare, and 
the business area Merchant and 
Packaged Gases. He was employed 
by BOC Group plc from 1984 until the 
acquisition of BOC by Linde in 2006. 
Kent served in roles of increasing 
responsibility at BOC, including 
as Chief Executive, Industrial and 
Special Products, from 2005 to 
2006, and as President, Process Gas 
Solutions-Americas from 2002 to 
2005. He also served on the board of 
directors of BOC from 2005 to 2006.
Kent served as the non-executive 
chairman of African Oxygen Limited 
from 2005 to 2011. Kent joined the 
board of Albemarle in January 2015 
following its acquisition of Rockwood 
Holdings, Inc. where he had served 
as a director since 2007 . Kent is 
a member of the compensation 
committee at Albemarle and served 
on the audit and compensation 
committees at Rockwood.
T erm of office
Kent was appointed a non-executive 
director on 13 February 2015 for an 
initial term of three years, which will 
end at the 2018 AGM.  44
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Amec F oster Wheeler governance structure
Board
The board has ownership  
of the global policies
Behaviours, vision, values,
Code of Business Conduct, global policies
Local jurisdictional 
policies and procedures
Global 
mandatory procedures
Board committees
Support the board in its work with specific review and oversight
Group Leadership T eam
Responsible for implementation of the global policies
Business unit leaders Functional leaders
Chief Financial Officer
Chief Executive
Primarily responsible for running 
Amec Foster Wheeler’s businesses 
with the objective of creating 
shareholder value
Business unit teams Functional teams
Management committees and groups
Deal generally with more operational matters
Share allotment Pensions and 
retirement benefits
Risk HSSE review
Corporate transactions Disclosure Tender review Group project review
Audit
Provides independent 
scrutiny of the Company’s 
financial and non-financial 
performance, risks and 
audit functions
Nominations
Identifies and makes 
recommendations 
concerning the 
composition of the board 
and that of its committees
Health, Safety, Security, 
Environmental and Ethics
Assists in upholding our 
core value of integrity and 
maintaining our HSSEE 
commitments for a safe and 
secure working environment
Remuneration
Aims to attract and retain 
good management and to 
incentivise them to create 
shareholder value 45
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The board is collectively responsible for delivering sustainable 
long-term shareholder value in line with its obligations to and 
the expectations of the Group’s stakeholders. 
The board is responsible for setting the Company’s strategic 
aims and providing the leadership and resources to achieve its 
objectives. The board’s role is to be distinguished from overall 
operational management, which is the responsibility of the 
Chief Executive who, in turn, delegates authorities to the Chief 
Financial Officer, business unit and functional leaders. They 
have in turn further delegated authorities to their teams.
In order to ensure it retains appropriate overall control 
of the Group, a number of key matters are not delegated 
to management and as such the board maintains a schedule 
of matters reserved for its approval. These include: 
 X annual strategic and short-range plans
 X financial and treasury policies
 X risk identification, risk appetite, risk management  
and internal control systems
 X high-value potentially high-risk projects
 X major acquisitions and disposals
 X Code of Business Conduct
 X full and half-year accounts
 X dividend policy
 X succession planning for directors and senior executives
 X group-wide policy framework 
 X ensuring the effectiveness of governance practices 
 X appointment and removal of the Company Secretary 
This schedule is reviewed for continued acceptability on an 
annual basis. In March 2015, the schedule was reviewed and 
a number of changes were made to take account of various 
matters including the UK Corporate Governance Code and the 
Company’s new operating model. In July 2015, a further change 
was made to include a requirement for board approval of high 
value, potentially high risk projects.
High quality corporate governance helps to underpin 
long-term company performance and the board is responsible 
for maintaining strong governance practices and regularly 
reviewing the Company’s governance structure as illustrated 
on page 44.
During the year, to take account of Amec Foster Wheeler’s new 
values and expected working behaviours, the board launched 
new versions of fundamental documents in the Company’s 
governance framework including a new Code of Business 
Conduct. The Code of Business Conduct is the cornerstone of 
the Company’s approach to governance and is applicable to all 
employees, including the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer 
and other senior financial professionals. The Code of Business 
Conduct is the responsibility of and is upheld by the board; 
it acts as a guide for our day-to-day working life, providing 
a practical application of Amec Foster Wheeler’s values and 
ensuring all those who work for and under Amec Foster 
Wheeler’s direction understand the behaviour that is expected 
of them. The Code of Business Conduct, which is available to 
employees in 14 different languages, complies with relevant UK 
and US regulations and is available on the Company’s website 
at amecfw.com/ethics 
A global policies document works in conjunction with the Code 
of Business Conduct providing further detail and elaboration 
on matters affecting all of Amec Foster Wheeler’s businesses. 
The global policies document describes the key policies for 
directing and managing the Group’s businesses consistently 
in accordance with our vision and values. These global policies 
are supported by a set of mandatory procedures, which 
further explain how the policies are to be applied. T ogether, 
the global policies and procedures set the framework within 
which business, functional and local policies and procedures 
are set. The board approves the group-wide policy framework. 
On a day-to-day basis, the board has delegated responsibility 
for implementation of the global policies and ownership of the 
procedures to the Group Leadership T eam. The board considers 
the global policies to be part of the risk-based approach 
to corporate governance and the maintenance of sound 
internal controls.
In order to discharge its role, the board is also responsible 
for maintaining sound risk management and internal control 
systems. The board has a rigorous and comprehensive risk 
management approach to protect the Group’s assets and the 
interests of its stakeholders and create an environment for 
business success. The board regularly reviews the effectiveness 
and adequacy of the Group’s financial, operational, compliance 
and risk management systems. 
The board is supported in its work by four board committees 
(nominations, audit, HSSEE and remuneration), chaired by 
either the board Chairman or another non-executive director, 
and a number of management committees and groups, chaired 
by executive directors (or other senior individuals), to which 
specific responsibilities have been delegated. Y ou can find out 
more about the membership, duties, responsibilities and work 
of these committees in the dedicated reports that follow. Full 
written terms of reference for each board committee can also 
be found online at amecfw.com/aboutus/corporate-governance 
The directors believe that the board leads and controls the 
Group effectively and that all directors act in accordance with 
what they consider to be the best interests of the Company, 
consistent with their statutory duties under the Companies 
Act 2006 and other legislation.
Board role and responsibilities 46
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
The balance of executive and non-executive directors provides 
continuity on the board while ensuring no one individual, or 
group of individuals, dominates the decision-making process.
The varied backgrounds and commercial experience of the non-
executive directors, and their independence from management, 
ensures rigorous debate at meetings and constructive 
challenge and oversight of the executive directors in relation 
to the strategic direction and performance of the group. 
As part of the company’s broader diversity initiative, it supports 
the recommendations of the final report in the Davies Review 
series. We are pleased to say that two out of our eight directors 
are female, representing 25% of our board. Candidates for 
board appointments are evaluated on merit in light of the 
requirements of the role, having due regard to the group-wide 
commitment to diversity and inclusion. The board recognises 
the importance of diversity, including but not limited to gender 
balance across the group more generally. In 2015, Amec 
Foster Wheeler’s diversity initiatives have continued to focus 
on implementing its group-wide commitment to achieving a 
more diverse workforce and inclusive working environment, 
including encouraging and enabling greater diversity of thinking. 
During the year a global mandatory procedure on diversity and 
inclusion was introduced to drive associated action plans with 
measurable objectives for monitoring progress. The gender 
diversity of the Company and its senior management is shown 
on page 14. 
As at 31 December 2015, the board comprised the non-executive 
chairman; two executive directors (the Chief Executive and 
the Chief Financial Officer); and five non-executive directors. 
Roy Franklin was appointed as a non-executive director on 
1 January 2016.
The Company announced on 18 January 2016 that Samir 
Brikho had stepped down as Chief Executive. Upon Mr Brikho’s 
departure, Ian McHoul was appointed to the role of interim CEO, 
which he has agreed to fulfil alongside his role as Chief Financial 
Officer until the search for a new CEO is concluded.
 
 
Details of the directors, including their biographies, other 
significant commitments and committee memberships can 
be found on pages 41 to 43. Details of the directors’ service 
contracts, emoluments and share interests are set out in the 
remuneration report on pages 67 to 80.
The Company’s articles of association require all directors 
to seek election by shareholders at the AGM following 
their initial appointment and re-election every three years 
thereafter. However, in line with the recommendations of the 
Code, our practice is that all directors submit themselves for 
re-election on an annual basis. All of the directors wishing to 
continue serving, and considered eligible by the board, will 
offer themselves for re-election at the 2016 AGM. Roy Franklin 
will also seek election at the forthcoming AGM, having been 
appointed on 1 January 2016.
The independence of the non-executive directors is continually 
monitored and formally assessed as part of the board’s 
annual evaluation process. The board considers that, with 
the exception of Kent Masters, whose previous employment 
by Foster Wheeler precludes him from meeting the required 
independence criteria, the non-executive directors are 
independent and free from any relationships or circumstances 
that could affect their independent judgement.
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Board composition
Membership of the board
 Non-executive Chairman 
 Executive director 
 Non-executive director
1
1
6
Experience of the board
 Financial management 
and corporate finance 
 Corporate governance 
 International experience 
 Experience in business sectors 
relevant to Amec Foster Wheeler 
 HSSE 
 Strategy
Number of board directors 
with experience in each topic  
7
8
5
4
8
7
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Directors’ tenure as at 31 December 2015
John Connolly
Samir Brikho
Ian McHoul
Linda Adamany
Neil Carson
Colin Day
Kent Masters
Stephanie Newby
4yrs 7m
9yrs 3m
7yrs 3m
3yrs 3m
5yrs 4m
5yrs 2m
1yr 1m
10m
Gender diversity of the board
% 
 Female 
 Male
75
25 47
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The Chairman and Chief Executive
The Company does not combine the roles of Chairman and 
Chief Executive. There is a clear and well-defined division of 
accountability and responsibility between the roles of the 
Chairman and Chief Executive and these are set out in writing 
and have been agreed by the board. The consequence of this 
clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company is 
such that no individual has unrestricted powers of decision. 
The Chairman and Chief Executive are committed to ensuring 
the development and maintenance of an effective and trusting 
relationship with the appropriate balance between challenge 
and support.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership and 
effectiveness of the board. He is accountable for promoting 
effective board relationships and the participation of all 
board members, so as to encourage a culture of openness 
and debate and enable the board to fulfil all aspects of its 
role. The Chairman has undertaken to ensure that the board 
discharges its duties to promote the success of the Company 
for the benefit of all stakeholders and to guide Amec Foster 
Wheeler’s business and conduct in accordance with the 
highest ethical standards. 
Each year the Chairman produces a board plan intended to 
summarise the board’s activities in executing its duties during 
the year. The plan highlights the priorities the board has 
identified for the year, and those of the Chief Executive, and can 
be modified to take account of any unscheduled developments. 
In chairing and setting the agenda for board meetings, the 
Chairman ensures sufficient time is available for discussion and 
meaningful challenge in areas such as strategy, performance, 
value creation and accountability.
Subject to matters reserved to the board, the Chief Executive 
is responsible for the leadership of Amec Foster Wheeler’s 
businesses with the primary objective of creating shareholder 
value. Consistent with this objective, overall operational 
management is delegated to the Chief Executive who, together 
with the Group Leadership T eam, is responsible for the proposal, 
development and implementation of the Group’s overall 
strategy, driving execution, growing markets and customers 
and developing our people. The building and maintenance of 
an effective executive management team, and the allocation 
of responsibility therein, are key components of and essential 
to the performance of the Chief Executive’s role.
The Chief Executive also takes the lead role in the promotion 
of Amec Foster Wheeler, setting the tone in the realisation of 
the Company’s vision and values and encouraging the highest 
standards of health, safety, security, environmental and 
ethical performance.
Neil Carson has acted as the board’s Senior Independent 
Director since the conclusion of 2015 AGM, following the 
retirement of Simon Thompson. Neil was selected for the 
role on account of his significant knowledge of Amec Foster 
Wheeler and its operations and his experience as a director 
of international companies. Both the nominations committee 
and the board considered that Neil Carson best met the criteria 
required for the role. The Senior Independent Director is 
responsible for: 
 X providing additional support to and acting as a sounding  
board for the Chairman on board-related matters 
 X acting as an additional channel of communication between 
the Chairman and the other directors where necessary 
 X being available to shareholders for concerns they may have 
that have not been resolved through the normal channels 
of the Chairman, Chief Executive or other executive directors, 
or which are not appropriate to raise through these channels 
 X acquiring an objective understanding of the issues and 
concerns of Amec Foster Wheeler’s shareholders through 
attendance at a sufficient number of meetings with the 
company’s major shareholders and financial analysts 
 X at least annually establishing the views of the non-executive 
directors as to the performance of the Chairman 
 X following completion of the above evaluation exercise, 
providing feedback to the Chairman on his performance 
 X overseeing the search for a new Chairman, as required 
Senior Independent Director 48
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
The non-executive directors are crucial in bringing an external 
perspective and wide range of skills, experience, expertise 
and diversity of views to the board’s deliberations and the 
development of strategy. They constructively challenge and 
scrutinise the performance of management against agreed 
objectives and provide an invaluable contribution to the work 
of the board’s committees. In January 2015, the membership 
of each of the board committees was restructured to ensure the 
most effective use of each non-executive director’s time and to 
more appropriately reflect their skills and experience. The board 
benefits greatly from the contribution and balance they bring. 
T o ensure this continues, the Chairman holds meetings with 
the non-executive directors, without the executive directors 
present, immediately following most scheduled board meetings.
The board’s policy is that non-executive director appointments 
are normally for three consecutive three-year terms, subject 
to assessment by the nominations committee after the end 
of each term. The committee makes recommendations on 
reappointments to the board.
T o ensure independence and constructive challenge, prior 
to appointment and on any material changes, the external 
commitments of each non-executive director, including those of 
the Chairman, are reviewed. During the year, Neil Carson joined 
the board of TT Electronics plc as chairman and Colin Day was 
appointed as a non-executive director and chairman of the 
audit committee of Meggitt plc. In accordance with the board’s 
policy to ensure that non-executive directors are not conflicted 
and are able to commit sufficient time to meet their duties 
and responsibilities to Amec Foster Wheeler, the prospective 
appointments were disclosed to the board for approval. In 
neither case was it considered that the external appointment 
would have a detrimental effect. Each director’s undertaking 
as to their ongoing commitment to the role, together with an 
assessment of their continued independence, is reviewed as 
part of their annual performance evaluation.
Amec Foster Wheeler’s non-executive directors are not 
employed by the Company in any capacity. Kent Masters was 
the former Chief Executive Officer of Foster Wheeler AG and 
Stephanie Newby was formerly an independent non-executive 
director of Foster Wheeler AG. 
The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors are 
available for inspection at the Company’s registered office by 
request to the Company Secretary and will be available for 
inspection at the company’s forthcoming AGM.
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Non-executive directors 49
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The board holds a minimum of six regular meetings throughout 
the year, scheduled in accordance with an annual timetable. 
Additional board meetings and telephone conference calls are 
held as required to deal with specific issues. In 2015 there were 
seven scheduled meetings and six unscheduled meetings.
Directors are expected to attend all scheduled board and 
relevant committee meetings, unless they are prevented from 
doing so by unavoidable prior business commitments or other 
valid reasons. All directors are provided with full papers in 
advance of each meeting. Where a director is unable to attend 
a meeting, they are encouraged to discuss any issues arising 
with the Chairman or Chief Executive as appropriate. 
Number of meetings attended
Scheduled Unscheduled
John Connolly
7/7 6/6
Samir Brikho 7/7 5/6
Ian McHoul 7/7 6/6
Linda Adamany 7/7 5/6
Neil Carson 7/7 3/6
Colin Day 7/7 4/6
Kent Masters (from 13 February 2015) 6/6 5/6
Stephanie Newby 7/7 4/6
Simon Thompson (to 14 May 2015) 3/3 1/1
Unscheduled meetings were convened throughout the year 
to consider such matters as trading updates and director 
appointments. As these were not scheduled, members were 
not always able to attend but were provided with full packs 
of information and were invited to make comments.
At least one scheduled meeting each year takes place away 
from Amec Foster Wheeler’s head office in London. This 
provides the board with an opportunity to understand more 
about Amec Foster Wheeler’s business and to meet employees 
based locally. The July 2015 board meeting took place in 
our offices in Houston, T exas, US, where the board met with 
local management and also visited a client project site in the 
Southern US.
The October 2015 board meeting and board strategy 
discussions took place at our offices in Reading, UK, which were 
particularly significant given the challenging market conditions 
facing the sectors in which the Group operates.
In addition to the matters reserved for the board, certain items 
are considered at every scheduled board meeting. The Chief 
Executive provides a report on business performance, strategy 
execution and emerging issues and the Chief Financial Officer 
updates the board on financial results and progress against the 
short-range plan. Reports are also received on investor relations 
and market issues, HR and HSSEE matters. In addition, the 
Chairman and the General Counsel and Company Secretary 
provide an update on legislative, regulatory and governance 
matters and twice yearly the General Counsel and Company 
Secretary provides updates on material claims and disputes.
Business unit management is regularly invited to present at 
board meetings and, led by the Group Presidents, provides 
‘deep dive’ reviews of each business unit. In addition to standing 
items discussed at each meeting, the board considers a 
regular schedule of financial and planning matters including 
the approval of financial results and dividends; special matters 
including the review and approval of strategy; the determination 
of major risks and risk appetite and transaction and competitor 
reviews. The board receives an annual presentation from the 
Group Human Resources Director on senior management 
succession planning and management development. In 
2015, this took place in July and the board was also provided 
with updates on leadership development assurance and on 
performance management. The board has also identified a 
range of topic reviews that are addressed annually and these 
include the strategies followed by the Group’s functions eg 
T ax, T reasury and IT , as well as the board effectiveness and 
composition reviews.
The board also holds a separate additional meeting each year 
to perform a full strategic review of the Group. On account of 
the timing of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the strategy 
event originally scheduled for October 2014 was held in 
April 2015 following completion of the acquisition. The board 
undertook a further review of strategy in October 2015, 
which considered amongst other things what improvements 
could be made to the Group’s activities to better meet client 
requirements in the current challenging market conditions. 
The Company Secretary is fundamental in ensuring the 
efficiency and effectiveness of the board and its committees 
and is responsible for ensuring that the directors have timely 
access to full, accurate and relevant information and whatever 
resources they need to undertake their duties. Agendas and 
supporting papers for board and committee meetings are 
circulated approximately one week prior to the meeting date to 
allow sufficient time for review and enable informed debate and 
challenge at meetings. Monthly interim reports are prepared, 
including a report from the Chief Executive and the business 
unit presidents, and these are circulated to the board if a 
meeting is not scheduled in the month.
Board meetings 50
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Where the directors, particularly non-executive directors, 
require further insight on an issue, the Company Secretary 
will facilitate this from the business or relevant members of the 
senior management team. Members of senior management are 
regularly invited to attend board meetings to present on specific 
projects and issues. The Company Secretary also ensures that 
the correct board procedures are followed from both a legal and 
a regulatory perspective. 
In addition to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary, a formal process exists for the directors to 
obtain independent professional advice, at the Company’s 
expense, where appropriate and necessary to discharge their 
responsibilities. The Company Secretary is responsible for 
the organisation and co-ordination of access to such advice. 
The Company Secretary ensures that a timely and accurate 
record of all meetings of the board and its committees is 
taken and circulated. In addition, the chairman of each board 
committee reports fully to the board following each meeting 
and minutes are made available to the board.
If a director had a concern about the running of the Company 
or a proposed action that could not be resolved, this would be 
recorded in the minutes. In addition, upon resignation, should 
a director have any such outstanding concerns, they would be 
invited to provide the Chairman with a written statement for 
circulation to the board. No such statements were received 
during 2015. 
The board has procedures in place for the disclosure and review 
of conflicts of interest. No material conflicts of interest arose 
in 2015. Prior to appointment, prospective directors provide 
information on any conflicts of interest, and thereafter any 
potential conflicts of interest are considered at the start of 
each board meeting. Accordingly, each director is aware of their 
responsibility to avoid a situation where they have an actual or 
potential conflict of interest, the requirement to keep the same 
under review and inform the Chairman and Company Secretary 
of any change in their situation. An effective procedure is in 
place for the board to authorise conflict situations, should they 
arise, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the 
Company’s articles of association. In other cases the conflict is 
managed by excluding the relevant director from the discussion.
The Company Secretary is responsible for keeping appropriate 
records, including the scope of any authorisations granted by 
the board, and ensures the board undertakes regular reviews 
of conflict authorisations. Such matters are normally recorded 
in the minutes of the relevant meetings.
Executive directors are not permitted to accept external 
appointments without the prior approval of the board. 
The board will review the nature, scope and complexity 
of any proposed external appointments, to ensure they will 
not adversely impact a director’s ability to devote such time 
and energy to their role as is necessary to discharge their 
responsibilities effectively or create any potential conflicts.
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Board meetings continued Conflicts of interest 51
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in the 
co-ordination of director induction upon appointment and 
ongoing training. A comprehensive induction programme 
is in place for all new directors which takes into account their 
previous experience, background and role on the board. 
The programme is tailored accordingly to: 
 X provide an understanding of the duties and responsibilities 
of a director and their particular role 
 X build an understanding of how the board operates within 
Amec Foster Wheeler’s structure 
 X further their knowledge and understanding of Amec Foster 
Wheeler’s culture, its business and operations and the 
markets and countries in which it operates 
 X establish a link with Amec Foster Wheeler’s management 
and people 
 X establish an understanding of the Company’s main 
relationships 
New directors are provided with key board, operational and 
financial information and relevant legislatory and regulatory 
guidance. The programme is designed so as to prioritise and 
vary the delivery of materials to optimise its effectiveness 
and facilitate completion in a timely manner. The programme 
involves a combination of documentation, accessible via 
the portal used by the board to communicate and share 
documents electronically, meetings with other members of 
the board, senior management and their extended teams, key 
external parties including the Company’s advisers and, where 
appropriate, major shareholders, and site visits where possible. 
Where a new director is to serve on a board committee, 
induction material relevant to the committee is also provided. 
Progress against the induction programme is reviewed with the 
director midway throughout the process to ensure a smooth 
transition into director training and ongoing development.
Ongoing training, relevant to each director’s individual 
development needs, continues after appointment. The 
Chairman endeavours to review the training and development 
needs of the directors at least annually. The aim is to ensure 
the further enhancement of their skills and knowledge of the 
business, so that they continue to fulfil their role effectively 
on the board and its committees.
Internally facilitated training is arranged by the Company 
Secretary on topics and issues relevant to the operation of 
the board and the responsibilities of the directors. The board 
receives presentations from management on changes 
and significant developments in the business. Updates 
on changes in legislation and communications from the 
Company Secretary’s office on key developments in corporate 
governance are also provided. In addition, use is made of 
external auditor and adviser training programmes. During 
the year the board received presentations from internal and 
external experts on such matters as health and safety legal 
requirements and changes to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, including risk management, internal control and going 
concern requirements, the new viability statement, executive 
remuneration and relations with shareholders. From time to 
time the directors individually attend seminars and conferences 
related to their areas of expertise and responsibility.
T o further develop the directors’ understanding of the Group’s 
businesses and culture, the board undertakes visits to various 
places of Amec Foster Wheeler business. As previously 
mentioned, during the year the board visited the Group’s 
Houston, US, and Reading, UK, operations.
Professional development  52
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
In line with the recommendations of the Code, each year 
a formal performance evaluation review is undertaken of the 
board, its committees and the directors individually. In 2015,  
the performance evaluation was externally facilitated by 
Lintstock, a third-party service provider. Lintstock have been 
the provider of the Company’s insider list management 
software since 2011 but other than this, and the performance 
evaluation, have not undertaken any other work of any kind for 
the board or the Company.
This year, the review process involved both one-to-one 
interviews and the completion by each director of an in-depth 
survey designed to establish their perceptions in areas such 
as the current composition and expertise of the board; board 
dynamics and the interaction between board members and 
the board and senior management; the board’s management 
of time and the scope of board agendas; the quality of 
both internal and external support to the board including 
information presented at meetings and updates on major 
developments between meetings; and the board’s role in setting 
strategy and strategic oversight. Opinions were also sought 
on the effectiveness of the April 2015 board strategy event 
(which both the board and Group Leadership T eam attended), 
the appropriateness of the board’s risk appetite and approach 
to risk management and internal controls, and succession 
planning and human resource management.
Lintstock’s report on the findings of this survey of board 
effectiveness was tabled for discussion at the board’s 
December 2015 meeting. In summary, the results were very 
positive and engagement and interaction amongst board 
members continue to be very strong.
The size of the board was considered appropriate and, 
with regard to composition, the appointment of Roy Franklin 
as a non-executive director was identified as a valuable addition 
of oil & gas sector experience. The board was seen to have 
appropriate knowledge of the markets in which the company 
operates and a good understanding of shareholders’ and 
stakeholders’ views. There was considered to be good support 
and challenge provided to management. The frequency and 
quality of management presentations were highly rated.
The board was seen to use its time effectively although it was 
suggested that more time might be spent on market dynamics, 
the structure by which clients are supported, major projects, 
technology and succession planning considerations.
The Company’s strategy was considered to be clear with broad 
consensus as to the principal strategic issues and the April 
2015 strategy review day was highly rated.
The risk appetite was considered to be clear and it was felt that 
risk management was a strength and had improved.
A number of areas for improvement were identified and these 
will continue to be addressed over the coming year as part 
of the board plan and include continued focus on succession 
planning, management of human resources, and on the 
strategic objectives of the Group in the context of the market 
dynamics and challenges facing the sector. 
In addition, and as required by the Code, during the year 
the Senior Independent Director, having taken the views 
of the non-executive and the executive directors, reviewed 
the performance of the Chairman. The Senior Independent 
Director met with the Chairman in December 2015 to review his 
performance during 2015. The Chief Executive conducts annual 
performance development reviews with his direct reports.
In 2016, the board performance evaluation review will again 
be externally facilitated by Lintstock.
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Evaluation 53
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The nominations committee is primarily 
focused on evaluating the board of directors 
and on examining the skills, characteristics and 
dynamics that are needed to run an effective 
board.
Dear shareholder,
The Group has undergone transformational changes over 
the past year and, more than ever, the role of the nominations 
committee is a key one.
In 2015, Kent Masters and Roy Franklin were appointed to 
the board, bringing with them valuable oil & gas experience. 
Succession and evolutionary change remain our key priorities, 
taking into account our commitment to diversity and inclusion. 
Y ou will be aware that Ian McHoul was appointed into the role 
of interim CEO following Samir Brikho’s departure. The board 
has mandated Mr McHoul to continue to drive forward the 
Company’s previously stated priorities and he will continue 
to fulfil this dual role until a new CEO is appointed. I am 
leading the succession process on behalf of the nominations 
committee and we will make an announcement as soon as we 
have made a decision.
Y ou can see from the charts on page 46 that we have a strong 
blend of skills, experience and length of service amongst your 
board of directors and I see no reason that this should not be 
maintained as your company rises to the challenges we will 
inevitably face in 2016 and beyond.
John Connolly
Chairman of the nominations committee
10 March 2016
Members
During 2015, the nominations committee comprised the 
Chairman, Linda Adamany and Colin Day. The quorum for 
the committee is two members. There were five committee 
meetings held in the year.
Membership and attendance of the nominations 
committee up to 31 December 2015
Meeting attendance
John Connolly (Chairman) 5/5
Linda Adamany 5/5
Colin Day 4/5
Meetings of the committee are usually called at short notice 
to consider matters as they arise. This means that members 
may not always be available, but they are always fully apprised 
of matters to be discussed and their views sought and taken 
into account. Colin Day was unable to attend one meeting 
called at short notice due to a prior commitment.
At its meeting on 2 December 2015, the board approved minor 
amendments to the terms of reference for the committee. 
These are available to review on amecfw.com
With effect from 1 January 2016, the membership of 
the committee now comprises: John Connolly (Chairman), 
Colin Day, Linda Adamany and Roy Franklin.
Key responsibilities
The committee is mindful of the board’s desire to maintain 
an appropriately diverse and balanced membership, in terms 
of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the 
Group, taking into account the benefits of diversity, so as to 
ensure the delivery of the Group’s strategy and performance. 
The committee regularly reviews the board’s structure, size 
and composition against these criteria and the board selection 
criteria referred to on page 54. 
T ogether with the board, the committee also considers board 
succession planning in conjunction with reports from the Chief 
Executive and Group Human Resources Director on senior 
management succession planning, so as to ensure that an 
appropriate balance of skills is maintained both within the 
senior management team and on the board.
As part of the externally conducted board effectiveness review 
undertaken in 2015, the performance of the committee was 
also evaluated and this was overall rated highly. As an area 
for further improvement, it was suggested that the committee 
ought to periodically review the Business Unit Group President 
succession plans.
Nominations committee  54
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Activities of the committee
Prior to Simon Thompson’s retirement in May 2015, 
the committee considered potential replacements for 
his role as Senior Independent Director and as Chairman 
of the remuneration committee. After careful consideration, 
the committee concluded that Neil Carson best met the 
required criteria and a recommendation was made to the 
board accordingly. 
At the same time, the committee considered the 
reappointment of the Chairman for a second three-year  
term of office, as his first three-year term ended at the 
2015 AGM. His significant experience and his excellent 
chairmanship during a period of significant change resulted 
in a recommendation being made to the board to reappoint 
him for a second three-year term.
The committee also considered and recommended the 
appointment of Linda Adamany as a new member of the 
remuneration committee with effect from 30 April 2015.
In July 2015, the committee reviewed and recommended 
the adoption by the board of amended board selection criteria, 
to be used to identify any gaps in the overall experience and 
knowledge of the board as a whole and to assist appropriately 
in the future board selection process.
In early 2016, the committee considered the reappointment 
of Linda Adamany as a non-executive director for a second 
three-year term of office as her first three-year term will end 
at the 2016 AGM. On the basis of her significant relevant 
international experience and her knowledge of the activities 
of the Group, the committee recommended that she should 
be reappointed for a second three-year term. 
During 2015, the committee commenced a search for a 
new non-executive director to replace Simon Thompson. 
The committee used the executive search firm, The Zygos 
Partnership (Zygos), to assist with the process. After due and 
careful consideration, due to his significant relevant experience, 
particularly in the oil & gas sector, a recommendation was made 
to the board to appoint Roy Franklin as a non-executive director 
with effect from 1 January 2016. Zygos had previously worked 
with the company to assist with the search for a new Chairman 
in 2011 and with the process that led to Linda Adamany’s 
appointment in 2012. Other than this they have not undertaken 
any other work of any kind for the board or the Company.
Following Samir Brikho’s departure on 17 January 2016,  
a key focus for the committee will be to find his successor. 
The Company has appointed the executive search firm, Korn 
Ferry, to assist the Company in its search for a new CEO, which 
will consider both internal and external candidates. A role 
specification has been prepared to assist in distilling a long list 
of candidates against the role requirements. Both internal and 
external candidates will be interviewed by the Chairman and 
Group Human Resources Director and the resulting shortlist 
of candidates will be interviewed by all board members. 
Full details of the process will be disclosed in next year’s 
report. Korn Ferry also assisted the board with an exercise 
to strengthen the senior executive pipeline in 2014 and have, 
from time to time, assisted with searches for other senior 
management roles. Other than this, they have not undertaken 
any other work of any kind for the board or the Company.
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Nominations committee continued 55
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Jonathan Nield
Group Project Delivery Director
Jon was appointed Group Project 
Delivery Director on 13 November 
2014, immediately prior to which 
he served as Vice President, Project 
Risk Management of Foster Wheeler 
– a position he held since May 2011. 
Previously, he was a director of 
Foster Wheeler Energy Limited and 
he has served in various executive 
positions with that company. He 
was a member of the Foster Wheeler 
team for more than 25 years.
Jon has a BSc in Mechanical 
Engineering from Newcastle 
University, an MSc in Project 
Management from Cranfield School 
of Management. He currently serves 
as a director of the Engineering & 
Construction Risk Institute.
Will Serle
Group Human Resources Director
Will was appointed Group Human 
Resources Director on 1 May 2011, 
having previously held the position 
of Human Resources Operations 
Director since 2009. Will is also 
responsible for sustainability at 
Amec Foster Wheeler. He joined 
the Company in 2000 as Human 
Resources Director for the oil & gas 
business, moving to the Natural 
Resources role in 2006.
Will holds a Master’s degree in 
Human Resources from The Robert 
Gordon University and is a Fellow 
of CIPD.
Our Group Leadership T eam
Simon Naylor
Group President, Americas
Simon was appointed Group 
President, Americas in October 
2012. Prior to that Simon had 
been President Natural Resources, 
Americas since 2007 , where he 
led the growth and successful 
development of the Company’s 
leading positions in the core 
market sectors of mining, oil & gas 
and oil sands. In his 23 years with 
the company, Simon has worked 
across the project lifecycle, in 
consulting, engineering and project 
management. A natural resources 
professional, his experience 
includes project development, 
asset support, strategy, customer 
relationship management and 
operations leadership.
Simon has an MBA from Cranfield 
School of Management and a BSc 
from University College London 
in Chemical Engineering.
Roberto Penno
Group President, Asia, Middle 
East, Africa and Southern Europe 
(AMEASE)
Roberto was appointed Group 
President, AMEASE on 1 January 
2015, immediately prior to which he 
was CEO of Foster Wheeler’s Global 
E&C Group – a position he held 
since 2013. Previously he was CEO 
of the Global E&C Group’s Asia-
Pacific Region. A 27-year veteran of 
Foster Wheeler, he has held a variety 
of positions with the Company, 
including managing director of 
global sales, marketing and strategic 
planning; director of commercial 
operations for Foster Wheeler Asia 
Pacific; and other senior roles in 
operating unit management, sales 
and commercial management in 
Europe, Asia and the US.
Roberto has a degree in Mechanical 
Engineering from University 
Politecnico Milan.
Distinct from the executive director (shown on 
page 42), the Group Leadership T eam comprises 
the following senior operational and functional 
management:
Gary Nedelka
Group President, Global Power Group 
(GPG)
Gary was appointed Group 
President, Global Power Group on 
1 January 2015, having served as 
Chief Executive Officer of Foster 
Wheeler’s Global Power Group 
since January 2009. Prior to this, 
he served as President and Chief 
Executive Officer of Foster Wheeler 
North America Corp., an indirect, 
wholly-owned subsidiary within 
the Global Power Group. Previously 
he was President and General 
Manager of operating companies 
in China and he held a variety of 
positions of increasing responsibility 
in commercial operations and 
engineering management. He joined 
Foster Wheeler in 1979 and is a 
member of the American Society 
of Mechanical Engineers.
Gary holds a BSc in Mechanical 
Engineering from Clarkson College 
of T echnology.
Jeff Reilly
Group President, Strategy & 
Business Development
Jeff has 30 years’ industry experience 
and was appointed Group President, 
Strategy & Business Development on 
28 April 2014. He started his career 
with Stone & Webster Engineering 
Corp. as a Chemical Process Design 
Engineer and developed his career 
there and at ABB Lummus Global 
Inc. becoming company Vice 
President at both engineering and 
construction organisations. He joined 
ConocoPhillips in 2005, led upstream 
and downstream major project 
portfolios globally and was ultimately 
appointed Chief Procurement Officer 
(CPO). When Phillips 66 was spun 
off as an independent corporation, 
he led the company’s global projects 
organisation as well as being its 
initial CPO.
Jeff has a BS Chemical Engineering 
from The University of T exas at 
Austin; an MBA in Finance and 
International Business from the 
University of Houston.
John Pearson
Group President, Northern Europe & 
CIS (NECIS)
Before taking the role of Group 
President, Northern Europe & CIS 
on 1 January 2015, John was Group 
President of Europe and, prior to 
that, he was Managing Director of 
the oil & gas business in Europe and 
West Africa. He joined the Company 
in 1990 and has worked in a variety 
of roles in engineering and project 
management. In the past, John has 
led the Company’s oil & gas projects 
and asset support business streams 
globally. Prior to joining the business, 
John worked for Chevron and has 
worked around the world, having 
spent time based in Aberdeen, 
San Francisco, Baku and London. 
John is currently contractor co-chair 
of Oil & Gas UK and sits as a member 
of MER UK, the Fiscal Forum and the 
OGA stakeholder board.
John holds a BSc Honours 
Engineering degree from 
Aberdeen University. 
Alison Y app
General Counsel and 
Company Secretary
Alison was appointed General 
Counsel and Company Secretary 
on 1 December 2012. Immediately 
prior to joining the Company she was 
Company Secretary and General 
Legal Counsel of Hays plc, previous 
to which she was Company Secretary 
and Group Legal Adviser of Charter 
plc. She is a solicitor and has more 
than 20 years’ experience as a senior 
lawyer in industry. She began her 
career in private practice at T urner 
Kenneth Brown, advising corporate 
and commercial clients in M&A 
before moving in-house to Johnson 
Matthey plc where she held various 
senior legal roles. 
Alison holds an LLB (Hons) 
from Bristol University and 
is a qualified solicitor. 56
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
The board has also created a number of 
management committees and groups that deal 
generally with more operational matters.
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Management committees 
Share allotment committee
Members
Any two directors or a director and the General Counsel and Company 
Secretary or the Deputy Company Secretary (the chairman to be appointed 
from those directors present).
Responsibilities
The share allotment committee approves the allotment of new shares or 
the issue of existing shares held in treasury following the exercise of options 
under the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
Risk committee
Members
1
Chief Executive (chairman); Chief Financial Officer; General Counsel 
and Company Secretary; Group Commercial Director; Head of Risk 
Management and Insurance; Group Project Delivery Director.
Responsibilities
The risk committee performs an integral role in the governance of risk 
within Amec Foster Wheeler by providing advice and assistance to the board 
enabling it to fulfil its responsibilities in determining the risk appetite of the 
Group and the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control 
systems that support it. It also reviews the Amec Foster Wheeler plc risk 
register and the potential impact of any issues on the risk appetite and the 
risk profile of the Group. It reports on key risk issues such as new business 
and geographical locations and also makes recommendations on the 
insurance programme for the Group.
Pensions and retirement benefits committee
Members
Chief Financial Officer (chairman); Group Human Resources Director; 
Head of Pensions; General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Responsibilities
The pensions and retirement benefits committee reviews and recommends 
the establishment of any new or replacement pension arrangements, 
any material amendments to existing pension schemes, and the 
discontinuance, winding up or merger of any existing arrangement.  
It also agrees with the trustees of those pension arrangements appropriate 
funding plans to secure the benefits promised.
Group project review meetings 
Attended by: 
Group Leadership T eam, Commercial Director.
Responsibilities
The group project review meetings evaluate project execution and financial 
performance on higher risk, higher value projects that could have a material 
effect on overall group performance.
Disclosure committee 
Members 
Group Financial Controller (chairman); General Counsel and Company 
Secretary; Head of Risk Management and Insurance; Chief Corporate 
Compliance Officer; Head of Internal Audit; Director of T ax and T reasury; 
Group Corporate Affairs Director; Head of Investor Relations.
Responsibilities
The disclosure committee assists the audit committee with regard to 
verifying the information that is required to be disclosed in the company’s 
material public disclosures and in its periodic reports. This is intended 
to ensure such disclosures are in compliance with all relevant laws, rules 
and regulations, including the UK Listing Authority, the London Stock 
Exchange, the New Y ork Stock Exchange and the US Securities and 
Exchange Commission.
Corporate transactions committee
Members
1
Chief Executive (chairman); Chief Financial Officer; General Counsel 
and Company Secretary; Head of Mergers and Acquisitions.
Responsibilities
The corporate transactions committee considers mergers, acquisitions 
and disposals and approves transactions where the consideration or 
assumption of liabilities, as appropriate, is £5m or less, and above this 
level it submits recommendations to the board for approval. In addition 
it determines transaction guidelines that are in line with Group policies 
and procedures.
These are chaired by executive directors or other senior 
individuals and members are drawn from senior management 
within the Group. The minutes of each of these meetings are 
circulated to each board meeting. The terms of reference of all 
these committees have been reviewed and updated following 
the acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
HSSE review committee
Members
Chief Executive (chairman); Group Human Resources Director; General 
Counsel and Company Secretary.
Responsibilities
The HSSE review committee’s key responsibility is to provide effective 
oversight of the Company’s performance and management of HSSE 
issues across the group. This includes the evaluation of the effectiveness 
of the Group’s policies and management systems in respect of managing 
health, safety, security and environmental risk in both current and future 
operations associated with the Company’s growth strategy.
Tender review committee
Members
1
Chief Executive (chairman); Chief Financial Officer; General Counsel 
and Company Secretary; Head of Risk Management and Insurance; 
Group Commercial Director; Group Project Delivery Director.
Responsibilities
The tender review committee primarily reviews and approves proposed 
tender submissions for contracts to be undertaken by the business 
units that are outside the delegated authority of the Group Presidents. 
Higher risk contracts with an estimated revenue in excess of US$750m 
also require the approval of the board.
1
 
 Whilst the search for a new Chief Executive is undertaken, the terms of reference of the committee have been amended to allow Mr McHoul to act as chair in 
his capacity as interim CEO. In addition, the Group Financial Controller has been appointed as a member of the committee in lieu of the Chief Financial Officer. 57
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The board has overall responsibility for setting Amec Foster 
Wheeler’s risk appetite, and for maintaining sound risk 
management and internal control systems. Responsibility for 
risk management activities and practices, and internal control 
systems, is undertaken on behalf of the board by the audit 
committee and risk committee, both of which provide reports 
to the board on their work. Regular reviews of the effectiveness 
and adequacy of the Group’s financial, operational, compliance 
and risk management systems are undertaken and considered 
by the board. These systems can, however, only provide 
reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss, 
as they are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk 
of failure to achieve business objectives.
The internal control processes are complemented by an annual 
control self-assessment exercise carried out by the principal 
businesses. This covers health, safety and environment, legal, 
commercial and contractual, financial, information technology 
and human resources. The results are reviewed by the board, 
through the audit committee, as part of the ongoing internal 
control monitoring process.
Amec Foster Wheeler has interests in a number of joint 
arrangements where controls may not be reviewed as part  
of the Group’s formal corporate governance process because  
of the joint management responsibilities. Responsibility for  
such reviews rests with the joint venture and joint operations 
boards and these are reviewed from time to time as part  
of Amec Foster Wheeler’s normal internal audit process. 
Details of the company’s related undertakings can be found  
on pages 194 to 201.
The board and its committees have an ongoing process that is 
reviewed regularly by the board for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the principal risks faced by Amec Foster Wheeler, 
including strategy, major projects to be undertaken, significant 
acquisitions and disposals, as well as entry into and exit from 
different markets. This process and the associated internal 
control systems accord with the September 2014 Financial 
Reporting Council Guidance on Risk Management, Internal 
Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting. 
Where appropriate, business decisions are reached following 
a structured and documented review of potential opportunities 
and threats, taking steps designed to manage or mitigate any 
risk exposure.
The threats and opportunities associated with tender 
submissions are reviewed by commercial review boards at 
various levels in the Group in line with the delegated authorities. 
T enders that are outside the delegated authority of the business 
units are also reviewed by the tender review committee and, 
in addition, tenders for entering into high-risk contracts with 
an estimated revenue in excess of $750m are approved by 
the board. The most significant issues in terms of risk require 
the approval of the relevant business unit lead and the Group 
Commercial Director.
As a result of its ongoing involvement in and overview of 
risk management and internal control systems across the 
Group, the board is satisfied that the systems in place remain 
effective. Further details of the Group’s risk management 
process, including reporting and monitoring, and roles and 
responsibilities, can be found on page 18.
Accountability
Risk management and internal control systems 
Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler in 2014, work 
was undertaken in the year to integrate the control framework 
and risk and control systems with those of the wider group. 
Pursuant to section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
(SOX), we have carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness 
of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and 
procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 
15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) under the supervision 
and the participation of the Group Leadership T eam, which 
is responsible for the management of the internal controls, 
and which includes the CEO and the CFO. There are inherent 
limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure 
controls and procedures, including the possibility of human 
error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and 
procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls 
and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of 
achieving their control objectives. Based upon our evaluation 
as at 31 December 2015, we have concluded that the disclosure 
controls and procedures (i) were effective at a reasonable level 
of assurance as of the end of the period covered by this annual 
report in ensuring that information required to be recorded, 
processed, summarised and reported in the reports that 
are filed or submitted under the Exchange Act, is recorded, 
processed, summarised and reported within the time periods 
specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and (ii) were effective 
at a reasonable level of assurance as of the end of the period 
covered by this annual report in ensuring that information to 
be disclosed in the reports that are filed or submitted under 
the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the 
Group Leadership T eam, including the Chief Executive and 
the Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding 
required disclosure.
Pursuant to section 404 of SOX, under the supervision and the 
participation of the Group Leadership T eam, which includes the 
CEO and CFO, management is responsible for establishing and 
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. 
We have carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of 
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) based on the 
Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by 
the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the T readway 
Commission (COSO). Based on this evaluation, we have 
concluded that our internal control over financial reporting 
was effective as at 31 December 2015.
Ernst & Y oung LLP has audited the consolidated financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 and has also 
assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial 
reporting. Their attestation report can be found on page 95.
During the period covered by this annual report, we have 
not made any changes to our internal control over financial 
reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely 
to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 58
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
The main objectives of the audit committee 
are to provide independent scrutiny of 
the company’s financial and non-financial 
performance, the adequacy of the risk 
management framework and internal controls, 
and the performance of both the external and 
internal audit functions. This is of particular 
importance given the added responsibilities 
of conforming to the SOX requirements. 
The wide diversity of experience and knowledge 
of the committee members helps to achieve 
these objectives, and constructive challenge 
and guidance continue to be provided to 
the leadership team.
Dear Shareholder 
Y our audit committee had another demanding year during 
which management implemented its integration plans and 
a new operating model for the combined businesses of AMEC 
and Foster Wheeler. Bringing two companies together, each 
with a diverse range of policies, procedures, computer systems 
and processes, was always going to be challenging, particularly 
as each had its own operating model that reflected its 
respective market sector strengths. Fittingly, your committee 
and the board focused strongly on the quality of the revised 
policies, procedures, systems and internal controls being 
implemented by management to successfully manage the 
new company. 
The committee also took on additional responsibilities during 
the year: in particular, overseeing the exacting compliance 
effort that management had to undertake to implement the 
requirements of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX). 
An in-house compliance team, supported comprehensively by 
external SOX specialists, was established by management. The 
Chief Compliance Officer reported directly to the committee at 
each of its meetings, providing detailed status reports on the 
project and its achievements. As committee chairman, I also 
met separately on a regular basis with the Chief Compliance 
Officer and the external SOX specialists, to be briefed on 
progress. As you might expect, both the internal and external 
auditors were also involved with the SOX process throughout 
the year. 
Accountability continued
Audit committee 
As management continued throughout 2015 with 
the integration process, across numerous geographies, 
the committee continued its vital role of scrutinising the 
integrity and relevance of the Group’s financial reporting, 
the appropriateness and quality of the internal control 
environment and the continued suitability of the Group’s 
system of risk management. In addition, the committee 
examined material projects, focusing on the key features, 
risks and opportunities these present and paid particular 
attention to contract provisioning and quality of earnings. 
Y our committee has also been engaged with management’s 
process for meeting the new UK corporate governance 
requirement of providing a viability statement, which is 
now a feature of this year’s annual report.
As reported to you last year, management detected a fraud 
in one of its overseas operations during the latter part of 2014. 
The fraud was not material at the group level, although it was 
significant at the local entity level. I can now confirm that a 
criminal case against two former employees is presently before 
the courts, the outcome of which is yet to be determined. 
The committee continued to oversee the internal and external 
audit activities. Given the increased size and complexity of 
the combined businesses, management and the committee 
endorsed the recommendation to increase the size of the 
internal audit team to strengthen the available resources 
for the future.
Our goal continues to be one of being proactive and to provide 
constructive challenge over the information we receive. 
Throughout the year the committee has received timely and 
quality information from management and from the internal 
and external auditors. Their reports have been relevant, 
succinct, and clear, which has enabled your committee 
to discharge its duties effectively. 
Colin Day
Chairman of the audit committee
10 March 2016 59
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Members
The committee meets at least three times each year and the 
quorum for the committee is two members.
Membership and attendance of the audit committee 
up to 31 December 2015
Scheduled Unscheduled
Colin Day (Chairman) 3/3 1/1
Linda Adamany 3/3 0/1
Neil Carson 3/3 1/1
Simon Thompson (up to 14 May 2015) 0/1 1/1
Stephanie Newby 3/3 0/1
There were three scheduled audit committee meetings in 
2015 and one unscheduled meeting. The unscheduled meeting 
was arranged at very short notice and two members had 
prior commitments.
Colin Day has relevant and recent experience in auditing 
and accounting and the board considers that he has 
sufficient financial experience and qualifications to satisfy 
the criteria under US rules for an audit committee financial 
expert. Biographies of all committee members can be found 
on pages 41 to 43. 
The membership of the committee currently comprises 
Colin Day (Chairman), Linda Adamany, Neil Carson and 
Stephanie Newby.
The Company Chairman, the executive directors, the General 
Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group Financial 
Controller, the Head of Internal Audit, the Group Commercial 
Director, the Chief Compliance Officer and representatives 
of the external auditor also attended meetings throughout 
the year.
During 2015, the committee met separately with the external 
auditor, the Head of Internal Audit and the CFO, in each case 
without others being present. 
During the year the committee’s terms of reference were 
reviewed and updated to reflect additional committee 
requirements relating to the appropriateness of the going 
concern assumptions, the viability statement, internal controls 
over financial reporting, the disclosure committee and SOX 
requirements. These are available to view at amecfw.com
Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, a disclosure 
committee was established in November 2014. This is a 
management committee that reports to the audit committee 
and assists the committee with regard to verifying the 
information that is required to be disclosed in the company’s 
material public disclosures and in its periodic reports. 
This ensures that such disclosures are in compliance with 
all relevant laws, rules and regulations, including the UK 
Listing Authority, the London Stock Exchange, the New 
Y ork Stock Exchange and the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC).
Key responsibilities
 X Reviewing the annual and half-yearly financial statements 
with particular focus on key accounting and audit judgement 
and making recommendations to the board for their approval.
 X Monitoring the clarity of disclosures, the going concern 
assumptions, the viability statement and compliance with IFRS.
 X Reviewing and monitoring the internal controls and risk 
management systems, in particular internal controls over 
financial reporting.
 X Overseeing the relationship with the external auditor 
including the approval of the engagement letter, letter of 
representation and statutory audit fees, with particular focus 
on independence and rotation in accordance with UK and US 
rules or requirements.
 X Promoting an effective internal audit function.
 X Overseeing the Company’s compliance with the London 
and New Y ork stock exchanges, FCA and SEC requirements.
 X Reviewing arrangements whereby staff may raise concerns 
about any suspected or known improprieties and ensuring 
that such matters are investigated and appropriate 
actions taken.
 X Monitoring and reviewing UK corporate governance 
and US SOX compliance.
 X Receiving the reports of the disclosure committee.
Activities of the committee
T raining provided to the committee in the year included an 
update by the Chief Compliance Officer on SOX requirements 
and information from Ernst & Y oung LLP (EY) on risk 
management, internal control, going concern requirements 
and the viability statement.
In 2015, as part of the external review of board effectiveness, 
respondents were asked about the perceived performance 
of the audit committee. This was very highly rated overall. 
One area identified for improvement was in relation to the 
balance of work undertaken between the Chairman and the 
committee members, to ensure collective responsibility of the 
activities of the committee. Other areas identified included a 
need for greater detail on revenue recognition decisions and 
continued vigilance on SOX requirements. 
In preparation for each meeting, the CFO prepares an extensive 
report covering all material financial, tax and treasury matters. 
Particular areas of focus in 2015 included: 
 X consideration of revenue recognition, which is by necessity 
based on management estimates and assumptions, 
particularly with regard to timing and consideration of the 
Group’s policy for aged work in progress and receivables.
In conjunction with the external auditor, these judgements 
were challenged, especially with regard to end-life 
forecast estimates 
 X with regard to the provisions and estimates (including 
litigation) within the accounts, the committee, in conjunction 
with the external auditor, spent time focusing on these 
areas and on satisfying itself as to their appropriateness, 
particularly for legacy liabilities. 60
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
 X contract risks and material contracts (those above £10m 
in contract value) showing a deteriorating position over 
time, including the monitoring of management’s early 
warning system to increase visibility of underperforming 
material contracts 
 X the Foster Wheeler allocation of goodwill and impairment 
testing arising from the acquisition, in respect of which 
the committee continued to challenge and stress test the 
assumptions that were being made in the process 
 X reviews of the performance of the GPG business and 
the challenging of the inputs into the impairment testing 
calculations where the deteriorating performance has 
resulted in a significant impairment of £308m
 X the classification of exceptional items, where costs, excluding 
intangible amortisation and impairment, of £114m have been 
charged in the year, principally due to restructuring and 
integration costs
 X the Foster Wheeler purchase price allocation exercise,  
in respect of which the committee undertook a thorough 
review of the process and challenged the appropriateness  
and the judgements made on the reduction in the net 
assets acquired of around US$245m and the corresponding 
increase in goodwill 
 X adequacy of legacy liabilities, including the accounting  
for asbestos and environmental liabilities
 X accounting for taxation including the recognition  
of deferred tax and assets relating to research and 
development government credits and monitoring the 
outcome of recent EU cases on tax rulings and the 
assessment of disclosing this as a contingent liability
 X the assessment of the basis of the Group’s going concern 
assumptions with particular emphasis on the refinancing 
process and the assessment of the Group’s viability 
statement in accordance with the change to the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 
 X the ongoing quality and acceptability of the Group’s 
accounting policies, procedures, systems and  
internal controls 
 X SOX programme oversight and the establishment of risk 
and control matrices and the identification of key controls to 
meet the SOX control objectives. This was the first year that 
attestation has been required on the Group’s internal control 
environment and the committee was pleased to note that  
no material weaknesses had been identified 
 X a review of the audit procedures required in order to meet 
the requirements of the SEC and Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board (PCAOB) in the US 
 X as part of the CFO’s report, the committee received details of 
all breaches of treasury policy. This enabled the committee to 
see how relatively minor issues are identified and addressed 
to ensure they do not become more significant matters. 
In the year, minor breaches were identified in relation to bank 
counterparty limits, but none was considered to be material 
In its reviews of the full and half-year results, particular 
emphasis was placed on contractual issues where the 
reported financial position was analysed and discussed 
in the CFO’s report and the findings validated by means 
of in-depth questioning. 
At the request of the board, the committee also reviewed and 
provided advice on whether the annual report and accounts, 
when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, 
to enable the Company’s shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
In coming to its view that it was satisfied with the overall 
fairness, balance and clarity of the document, the committee 
took into account: 
 X its own knowledge of the group, and its strategy and 
performance in the year 
 X the comprehensive guidance provided to all contributors  
to the annual report and accounts 
 X a thorough internal verification of the factual content  
within the document 
 X the comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels 
in the group to ensure consistency and overall balance 
 X a detailed review by senior management 
Internal controls and risk management
The committee reviews the processes by which the 
Company’s control environment is evaluated. A control risk 
self-assessment is undertaken every year, with comprehensive 
integrity checks, and the exercise in 2015 again identified no 
significant areas of concern. The Group’s senior management 
is formally required to confirm compliance within their 
businesses with the Group’s Code of Business Conduct, its 
policies and procedures and any areas of concern need to be 
fully explained and addressed. A revised Code of Business 
Conduct was introduced in 2015.
The Head of Internal Audit reports to the committee on any 
alleged or suspected wrongdoings reported through the 
independently operated helplines or otherwise. All such 
incidents in the year were investigated and did not reveal any 
significant internal control failures or have a material financial 
impact at group level although improvement in oversight 
and in the application of existing controls have been put in 
place following a fraud identified in Australia, (see note 5 
on page 116).
In a few instances, disciplinary action was taken against 
employees, which led to dismissal where warranted.
The committee’s primary responsibilities in relation to risk 
management are in ensuring that robust processes are in place 
for managing risk throughout the Group. The acquisition of 
Foster Wheeler was completed in the fourth quarter of 2014 
and the control framework was reviewed and the risk and 
control systems were integrated with those of the wider group. 
The group’s principal business and strategic risks are shown 
in the strategic report on pages 19 to 21 and the approach to 
managing risk is shown in more detail on pages 18 and 57 .
Accountability continued
Audit committee continued 61
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Internal audit
In 2015, the committee continued to monitor and review the 
operation of the internal audit function, receiving a full report 
at each meeting from the Head of Internal Audit. The Head of 
Internal Audit formally reports to the committee chairman.
The findings of each internal audit review are summarised 
and the committee focuses its discussions on unsatisfactory 
findings and on the action plans in place to address them. 
Particular areas of focus during 2015 included a number of 
identified frauds, and the application of the agents/sponsors 
process, particularly within the former Foster Wheeler 
businesses. Concerns were also raised about an increase in  
the number of control-related issues and the reasons for this.
A review of the staffing levels of the internal audit function 
was undertaken and a recommendation was made by 
the committee to increase the number of staff to meet 
the increased workload requirements. This was endorsed 
by the board.
External audit
During 2015, the committee continued to oversee the 
relationship with the external auditor, Ernst & Y oung LLP (EY). 
The committee reviews both the procedure for the engagement 
of the external auditor and the procedure for the appointment 
of the external auditor every year. In 2015 both procedures  
met both UK and US requirements.
Each year the relevant audit risks are assessed and EY’s 
views are presented to the committee. During the year, the 
significant risks identified by EY were appropriateness of 
revenue recognition on contracts, adequacy of contract-
related provisions and legacy liabilities (including asbestos and 
environmental), purchase price allocation adjustments relating 
to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, goodwill impairment, 
impact of tax planning, recognition of deferred tax assets and 
R&D tax credits and risk of fraud and management override. 
Other risk areas included appropriate disclosure and treatment 
of exceptional items,  
Throughout the year and in conjunction with EY, the committee 
challenged management and assured itself that the risks 
were being addressed and that reporting on the matters 
was balanced. Examples of these challenges included the 
judgements taken on a waste energy project in Western 
Europe, the assessment of Mount Polley as a contingent 
liability, accounting for a UK fuel storage contract and, an oil 
and gas related project in South America. Other challenges 
included the judgements taken in the Group’s goodwill testing, 
issues with impairment (in particular GPG), purchase price 
allocation including the accounting recorded in respect of a 
contract in the Southern US and the appropriateness of the 
accounting for the Group’s asbestos liability of £414m. The 
committee also discussed and debated the appropriateness 
of the Group’s effective tax rate and recognition of deferred tax.
The audit differences and quality of earnings schedule for the 
year ended 2015 was presented by EY at the February 2016 
meeting. The value of unadjusted differences and the quality 
of earnings high-level review of the impact of items that could 
be considered non-recurring in nature were discussed in detail. 
The audit differences were not considered to be material and 
the quality of earnings was considered appropriate overall.
On behalf of the committee, the Head of Internal Audit 
undertakes an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the 
external auditor. The views of senior members of the finance 
teams throughout the Group are sought, as well as qualitative 
feedback. Responses are measured and directly compared 
with previous surveys, so that progress can be monitored.
The external auditor effectiveness review for 2015 will be 
undertaken after the year-end process has been completed 
and the results will be presented to the committee in 
August 2016. The results of the review will be reported 
in next year’s report.
EY were appointed as Amec Foster Wheeler’s external auditor 
in 2010, following a formal tender process. As the audit partner 
responsible for the Group audit had been in place for five 
years, a new audit partner (Colin Brown) was appointed for the 
2015 audit. The committee takes account of and endorses the 
relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code with 
regard to the appointment of the external auditor, which means 
that the external audit contract will be put out to tender at the 
latest by 2020, subject to any further regulatory change. The 
committee also considers that the process complies with the 
provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) 
Order for UK audit market published on 26 September 2014.
Amec Foster Wheeler has formal procedures relating to its 
relationship with the external auditor including for the provision 
of non-audit services, to ensure that such work does not impair 
the external auditor’s objectivity and independence. This 
procedure clearly outlines the category of work the external 
auditor is permitted to carry out and the rules governing 
what is not permitted. The procedure follows the guidelines 
and requirements set out by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales and has been amended 
to take account of the requirements of SOX and the PCAOB. 
The committee now delegates authority to the Chairman of 
the audit committee to pre-approve all non-prohibited services 
undertaken by the external auditor. In addition, all non-audit 
services performed by the external auditor will be disclosed 
to investors in the company’s periodic reports.
The process is continually monitored by the Head of 
Internal Audit and details of all ‘other services’ performed 
are formally presented to the audit committee twice a year. 
It is the responsibility of the audit committee to monitor 
the overall level of non-audit fees relative to audit fees from 
an independence point of view and to confirm that auditor 
independence has been safeguarded. If there are any concerns 
about this, for the avoidance of doubt, the undertaking of such 
work would not be permitted.  62
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Fees payable by the Group to the Company’s statutory auditor, 
EY, and its associates were as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Audit fees:
Audit of the Company’s accounts 4.1 3.9
Audit of the accounts of the 
Company’s subsidiaries 1.4 1.5
5.5 5.4
T ax fees:
T ax compliance services 0.9 0.4
T ax advisory services – –
0.9 0.4
All other fees:
Corporate finance transactions 0.9 6.4
Other non-audit services 0.2 0.1
1.1 6.5
7.5 12.3
Fees for the audit of the Company’s accounts relate to the 
audit of the parent company’s accounts and the consolidated 
financial statements. 
All EY’s fees for non-audit work in 2015 were approved in 
accordance with the Company’s policy covering non-audit 
services. As a result of the application of this policy and 
additional discussions with them, the directors do not believe 
that EY’s independence has been compromised because of 
this additional work on behalf of the Company.
The level of non-audit fee awarded to EY in 2014 was 
considerably higher than would normally be the case, as shown 
in the table above as a result of work undertaken on the Foster 
Wheeler acquisition. 
During 2014, EY was paid non-audit fees of £2.7m by Foster 
Wheeler prior to the acquisition date. 
Accountability continued
Audit committee continued 63
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The core role of the HSSEE committee is to 
assist the board in upholding the Company’s 
principal value of doing the right thing, to review 
the HSSE policy statement and to satisfy 
itself that all significant health, safety, security, 
environmental and ethics risks are identified 
and controlled. 
Dear shareholder 
On 1 January 2015, the board created the HSSEE committee 
to replace the ethics committee and its terms of reference were 
extended to include health, safety, security and environmental 
matters (full details of which can be found on amecfw.com).  
The purpose of the HSSEE committee is to provide an additional 
level of governance in respect of Amec Foster Wheeler’s health, 
safety, security, environmental and ethics activities.
Our employees have the right to work in a safe and secure 
environment, which is particularly important in a group that has 
over 40,000 people working in more than 55 countries. Over the 
course of 2016 we will be refreshing our Beyond Zero initiative, 
which is aims to deliver first-class protection from harm for our 
people, our assets, our environment and our customers.
There is a strong framework in place that has supported 
Amec Foster Wheeler as it has become a more global business 
following the Foster Wheeler acquisition. This ensures that 
our employees, and those who work with and for us, act with 
integrity wherever they are based. Our employees have access 
to a third-party reporting system to enable them to report any 
concerns in complete confidence. All such calls are investigated 
and actions taken where appropriate.
This year the committee has overseen the launch of a new Code 
of Business Conduct and successful Code of Business Conduct 
and anti-bribery and corruption training across the Group, with 
very high completion rates being achieved. Further training 
programmes are scheduled for roll-out in 2016 to further raise 
awareness and assure compliance.
Linda Adamany
Chairman of the Health, Safety, Security, Environmental  
and Ethics Committee
10 March 2016
Members
The HSSEE committee comprises only independent 
non-executive directors. The quorum for the committee is 
two members. In 2015 there were three scheduled committee 
meetings held, and no unscheduled meetings.
The company Chairman, the executive directors, the General 
Counsel and Company Secretary, the Chief Compliance 
Officer and the Global Head of HSSE also attend each meeting 
by invitation.
The membership of the committee is detailed below.
Membership and attendance of the HSSEE committee 
during 2015
Meeting attendance
Linda Adamany (Chairman) 3/3
Neil Carson 3/3
Stephanie Newby 3/3
Kent Masters (from 14 February 2015) 3/3
Key responsibilities of the HSSEE committee
The committee reviews Amec Foster Wheeler’s HSSE policy 
at least annually to ensure it remains fit for purpose and 
meets legal and regulatory requirements in all respects. 
It also examines the processes in place to satisfy itself that 
all significant health, safety, security and environmental risks 
are identified and mitigated.
The committee oversees the operations and activities of the 
HSSE review committee which is a management committee, 
details of which are outlined on page 56.
The committee reviews and monitors business ethics within the 
Group, including compliance with relevant legislation, regulation 
and current best practice. It also reviews and approves the 
Group’s Code of Business Conduct at least annually.
It considers and reviews the scope and planning of all ethical 
compliance activity within the Group and reviews the extent 
and effectiveness of the Group’s internal training and external 
reporting of compliance and ethics matters.
In the event of an actual or suspected material breach of 
the Code of Business Conduct or any other serious matter, 
a member of the committee will normally take responsibility 
for and manage any investigation into the relevant matter with 
the support of the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Health, safety, security, environmental and ethics (HSSEE) committee 64
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Activities of the HSSEE committee
The committee reviewed the revised Amec Foster Wheeler 
Code of Business Conduct in March 2015 and endorsed its 
content. This document combined the codes of business 
conduct of the former AMEC and Foster Wheeler businesses 
into one new code. 
The separate ethics reporting systems for the AMEC and 
Foster Wheeler businesses were combined into a single system 
during the second half of the year. During the year a total of 
104 concerns were raised in Amec Foster Wheeler in respect 
of alleged or suspected ethical breaches, most of which were 
reported through the independent third-party reporting 
systems. Each report was taken seriously and investigated. 
The outcome of these investigations resulted in disciplinary 
action where appropriate as well as enhancements to the 
existing control environment where necessary.
Over the course of the year, the number of matters reported 
has increased, which we see as a positive outcome, emanating 
from the increased publicity and the independent nature of the 
reporting process.
The Global Head of HSSE attends each committee meeting 
and gives a full report and update on HSSE matters. Areas 
of focus during the year included risk mitigation and high 
potential incidents, particularly those that occurred within joint 
ventures. The committee was pleased to note the deep dive 
reviews that were undertaken in respect of each incident and 
that the outcomes and lessons learned were taken on board 
throughout the business.
As part of the externally conducted board effectiveness review 
undertaken in 2015, the performance of the committee was 
assessed and was rated highly. Improvements to the safety 
reporting process for the committee and the board, identified 
in the review, are being implemented.
The committee also reviewed its terms of reference in 
December 2015 and recommended to the board that the terms 
of reference continued to be fit for purpose and to meet the 
requirements of the group.
Accountability continued
Health, safety, security, environmental and ethics (HSSEE) committee continued 65
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Remuneration
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee’s aim is to design 
and apply a reward policy that promotes the 
long-term success of the Company.
Dear shareholder 
Board changes
On 17 January 2016, Samir Brikho stepped down from the 
board and his role of Chief Executive. He left the Company 
on 31 January 2016. In accordance with his contract, Samir 
received a payment in lieu of 12 months’ base salary, benefits 
and pension. Further details are provided on page 71.
Our CFO, Ian McHoul, has been appointed interim CEO while 
we recruit a new Chief Executive. Ian will receive an acting up 
allowance of £20,000 per month for the period he undertakes 
the acting role. This temporary uplift will also be reflected in 
his pension allowance for this period but other benefits will 
be unchanged. His maximum bonus opportunity for 2016 will 
be at the higher level of 150% of salary (including the acting 
up allowance) for the period he fulfils the role of interim CEO 
and revert to 125% thereafter. His LTIP opportunity will remain 
unchanged. Further details are provided on page 67 . The 
committee considers that is a fair and reasonable package 
to reflect the additional responsibilities being undertaken.
Remuneration for 2015
The committee’s work this year has taken place against the 
backdrop of the very sharp slowdown in the company’s major 
markets which has resulted in performance being lower than 
anticipated going into the year. We have also taken into account 
the major shift in the net debt position and the decision to 
rebase the dividend. 
In the light of this, the committee has also determined that 
no annual bonus payments will be made to executive directors 
in respect of 2015 notwithstanding that some of the targets 
that were set at the start of the year, principally those relating 
to the successful integration of the two legacy businesses, 
were achieved. None of the long-term incentive awards made 
three years ago have vested. Overall remuneration levels for 
executive directors have accordingly reduced significantly year 
on year in line with business performance.
Remuneration for 2016
There will be no increase in base salary for the CFO for 
the third year in a row although he will receive an acting up 
allowance for the time he undertakes the role of interim CEO, 
as described above.
In order to reflect the changed priorities, we are making several 
changes to the operation of our incentive arrangements within 
the flexibility allowed for by our existing policy. 
In relation to annual bonus, in line with our overall strategy 
we are giving greater priority to the need to reduce net debt 
by making 25% of the annual bonus opportunity dependent 
on cash and debt management. 50% of bonus will remain 
dependent on delivery of the 2016 planned EBITA target and 
25% will be based on other KPIs. In line with our past practice, 
the actual targets and outcomes will be disclosed at the end 
of the year.
In relation to 2016 LTI awards, we plan to introduce a third 
performance condition related to the implementation and 
execution of our strategy. The exact nature of these measures 
and targets will be finalised following the recruitment of our 
new CEO. This is to ensure that they have an opportunity to 
input into the chosen measures so that they are fully aligned 
with our strategy going forwards. It is likely that such measures 
will focus on reshaping the portfolio, growing the core activity 
and driving efficiency. The committee intends to consult with 
shareholders regarding the chosen measures and details of 
these measures will be disclosed in next year’s report.
This strategic scorecard will apply to 40% of the award with 
the remainder continuing to be split evenly between relative 
TSR and EPS performance measures. 
This year we have expressed the EPS target as a pence per 
share range for 2018. This reflects both expectations for the 
macro market environment, particularly for oil & gas, and our 
internal projections which point to a continuing downturn in 
2016 but which incentivise growth thereafter. Further details 
are provided on page 67 .
Neil Carson
Chairman of the remuneration committee
10 March 2016 66
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Membership and attendance of the remuneration 
committee up to 31 December 2015
Scheduled Unscheduled
Neil Carson  
(Chairman from 14 May 2015) 3/3 0/0
Simon Thompson  
(Chairman up to 14 May 2015) 1/1 0/0
Linda Adamany (from 30 April 2015) 2/2 0/0
John Connolly 3/3 0/0
Colin Day 3/3 0/0
The quorum for the committee is two members. There were 
three scheduled and no unscheduled meetings held in 2015.
The Chief Executive, the Group Human Resources Director and 
other members of management attend meetings by invitation. 
Simon Thompson retired as a director at the conclusion of 
the 2015 AGM and was succeeded as committee chairman 
by Neil Carson and on 30 April, Linda Adamany was appointed 
to the committee.
In considering the matters within its remit, the committee takes 
account of recommendations from the Chairman in respect of 
the Chief Executive and from the Chief Executive in respect of 
the other executive directors and designated executives. 
The committee is advised independently by Deloitte who took 
over the role from New Bridge Street (NBS) during the year 
following a retender process. 
During the year Deloitte also provided advice to management 
in relation to the interpretation of the Remuneration Reporting 
Regulations and below board remuneration. Separate teams 
within Deloitte provided unrelated advisory services in respect 
of business model integration, research, development and 
innovation taxation, treasury taxation, corporate finance 
and treasury services to the Group during the year.
Deloitte is one of the founding members of the Remuneration 
Consultants Code of Conduct and adheres to this Code in its 
dealings with the committee. The committee is satisfied that 
the advice provided by Deloitte is objective and independent. 
The committee is comfortable that the Deloitte LLP 
engagement partner and team that provide remuneration 
advice to the committee do not have connections with the 
Company that may impair their independence. The committee 
reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that 
there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
NBS did not undertake any material additional work for the 
Company. NBS is wholly owned by Aon plc and while other 
companies within the Aon group do undertake material 
work for the Company, this is not in the area of executive 
remuneration and arrangements were in place within the 
Aon group to ring-fence NBS from other services provided.
Deloitte was paid £11,250 and NBS was paid £23,328 during 
the year for the advice provided to the committee on the 
basis of time expended and seniority of individuals providing 
the advice. 
The committee is also supported by the Company’s human 
resources department who may from time to time use third 
parties to provide data and technical advice. 
The committee normally meets three times a year and 
has an established annual agenda of items that it considers 
at the various meetings, the major elements of which are 
summarised below. 
March X Confirmation of short- and long-term  
incentive outcomes.
 X Approval of Directors’ remuneration report.
 X New long-term incentive awards.
August X Shareholder feedback/consultation.
 X Remuneration policy and practice.
 X Committee processes and appointment  
of consultants.
December X Review of individual base salaries  
and total remuneration.
 X Incentive plan targets.
In order to fully take account of the impact of the 
Foster Wheeler acquisition and the changed market outlook, 
the decisions that would normally have been made at the 
December 2014 meeting were largely deferred to the meeting 
in March 2015.
Remuneration continued
Remuneration committee continued 67
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Annual report on remuneration
Remuneration policy
There are no changes proposed to remuneration policy for 2016 from that approved by shareholders at the AGM on 14 May 2015. 
For reference the policy is set out in full on pages 75 to 80.
Application of remuneration policy for 2016
Changes to base salaries for executive directors
The base salary of the CFO is not being increased in 2016. His salary last increased on 1 January 2014. In respect of his role 
of interim CEO, Ian will receive an acting up allowance equivalent to £240,000 per annum pro-rated to reflect the months 
or part-months he fulfils the interim CEO role giving him an effective annualised salary as shown below.
2016 2015 % change
Ian McHoul as CFO £530,000 £530,000 n/c
Ian McHoul as interim CEO £770,000 n/a n/a
Samir Brikho (up to date of leaving) £954,000 £954,000 n/c
Annual bonus measures and targets
The following bonus measures and their weightings (maximum opportunity as a percentage of base salary) have been agreed 
by the committee for 2016. The measures for 2016 have been changed from 2015 to reflect the challenging environment in which 
we are currently operating and our evolving strategic priorities in this context. The cash/debt measure replaces the previous 
operating cash measure and has been given a significantly increased weighting to reflect the greater focus that this is being given 
as part of our strategic priorities for the next 12 months. The largest part of the bonus continues to be based on EBITA reflecting 
the importance of a continued focus on profitability. 
For the period he is fulfilling the interim CEO role Ian McHoul’s bonus will be at the higher maximum of 150% of base salary and 
will be based on his interim CEO salary. Samir Brikho has not been included in the 2016 bonus plan.
Measure Acting CEO role CFO role
EBITA 75% 62.5%
Cash/debt 37 .5% 31.25%
Other strategic objectives 37 .5% 31.25%
Totals 150% 125%
The specific targets against these measures are commercially sensitive and may be subject to revision. They will be disclosed 
retrospectively in next year’s report to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive at that time.
Long-term incentive awards 
Awards with a face value equivalent to 250% of base salary are being made to Ian McHoul in 2016 in line with previous years. 
For this purpose, base salary will not include the temporary acting up allowance. 30% of the award will be subject to a comparative 
TSR measure, 30% to an EPS performance measure and 40% to a strategic scorecard measure. For each measure, 25% of that 
part of the award is paid for threshold achievement and 100% for maximum achievement with straight-line vesting in between.
TSR will be measured against a peer group comprising Amec Foster Wheeler and UK and international companies against which 
Amec Foster Wheeler competes directly. The comparator group is the same as for the 2015 awards as described on page 71 with 
the exception that Akastor has been removed because its business mix was considered by the committee to be less relevant and 
has been replaced by T ecnicas Reunidas, a Spanish competitor. Threshold vesting occurs at median ranking and maximum at 
upper quartile ranking or higher.
The EPS target range will be 67 .8 pence per share in 2018 for threshold vesting and 73.8 pence per share for maximum vesting. 
The targets have been set to reflect both expectations for the macro market environment, particularly for oil & gas, and our 
internal projections which point to a continuing downturn in 2016 but which incentivise growth thereafter. In line with policy, 
the targets and actual EPS will be adjusted to reflect any corporate transactions and certain other defined items.
The strategic scorecard measure will relate to the implementation and execution of our strategy. The exact nature of these 
measures and targets will be finalised following the recruitment of our new CEO. This is to ensure that they have an opportunity 
to input into the chosen measures so that they are fully aligned with our strategy going forwards. It is likely that such measures will 
focus on reshaping the portfolio, growing the core activity and driving efficiency and will be distinct from the short-term targets for 
annual bonus. The committee intends to consult with shareholders regarding the chosen measures and details of these measures 
and targets will be disclosed in next year’s report.
Directors’ remuneration report 68
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Pensions 
Mr McHoul receives a cash allowance of 20% of salary in lieu of pension benefit. For the period when he is interim CEO this 
will be paid on his higher salary including the acting up allowance. He also has life assurance benefit of four times his normal 
annual salary. 
Changes to Chairman’s and non-executive directors’ fees
The fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors are not being increased for 2016.
2016 2015 % change
Chairman £318,000 £318,000 n/c
Board fee £60,500 £60,500 n/c
Audit committee chairman £30,000 £30,000 n/c
Remuneration committee chairman £13,000 £13,000 n/c
HSSEE committee chairman £6,000 £6,000 n/c
Senior Independent Director £5,500 £5,500 n/c
Non-UK director (additional travel time) £12,100 £12,100 n/c
Annual report on remuneration continued
Remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued 69
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The information from this point onwards up to and including the statement of directors’ share 
interests and shareholding on page 72 is subject to audit.
Single total figure of remuneration for 2015
The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2015 financial year for each 
director, together with comparative figures for 2014.
Salary/fees 
£’000
T axable benefits 
£’000
Bonus 
£’000
LTIP 
£’000
Sharesave 
£’000
Pension 
£’000
T otal 
£’000
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Executive
Samir Brikho* 954 954 53 43 0 594 – – 3 – 255 246 1,265 1,837
Ian McHoul 530 530 18 18 0 268 – – – – 106 106 654 922
Non-executive
John Connolly 318 318 – – – – – – – – – – 318 318
Neil Carson 72 61 – – – – – – – – – – 72 61
Colin Day 91 79 – – – – – – – – – – 91 79
Linda Adamany 79 77 – – – – – – – – – – 79 77
Stephanie Newby* 73 13 – – – – – – – – – – 73 13
Kent Masters* 61 – – – – – – – – – – – 61 –
Simon Thompson* 29 76 – – – – – – – – – – 29 76
Aggregate directors’ 
emoluments 2,642 3,383
*Samir Brikho stepped down from the Board and his role of Chief Executive on 17 January 2016. Stephanie Newby and Kent Masters joined the board in 
November 2014 and February 2015 respectively. Simon Thompson left the Board in May 2015. Stephanie Newby’s fees include an amount paid in relation 
to her ongoing post-acquisition service as a director of Foster Wheeler AG from 13 November 2014 to 19 January 2015. 
T axable benefits for the executive directors comprise disability and healthcare insurance, car/travel allowance, working lunches 
and tax return preparation assistance. Mr Brikho’s 2015 figure includes an amount of £5,000 invoiced during the year but which 
actually related to assistance provided in respect of 2014.
The 2015 Sharesave figure for Samir Brikho is the gain made on exercising an option over 1,335 shares made under the 
Savings-related Share Option Scheme (Sharesave) at an option price of £6.74. The closing share price on the date of exercise, 
9 March 2015, was £9.09, resulting in a gain on exercise of £3,137 .
Samir Brikho is a member of the advisory board of Stena AB and a non-executive director of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB: 
he received fees of SEK 644,315 during the year in relation to the first appointment and SEK 803,333 in relation to the second. Ian 
McHoul is a director of Britvic plc and received fees of £61,181 during the year in relation to this appointment. Such appointments 
are subject to prior approval of the board. Directors are permitted to retain fees. (These amounts are not subject to audit and are 
not included in the single total figure table above.)
Total pension entitlements
The pension amount shown in the 2015 ‘single total figure of remuneration’ above comprises the following:
Accrued DB pension 
at 31/12/15 
£’000
Value of 
DB benefit 
£’000
Cash 
allowance 
£’000
T otal pension 
benefit 
£’000
Samir Brikho 48 96 159 255
Ian McHoul – – 106 106
Samir Brikho had an historic arrangement that provided for a pension payable from age 60 made up of 4.17% of final pensionable 
salary in respect of service to 31 December 2007 and one-thirtieth of career averaged revalued earnings in respect of service 
thereafter. Salary and earnings for pension purposes are subject to a cap, currently £161,000 pa for the tax year 2015/16. 
Mr Brikho has also received a cash allowance in respect of salary above this cap in lieu of further pension benefit.
Mr McHoul received a cash allowance in lieu of pension. 
The cash allowance in the case of Mr Brikho represented 20% of salary above the pension scheme cap and in the case  
of Ian McHoul represented 20% of full salary.
Annual report on remuneration continued 70
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Annual report on remuneration continued
Annual bonus
The bonus targets and outcomes against the various performance elements, together with the proportion of overall bonus 
opportunity that related to each, were as follows:
Measure T arget range Actual Weighting
EBITA* £422-475m £374m 60%
Cash conversion 72 – 85% >85% 10%
Cost synergies £25-40m >£40m 10%
Use of High Value Execution Centre (HVEC) 18 – 21% >21% 10%
Embedding new company values and behaviours n/a n/a 10%
*For bonus purposes EBITA (after exceptional items which may be disallowed for bonus purposes at the committee’s discretion) is normalised for exchange 
rate movements and cost of share-based payments: the target and actual figures shown above are before any such adjustments.
The target for the ‘Use of HVEC’ measure was based on the percentage of addressable man-hours for company as a whole 
executed through the HVEC. 
In the light of overall performance, the committee has determined that no annual bonus payments will be made to executive 
directors in respect of 2015 notwithstanding that some of the targets that were set at the start of the year, principally those 
relating to the successful integration of the two legacy businesses, were achieved. 
Performance Share Plan
The LTIP amount shown in the 2015 ‘single total figure of remuneration’ is the award made under the Performance Share Plan in 
2013. Vesting is due to take place on 28 March 2016 and is subject to two performance conditions each measured over three-year 
periods: (i) earnings per share (EPS*) growth for 2015 compared to a base of 85.7p (being the adjusted EPS for 2012) and (ii) total 
shareholder return (TSR) relative to a comparator group based on average share prices in final quarter of 2015 compared to those 
in the corresponding period in 2012. The two performance conditions operate independently on different parts of the award: half 
of the basic award is dependent on EPS and the other half on TSR; the matched award depends solely on EPS.
*EPS for this measure means the diluted earnings per share expressed to one decimal place of Amec Foster Wheeler plc before goodwill and intangible 
amortisation, the charge or credits associated with executive share awards and exceptional items. ‘Real’ growth means in excess of the change in the UK Retail 
Prices Index for December 2015 compared to December 2012.
The performance achieved against the EPS target and the TSR outcome are as follows:
2011 awards performance measure Threshold – 25% vesting Maximum – 100% vesting Outcome Percentage of max achieved
Real annual compound growth in EPS 5% 12% <5% 0%
T otal shareholder return ranking Median Upper quartile 19th out of 25 0%
Accordingly no shares will vest from these awards.
Details of share awards during year
Awards over a value of 250% of base salary were made on 22 May 2015 under the new Long-T erm Incentive Plan approved at the 
2015 AGM. The face value of the awards is based on the share price at the date of award which was £9.38. Awards in the form of 
nil-cost options may normally be exercised up to 18 months after vesting. 
T ype of interest awarded
Face value 
£’000
Percentage vesting at  
threshold performance Number of shares End of performance period
Samir Brikho Nil-cost options 2,385 25% 254,264 31 December 2017
Ian McHoul Nil-cost options 1,325 25% 141,257 31 December 2017
The awards granted to Samir Brikho lapsed when he left the Company. The award granted to Mr McHoul will vest in March 2018 
subject to the outcome against the performance conditions measured over the three years 2015 to 2017 and will then be subject 
to a two-year post-vesting holding period in line with policy. Half of the award is subject to a TSR performance condition and the 
other half is subject to an EPS performance condition.
The TSR measure is based on Amec Foster Wheeler’s ranking against the comparator group set out below based on the average 
share price over the final quarter of 2017 compared to the corresponding period in 2014. The threshold for any vesting to occur 
is that Amec Foster Wheeler needs to be ranked at median or higher. If upper quartile ranking is achieved, full vesting will occur. 
Vesting is on a straight-line basis between these threshold and maximum targets.
Remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued 71
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Comparator group in respect of 2015 awards 
Aecom T echnology USA KBR USA
Akastor Norway McDermott International USA
Aker Solutions Norway Petrofac UK
Amec Foster Wheeler UK Saipem Italy
Babcock International UK Schlumberger USA
Cameron International USA SNC-Lavalin Group Canada
Chicago Bridge & Iron USA T echnip France
Fluor USA T utor Perini USA
Granite Construction USA Wood Group (John) UK
Halliburton USA Worley Parsons Australia
Jacobs USA
The committee has discretion to make further adjustments to the list when necessary to take account of mergers, acquisitions 
or other such events. 
The EPS measure is based on the compound annual growth (CAGR) to 2017 from an adjusted 2014 base of 76.6p which is the 
pro forma figure if the Foster Wheeler acquisition had been in place for the full year. EPS for this purpose is defined as the diluted 
earnings per share expressed to one decimal place of Amec Foster Wheeler plc before goodwill and intangible amortisation, the 
charge or credits associated with executive share awards and exceptional items (at the committee’s discretion). Threshold (25%) 
vesting will occur if CAGR is 5% and maximum (100%) vesting will occur if CAGR is 10% or higher with straight-line vesting for 
a result between these targets.
The number of shares vesting as determined by the performance conditions outcomes will be increased to take account 
of reinvested dividends including the UK tax credit in the period between award and vesting.
Details of the specific companies included in the TSR comparator groups for both the 2013 and 2014 awards were included  
in the directors’ remuneration reports for those years and may be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
Payments to former directors
No payments (including payments for loss of office) were made to former directors during 2015.
Leaving arrangements for Samir Brikho
On 17 January 2016, Samir Brikho ceased to be a director of Amec Foster Wheeler plc (the ‘Company’), and on 31 January 2016 
Mr Brikho’s employment with the Company terminated. Mr Brikho received the following payments, which are in accordance with 
his service agreement and/or the Company’s remuneration policy, as set out on pages 75 to 80 of this report:
 X salary, pension and contractual benefits up to 31 January 2016 
 X a payment in lieu of notice equal to 12 months’ salary and contractual benefits (£1,253,063), paid as a lump sum and consisting of:
– base salary – £954,000
– pension entitlements – £254,813
– payment in lieu of the value of contractual benefits – £44,250 
Up to £25,000 (plus VAT) may be paid directly to Mr Brikho’s tax advisers for tax return preparation assistance in 2015/16.  
This is, in part, a contractual benefit not included in the amount above and in part in respect of advice provided in connection 
with his termination of employment. Additionally, £19,150 (plus VAT) has been paid directly to Mr Brikho’s solicitors  
for legal services provided in connection with his termination of employment. 
As described earlier in this report, no payments in respect of 2015 or 2016 annual bonus will be made. Outstanding awards  
under the Long-T erm Incentive Plan, the Performance Share Plan and the Sharesave Plan lapsed on leaving employment. 
Mr Brikho did not receive any payments in respect of loss of office as a director. 72
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ share interests and shareholding requirements
As at 31 December 2015 (or in the case of Simon Thompson as at the date he ceased to be a director), the beneficial interests 
in the share capital of the Company of the directors and their connected persons were as follows:
Legally owned shares
Vested but unexercised  
share options
Unvested share options subject 
to performance conditions 
(LTIP and PSP awards)
Unvested share options 
not subject to performance 
conditions (Sharesave)
John Connolly 87 ,380 – – –
Samir Brikho 1,975,674 – 688,729 2,192
Ian McHoul 329,432 – 382,626 2,206
Neil Carson 5,000 – – –
Colin Day 22,558 – – –
Linda Adamany 3,100 – – –
Stephanie Newby 21,899* – – –
Kent Masters 70,000*
Simon Thompson 4,744 – – –
*Held as ADSs
Details of the unvested options for Samir Brikho and Ian McHoul included in the table above were as follows:
Date of award T ype of award Number of shares Exercise price Exercise period
Samir Brikho March 2013 PSP 218,630 Nil March 2016 to September 2017
March 2014 PSP 215,835 Nil March 2017 to September 2018
October 2014 Sharesave 1,032 £8.72 January to June 2018
May 2015 LTIP 254,264 Nil March 2018 to September 2019
October 2015 Sharesave 1,160 £6.795 January to June 2019
Ian McHoul March 2013 PSP 121,461 Nil March 2016 to September 2017
October 2013 Sharesave 1,046 £8.60 January to June 2017
March 2014 PSP 119,908 Nil March 2017 to September 2018
May 2015 LTIP 141,257 Nil March 2018 to September 2019
October 2015 Sharesave 1,160 £6.795 January to June 2019
All of Mr Brikho’s unvested options lapsed on 31 January 2016 due to the cessation of his employment. The PSP award made  
to Mr McHoul in March 2013 will lapse on 28 March 2016 due to the minimum performance requirements not having been met. 
Details of the options exercised by Samir Brikho and Ian McHoul during the 2015 financial year are as follows:
Date of award T ype of award
Number of options 
exercised
Number of shares 
withheld for tax Exercise price
Gain on option 
exercise Date option exercised
Samir Brikho October 2011 Sharesave 1,335 0 £6.74 £3,137 9 March 2015
April 2012 PSP 37 ,015 7 ,404 Nil £270,950 5 October 2015
Ian McHoul April 2012 PSP 20,575 9,671 Nil £150,609 5 October 2015
Total £424,696
No other directors exercised options during the 2015 financial year.
On 5 January 2016 Messrs Connolly and McHoul acquired 2,911 and 57 shares respectively and on 11 January 2016 Mr Day 
acquired 752 shares; all of these were in lieu of the interim dividend paid on 5 January 2016. 
There were no other changes in the directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company between 31 December 2015 and 8 March 
2016 (or 31 January 2016, in the case of Mr Brikho). As at 8 March 2016, the shareholdings of each of the directors was less than 1% 
of the total shares outstanding. No director has used any of their shareholdings in hedging arrangements or as collateral for loans.
Guidelines are in place requiring executive directors and members of the Group Leadership T eam to build up and retain a holding 
of Amec Foster Wheeler shares received from incentive plans or purchased by them. The level of targeted shareholding is 250% 
of salary for executive directors and 125% for other senior executives.
Based on the average share price and salaries during December 2015, the legally-owned shares shown above represented the 
following percentages of base salary which were both in excess of the shareholding requirement:
Samir Brikho 855%  
Ian McHoul 256%
There is no shareholding requirement for the Chairman or non-executive directors.
Remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued 73
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Total shareholder return 
This graph compares the TSR performance of Amec Foster Wheeler plc, assuming dividends are re-invested, with the TSR 
performance of the FTSE 100 over the period 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2015. 
Chief Executive’s pay in the last seven years
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Single total figure of remuneration £’000 4,103 9,295 4,590 3,092 2,370 1,837 1,265
Bonus awarded as % of maximum 58% 97% 64% 57% 52% 41% 0%
LTIP vesting as % of maximum 100% 80% 71% 50% 19% 0% 0%
Percentage change in Chief Executive’s remuneration
The table below shows how the percentage change between 2014 and 2015 in the Chief Executive’s salary, benefits and bonus 
compares with the percentage change in the average of each of those elements of pay for a comparator group of employees. The 
committee has selected employees in the UK as the comparator group as they have broadly the same structure of remuneration 
and to eliminate the impact of exchange rate movements if employees in other countries were included.
Salary T axable benefits Bonus
2015 2014 % change 2015 2014 % change 2015 2014 % change
Chief Executive 954 954 0% 48 48 0% 0 594 -100%
UK staff +13% +11% +4%
The taxable benefit figures for the Chief Executive have been adjusted compared to those shown in the single figure of 
remuneration table to correct for the period to which payments actually relate. The year-on-year change for UK staff taxable 
benefits is based on data for tax years ending in 2015 and 2014 averaged over the number of employees in receipt of those 
benefits. The year-on-year changes for UK staff salary and bonus are based on the aggregate amounts paid in each year divided  
by the average number of employees in that year. 2014 figures do not include the former Foster Wheeler employees.
Total shareholder return 
 Amec Foster Wheeler 
 FTSE 100 Index 
Source: Datastream
300
250
200
150
100
50
0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
0
50
100
150
200
250
300 74
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Annual report on remuneration continued
Relative importance of spending on pay 
The table and chart below illustrate the relative importance of spending on pay compared to distributions to shareholders 
(dividends and share buy-back) and other disbursements from profit or cash flow that are considered by the directors to be the 
most material expenditures in relation to the Company’s strategy.
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
Staff costs (see page 118) 2,137 1,642 1,639
Dividends and share buy-backs 167 124 153
Acquisitions (see pages 150 to 153) 85 1,983 22
Shareholder voting on remuneration policy and report at last AGM
At the annual general meeting held on 14 April 2015 votes were cast as follows:
Resolution
Shares for (including 
discretionary) % in favour Shares against % against Shares withheld
T o approve the remuneration report 255,630,210 99.56 1,119,538 0.44 1,801,294
T o approve the remuneration policy 253,956,672 98.90 2,824,184 1.10 1,770,186
T o approve the Long-T erm Incentive Plan 230,053,912 89.05 28,275,209 10.95 221,920
The committee do not consider that the votes against any resolution were substantial requiring any specific explanation or action 
in response. 
Remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Relative importance  
of spending on pay 
£bn 
 2015 
 2014 
 2013 
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0 Staff costs Dividends and share buy-backs Acquisitions 75
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Remuneration policy
Introduction
The following sets out the policy that was approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM. 
Remuneration policy table
This table sets out the components of the directors’ remuneration package (except on recruitments or promotions which are 
described separately). It is also part of this policy that we will honour payments or awards crystallising after the effective date of 
this policy (14 May 2015) but arising from commitments entered into prior to that date or at a time when the relevant individual 
was not a director of the Company.
Executive directors
Component and how this 
supports strategy How this operates Maximum
Salary 
Enables the business 
to attract and retain 
individuals with the 
personal attributes, 
skills and experience 
required to deliver 
our strategy. This 
also applies to the 
other elements of 
fixed remuneration 
below (pension and 
other benefits).
Reviewed annually from 1 January. Interim reviews only in case of significant changes of responsibility. Salary increases for 
executive directors will 
not normally exceed the 
average increase awarded 
to other employees based 
in the same country. 
Increases may be above 
this level if there is an 
increase in the scale, 
scope, complexity or 
responsibility of the 
role or to allow the base 
salary of newly appointed 
executives to move 
towards market norms 
as their experience and 
contribution increase. 
Pension and related 
benefits
Normally through a fixed allowance, some or all of which can be paid in the form of a company 
contribution to a defined contribution pension plan with any balance paid as a cash supplement. 
Where the plan permits, individuals may also sacrifice on a like-for-like basis part of base salary in 
return for an enhanced company contribution. Pension plan membership is available on the same 
basis as for senior employees generally in the country in which the individual is based and there  
are no special arrangements for directors. 
Life assurance is also provided. 
T o allow for the fluctuating 
value of defined benefit 
pension accrual and cost 
of life assurance, the 
aggregate value of those 
arrangements, company 
contribution to a defined 
contribution arrangement 
and cash supplement will 
not exceed 50% of annual 
salary.
Other benefits Standard benefits typically include disability and healthcare insurance (including cover for eligible 
dependants), car/travel allowance, working lunches and tax return preparation assistance.
Additional benefits may be paid where an individual is required by the Company to relocate. This can 
include temporary housing prior to full relocation and a one-off payment to cover specific costs of 
moving home or an allowance of an equivalent amount paid for a fixed number of years.
Where individuals are required to work in another country on a temporary basis, housing, travel, tax 
equalisation and cost of living adjustments may also be paid in line with the Company’s normal policy  
for employees generally.
Other benefits may be provided from time to time where the committee feels it appropriate and  
in line with market practice to do so in the country in which the director is based.
The Company may from time to time operate other arrangements that are open to employees in  
a particular country (for example relating to savings, discounted purchase, salary sacrifice, holiday  
buy and sell, service recognition awards) that executive directors may participate in on the same  
basis as other employees in the country in which they are based.
The actual value of these 
benefits will vary from 
time to time depending, 
among other things, on 
the cost of insuring them. 
The intention is that the 
aggregate cost would be in 
line with market practice 
and will not exceed 100% 
of annual salary where 
there is a relocation/ 
expatriate element and 
20% of annual salary 
otherwise. 76
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Remuneration policy continued
Component and how this 
supports strategy How this operates Maximum
Annual bonus
Rewards the 
achievement of 
annual financial and 
delivery of other 
strategic business 
targets.
Calculated by reference to a mix of financial and other strategic objectives set by the remuneration 
committee that vary from year to year and may vary between individuals to reflect the business 
priorities associated with each role. Profit-based measures will have a weighting of not less than 50%. 
The committee will determine for each year threshold and target levels of bonus that will be payable 
for meeting predefined performance levels against the objectives set for the year. T arget bonus will not 
exceed two-thirds of maximum.
25% of any bonus earned is paid in the form of Amec Foster Wheeler shares deferred for three years 
during which it is subject to claw-back in the event that the accounts for the year for which the shares 
were earned are required to be restated for a correction of a prior period error or, at the committee’s 
discretion, for personal misconduct.
The balance of the bonus is normally paid as a cash allowance following the end of the year to which 
the payment relates. However, to facilitate higher levels of executive share ownership, the bonus may, 
at the director’s option and subject to the committee’s agreement, be in the form of nil-cost options over 
company shares of equivalent value instead of cash payment. The vesting is deferred for three months 
during which it is forfeit if the individual is a bad leaver. Such options have a six-month exercise window.
The committee has discretion to amend performance measures and targets or adjust bonus pay-outs 
to take account of exceptional items, unbudgeted acquisitions or disposals, and other aspects of 
performance which have not been specifically identified in the targets.
The maximum opportunity 
is 150% of annual salary 
for the Chief Executive and 
125% for other executive 
directors.
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan
Incentivises directors 
to achieve long-term 
value creation and 
alignment with 
long-term returns 
to shareholders.
Annual awards of conditional awards or nil-cost options (with an 18-month exercise period after vesting). 
Following vesting and, where relevant, exercise all shares (net of tax) will be held in trust for two years 
from the original vesting date. During this period shares will not normally be able to be transferred and 
may be subject to claw-back in the event that the accounts for any year over which the shares were 
earned are required to be restated for correction of a prior period error. There is further provision to 
reduce leaver awards retrospectively on an individual basis as set out below.
Awards are subject to EPS growth and relative TSR measured over a three-year period with equal 
weighting on each measure and any additional strategic measures that the committee may consider 
appropriate for any particular set of awards. Additionally, awards are subject to a provision that allows 
the committee to reduce vesting in the event of a materially adverse misstatement of results for any year 
of the performance period, to correct errors or for personal misconduct. The number of shares vesting 
from these awards is increased to take account of reinvested dividends.
The committee will determine the applicable EPS range for each set of awards, with 25% of the relevant 
portion of the awards vesting if the bottom of the range is achieved and 100% if the top is achieved, with 
straight-line vesting between. EPS is adjusted for certain defined items and calculated on a consistent 
basis between base and final years.
The committee will determine the TSR comparator group for each set of awards with 25% of the relevant 
portion of the awards vesting if Amec Foster Wheeler’s ranking is at median and 100% if it is at upper 
quartile, with straight-line vesting between. The committee, at its discretion, may reduce or eliminate 
the portion of the LTIP determined by reference to relative TSR if it is not satisfied with the underlying 
financial performance of the business during the performance period.
The committee may amend the performance conditions if an event happens which the committee 
considers to be of a genuine, exceptional nature so that amended performance condition(s) would be  
a fairer measure of performance and would be materially neither easier nor more difficult to satisfy.
In the event of a change of control and in the absence of an exchange of awards being agreed, awards will 
normally vest to the extent that the performance conditions have been met at that time. The committee 
has discretion to measure performance based solely against one of the performance conditions.
Award of shares with a 
face value at the time of 
award of up to 250% of 
annual salary (ignoring 
dividend equivalents).
Sharesave
Provides alignment 
with shareholders’ 
interests.
Sharesave is an employee share plan under which discounted options over Amec Foster Wheeler shares 
are granted linked to a savings arrangement with the options becoming exercisable at the end of the 
savings period. The exercise price can be up to a 20% discount to the share price at the time of offer and 
the number of shares is that which can be bought at the exercise price with the expected proceeds of the 
savings contract. Executive directors are eligible to participate in this plan on the same basis as other 
employees in the country in which they are located. Invitations to participate may be made annually.
Sharesave is not subject to performance conditions as the terms of the plan are subject to tax legislation 
in the UK and certain other countries including the US that preclude this.
Sharesave options become exercisable, to the extent of savings made, in the event of a change 
of control.
The maximum monthly 
savings level under any 
concurrent Sharesave 
plans is in line with 
the limit set by the UK 
government from time 
to time for such plans 
(currently £500 per 
month or the equivalent in 
other currencies).
Remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued 77
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Remuneration policy continued
Chairman and non-executive directors
Note: The remuneration of non-executive directors is set by the Chairman and Chief Executive under delegated authority from the 
board rather than by the remuneration committee.
Component and how this 
supports strategy How this operates Maximum
Fees
T o attract and 
retain individuals 
with the personal 
attributes, skills and 
experience required 
to determine 
strategy and 
governance, to apply 
executive oversight 
and to represent 
shareholders’ 
interests.
Non-executive directors receive only fees for their services and do not participate in any of the incentive 
or benefit schemes of the group. Fee structure comprises a base fee and additional fees to reflect time 
commitment and responsibility of specific roles (for example, SID and committee chair). Additional 
fees may also be paid to directors not resident in the UK to recognise the additional travelling time 
in attending meetings. 
The Chairman, whilst a non-executive director, will not participate in any of the incentive or benefit 
schemes of the group.
Directors (including the Chairman) are reimbursed for expenses relating to performing their duties  
and any tax thereon. 
Increases in the 
Chairman’s fee will not 
normally exceed the 
average increase awarded 
to executive directors. 
The company’s articles 
currently set an aggregate 
limit of £600,000 for base 
fees for non-executive 
directors. T otal fees will 
not exceed market norms.
Selection of performance targets
Financial performance targets under the annual bonus plan are set so that the target level of bonus is paid normally for achieving 
the Company’s short-range plan. T o achieve maximum bonus, higher targets have to be met. In determining targets, the 
committee takes account of the general business circumstances including the perceived difficulty inherent in the short-range 
plan and the need to balance stretch against risk. Profit is chosen as the most appropriate measure of the Company’s short-term 
performance and the cash measures are chosen to reflect the conversion of profit to cash across the year. Strategic targets are set 
to reflect other key business objectives during the year. 
EPS targets under the Long-T erm Incentive Plan are set to reflect the Company’s longer-term growth objectives at a level where 
the maximum represents genuine outperformance against expectations. EPS is chosen as the most appropriate measure of 
absolute growth in line with the Company’s strategy. TSR is chosen to measure relative long-term performance against a peer 
group comprising UK and international companies against which Amec Foster Wheeler competes directly. Other strategic targets 
may be set to reflect other key business objectives during the particular three-year cycle.  78
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Remuneration policy continued
Recruitment pay policy
Item External hire Internal promotion to the board
Base salary T ake account of current terms and any premium required to 
secure high-calibre appointment.
T ake account of current terms, relativities with other board 
members and whether any previous plc board experience. If 
initial salary is below market benchmark for role, would expect to 
move progressively to that level over next 24 months based on 
performance in role.
Pension and related 
benefits
Existing arrangements may be continued, otherwise in line with 
standard policy.
Existing arrangements may be continued, otherwise in line with 
standard policy.
Other benefits Normally in line with standard policy but may include special 
transitional arrangements eg overseas hire where dependants 
remain outside the UK.
Existing arrangements may be continued, otherwise in line with 
standard policy.
Annual bonus Inclusion in annual bonus for year of hire based on 
pro-rated salary. 
Maximum opportunity (as a percentage of salary) no greater 
than that for Chief Executive.
Where relevant, increase existing bonus opportunity to level 
applicable to new role and apply pro-rata from date of promotion 
including any amendment to performance measures.
Maximum opportunity (as a percentage of salary) no greater than 
that for Chief Executive.
Long-Term 
Incentive plan
Inclusion in LTIP for year of hire subject to same performance 
conditions as others but with three-year vesting period running 
from date of joining.
Maximum opportunity in line with standard policy.
Maximum opportunity in line with standard policy allowing for an 
additional award to be made in year of appointment to reflect the 
timing of the appointment and the extent of other enhancements 
to remuneration terms. Previous awards will continue on their 
original terms.
Sharesave Inclusion in next offer subject to meeting any qualifying period 
of service that applies for new employees generally.
Inclusion in next offer subject to any restrictions as a result 
of savings limits.
Notice periods Where it is necessary to secure the services of a particular 
individual, the remuneration committee has discretion to agree 
initial notice periods of not more than 24 months reducing to 
normal policy level over a period not more than 12 months.
Apply standard policy immediately including, if relevant, reducing 
any more favourable existing terms.
One-off 
arrangements
Where individuals forfeit bonus or long-term incentive payments 
from their former employer as a result of resigning to join Amec 
Foster Wheeler, then the committee has the discretion to make 
additional one-off awards in the form of cash and/or shares 
and subject to performance and/or other conditions, including 
holding periods, as appropriate. The maximum amounts to 
be awarded would be based on an estimate of actual loss 
discounted for any accelerated payment and the extent to which 
the loss is otherwise compensated for by the new terms overall. 
Individuals may be compensated for actual expenses, including 
temporary accommodation, in the event that they are required 
to relocate to take up the new role. Alternatively a temporary 
cash allowance may be paid for a limited period of time which 
equates to the estimated relocation cost that would otherwise 
have been reimbursed. These amounts will include any 
grossing-up for tax.
Individuals may be compensated for actual expenses, including 
temporary accommodation, in the event that they are required 
to relocate to take up the new role. Alternatively a temporary cash 
allowance may be paid for a limited period of time which equates 
to the estimated relocation cost that would otherwise have been 
reimbursed. These amounts will include any grossing-up for tax.
Remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued 79
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Remuneration policy continued
Policy on notice and payment for loss of office
Newly appointed executive directors will be employed on contracts that include the following provisions: 
 X the individual will be required to give six months’ notice if they wish to leave and the Company will give up to 12 months’ notice  
of termination other than for gross misconduct or other circumstances where employment may be terminated without notice 
 X at the Company’s discretion, the individual may be placed on garden leave for some or all of the period between the giving of 
notice and termination in which case the Company will continue to pay salary and benefits for the garden leave period but will  
not make new share or other incentive awards 
 X at any time, at the Company’s discretion, employment may be terminated before the end of the required notice period by making 
a payment in lieu of the balance and subject to mitigation as described more fully in the table below 
In the event of long-term incapacity, employment would not normally be terminated so long as the executive was entitled to 
payments under the Company’s group income protection insurance arrangements but the executive would be required to stand 
down from their role and as a director.
Payment for loss of office will be determined according to the following principles set out below and, for the current executive 
directors, having regard to their existing contractual terms as described following the table.
Notice The executive will receive base salary, pension and other benefits for any part of the notice period worked (and any period of garden 
leave). On termination, the executive will be entitled to payment for any accrued but untaken holiday pay. 
The Company may elect to pay a sum in lieu of notice for all or any part of the notice period, calculated by reference to the value of 
salary, pension and other contractual benefits (excluding bonus). In determining the payments to be made and the structure of such 
payments, the Company will have regard to the executive’s ability to mitigate their loss. In respect of any defined benefit pension 
rights, an augmentation of benefits for the relevant part of the notice period may be made. The committee has discretion to continue 
to provide certain benefits to the end of the notice period rather than including them in the payment in lieu.
Where the employment is being terminated by the Company for gross misconduct (or other circumstances entitling the Company  
to treat the contract as at an immediate end) termination will be immediate and no payment in lieu of notice will be made.
Annual bonus No bonus will be paid in the event of termination for gross misconduct. 
In all other circumstances, the committee will consider whether it is appropriate to make a bonus payment for the year in question 
taking into account all relevant circumstances, including performance and conduct. Payment will usually be determined and paid in 
cash at the normal time.
Deferred bonus 
from prior years
In the event of termination due to misconduct by the individual, the Remuneration Committee may determine that some or all,  
at its discretion, of the deferred shares will be forfeit.
In the case of death the shares will be released in full to the estate as soon as practicable thereafter.
In other circumstances, they will continue to be subject to the deferral period and only released at the end of it providing no further 
claw-back applies.
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan
All unvested awards will lapse on leaving in the event of termination for gross misconduct or other bad leaver circumstances.  
An example of a ‘bad leaver’ would be an individual resigning in order to take up a position with a competitor.
Awards will immediately vest in full in the event of death.
In other cases, unvested awards will be pro-rated for service, which may include any period for which payment was made in lieu. 
For pre-2015 awards, provided the associated investment shares remain lodged, matched awards will normally be retained in full 
unless the committee decide to pro-rate for service. A further reduction may be made at the committee’s discretion to take account 
of relevant circumstances at the time of leaving. The retained awards will vest in the normal way, taking account of the relevant 
performance conditions, and at the normal time subject to the committee being satisfied at that time that the individual remains  
a good leaver.
Other Redundancy pay in line with statutory provisions or those applying to employees generally in the country in which the director is based 
will be provided in the event of termination due to redundancy.
The cost of legal, tax or other advice incurred by the individual in connection with the termination and/or support with seeking 
alternative employment may be met up to a maximum of £100,000.
Additional payments may be made where required to settle legal disputes or as consideration for new or amended post-employment 
restrictions.
Where an individual is in receipt of relocation or expatriation benefits, the costs of actual expenses incurred in relation to any 
arrangements that are subject to term contracts may continue to be reimbursed for up to six months or, at the Company’s discretion, 
a one-off payment made to cover the costs of premature cancellation. The cost of repatriation will also be covered where this was part 
of the original expatriation terms.
Sharesave options lapse unless the director leaves because of specified good leaver reasons in which case they can be exercised  
for a limited period, to the extent of savings made to the date of exercise. 80
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Remuneration policy continued
Samir Brikho and Ian McHoul are both employed under contracts (dated April 2007 and September 2008 respectively) with 
notice periods of twelve months from the Company and which require them to give six months’ notice of resignation. The 
contracts permit for payment to be made in lieu of all or part of the required notice period at the Company’s discretion but there 
is no prescribed methodology for calculating such payment in lieu or applying mitigation. Should circumstances arise where notice 
is given and the executive is not required to work all or part of the notice period, the terms of the existing contracts would be 
honoured. The individuals may be placed on garden leave for part of the notice period in which case the committee may determine 
that it is appropriate to pay an element of bonus for that garden leave period.
Existing directors’ service contracts
The notice provisions for Samir Brikho and Ian McHoul are described above. There are no specified change-of-control provisions.
The Chairman’s engagement may be terminated on six months’ notice on either side.
The contracts of non-executive directors may be terminated by the individual at any time. There are no specific provisions for 
compensation in the event of early termination by the Company. Our practice is that all directors submit themselves for re-election 
on an annual basis, in line with the recommendations in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in company and shareholder views
Our approach to the annual review of base salaries is to take account of personal performance, company performance, and pay 
levels more broadly within the Company. External benchmarking is also taken into account, particularly for new appointments.
Any proposals to change remuneration policy are considered against the ‘best practice’ guidelines produced by shareholder 
bodies and major shareholders are consulted directly when formulating any proposals for significant changes. 
The Chairman of the Company and the chairman of the remuneration committee make themselves available at any time and also 
at each annual general meeting to discuss any issues raised.
Differences in policy for directors compared to other employees
The structure of remuneration for executive directors is in line with other senior management. The primary differences compared 
to other employees are the structure of variable pay, which for senior management is in the form of performance-related 
incentives and for other employees is largely in the form of overtime and allowances reflecting the different emphases of the roles, 
and in the level of accrual under defined benefit arrangements.
Illustrations of application of policy
The total remuneration for each of the executive directors that could result from the proposed remuneration policy in 2015 under 
three different performance levels is shown below. 
 
Notes
1  Fixed pay is base salary for 2015 plus the value of pension and benefits. The value of pension and benefits in kind is taken from the single total figure 
of remuneration for 2015.
2 On target performance is the level of performance required to deliver 66.67% of the maximum annual bonus and 50% of the full LTIP award.
3 Maximum performance would result in the maximum bonus and 100% vesting of LTIP award.
4 LTIP values ignore any change in share price or dividend equivalents.
Remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Samir Brikho
£m 
 Fixed pay 
 Annual bonus 
 LTIP
25% 39% 100%
6
5
4
3
2
1
0 Fixed element On target Maximum
28%
24%
37%
47%
5.069
3.399
1.243
Ian McHoul
£m 
 Fixed pay 
 Annual bonus 
 LTIP
25% 39% 100%
3
2
1
0 Fixed element On target Maximum
25%
21%
40%
50%
2.643
1.760
0.654 81
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The executive directors undertake an extensive programme 
of meetings with institutional shareholders during each year. 
Our results presentations and investor education events are 
recorded and remain available on our website at amecfw.com/
investors for those unable to participate on the day.
Each year, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director offer 
to meet with all major shareholders. Since the publication of the 
previous annual report, 15 such meetings have taken place.
The Chairman attends full-year results presentations.
Ad-hoc requests from shareholders for meetings with members 
of the board are facilitated by the investor relations team.
The board also receives unedited feedback reports following 
shareholder meetings and all material brokers’ research notes, 
together with a report at each meeting including benchmark 
data within our peer group. 
During 2015 we appointed Quantifire, an independent service 
provider, to update our shareholder contact base and provide 
us with regular feedback from our investor engagement 
activities. This information is used to help target potential new 
shareholders and improve the efficiency and quality of our 
investor communications.
Our 2016 AGM will be held at Painter’s Hall, 9 Little T rinity Lane, 
London, EC4V 2AD on 27 April 2016 at 11:00am. The notice of 
meeting, which includes explanatory notes on the business to 
be transacted at the meeting, accompanies this report and is 
also available on our website.
Separate resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to receive 
the annual report and accounts; to declare a final dividend; 
to approve the remuneration report, to re-elect each of 
the current directors who will retire in accordance with the 
provisions of the Code; to elect Roy Franklin as a director; 
to re-elect Ernst & Y oung LLP as auditor; and to authorise 
the directors to fix the auditor’s remuneration.
Shareholders will also be asked to renew both the general 
authority of the directors to allot shares in the company 
and to allot such shares without the application of statutory 
pre-emption rights. In addition, shareholders will be requested 
to authorise the company to make market purchases of its 
own shares within prescribed limits and approve the resolution, 
to be repeated at each AGM going forward, to authorise the 
calling of general meetings, other than annual general meetings, 
on 14 clear days’ notice. 
Engagement
Relations with shareholders
The board views the AGM as an opportunity to directly 
communicate the group’s progress and engage with 
shareholders. Where possible, the entire board will attend  
the AGM and will be available to answer questions from those 
shareholders present. The board encourages all shareholders  
to attend and participate where possible.
At last year’s AGM a number of interesting questions were 
raised and all of the proposed resolutions passed by way of a 
poll vote. The percentage of the company’s share capital voted 
in favour of each resolution ranged from 88.27% to 99.99%.
Find out more online
Visit our website at amecfw.com/investors for further information regarding 
this year’s AGM. 82
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Our directors present their annual report and 
the audited accounts of Amec F oster Wheeler 
plc (the Company) and its subsidiaries (together 
referred to as the Group) for the year ended 
31 December 2015.
Achievements in 2015 and priorities for 2016
Disclosures relating to particulars of important events affecting 
the Group that have occurred since the last financial year, an 
indication of likely future developments in the business of the 
Group and research and development activities can be found 
in the strategic report on pages 1 to 37 .
Dividends
The directors are recommending a final ordinary dividend in 
respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 of 14.2 pence 
per share. This final dividend will be payable on 4 July 2016 to 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 27 May 
2016. An interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 
of 14.8 pence per share was paid on 4 January 2016. Further 
information on the payment of dividends to shareholders and 
the holders of American Depositary Shares (ADSs) can be 
found on pages 180 to 181.
Dividends paid during 2015 comprised an interim dividend 
of 14.8 pence per share and a final dividend of 28.5 pence per 
share, both in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014.
Changes to the board of directors
Details of the directors of the company as at the date of 
this report, together with brief biographical details and board 
committee memberships, are set out on pages 41 to 43.
Changes to the board since 1 January 2015:
Samir Brikho Chief Executive 
Officer
Stepped down 
as Chief Executive 
17 January 2016
Roy Franklin Non-executive 
director
Appointed 
1 January 2016
Simon Thompson Non-executive 
director
Retired  
14 May 2015
Kent Masters Non-executive 
director
Appointed  
13 February 2015
Effective immediately upon Mr Brikho’s departure, Mr McHoul 
was appointed to the role of interim CEO, which he has agreed 
to fulfil alongside his role as Chief Financial Officer until the 
search for a new Chief Executive is concluded.
Directors’ indemnity arrangements
The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance cover. In addition, throughout the financial year 
and at the date of this report, qualifying third-party indemnity 
provisions within the meaning of Sections 232–234 of the 
Companies Act 2006 were in place for all of the directors 
and the Company Secretary.
In addition, certain employees serving as directors of certain 
eligible subsidiaries at the Group’s request have also received 
direct qualifying third-party indemnity provisions within the 
meaning of Sections 232-234 of the Companies Act 2006 
in relation to such directorships.
Directors’ interests
None of the directors is, or was, materially interested in any 
contract of significance to Amec Foster Wheeler’s businesses 
during, or at the end of, the financial year. Details of directors’ 
share interests and of their rights to subscribe for shares are 
shown in the remuneration report on page 72.
Corporate governance statement
The company’s statement on corporate governance is set 
out on pages 40 to 84 and is incorporated into this report 
by reference.
Share capital
The primary market for Amec Foster Wheeler’s ordinary shares 
is the London Stock Exchange, where we have a premium listing 
and our shares are admitted to the main market. Following the 
acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the company’s shares were also 
successfully listed on the New Y ork Stock Exchange (NYSE) 
and are traded in the form of American Depositary Shares 
(ADS). Further information on the company’s ADS programme 
can be found on pages 181 to 182.
The issued share capital of the company as at 31 December 
2015 comprised a single class of ordinary share. The rights 
and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in full in the 
articles of association of the company and are described on 
pages 184 to 186. In summary, each share carries the right to 
one vote at general meetings of the company and no right to 
a fixed income. There are no restrictions on voting rights.
Pursuant to the Squeeze-Out Merger initiated on 
8 December 2014, 4,255,970 shares were issued to Foster 
Wheeler shareholders on 19 January 2015, to acquire the 
remaining issued and to be issued Foster Wheeler voting rights. 
Details of movements in the company’s issued share capital 
during the year are set out in note 22 on pages 146 to 148.
Authority was granted to the directors at the 2015 AGM to 
allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any 
security to shares up to a nominal amount of £64,158,715 
(Section 551 amount) of which up to £9,721,017 could be 
allotted for cash other than in connection with a pre-emptive 
offer (Section 561 amount). 
Directors’ report 83
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM to 
extend this authority to the end of the AGM in 2017 or 1 June 
2017 , whichever is earlier. The revised Section 551 amount 
will be £64,345,628 and the revised Section 561 amount will 
be £19,498,675. The directors have no present intention of 
issuing any shares other than in respect of the exercise of 
share options. No issue will be made that will effectively alter 
the control of the company without the prior approval of 
shareholders at a General Meeting. 
Since the completion of the £400m share buy-back programme 
in February 2013, the company has not made any purchases 
of its shares in the market. At the 2015 AGM, authority was 
granted to the directors to make market purchases of up 
to 38,884,069 of the company’s shares. A resolution will be 
proposed at the 2016 AGM to extend the authority of the 
directors to make market purchases of up to 10% of the 
company’s shares within prescribed limits.
For further information on the above resolutions relating to the 
company’s share capital, please refer to the notice of annual 
general meeting 2016, which includes explanatory notes on the 
business to be transacted at the meeting.
Major interests in shares
On the basis of notifications received under the Disclosure and 
T ransparency Rules (DTR 5) and other notifications received 
by Amec Foster Wheeler plc from shareholders, shareholdings 
of 3% or more of the voting rights of the company as at 
31 December 2015 were as follows:
Number %
BlackRock, Inc 21,904,416 5.63
Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 20,253,855 5.28
Franklin T empleton Institutional, LLC 19,712,142 5.05
The shareholding percentages reflect the company’s issued 
share capital at the time of the notification. There were no other 
notifications received under DTR 5 from the above shareholders 
between 31 December 2015 and 8 March 2016. 
There are no shareholdings that carry special rights relating 
to control of the company.
Financial instruments
Disclosures relating to the group’s use of financial instruments 
can be found in note 19 on pages 136 to 141 and are 
incorporated into this report by reference.
Branches
As a global group, our interests and activities are held or 
operated through subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements 
or associates established in, and subject to the laws and 
regulations of, numerous different jurisdictions.
Details of the company’s related undertakings can be found 
on pages 194 to 201. 
Significant arrangements – change of control
The following significant agreements contain provisions 
entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other 
rights in the event of a change of control of the company:
Under the £1,700m three- and five-year term loan and five 
year multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement dated 
1 March 2016 between, amongst others, the company and 
Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited (as facility 
agent), the company must promptly notify the facility agent if 
it becomes aware of any change of control.
Following such notice the lenders under the relevant agreement 
are required to negotiate with the company for a period of 30 
days with a view to agreeing terms and conditions acceptable 
to the company and all the relevant lenders for continuing the 
relevant facilities. If agreement is not reached by the relevant 
parties before the end of the 30-day period, if a lender so 
requires, the relevant facility agent must, by notice of not 
less than 30 days to the company, cancel the commitments 
of that lender under the relevant agreement and declare the 
participations of that lender in all outstanding loans under 
that agreement together with accrued interest and all other 
amounts accrued under that agreement to be immediately 
due and payable. If the company is subject to a change of 
control by one or more persons who are listed as having been 
the subject of a sanctions designation, then the banks do not 
need to fund any new debt drawdowns and their commitments 
can be cancelled within a 14 day period.
The service contracts of a small number of senior executives 
previously employed by Foster Wheeler provide for enhanced 
severance payments to be made in the event that their 
employment is terminated involuntarily and not for cause 
within the first two years of the acquisition . These provisions 
will cease to apply from November 2016.
Depending on the nature of the transaction, entitlements 
under the company’s share plans may be triggered by a 
change of control. Further detail can be found in the directors’ 
remuneration report.
In addition, a small number of contracts and agreements 
entered into by group companies in the ordinary course of 
business contain provisions under which the approval of the 
counterparty would be required in respect of a change of 
control. In the absence of such approval the contracts could be 
terminated by the counterparties. Such contracts are however 
not considered to be material with respect to the results of the 
group as a whole.
A change of control occurs if any person or group of persons 
acting in concert gains control of the company. 84
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Employees
Our employees embody our knowledge, brand and reputation 
and it is through their activities, day by day, that we deliver on 
our business objectives and commitments to shareholders, 
clients and the wider community. Information on employee 
development and training; how we engage with our employees 
to ensure they understand the direction in which the company 
is going and are committed to Amec Foster Wheeler’s values; 
the actions taken to share knowledge with our employees and 
keep them informed of developments; how we assess and 
act on employee opinion and encourage involvement in the 
company’s performance; and our commitment to cultural 
diversity and equal opportunities can be found on page 14 and 
is incorporated in this report by reference. As can be seen in our 
Code of Business Conduct, Amec Foster Wheeler is committed 
to providing a workplace which offers equal opportunity for 
promotion and advancement. As part of the integration of the 
two AMEC and Foster Wheeler businesses, a revised Code of 
Business Conduct was implemented during the year that meets 
the needs of the wider Group.
As part of the company’s equal opportunities policy, procedures 
are in place that are designed to provide for full and fair 
consideration and selection of disabled applicants, to ensure 
they are properly trained to perform safely and effectively and 
to provide career opportunities that allow them to fulfil their 
potential. Where an employee becomes disabled in the course 
of their employment, Amec Foster Wheeler will actively seek 
to retain them wherever possible by making adjustments to 
their work content and environment or by retraining them 
to undertake new roles.
Sustainability
Summary details about our commitment to sustainability 
and its importance to our day-to-day activities are set out 
specifically on page 22 and in general throughout our strategic 
report. Further detail is available in our sustainability report 
and on our website.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Disclosures relating to the group’s greenhouse gas emissions, 
as required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 
(strategic report and directors’ report) Regulations 2013,  
can be found in the strategic report on page 22.
Political donations 
During 2015, Amec Foster Wheeler made no political donations 
in the UK or European Union, including donations as defined for 
the purposes of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums 
Act 2000. Amec Foster Wheeler Americas Limited, a subsidiary 
of the company in Canada, made contributions to non-EU 
political parties in Canada totalling C$1,950 (£995).
Going concern
The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the group 
has adequate resources to operate for the foreseeable future 
and, therefore, it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the accounts. Further details of this 
review can be found on page 37 .
Viability statement
In accordance with the new requirement in the 2014 UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the directors’ first viability 
statement and accompanying basis of assessment can be 
found on page 21.
Auditor
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM for the re-appointment 
of Ernst & Y oung LLP as auditor of the company.
Disclosure of information to auditor
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the company’s 
auditor is unaware; and the directors have taken all the steps 
that they ought to have taken as directors to make themselves 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the company’s auditor is aware of that information.
The above statement is made in accordance with Section 418  
of the Companies Act 2006.
Responsibility statements
The statement of directors’ responsibilities, including the fair, 
balanced and understandable statement, in respect of the 
annual report and accounts can be found on page 85. The 
statement by the Company’s auditor relating to their reporting 
responsibilities can be found on pages 92 and 93.
On behalf of the board
Alison Y app
General Counsel and Company Secretary
10 March 2016
Directors’ report continued 85
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect  
of the annual report and the accounts
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report 
and the consolidated and parent company accounts, in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare consolidated 
and parent company accounts for each financial year. Under 
that law the directors are required to prepare the consolidated 
accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and 
applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company 
accounts in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and 
applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under Company law the directors must not approve the 
consolidated and parent company accounts unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for 
that period.
In preparing each of the consolidated and parent company 
accounts, the directors are required to: 
 X select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently 
 X make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent 
 X for the consolidated accounts, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU 
 X for the parent company accounts, state whether applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the parent 
company accounts 
 X prepare the consolidated and parent company accounts on 
the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume 
that the consolidated and the parent company will continue  
in business 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the parent company and 
enable them to ensure that its accounts comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a strategic report, directors’ report, 
directors’ remuneration report and corporate governance 
statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing 
the preparation and dissemination of consolidated and 
parent company accounts may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the directors in respect 
of the annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
 X the accounts, prepared in accordance with the applicable set 
of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as  
a whole 
 X the strategic report and directors’ report includes a fair review 
of the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the issuer and undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description  
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face 
In addition, we confirm that the annual report and accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the position and performance, strategy and business model 
of the company.
Signed on behalf of the board
Ian McHoul
Chief Financial Officer and interim CEO
10 March 2016
Responsibility statements of the directors 86
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Our opinion on the financial statements
In our opinion:
 X Amec Foster Wheeler plc’s Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’)  
give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the 
Group’s loss for the year then ended 
 X the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union 
 X the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including Financial Reporting Standard 101  
‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ 
 X the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation 
What we have audited
Amec Foster Wheeler plc’s ( the Group’s) financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 comprise:
Group Parent company
Consolidated income statement Balance sheet 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Statement of changes in equity
Consolidated balance sheet Related notes 1 to 12 to the financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
Consolidated cash flow statement 
Related notes 1 to 28 to the financial statements
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent 
company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice), including Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ .
Overview of our audit approach
Risks of material misstatement X Appropriateness of revenue recognition on contracts 
and adequacy of contract related provisions
 X Purchase price allocation adjustments relating  
to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler
 X Goodwill impairment
 X Impact of tax planning, recognition of deferred tax  
assets and Research and Development tax credits
 X Adequacy of legacy liabilities including asbestos  
and environmental
 X Risk of fraud and management override
Audit scope X We performed an audit of the complete financial information 
of 4 components and audit procedures on specific balances 
for a further 24 components
 X The components where we performed full or specific audit 
procedures accounted for 90% of profit before tax adjusted 
for certain pre-tax exceptional items and 89% of Revenue
Materiality X Overall Group materiality of £10m which represents  
5% of profit before taxes adjusted for certain pre-tax 
exceptional items
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Amec F oster Wheeler plc 87
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement 
We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit 
strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team. In addressing these risks, 
we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, 
consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee
Appropriateness of revenue recognition on contracts and adequacy of contract related provisions
Refer to the Strategic Report (page 19); the Audit 
Committee Report (page 59); Critical accounting 
policies and the use of judgments, estimates and 
assumptions (page 105) and Note 3 of the Group 
financial statements.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, and as 
detailed in Note 3, revenue recorded in the year 
was £5.5bn. 
We focused on this area because there is a risk that 
due to the complexity associated with accounting 
for long term contracts and the judgements involved 
in determining contract provisions, Amec Foster 
Wheeler’s financial statements could be misstated. 
Specific risks over revenue recognition include 
inappropriate percentage of completion accounting, 
incorrect recognition of variation orders and 
inappropriate accounting for contract contingencies. 
Specific risks over contract related provisions 
include unrecorded liabilities for contractual 
disputes and inappropriate application of 
the Group’s policy for aged work in progress 
and receivables. 
The magnitude of the risk (i.e., the likelihood of 
occurrence and the size of an error should it occur) 
is consistent with the prior year.
We tested internal financial controls 
over the calculation of revenue, including 
those used to determine the percentage 
of completion for fixed price contracts. 
For a sample of contracts, we challenged 
management in respect of the 
reasonableness of judgements made 
regarding the cost to complete estimate, the 
timing of the recognition of variation orders 
and the appropriateness of assumptions 
made in estimating warranty provisions.
We have also challenged management’s 
assessment of the adequacy of contingency 
provisions against contract specific risks 
and their assessments around the potential 
for liquidated damages for projects with 
delays. For those contracts subject to 
claims, we have made enquires of internal 
and external legal counsel.
We have challenged the recoverabiltiy of 
aged work in progress and receivables and 
assessed whether the Group’s accouting 
policy has been appropriately applied.
We have assessed whether management’s 
policies and processes for making these 
estimates are appropriate, in accordance 
with IAS 37 and consistently applied.
Overall, we are satisfied 
that Amec Foster Wheeler’s 
accounting policy for 
revenue recognition and 
contract related provisions 
are reasonable and 
have been appropriately 
applied. The valuation of 
contract risk provisions at 
31 December 2015 is within 
an acceptable range.
Purchase price allocation adjustments relating to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler 
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 60); 
Critical accounting policies and the use of 
judgments, estimates and assumptions (page 105) 
and Note 24 of the Group financial statements.
We focused on this area given the judgements 
involved in making final adjustments to 
the provisional fair values of assets and 
liabilities acquired. 
These judgements include determination of 
whether the circumstance which gave rise to the 
final adjustment existed at the acquisition date and 
also whether the valuation methodology applied in 
making the adjustment is reasonable.
The magnitude of the risk (i.e., the likelihood of 
occurrence and the size of an error should it occur) 
is higher than in the prior year.
We tested internal financial controls 
over the identification of adjustments 
to be made to the provisional fair value 
accounting of assets and liabilities  
acquired with Foster Wheeler. We also 
tested controls in place over the  
calculation of the final adjustments. 
We challenged management over the 
assumptions and valuation techniques  
used in calculating the adjustments made 
to the provisional valuation of assets 
and liabilities acquired. This included 
corroborating the valuation to external 
sources such as settlement agreements  
as applicable. 
We gained an understanding of the 
situation relating to each adjustment 
at the time of the acquisition to assess 
their appropriateness.
The fair values of the assets 
and liabilities recognised 
on the acquisition of 
Foster Wheeler have 
been measured within 
an acceptable range.
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 88
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee
Goodwill impairment
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 60); 
Critical accounting policies and the use of 
judgments, estimates and assumptions (page 106) 
and Note 12 of the Group financial statements.
The total carrying value of goodwill at the year end 
is £2.2bn. This is following an impairment of £308m 
which has been recorded in the Global Power Group 
(‘GPG’) segment. An impairment has arisen as 
the recoverable amount of GPG was less than the 
carrying value of the investment.
We focused on this area given the significant 
judgements and complexity of valuation 
methodologies used to determine whether the 
carrying value of goodwill is appropriate. These 
include the determination of the cash generating 
units used to assess goodwill for impairment, the 
allocation of goodwill to cash generating units and 
the assumptions used within models to support 
the recoverable amount of goodwill. 
The magnitude of the risk (i.e., the likelihood of 
occurrence and the size of an error should it occur) 
is higher than in the prior year
We tested internal financial controls for 
the goodwill impairment process including 
the determination of assumptions used 
within the models to assess the recoverable 
amount of goodwill. 
We tested the integrity of the models 
and challenged the appropriateness of 
the cash generating units determined 
by management. We challenged 
the assumptions used in respect of 
forecast growth rates and involved our 
valuation specialists to corroborate the 
appropriateness of the discount and growth 
rates used. We have evaluated the profit 
forecasts used within the models against 
current trading conditions and challenged 
management on the key assumptions 
underpinning the forecasts. This included 
stress testing the models, to determine the 
degree to which the assumptions would 
need to move before an impairment would 
be triggered.
The impairment recognised 
in respect of the goodwill 
allocated to GPG has been 
appropriately determined. 
The carrying value 
of goodwill post the 
impairment recorded at  
the year end is appropriate. 
Impact of tax planning, recognition of deferred tax assets and research and development tax credits
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 60) and 
Notes 8 and 15 of the Group financial statements.
We focused on the risk arising from tax planning 
given the significant judgements involved in 
assessing uncertain tax positions including those 
relating to the financing structures the Group has  
in place in Canada and the United States.
We focus on the recognition of certain deferred 
tax assets and assets relating to research and 
development credits as both these areas involve 
judgement in the assessment of the recoverability  
of the associated tax asset. This includes 
assessment of the period over which taxable  
profits will be available to utilise the assets against. 
The magnitude of the risk (i.e., the likelihood of 
occurrence and the size of an error should it occur) 
is consistent with the prior year.
We tested internal financial controls over 
the determination of tax risk provisions.  
We also tested internal financial controls 
over the recognition of deferred tax and 
research and development assets.
We challenged tax exposures estimated 
by management. Using our tax experts, 
we evaluated the risk analysis associated 
with these exposures along with claims or 
assessments made by tax authorities to 
date. We have also reviewed documentation 
in relation to tax audits to ensure that any 
exposures the tax authorities are raising 
have been considered and provided for 
where necessary.
We have challenged the profit forecasts 
used by management in determining the 
period over which deferred tax assets and 
assets held in respect of research and 
development tax credits will be recovered. 
We have also assessed if management’s 
rationale over the length of time such 
assets will be recovered, is reasonable.  
We have evaluated the historical accuracy 
of forecasting taxable profits and the 
integrity of the models used.
We are satisfied that the 
provisions recorded in 
respect of tax risks are 
within an acceptable range.
The carrying value of assets 
relating to deferred tax and 
research and development 
tax credits are within an 
acceptable range at the  
year end.
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Amec F oster Wheeler plc continued
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 89
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee
Adequacy of legacy liabilities including asbestos and environmental
Refer to the Strategic Report (page 21), the Audit 
Committee Report (page 60); Critical accounting 
policies and the use of judgments, estimates and 
assumptions (page 105) and Note 21 of the Group 
financial statements.
The Group has risk relating to claims or potential 
claims resulting from the disposal of businesses 
in previous years and those relating to asbestos 
exposure and environmental contamination.  
T otal provisions relating to legacy businesses  
at the year end are £124m, asbestos £378m  
and environmental £44m.
We focused on this area, as determining the impact 
and likely outcome of any litigation matters requires 
significant judgement. There is also a risk that 
provisions are not made for claims which have  
been received.
The magnitude of the risk (i.e., the likelihood of 
occurrence and the size of an error should it occur) 
is consistent with the prior year.
We tested internal financial controls over 
the appropriate valuation of liabilities. We 
assessed the judgements and accounting 
treatments made by management arising 
from contractual disputes and other 
risks. We performed audit procedures on 
supporting calculations and assumptions.
Where appropriate, we have held 
discussions with management’s legal 
experts and also obtained and considered 
legal letters from external counsel and  
other supporting documentation.
We have engaged our own actuarial 
specialists to support our audit procedures 
in respect of asbestos liabilities. These 
procedures include assessment of the 
methodology used by management. 
The valuation of legacy 
liabilities including asbestos 
and environmental liabilities 
at 31 December 2015 is 
within an acceptable range. 
The disclosures made 
in respect to contingent 
liabilities are appropriate.
Risk of fraud and management override
The risk of fraud exists in any business. However, 
fraud involving the manipulation of results to achieve 
performance targets are particularly harmful 
to shareholder value and the current economic 
environment has increased their risk of occurrence. 
The evolution of the business and geographical 
footprint across new territories heightens the risk of 
fraud and bribery and corruption. Business practice 
in emerging markets may expose Amec Foster 
Wheeler to financial, legal and reputational risk. 
The risk of fraud and management override could 
involve the manipulation of results to achieve 
performance targets or asset misappropriation, 
particularly involving third party suppliers who 
may overbill for goods or services and facilitation 
payments to secure business.
The magnitude of the risk (i.e., the likelihood of 
occurrence and the size of an error should it occur) 
is consistent with the prior year.
We considered T ransparency International’s 
Corruption Perception Index 2014 
when performing our scoping exercise. 
Components with significant operations in 
countries which are high on the Index have 
been included in our in scope components.
We have tested entity level controls over  
the implementation of Group wide policies 
and procedures.
We performed audit procedures including 
analytical review and journal entry testing 
in order to identify and address the risk 
of management override of controls. We 
designed testing procedures and thresholds 
for all balances in such a way as to ensure 
that the risk of fraud and error is mitigated.
We challenged and corroborated the 
basis of management’s key estimates, 
such as those made in determining 
trading provisions.
We have taken into account 
T ransparency International’s 
Corruption Perception Index 
2014 when preforming our 
scoping exercise.
As a result of procedures 
performed, we did not find 
any evidence of material 
management override or 
undetected fraud.
In addition to the risks identified as part of our audit planning, the size of and judgement involved in determining the Group’s 
exceptional items affected the allocation of resources and the direction of our audit efforts and for which our audit response  
was as follows:
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 90
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee
Presentation of exceptional items
Amec Foster Wheeler consider the separate 
reporting of exceptional costs helps to provide 
a better indication of the Group’s underlying 
business performance. 
Continuing pre-tax exceptional costs including 
impairment and amortisation recorded in the  
current year are £559m (2014: £156m). 
There is judgement in determining whether the 
classification and measurement of items presented 
as exceptional is reasonable. There is also a risk 
that the Group’s policy for such items is not 
applied consistently. 
We have tested controls in place over the 
determination of items to be recorded 
as exceptional.
We have challenged management over 
whether the costs which have been 
recorded as exceptional are recorded in 
line with the Group’s policy and have been 
appropriately excluded from trading profit. 
In particular, we have challenged whether 
the inclusion of internal labour costs on the 
basis of time spent on integration activities 
is reasonable and whether the inclusion of 
restructuring costs is reasonable. We have 
considered the Financial Reporting Council 
(‘FRC’) guidance on items being reported 
as exceptional.
We have assessed whether the level 
of disclosure provided in the financial 
statements appropriately reflects the 
assessment made by management in 
determining the classification of such 
items as exceptional. 
Overall, the disclosure of 
exceptional items are in 
accordance with the Group’s 
disclosed accounting 
policy for exceptional 
items and is in accordance 
with the requirements 
of IAS 1, Presentation 
of Financial Statements. 
The scope of our audit 
T ailoring the scope
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our 
audit scope for each entity within the Group. T aken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial 
statements. We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, 
changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Group Internal Audit result findings when assessing 
the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative 
coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements we selected 28 components covering entities within UK, US, Canada, 
Italy, China, Australia and Singapore, which represent the principal business units within the Group. The Primary T eam performs 
audit procedures on those areas of accounting performed centrally such as goodwill and intangible asset impairment reviews 
and consolidation adjustments. 
Of the 28 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 4 components (‘full scope 
components’) which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics. For the remaining 24 components (‘specific scope 
components’), we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential 
for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their 
risk profile. The audit risks disclosed above were subject to full scope audit procedures as appropriate. 
The reporting components where we performed full and specific audit procedures accounted for 90% (2014: 90%) of the Group’s 
profit before tax adjusted for certain pre-tax exceptional items and 89% (2014: 92%) of the Group’s Revenue.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 59% of the Group’s profit before tax adjusted for certain pre-tax 
exceptional items and 69% of the Group’s Revenue. 
The specific scope component contributed 31% of the profit before tax adjusted for certain pre-tax exceptional items used  
to calculate materiality and 20% of the Group’s Revenue. The audit scope of these components may not have included testing  
of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of risks tested for the Group. 
Of the remaining components that together represent 10% of the Group’s profit before tax adjusted for certain pre-tax exceptional 
items, none are individually greater than 5% of the Group’s adjusted profit before tax. For these components, we performed 
other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency 
translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Amec F oster Wheeler plc continued
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 91
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
Changes from the prior year 
The basis of our audit scoping has changed in the current year following a change to the Group’s internal reporting structure.  
Our audit coverage in 2015 is consistent with that of 2014.
Involvement with component teams 
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each 
of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms 
operating under our instruction. Of the 4 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 1 of these directly by the 
primary audit team and 3 by component teams. For the 24 specific scope components, where the work was primarily performed 
by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit 
evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior 
Statutory Auditor or his designate visits each of the key locations at both the interim and year end stages of the audit process. 
During the current year’s audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the primary audit team to the component teams in Canada,  
the United States and various sites in the UK, including some specific scope locations. 
These visits involved co-developing the significant risk area audit approach, reviewing key local working papers and conclusions, 
meeting with local and regional leadership team, getting an understanding of key control processes including centralised entity 
level control processes and attending closing meetings. The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where 
appropriate during various stages of the audit, attended all full scope and certain specific scope closing meetings in person and 
all other specific scope close meetings via conference call, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope 
and direction of the audit process. This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate 
evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality 
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements  
on the audit and in forming our audit opinion. 
Materiality
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence  
the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent  
of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £10 million (2014: £14.4 million), which is 5% (2014: 5%) of profit before tax 
adjusted for certain pre-tax exceptional items. We believe that profit before tax, adjusted for the items, as described below, 
provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and is the most relevant performance measure  
to the stakeholders of the entity. Detailed audit procedures are performed on material exceptional items. 
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
Profit before tax adjusted for  
certain pre-tax exceptional items
% 
 Full scope components 
 Specific scope components  
 Other procedures 
59
31
10
Revenue
% 
 Full scope components 
 Specific scope components  
 Other procedures
20
69
11
Materiality
Adjustments
 X £(235)m
 X Loss before tax
 X £429m
 X Adjust for certain pre tax exceptional items to determine adjusted profit before tax
 X T otals £194m 
 X Materiality of £10m (5% of materiality basis)
Starting basis 92
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Performance materiality
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level 
the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment and other 
qualitative considerations, our judgement was that overall performance materiality (i.e. our tolerance for misstatement in 
an individual account or balance) was 50% (2014: 50%) of our planning materiality, namely £5m (2014: £7 .2m). We have set 
performance materiality at this percentage to ensure that the total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts 
did not exceed our materiality.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is 
undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each component is based 
on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that 
component. In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was £1m to £4m (2014: £1m to £7m). 
Reporting threshold
An amount below which identified misstatements is considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of £0.5m 
(2014: £0.5m), which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view,  
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light  
of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes 
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any 
information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 85, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit  
and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing  
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report,  
or for the opinions we have formed. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 X the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies  
Act 2006 
 X the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Amec F oster Wheeler plc continued
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 93
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
ISAs (UK and Ireland) reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual report is: 
 X materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
 X apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course  
of performing our audit; or 
 X otherwise misleading 
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the 
course of performing the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole 
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entity’s performance, 
business model and strategy; and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to  
the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
We have no exceptions to report.
Companies Act 2006 reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 X adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 X the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
 X certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 X we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit 
We have no exceptions to report.
Listing Rules review requirements
We are required to review:
 X the directors’ statement in relation to going concern set out on page 37 and longer-term viability set out on page 21
 X the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review 
We have no exceptions to report.
Statement on the directors’ assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity
ISAs (UK and Ireland) reporting
We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
 X the directors’ confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing  
the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity 
 X the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated 
 X the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue  
to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements 
 X the directors’ explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they 
have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable 
expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their 
assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions 
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Colin Brown (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Y oung LLP , Statutory Auditor 
London
10 March 2016
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 94
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Amec Foster Wheeler plc 
We have audited Amec Foster Wheeler plc’s internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2015, based on criteria 
established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the T readway 
Commission 2013 framework (the COSO criteria). Amec Foster Wheeler plc’s management is responsible for maintaining effective 
internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting 
included in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility  
is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). 
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal 
control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal 
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary  
in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions 
of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the 
company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide 
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s 
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, Amec Foster Wheeler plc maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting  
as of 31 December 2015, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),  
the consolidated balance sheets of Amec Foster Wheeler as of 31 December 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated income 
statement, statement of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flow statement for each of the three years in the 
period ended 31 December 2015 of Amec Foster Wheeler plc and our report dated 10 March 2016, expressed an unqualified 
opinion thereon. 
Ernst & Y oung LLP
London, England
10 March 2016
Report of independent registered public accounting firm 
on internal control over financial reporting 95
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Amec Foster Wheeler plc
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amec Foster Wheeler plc as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, 
and the related consolidated income statement, statements of comprehensive income, change in equity and cash flows for each 
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s 
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). 
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial 
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates 
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position 
of Amec Foster Wheeler at December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for 
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the European Union and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board. 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), 
Amec Foster Wheeler plc’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in 
Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the T readway Commission 
(2013 framework) and our report dated 10 March 2016, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Ernst & Y oung LLP
London, England
10 March 2016
Report of independent registered public accounting firm
Notes 
1  The maintenance and integrity of the Amec Foster Wheeler plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does 
not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial 
statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.  96
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Consolidated income statement
F or the year ended 31 December 2015
2015 2014 2013
Note
Before 
amortisation, 
exceptional 
items and 
asbestos 
related items 
£m
Amortisation, 
exceptional 
items and 
asbestos 
related items 
(note 5) 
£m
Total 
£m
Before 
amortisation, 
exceptional 
items and 
asbestos 
related items 
£m
Amortisation, 
exceptional 
items and 
asbestos 
related items 
(note 5) 
£m
T otal 
£m
Before 
amortisation 
and 
exceptional 
items 
£m
Amortisation 
and 
exceptional 
items 
(note 5) 
£m
T otal 
£m
Continuing operations 
Revenue 2, 3 5,455 − 5,455 3,993 – 3,993 3,974 – 3,974
Cost of sales (4,787) − (4,787) (3,475) – (3,475) (3,431) – (3,431)
Gross profit 668 − 668 518 – 518 543 – 543
Administrative expenses (334) (538) (872) (219) (135) (354) (228) (65) (293)
Loss on business  
disposals and closures − (1) (1) – (16) (16) – (7) (7)
Profit/(loss) before  
net financing expense 4 334 (539) (205) 299 (151) 148 315 (72) 243
Financial income 16 − 16 11 – 11 12 – 12
Financial expense (54) (20) (74) (11) (5) (16) (14) – (14)
Net financing expense 7 (38) (20) (58) – (5) (5) (2) – (2)
Share of post-tax results  
of joint ventures 2, 13 28 − 28 12 – 12 14 – 14
Profit/(loss) before 
income tax 2 324 (559) (235) 311 (156) 155 327 (72) 255
Income tax 8 (63) 45 (18) (67) 18 (49) (67) (2) (69)
Profit/(loss) for the 
year from continuing 
operations 261 (514) (253) 244 (138) 106 260 (74) 186
(Loss)/profit for the 
year from discontinued 
operations 9 (5) 1 (4) (8) (19) (27) (8) – (8)
Profit/(loss) for the year 256 (513) (257) 236 (157) 79 252 (74) 178
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (256) 82 179
Non-controlling interests (1) (3) (1)
(257) 79 178
Basic (loss)/earnings  
per share 10
Continuing operations 68.1p (66.1)p 81.8p 36.1p 89.0p 63.8p
Discontinued operations (1.3)p (1.1)p (2.6)p (8.9)p (2.7)p (2.7)p
66.8p (67.2)p 79.2p 27 .2p 86.3p 61.1p
Diluted (loss)/earnings 
per share 10
Continuing operations 67.7p (66.1)p 79.5p 35.1p 87 .2p 62.5p
Discontinued operations (1.3)p (1.1)p (2.5)p (8.6)p (2.7)p (2.7)p
66.4p (67.2)p 77.0p 26.5p 84.5p 59.8p 97
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
F or the year ended 31 December 2015
Note
2015 
£m
2014 
(restated) 
£m
2013
 £m
(Loss)/profit for the year (257) 79 178
Other comprehensive income
Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss
Exchange movements:
− Exchange movements on translation of foreign subsidiaries (46) (4) (70)
− Net (loss)/gain on hedges of net investment in foreign subsidiaries 19 (3) (4) (1)
− T ax on exchange movements − – 1
Cash flow hedges:
− Effective portion of changes in fair value (2) (1) 3
− T ax on effective portion of changes in fair value 2 – (1)
− T ransferred to the income statement − – 1
(49) (9) (67)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension schemes 14 150 (58) 40
T ax on actuarial gains/(losses) (25) 11 (20)
125 (47) 20
Other comprehensive income 76 (56) (47)
Total comprehensive income (181) 23 131
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (181) 26 133
Non-controlling interests − (3) (2)
Total comprehensive income (181) 23 131 98
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Note
2015 
£m
2014 
(restated) 
£m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 127 150
Intangible assets 12 3,025 3,443
Interests in joint ventures 13 104 122
Derivative financial instruments 19 18 2
Retirement benefit assets 14 231 102
Other receivables 20 145 167
Deferred tax assets 15 50 56
Total non-current assets 3,700 4,042
Current assets
Inventories 16 13 14
T rade and other receivables 17 1,455 1,469
Derivative financial instruments 19 16 12
Current tax receivable 25 12
Bank deposits (more than three months) 23 23 21
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 23 340 495
Total current assets 1,872 2,023
Total assets 5,572 6,065
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 23 (683) (710)
T rade and other payables 18 (1,459) (1,438)
Derivative financial instruments 19 (21) (14)
Current tax payable (98) (130)
Total current liabilities (2,261) (2,292)
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 23 (640) (609)
T rade and other payables 20 (121) (111)
Derivative financial instruments 19 (4) (5)
Retirement benefit liabilities 14 (168) (188)
Deferred tax liabilities 15 (106) (108)
Provisions 21 (664) (756)
Total non-current liabilities (1,703) (1,777)
Total liabilities (3,964) (4,069)
Net assets 1,608 1,996
EQUITY
Share capital 22 197 194
Share premium account 133 101
Merger reserve 540 877
Hedging and translation reserves (26) 24
Capital redemption reserve 34 34
Retained earnings 721 744
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,599 1,974
Non-controlling interests 9 22
Total equity 1,608 1,996
The accounts on pages 96 to 156 were approved by the board of directors on 10 March 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Ian McHoul
Chief Financial Officer and interim CEO
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December 2015
Registered number 1675285 99
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
T ranslation 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total 
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
As at 1 January 2015 
(restated) 194 101 877 – 24 34 744 1,974 22 1,996
Loss for the year − − − − − − (256) (256) (1) (257)
Exchange movements 
on translation of foreign 
subsidiaries − − − − (47) − − (47) 1 (46)
Net loss on hedges of 
net investment in foreign 
subsidiaries − − − − (3) − − (3) − (3)
Effective portion of 
changes in fair value  
of cash flow hedges − − − (2) − − − (2) − (2)
T ax on effective portion 
of changes in fair value 
on cash flow hedges − − − 2 − − − 2 − 2
Actuarial gains  
on defined benefit 
pension schemes − − − − − − 150 150 − 150
T ax on actuarial gains − − − − − − (25) (25) − (25)
Other comprehensive 
income for the year − − − − (50) − 125 75 1 76
Total comprehensive 
income for the year − − − − (50) − (131) (181) − (181)
Dividends − − − − − − (167) (167) − (167)
Dividends to non-
controlling interests − − − − − − − − (4) (4)
Equity-settled  
share-based payments − − − − − − 7 7 − 7
Acquisition of shares  
by trustees of the 
Employee Share T rust − − − − − − (5) (5) − (5)
Utilisation of  
treasury shares − − − − − − 15 15 − 15
Acquisition of non-
controlling interests − − − − − − (79) (79) (9) (88)
Shares issued 3 32 − − − − − 35 − 35
T ransfer of impairment 
losses to merger reserve − − (337) − − − 337 − − −
As at 31 December 
2015 197 133 540 − (26) 34 721 1,599 9 1,608
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
F or the year ended 31 December 2015 100
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
T ranslation 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total 
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
As at 1 January 2014 152 101 – 1 32 34 802 1,122 2 1,124
Profit for the year – – – – – – 82 82 (3) 79
Exchange movements 
on translation of foreign 
subsidiaries – – – – (4) – – (4) – (4)
Net loss on hedges  
of net investment in 
foreign subsidiaries – – – – (4) – – (4) – (4)
Effective portion of 
changes in fair value  
of cash flow hedges – – – (1) – – – (1) – (1)
Actuarial losses  
on defined benefit 
pension schemes – – – – – – (58) (58) – (58)
T ax on actuarial losses – – – – – – 11 11 – 11
Other comprehensive 
income for the year – – – (1) (8) – (47) (56) – (56)
Total comprehensive 
income for the year – – – (1) (8) – 35 26 (3) 23
Dividends – – – – – – (124) (124) – (124)
Equity-settled  
share-based payments – – – – – – 25 25 – 25
Utilisation of  
treasury shares – – – – – – 6 6 – 6
Arising on business 
combinations – – – – – – – – 23 23
Shares issued 42 877 – – – – – 919 – 919
T ransfer to  
merger reserve − (877) 877 − − − − − − –
As at 31 December 
2014 (restated) 194 101 877 – 24 34 744 1,974 22 1,996
Consolidated statement of changes in equity continued
F or the year ended 31 December 2014 101
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
T ranslation 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total 
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
As at 1 January 2013 154 101 (2) 101 32 693 1,079 4 1,083
Profit for the year – – – – – 179 179 (1) 178
Exchange movements on 
translation of foreign subsidiaries – – – (69) – – (69) (1) (70)
Net loss on hedges of net 
investment in foreign subsidiaries – – – (1) – – (1) – (1)
T ax on exchange movements – – – 1 – – 1 – 1
Effective portion of changes  
in fair value of cash flow hedges – – 3 – – – 3 – 3
T ax on effective portion of changes 
in fair value of cash flow hedges – – (1) – – – (1) – (1)
Cash flow hedges transferred  
to the income statement – – 1 – – – 1 – 1
Actuarial gains on defined  
benefit pension schemes – – – – – 40 40 – 40
T ax on actuarial gains – – – – – (20) (20) – (20)
Other comprehensive income 
for the year – – 3 (69) – 20 (46) (1) (47)
Total comprehensive income  
for the year – – 3 (69) – 199 133 (2) 131
Dividends – – – – – (108) (108) – (108)
Equity-settled  
share-based payments – – – – – 14 14 – 14
T ax on equity-settled  
share-based payments – – – – – (1) (1) – (1)
Acquisition of shares by trustees  
of the Employee Share T rust – – – – – (2) (2) – (2)
Utilisation of treasury shares – – – – – 7 7 – 7
Acquisition of shares under  
the buyback programme (2) – – – 2 – – – –
As at 31 December 2013 152 101 1 32 34 802 1,122 2 1,124
Consolidated statement of changes in equity continued
F or the year ended 31 December 2013 102
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Cash flow from operating activities
(Loss)/profit before income tax from continuing operations (235) 155 255
Loss before income tax from discontinued operations 9 (5) (33) (16)
(Loss)/profit before income tax (240) 122 239
Financial income 7 (16) (11) (12)
Financial expense 7 74 16 14
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 2, 13 (28) (12) (14)
Intangible impairment and amortisation 5, 12 444 49 47
Depreciation 11 26 16 12
(Profit)/loss on disposal of businesses 5 (1) 44 6
Difference between contributions to retirement benefit schemes 
and current service cost 14 (3) (2) –
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (1) – (1)
Loss on disposal of intangible assets − 1 –
Equity-settled share-based payments 7 8 14
262 231 305
Decrease in inventories 1 – 1
Decrease in trade and other receivables 38 106 66
Decrease in trade and other payables and provisions (81) (137) (80)
Cash generated from operations 220 200 292
T ax paid (79) (54) (52)
Net cash flow from operating activities 141 146 240
Cash flow from investing activities
Acquisition of businesses (net of cash acquired) 24 (5) (781) (20)
Investment in joint ventures (1) (1) (7)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (15) (14) (10)
Purchase of intangible assets (23) (17) (13)
Movements in bank deposits (more than three months) (2) (3) (1)
Disposal of businesses (net of cash disposed of) (2) (2) (4)
Disposal of joint ventures 11 (21) –
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 – 1
Interest received 3 4 9
Dividends received from joint ventures 13 42 14 8
Amounts received/(paid) on maturity of net investment hedges 37 (7) (3)
Net cash flow from investing activities 47 (828) (40)
Net cash flow before financing activities 188 (682) 200
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from other borrowings 68 1,198 100
Repayments of other borrowings (143) (100) (130)
Cash flows in respect of facility arrangement fees (3) (13) –
Interest paid (38) (7) (11)
Dividends paid (167) (124) (108)
Acquisition of non-controlling interest 24 (54) − −
Cash received in respect of debt related cash flow hedges 23 12 − −
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (4) − −
Acquisition of shares for cancellation − – (45)
Cash flows in respect of treasury shares* 15 6 7
Acquisition of shares by trustees of the Employee Share T rust (5) – (2)
Net cash flow from financing activities (319) 960 (189)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (131) 278 11
Cash and cash equivalents as at the beginning of the year 23 495 223 232
Exchange losses on cash and cash equivalents 23 (24) (6) (20)
Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the year 23 340 495 223
Consolidated cash flow statement
F or the year ended 31 December 2015 103
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents consist of:
Cash at bank and in hand 23 307 377 153
Bank deposits (less than three months) 23 33 118 79
Bank overdrafts 23 − – (9)
Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the year 23 340 495 223
Bank deposits (more than three months) 23 23 21 18
Bank loans 23 (1,264) (1,267) (120)
Fees capitalised against bank facilities 23 − 9 –
Derivatives classified as net debt 23 14 − −
Finance leases 23 (59) (61) –
Net (debt)/cash as at the end of the year (946) (803) 121
*Cash received from SAYE option holders on exercise of options.
Consolidated cash flow statement continued
F or the year ended 31 December 2015 104
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
1 Significant accounting policies
Amec Foster Wheeler plc is a public limited company, which is listed on both the London Stock Exchange and the New Y ork Stock 
Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries  
(the Group) are described in note 2.
Statement of compliance
The consolidated accounts include the accounts of Amec Foster Wheeler plc and all of its subsidiaries made up to 31 December 
each year, and the Group’s share of the profit after interest and tax and net assets of joint ventures based on the equity method 
of accounting.
In accordance with EU law (IAS Regulation EC 1606/2002), the consolidated accounts of the Group have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted for use in the EU as at 31 December 2015 (adopted IFRS), 
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The company has elected to prepare its parent company accounts in accordance 
with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (FRS 101); these are presented on pages 157 to 165.
From the Group’s perspective, there are no applicable differences between adopted IFRS and IFRS as issued by the IASB, 
and therefore the financial statements also comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Restatement
On 13 November 2014 (the acquisition date), the Group acquired 95.3 per cent of the issued share capital of Foster Wheeler AG. 
Due to the relatively short period of time between the acquisition date and 31 December 2014, management had not finalised its 
assessment of the fair values of certain of Foster Wheeler’s assets and liabilities at the time that the 2014 financial statements 
were completed and as a result the 2014 financial statements reflected the provisional assessment of the fair values as at the 
acquisition date. The restatement had no impact on the 2014 income statement.
During 2015, management has completed the fair value assessment and the comparative amounts shown in the Balance Sheet, 
Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in Equity and Cash Flow Statement have been restated to reflect 
changes made to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities recognised on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, details of which 
are set out in note 24.
In addition to the above, the acquisition balance sheet as presented on page 151 has been restated to present liabilities of £65m 
in respect of onerous leases within trade and other payables. These liabilities had previously been presented within provisions.
As the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG in November 2014 resulted in the Group securing more than 90% of Foster Wheeler’s 
issued share capital, the acquisition qualifies for merger relief under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 from crediting the 
share premium that arose on the new shares issued in consideration for Foster Wheeler to a share premium account. The balance 
sheet as at 31 December has been restated to present excess of the nominal value of the shares issued of £877m as a merger reserve.
Accounting standards adopted in the year
There are no IFRS, IAS amendments or IFRIC interpretations effective for the first time this financial year that have had a material 
impact on the Group.
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective which have not been early adopted by the Group
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ replaces the existing guidance in IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ . 
IFRS 9 includes revised guidance on the classification and measurement of financial instruments, including the new expected 
credit loss model for calculating impairment on financial assets and the new general hedge accounting requirements. It also 
carries forward guidance on recognition and derecognition on financial instruments from IAS 39. IFRS 9 is effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early application permitted.
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ will supersede the current revenue recognition guidance including IAS 18 
‘Revenue’ , IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’ and the related Interpretations when it becomes effective. Under IFRS 15 an entity 
recognises revenue when (or as) a performance obligation is satisfied. That is when the control of goods or services underlying 
the particular performance obligation is transferred to the customer. The standard provides far more prescriptive guidance with 
regards to specific scenarios and requires extensive disclosures. IFRS 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2018 with early application permitted.
IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ replaces the existing guidance in IAS 17 ‘Leases’ . IFRS 16 eliminates the classification of leases as either operating 
leases or finance leases. The standard introduces a single lessee accounting model, which requires a lessee to recognise: assets 
and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months and depreciation of lease assets separately from interest on lease 
liabilities in the income statement. 
The application of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 in the future may have a material impact on the amounts reported and disclosures 
made in the Group’s accounts. However it is not practical to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and 
IFRS 16 until the Group performs a detailed review.
Other than as described above, there are no other IFRS, IAS amendments or IFRIC interpretations which are not yet effective that 
would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Notes to the consolidated accounts 105
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Basis of preparation
The accounts are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest million. All calculated numbers, for example earnings per share, 
are calculated on the underlying numbers to one decimal place precision. They are prepared on the historical cost basis except 
that derivative financial instruments and retirement benefit assets and liabilities are stated at fair value.
The preparation of accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, 
income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors 
that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements 
about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised 
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future 
periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Amec Foster Wheeler believe some of these policies require a high level of judgement, and the most critical accounting policies 
and significant areas of judgement and estimation arise from:
 X acquisition accounting under IFRS 3 ’Business Combinations’ 
 X long-term contracts under IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’ 
 X intangible assets including goodwill under IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ and IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ 
 X provisions under IAS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ 
 X uncertain tax positions under IAS 12 ‘Income T axes’
 X defined benefit pension schemes under IAS 19 (revised) ‘Employee Benefits’ 
In addition, judgement has also been applied in the presentation of certain research and development government credits and 
in presenting the UK conventional power business as a discontinued operation in 2013.
IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’
During 2014, the Group acquired Foster Wheeler. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase under IFRS 3. Determining 
the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired involved significant judgement and estimates. This involved the use of valuation 
models to determine the fair value of the intangible assets acquired. Inputs to these models include estimates of the future cash 
flows of Foster Wheeler; the appropriate discount rate to apply to these future cash flows, estimates of the retention rates for 
key customers and the likelihood of renewal of significant service contracts. Further information about the assumptions used for 
calculating provisions and goodwill are documented below.
IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’
A significant amount of the Group’s activities is undertaken via long-term contracts. These contracts are accounted for in 
accordance with IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’ which requires estimates to be made for contract costs and revenues. 
Management bases its judgements of contract costs and revenues on the latest available information, which includes detailed 
contract valuations. In many cases the results reflect the expected outcome of long-term contractual obligations which span more 
than one reporting period. Contract costs and revenues are affected by a variety of uncertainties that depend on the outcome 
of future events and often need to be revised as events unfold and uncertainties are resolved. The estimates of contract costs 
and revenues are updated regularly and significant changes are highlighted through established internal review procedures. 
In particular, the internal reviews focus on the timing and recognition of incentive payments and the age and recoverability of 
any unagreed income from variations to the contract scope or claims. The impact of the changes in accounting estimates is then 
reflected in the ongoing results. 
Principally, there are two types of long-term contracts being cost reimbursable contracts and fixed price contracts. Due to the 
nature of these contracts the significant estimates tend to arise on fixed price contracts rather than cost reimbursable contracts. 106
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Basis of preparation continued
IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ and IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’
The Group has a significant amount of intangible assets on its balance sheet. Goodwill arising on acquisitions represents 
the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill is 
capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that its carrying value may not be 
recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The determination of carrying value involves significant judgements when allocating goodwill to the cash generating units (‘CGUs’) 
expected to benefit from the acquisition. The estimation of the recoverable amounts also requires significant judgements and 
estimates including the future cash flows of the CGU, terminal growth rates and the appropriate rate at which to discount those 
cash flows. See note 12 for further details of the impairment reviews performed during the year. The carrying amount of the 
Global Power Group CGU has been reduced to its recoverable amount through recognition of an impairment loss of £308m 
against goodwill.
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. The cost of an 
intangible asset acquired in a business combination is the fair value of the asset at the date of acquisition. Amortisation is charged 
to the income statement over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets.
IAS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’
When accounting for provisions for litigation and other items the Group has taken internal and external advice in considering 
known legal claims and actions made by or against the Group. It carefully assesses the likelihood of success of a claim or action. 
Appropriate provisions are made for legal claims or actions against the Group on the basis of likely outcome, but no provisions  
are made for those which, in the view of management, are unlikely to succeed. 
The Group has a significant asbestos related provision. Some of the Group’s US and UK subsidiaries are defendants in numerous 
asbestos-related lawsuits and out-of-court informal claims pending in the US and UK. Plaintiffs claim damages for personal 
injury alleged to have arisen from exposure to or use of asbestos in connection with work allegedly performed by the Group’s 
subsidiaries during the 1970s and earlier.
The provision for asbestos is the Group’s best estimate of its obligation required to settle claims that is expected to continue  
up until 2050. The provision is discounted back to a net present value using a US T reasury yield curve discount rate. 
See note 21 for further details of the Group’s provisions.
IAS 12 ‘Income T axes’
Significant judgement is required in determining liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, in particular those in respect  
of financing structures. There is also significant judgement required in assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
IAS 19 (revised) ‘Employee Benefits’
Defined benefit pension schemes are accounted for in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries but 
significant judgements are required in relation to the assumptions for future salary and pension increases, discount rate, inflation 
and member life expectancy that underpin their valuations. For Amec Foster Wheeler, these assumptions are important given the 
relative size of the schemes that remain open for future accrual. 
See note 14 for further details of the Group’s retirement benefit schemes.
IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’
In accordance with IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’ , the post-tax results of discontinued 
operations are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement. 
Discontinued operations include the non-core Built Environment businesses, which were sold during 2007 , SPIE, which was 
sold in 2006, and the UK conventional power business that was discontinued in 2013. The judgements applied in presenting 
the UK conventional power business as discontinued are explained in note 1 to the 2013 financial statements. The cash flows 
of discontinued operations are fully consolidated within Amec Foster Wheeler up to the date of sale. The results and other 
disclosures in respect of discontinued operations are shown in note 9.
Going concern
As at 31 December 2015, the group had net debt of £946m and committed and available banking facilities of £442m.
On 2 March 2016 the Group announced the completion of a refinancing of its main debt facilities by entering into a new facility with 
a syndicate of 20 banks. The new facility, which has three tranches – a three-year £650 million term loan, a five-year £650 million 
term loan and a five-year £400 million revolving credit facility – replaces the Company’s existing revolving credit facility and the 
Foster Wheeler acquisition facility. 
The Group has assessed it will be able to meet expected mandatory interest and repayment of its banking facilities in place.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 107
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Going concern continued
The Group will finance operations and growth from its existing cash resources and its committed banking facilities. The Group’s 
policy aims to ensure the constant availability of an appropriate amount of funding to meet both current and future forecast 
requirements consistent with the Group’s budget and strategic plans.
The directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
If for any reason the Group is unable to continue as a going concern, it could impact the Group’s ability to realise assets at their 
recognised values; in particular goodwill and other intangible assets and to extinguish liabilities in the normal course of business  
at the amounts stated in the consolidated accounts.
Accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these 
consolidated accounts. 
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2015. Control is achieved 
when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect 
those returns through its power over the investee. Generally there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate there is a change of control. 
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control 
of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in 
the consolidated accounts from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of comprehensive income is attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group 
and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. When necessary, 
adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Group’s 
accounting policies. All intra-Group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions 
between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets (including goodwill), liabilities, non-controlling 
interest and other components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. Any investment retained 
is recognised at fair value.
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net 
assets of the joint venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when 
decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The considerations made in determining joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over subsidiaries.
The Group’s investments in its joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment 
in a joint venture is initially recognised at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the 
Group’s share of net assets of the joint venture since the acquisition date. The results of the joint ventures are included in the 
consolidated accounts from the date the joint control commences until the date that it ceases.
The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or loss of a joint venture is shown on the face of the income statement and represents 
profit or loss after tax and non-controlling interests in the joint venture.
Losses of a joint venture are recognised only to the extent of the Group’s interest in the joint venture, unless the Group has 
incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, 
and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
When a Group entity undertakes its activities under joint operations, the Group as a joint operator recognises in relation  
to its interest in a joint operation:
 X its assets and liabilities, including its share of any assets and liabilities held jointly 
 X its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation 
 X its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by joint operation 
 X its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly  108
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Bid costs
Bid costs are expensed as incurred until the Group is appointed as the preferred bidder. Subsequent to appointment as preferred 
bidder, bid costs are capitalised and held on the balance sheet provided the award of the contract is virtually certain and it is 
expected to generate sufficient net cash flow to allow recovery of the bid costs. Where bid costs are reimbursed at financial close, 
the proceeds are applied first against the balance of costs included in the balance sheet, with any additional amounts treated as 
deferred income and released to profit over the period of the contract.
Business combinations and goodwill
The purchase method is used to account for all business combinations.
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions since 1 January 2004 is capitalised and subject to an impairment review, both annually and when 
there are indications that its carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is not amortised.
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments
Cash comprises cash balances and deposits repayable on demand and available within one working day without penalty.
Cash equivalents are other deposits with a maturity period of three months or less from date of acquisition; convertible without  
an undue period of notice and not subject to a significant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s cash management are included 
as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
In the consolidated balance sheet, bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities. 
Deposits with a maturity period of more than three months at inception are classified as bank deposits (more than three months).
Development expenditure
Expenditure that is directly attributable to the development of wind farm projects is recognised as an intangible asset when the 
Group can demonstrate it is probable that the wind farm development will generate future economic benefits in excess of the 
amounts capitalised and other relevant criteria for capitalising such costs in accordance with IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ have 
been met.
Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when the wind farm development is complete 
and the asset is available for use. It is amortised over the period of expected future benefit. During the period of development,  
the asset is reviewed for impairment annually.
Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities held for sale
A discontinued operation is a separate major line of business or geographic area of operations that has either been disposed 
of, abandoned or is part of a plan to dispose of a major line of business or geographic area. An operation is classified as a 
discontinued operation in the year that the above criteria are met. 
Certain legacy settlements and relevant provision adjustments are allocated to discontinued operations when those settlements 
and provisions arise from or are directly related to the discontinued operations.
Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Employee benefits
Defined contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the 
amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. That benefit is 
discounted to determine its present value; and the fair value of any plan assets (at bid price) is deducted. The liability discount  
rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA-rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms  
of the Group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
A net surplus from a defined benefit plan is recognised on the balance sheet when the asset would be recoverable as a result  
of an expected future refund after a gradual settlement of plan liabilities. 
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 109
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Exceptional items
As permitted by IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ , certain items are presented separately as exceptional on the face  
of the consolidated income statement. In the opinion of the directors, these exceptional items require separate disclosure by virtue 
of their nature, size or incidence in order to obtain a clear and consistent presentation of the Group’s underlying performance and 
to provide consistency with internal management reporting. Exceptional items may include, but are not restricted to: impairment 
charges, acquisition-related costs; restructuring costs; gains and losses on the disposal of fixed assets; and gains and losses on 
the disposal or closure of businesses. Acquisition-related costs may include transaction costs (including external advisory, legal, 
valuation and other professional fees and attributable internal costs), the amortisation of acquisition-related facility fees, payments 
to selling shareholders that are accounted for as remuneration and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value. Subsequent valuation depends on the designation of the instrument.
Cash, bank deposits, borrowings and trade receivables and payables are held at amortised cost.
Bank loans and similar borrowings are recognised initially at fair value (i.e. proceeds received) net of directly attributable transaction 
fees. Interest expense, including transaction fees is recognised over the life of the bank loan using the effective interest method.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value. The gain or loss on re-measurement 
to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, 
recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged. The fair value of derivative financial 
instruments is determined by reference to market values for similar financial instruments or by discounting the expected future 
cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The sale and purchase of derivative financial instruments are non-speculative.
Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge against the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset 
or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, any gain or loss on the effective part of the derivative financial instrument 
is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated within the hedging reserve. The gain or loss on any ineffective 
portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires,  
or is sold, terminated or exercised. The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the hedging reserve remains there until 
the forecast transaction occurs. The cumulative gain or loss in the hedging reserve is transferred to the income statement in the 
same period that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Net investment hedges
Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of financial instruments designated as a hedge of a net investment  
in a foreign operation are recognised in other comprehensive income, to the extent that the hedge is effective. The gain or loss  
of any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement. On disposal of the foreign operation, 
the cumulative value of gains and losses recorded in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Foreign currencies
The Group’s consolidated accounts are presented in Sterling, which is also the parent company’s functional currency. Each entity 
in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the accounts of each entity are measured using that 
functional currency. An entity’s functional currency reflects the underlying transactions, events and conditions that are relevant to it.
At an individual entity level, transactions in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are translated to the 
functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the day of the transaction. Entities which have multiple foreign currency 
transactions apply the average rate for the month as an approximation of the exchange rate on the day of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of 
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and any foreign exchange differences arising are recognised in the income statement 
except those arising on intra-Group balances, settlement of which is neither planned nor probable to occur, which are recognised 
in other comprehensive income. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are measured in terms of historical cost and are translated 
using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
On consolidation, the results of entities with a functional currency other than Sterling are translated into Sterling using a monthly 
average exchange rate. The net assets of such entities are translated into Sterling at the closing exchange rate.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign currency net investments and any foreign currency borrowings, 
or forward contracts used to hedge those investments, are taken to a translation reserve. They are recycled and recognised as a 
profit or loss on the disposal or closure of a business. The cumulative translation difference for all foreign operations was deemed 
to be zero as at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRS. 110
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Impairment
The carrying values of all of the Group’s assets other than inventories, balances on long-term contracts and deferred tax assets 
are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If there are indications of 
an impairment in the carrying value then the recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying amount.
For goodwill and assets not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date. An impairment 
loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Intangible assets other than goodwill
Intangible assets acquired by the Group, which include customer relationships, brands/trademarks, order backlog, patents  
and software, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. The cost of an intangible asset acquired  
in a business combination is its fair value at date of acquisition.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets,  
from the date they are available for use.
The estimated lives of intangible assets held at 31 December 2015 are as follows:
Customer relationships T wo to 18 years
Brand/trademarks Up to 20 years
Order backlog Three to five years
Patents 15 years
Software Three to seven years
Other Up to six years
Inventories
Inventories, including land held for and in the course of development, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Development land and work in progress is included at cost less any losses foreseen in completing and disposing of the 
development. Cost includes cost of acquisition and development to date, including directly attributable fees and expenses  
net of rental and other income attributable to the development.
Leases 
The determination of whether an arrangement is (or contains) a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at the 
inception of the lease. The arrangement is, or contains, a lease if fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a 
specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset or assets, even if that right is not explicitly specified 
in an arrangement. 
A lease is classified at the inception date as a finance lease or an operating lease. A lease that transfers substantially all the risks 
and rewards incidental to ownership to the Group is classified as a finance lease.
Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the inception date fair value of the leased property or, if lower, 
at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction 
of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are 
recognised in finance costs in the income statement. 
A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the asset. However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain 
ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the 
lease term. 
Operating lease costs, including incentives received, are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period 
of the lease.
Net financing expense
Net financing expense comprises interest receivable on funds invested, interest payable, pension financing income, the unwinding 
of discounted balances and foreign exchange gains and losses. Interest income and interest payable are recognised in the income 
statement as they accrue, using the effective interest method.
Directly attributable finance costs are capitalised in the cost of purchased and constructed property, plant and equipment,  
until the relevant assets are brought into operational use.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 111
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of property, 
plant and equipment as at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRS, was determined by reference to its fair value  
at that date.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, with the exception of freehold land, at rates calculated to write 
off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life. Reviews are made 
annually of the estimated remaining lives and residual values of individual assets.
The estimated lives used are:
Freehold buildings Up to 50 years
Leasehold land and buildings The shorter of the lease term or 50 years
Plant and equipment Mainly three to five years
Provisions for liabilities and charges
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event; it is probable 
that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation; and a reliable estimate can be 
made of the amount of the obligation.
The Group has taken internal and external advice in considering known and reasonably likely legal claims and actions made by 
or against the Group. It carefully assesses the likelihood of success of a claim or action. Appropriate provisions are made for legal 
claims or actions against the Group on the basis of likely outcome, but no provisions are made for those which, in the view of 
management, are unlikely to succeed. These possible but not probable liabilities are disclosed in note 26 as contingent liabilities.
Research and development government credits
The Group claims research and development government credits in the UK, US and Canada. These are judged to have 
characteristics more akin to grants than income taxes and are offset against the relevant expenditure caption. Credits are 
recognised to the extent there is reasonable assurance they will be received which, given the necessary claims processes,  
can be some time after the original expense is incurred.
Revenue recognition and long term contracts
Revenue represents the amount received or receivable for goods and services supplied by the Group to its customers, including 
the Group’s share of revenue from work carried out by jointly controlled operations. Revenue excludes intra-Group sales and value 
added tax and other sales taxes. 
The Group’s revenue is derived principally from service and construction-type contracts. Contract revenue is recognised over  
the term of the contract by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the end of each reporting period. 
Revenue from cost reimbursable contracts is based on the services provided, typically represented by man-hours worked,  
and is measured by reference to agreed charge-out rates or to the estimated total contract revenue. Flow-through costs on cost 
reimbursable contracts, typically consisting of materials, equipment or subcontractor services, are included as both contract 
revenue and contract costs.
Revenue from fixed price contracts is recognised using the percentage-of-completion method, measured by reference to physical 
completion or the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated contract costs. If the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated 
reliably, as may be the case in the initial stages of completion of the contract, revenue is recognised only to the extent of the 
costs incurred that are expected to be recoverable. If a contract is expected to be loss-making, the expected amount of the loss 
is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
A variation is an instruction by the customer for a change in the scope of the work to be performed under the contract. Variations 
are included in contract revenue when it is probable that the customer will approve the variation and the related adjustment to 
the contract price can be measured reliably. 
A claim is an amount that the contractor seeks to collect from the customer as reimbursement for costs whose inclusion in 
the contract price is disputed, and may arise from, for example, delays caused by the customer, errors in specification or design 
and disputed variations in contract work. Claims are included in contract revenue when negotiations with the customer have 
reached an advanced stage such that it is probable that the customer will accept the claim and the amount of the claim can 
be measured reliably. 112
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition and long term contracts continued
Incentive payments are additional amounts payable to the contractor if specified performance standards are met or exceeded. 
Incentive payments are recognised when the contract is sufficiently far advanced that it is probable that the required performance 
standards will be met and the amount of the payment can be measured reliably.
Gross amounts due from customers included in trade and other receivables represent the costs incurred plus recognised profits, 
less provision for recognised losses and progress billings. Progress billings that have not been settled by customers (including 
retentions related to contracts in progress) are included in trade receivables where they are stated after allowance for any  
doubtful debts. 
T rade receivables, which are generally of a short term nature, are recognised and carried at the original invoiced amount less an 
allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts. Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able 
to recover balances in full. Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Gross amounts due to customers included in trade and other payables represent payments on account received from customers 
in excess of the gross amounts due from customers and advances. Advances are amounts received by the customer before the 
related work is performed.
Share-based payments
There are various share-based payment arrangements which allow Amec Foster Wheeler employees to acquire Amec Foster 
Wheeler shares; these awards are granted by Amec Foster Wheeler. The fair value of awards granted is recognised as a cost of 
employment with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during 
which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award. The fair value of the award is measured using a valuation 
model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted. The amount recognised as an expense 
is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that vest except where non-vesting is due to total shareholder return not 
achieving the threshold for vesting. 
Taxation
Income tax expense comprises the sum of the current tax charge and the movement in deferred tax. 
Current tax payable or recoverable is based on taxable profit for the year using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. T axable profit 
is different from accounting profit due to temporary differences between accounting and tax treatments, and due to items that 
are never taxable or deductible.
T ax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income 
or equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or equity as appropriate.
A current tax provision is recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the 
Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The provision 
is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account 
risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Separate provisions for interest and penalties are also recorded if appropriate. 
Movements in interest and penalty amounts in respect of tax provisions are not included in the tax charge, but are disclosed within 
profit/(loss) before income tax.
T ax provisions are based on management’s interpretation of country specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement. This involves 
a significant amount of judgement as tax legislation can be complex and open to different interpretation. Management uses in-house 
tax experts, professional firms and previous experience when assessing tax risks. Where actual tax liabilities differ from the 
provisions, adjustments are made which can have a material impact on the Group’s profits for the year.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the accounts and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences with deferred tax assets being recognised where it is probable that future taxable profits will be available 
against which the asset can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and 
adjustments made to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient profits will be available.
Assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition (other than in a business 
combination) of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, 
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted to apply when the deferred  
tax asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and it is 
intended that they will be settled on a net basis.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 113
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
2 Segmental analysis of continuing operations
Amec Foster Wheeler designs, delivers and maintains strategic and complex assets for its customers across the global energy  
and related sectors.
Segment information is presented on a consistent basis with the information presented to the Group Leadership T eam for the 
purposes of allocating resources within the Group and assessing the performance of the Group’s businesses.
Prior to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler in November 2014, the Group’s continuing operations comprised of four operating 
segments: Americas, Europe, Growth Regions and Investment Services. For the short period between its acquisition and the 
end of 2014, Foster Wheeler’s results were presented to the Group Leadership T eam analysed by its existing operating segments: 
E&C Services and Global Power Group.
With effect from 1 January 2015, the Group adopted three new geographical operating segments: Americas; Northern Europe 
& CIS; and Asia, Middle East, Africa & Southern Europe; with Foster Wheeler’s E&C Services segment being merged into these 
segments. Foster Wheeler’s Global Power Group continues to be reported as a separate operating segment. Investment Services 
also continues to be reported separately. Details of the services offered by each segment and the end markets in which they 
operate are given on pages 3 to 5 and 24 to 25.
The Group Leadership T eam uses trading profit as the measure of the profitability of the Group’s businesses. T rading profit is, 
therefore, the measure of the segment profit presented in the Group’s segment disclosures. T rading profit represents profit before 
net financing expense excluding exceptional items; the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets; and asbestos-related 
costs (net of insurance recoveries). T rading profit includes the Group’s share of the trading profit of joint ventures.
Revenue and results
Revenue Profit/(loss)
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
Americas 2,646 2,184 2,247 161 212 241
Northern Europe and CIS 1,492 1,293 1,227 134 105 93
Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern 
Europe 1,050 516 536 68 25 33
Global Power Group 364 53 – 51 1 –
Investment Services 15 8 6 14 9 11
5,567 4,054 4,016 428 352 378
Internal revenue (112) (61) (42) – – –
External revenue 5,455 3,993 3,974 – – –
Corporate costs
1
(54) (31) (35)
T rading profit
2
374 321 343
Net financing expense
3
(40) (4) (11)
Adjusted profit before tax 334 317 332
T ax on results of joint ventures
4
(10) (6) (5)
324 311 327
Intangible amortisation and impairment
5
(444) (49) (47)
Exceptional and asbestos-related items
5
(115) (107) (25)
(Loss)/profit before income tax (235) 155 255
1 Corporate costs comprise the costs of operating central corporate functions and certain regional overheads.
2  T rading profit is earnings from continuing operations before net financing expense, tax, intangible amortisation and impairment, pre-tax exceptional items 
and asbestos related items of £334m (2014: £299m; 2013: £315m), but including joint venture trading profit of £40m (2014: £22m; 2013: £28m).
3  Net financing expense excludes exceptional and asbestos-related items, but includes Amec Foster Wheeler’s share of net interest payable of joint ventures.
4 The share of post-tax results of joint ventures is further analysed as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m 
T rading profit 40 22 28
Net financing expense (2) (4) (9)
Tax (10) (6) (5)
28 12 14
5 See note 5 for further details. 114
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
2 Segmental analysis of continuing operations continued
T ransactions between reportable segments are conducted on an arm’s length basis. Internal revenue arises in the segments 
as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m 
Americas 12 13 18
Northern Europe and CIS 35 23 17
Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe 65 24 7
Global Power Group − − −
Investment Services − 1 −
112 61 42
Other information
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures Depreciation
Intangible amortisation  
and impairment
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Americas (1) 1 2 9 8 7 46 20 18
Northern Europe and CIS 15 8 7 6 5 3 41 19 17
Asia, Middle East, Africa and 
Southern Europe 3 2 2 4 2 2 23 6 12
Global Power Group 11 2 − 4 1 − 334 4 −
Investment Services − (1) 3 3 – − – − −
28 12 14 26 16 12 444 49 47
Geographical origin
Revenue Non-current assets
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2015 
£m
2014
 (restated) 
£m
2013 
£m
United Kingdom 1,223 1,067 1,112 647 801 326
Canada 741 938 1,104 288 297 188
United States 1,873 1,218 1,070 1,302 1,175 284
Rest of the world 1,618 770 688 1,019 1,442 225
5,455 3,993 3,974 3,256 3,715 1,023
The non-current assets analysed by geography include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and interests  
in joint ventures.
Revenue to external customers by region is based on the location of the group subsidiary which made the sale.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 115
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
3 Revenue
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Construction contracts 1,045 917 342
Services 4,410 3,076 3,632
5,455 3,993 3,974
The revenue from construction contracts shown above is based on the definition of construction contracts included in IAS 11  
and includes revenue from all contracts directly related to the construction of an asset even if Amec Foster Wheeler‘s role  
is as a service provider, for example project management.
4 Profit before net financing expense – continuing operations
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 26 16 12
Minimum payments under operating leases 89 87 96
Research and development government credits (15) (23) (22)
There are no material receipts from subleases.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Fees paid to the auditor and its associates:
The auditing of the accounts 4.1 3.9 0.3
The auditing of accounts of any subsidiaries of the company 1.4 1.5 1.1
T axation compliance services 0.9 0.4 0.3
All taxation advisory services other than compliance − – 0.1
All services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into, or proposed 
to be entered into, by or on behalf of the company or any of its associates 0.9 6.4 1.6
All other non-audit services 0.2 0.1 0.1
7.5 12.3 3.5 116
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
5 Amortisation, impairment, exceptional and asbestos-related items
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Continuing operations:
Administrative expenses – exceptional and asbestos-related items (94) (86) (18)
Administrative expenses – intangible amortisation and impairment (444) (49) (47)
(538) (135) (65)
Loss on business disposals and closures (1) (16) (7)
Net financing expense (20) (5) –
(559) (156) (72)
T axation credit/(charge) on exceptional and asbestos-related items  
of continuing operations 18 6 (6)
T axation charge on restructuring − – (16)
T axation credit on intangible amortisation and impairment 27 12 20
45 18 (2)
Post-tax amortisation, impairment, exceptional and asbestos-related items  
of continuing operations (514) (138) (74)
Exceptional items of discontinued operations (post–tax) 1 (19) –
Post-tax amortisation, impairment, exceptional and asbestos-related items (513) (157) (74)
Post-tax exceptional and asbestos-related items (96) (120) (47)
Post-tax intangible amortisation and impairment (417) (37) (27)
(513) (157) (74)
The charge of £444m in respect of intangible amortisation and impairment comprises amortisation of £129m and impairments of 
£315m. The goodwill in the Global Power Group business has been written down by £308m and there was a £7m write down on the 
order backlog intangible asset. See note 12 for further details.
Post-tax exceptional and asbestos-related items for 2015 are further analysed as follows:
2015
Profit on 
disposals 
£m
Loss in 
respect of 
business 
closures 
£m
Profit/(loss) 
on business 
disposals and 
closures 
£m
Asbestos-
related items 
£m
Other 
exceptional 
items 
£m
Total 
£m
Continuing operations − (1) (1) 6 (120) (115)
Discontinued operations 1 − 1 − − 1
Profit/(loss) before tax 1 (1) − 6 (120) (114)
T axation on exceptional items – − − − 18 18
Profit/(loss) after tax 1 (1) − 6 (102) (96)
The pre-tax profit on disposal of £1m relates to costs and movements in indemnity provisions associated with businesses sold 
in prior years and classified as discontinued.
There was a credit of £5m relating to a change in the discount rate applied to the asbestos liability and experiential gains of £9m 
as the liability is reassessed on an annual basis. These credits were offset by a £7m charge in respect of unwinding the discount 
and £1m other costs of managing the liability.
Other exceptional items of £120m includes £97m relating to the costs of integrating the Amec and Foster Wheeler businesses, 
£13m amortisation of fees associated with the borrowings taken on to fund the acquisition, a £5m loss incurred following an 
unauthorised payment made from the Australian business and not expected to be recovered and other exceptional items totalling 
£5m.
Integration costs includes severance (£32m), professional and consultancy fees (£11m), costs of rationalisation of agents 
(£8m), property and office rationalisation (£27m), and staff costs (£11m) as well as IT , rebranding and Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
implementation costs totalling £8m.
Of the £120m of other exceptional items, £72m was paid in cash during the year.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 117
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
5 Amortisation, impairment, exceptional items and asbestos-related items continued
Post-tax exceptional and asbestos-related items for 2014 are further analysed as follows:
2014
Loss on 
disposals 
£m
Profit in 
respect of 
business 
closures 
£m
Loss on 
business 
disposals and 
closures 
£m
Asbestos-
related items 
£m
Other 
exceptional 
items 
£m
T otal 
£m
Continuing operations (21) 5 (16) (9) (82) (107)
Discontinued operations (23) – (23) – – (23)
(Loss)/profit before tax (44) 5 (39) (9) (82) (130)
T axation on exceptional items 5 – 5 – 5 10
(Loss)/profit after tax (39) 5 (34) (9) (77) (120)
During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group disposed of its investment in the Lancashire Waste project at a loss of 
£21m mainly arising from a reverse premium payable on exit. This combined with additional indemnity provisions and costs of 
£23m associated with businesses sold in prior years (and classified as discontinued) to give a pre-tax loss on disposal of £44m. 
This includes a provision £11m in respect of a new claim received in the year related to a contract completed by the DPS business 
which was sold in 2007 .
There was a credit of £5m from the release of a provision no longer required in respect of a business closed in a prior year 
(and classified as continuing). 
Other exceptional items of £82m includes transaction costs of £37m relating to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG, £35m costs 
of integrating the two businesses and £4m of fees associated with the borrowings taken on to fund the acquisition. Integration 
costs include consultancy and other costs of identifying cost synergies of £18m which includes associated internal labour, 
plus £17m costs of achieving cost synergies (including £14m redundancy costs). In addition £6m was incurred in completing 
the previously announced restructuring into geographic business units. There was a charge of £8m relating to a change in the 
discount rate applied to the asbestos liability and £1m in respect of unwinding the discount. Out of the £82m of other exceptional 
items £58m was paid in cash during the year.
Post-tax exceptional items for 2013 are further analysed as follows:
2013
Loss on 
disposals 
£m
Loss in 
respect of 
business 
closures 
£m
Loss on 
business 
disposals and 
closures 
£m
Other 
exceptional 
items 
£m
T otal 
£m
Continuing operations – (7) (7) (18) (25)
Discontinued operations (6) – (6) – (6)
Loss before tax (6) (7) (13) (18) (31)
T axation charge on restructuring – – – (16) (16)
T axation on exceptional items 6 – 6 (6) –
Loss after tax – (7) (7) (40) (47)
Additional indemnity provisions of £10m and costs in respect of businesses sold in prior years (and classified as discontinued) 
were offset by the release of a £5m litigation provision and indemnity provisions no longer required, and give a pre-tax exceptional 
loss on disposals of £6m.
There were additional litigation provisions of £9m offset by releases of £2m in respect of businesses closed in a prior year  
and classified as continuing.
Exceptional costs of £18m in continuing operations includes £14m restructuring costs associated with the management 
reorganisation into geographic business units and transaction costs of £4m which, in line with IFRS 3, are charged to the 
income statement.
A tax provision of £16m has been established for potential withholding tax following a Group restructuring that resulted  
in a significant amount of cash being repatriated from foreign subsidiaries.  118
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
6 Staff costs and employee numbers – continuing operations
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
Wages and salaries 1,857 1,466 1,459
Social security costs 193 100 98
Equity-settled share-based payments (note 22) 7 8 14
Contributions to defined contribution schemes 42 37 36
Defined benefit pension scheme expense (note 14) 38 31 32
2,137 1,642 1,639
 2015 
number
 2014 
number
 2013 
number
The average number of people employed was as follows:
Americas 15,040 12,365 13,046
Northern Europe and CIS 9,232 7,898 7 ,216
Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe 7,086 3,376 3,070
Global Power Group 2,332 322 –
Investment Services/Centre 323 264 240
34,013 24,225 23,572
The average number of people employed in 2014 includes AMEC staff for the full year and Foster Wheeler staff for the period 
following the acquisition.
Details of directors’ remuneration are provided in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 67 to 80.
The average number of employees as stated above excludes agency staff.
7 Net financing expense – continuing operations
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
Financial income
Interest income on bank deposits 7 3 7
Other interest and similar income 3 5 3
Pension financing income − 2 1
Foreign exchange gains 6 1 1
16 11 12
Financial expense
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (51) (10) (9)
Other interest and similar expense (7) (4) (3)
Pension finance expense (2) − –
Foreign exchange losses (7) (1) (2)
Unwinding of the discount on the asbestos provision (7) (1) –
(74) (16) (14)
Net financing expense (58) (5) (2)
The unwinding of the discount on the asbestos provision of £7m (2014: £1m) has been presented separately in the income 
statement and the amortisation of facility fees of £13m (2014: £4m) (included within interest payable on bank loans and 
overdrafts) has been presented as an exceptional item. There were no exceptional items included in net financing expense  
in the year ended 31 December 2013.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 119
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
8 Income tax – continuing operations
Income tax arises in respect of the different categories of income and expenses as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Income tax expense on continuing operations before amortisation,  
exceptionals and asbestos related items 63 67 67
Income tax credit on amortisation (27) (12) (20)
Income tax charge on restructuring − – 16
Income tax (credit)/charge in respect of other exceptional items (18) (6) 6
T otal income tax expense from continuing operations in the income statement 18 49 69
2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
Current tax
Current year 59 72 95
Adjustments in respect of prior years (19) (6) (26)
40 66 69
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (19) (13) (2)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (3) (4) 2
(22) (17) –
T otal income tax expense for continuing operations 18 49 69
During the year, effective from 1 April 2015, the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 21% to 20%.  
The rate is reduced to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017 , with a further reduction to 18% from 1 April 2020. These changes  
were all substantively enacted prior to the end of the year.
Factors affecting the tax expense for the year are explained as follows:
 2015 
£m
 2014 
(restated)
£m
 2013
(restated)
 £m
(Loss)/profit before tax (235) 155 255
Less: share of net income from joint ventures (28) (12) (14)
(Loss)/profit before tax from continuing operations (excluding joint ventures) (263) 143 241
Expected income tax expense at UK tax rate (53) 31 56
Non-deductible expenses – pre-exceptional 7 13 11
Non-deductible expenses – exceptional 3 11 −
Non-deductible impairments 62 – –
Non-taxable income – pre-exceptional (2) – −
Benefit from finance structures (12) (6) (7)
Closure of HMRC enquiry into intragroup lending (12) − −
Impact of providing deferred tax on pension surplus at 20.0% − – (21)
Impact of changes in UK tax rate on deferred tax (7) – –
Overseas income and expenses taxed at rates other than UK rate 5 8 26
Utilisation of tax assets not previously recognised (1) – (6)
Recognition of tax assets not previously recognised (3) (8) –
Current year tax assets not recognised 15 10 6
Write-off of previously recognised tax assets 26 – 28
Other adjustments in respect of prior years (10) (10) (24)
T otal income tax expense for the year for continuing operations 18 49 69
During the year HMRC’s enquiry into the nature of the intercompany debt payable from the legacy Amec US group to the UK was 
concluded without tax adjustment. Accordingly, £12m of risk provision was released in full during the year.
Net income tax liabilities in the Group balance sheet include £105m (2014: £126m) relating to uncertain tax positions.  120
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
8 Income tax – continuing operations continued
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
Tax recognised directly in other comprehensive income
Current tax − – –
Deferred tax (note 15) 23 (11) 21
T ax charge/(credit) recognised directly in other comprehensive income 23 (11) 21
9 (Loss)/ profit for the year from discontinued operations
Discontinued operations represent the residual assets and retained obligations in respect of businesses sold in prior years,  
as well as the UK conventional power business, which was discontinued in 2013.
In accordance with IFRS 5, the post-tax results of discontinued operations are disclosed separately in the consolidated  
income statement.
The results of the discontinued operations are all attributable to the equity holders of the parent and are as follows:
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
Revenue – (13) 15
Cost of sales and net operating expenses (6) 3 (25)
Loss before exceptional items and income tax (6) (10) (10)
Attributable tax 1 2 2
(5) (8) (8)
Profit/(loss) on disposal 1 (23) (6)
T ax on disposals − 4 6
Loss for the year from discontinued operations (4) (27) (8)
The loss before exceptional items and income tax in 2015 represents additional provisions on certain contracts within the UK 
conventional power business.
The negative revenue of £13m and loss of £10m before exceptional items and income tax in 2014 related to the settlement  
of final accounts and additional provisions on the UK conventional power contracts.
The loss on disposals of £23m in 2014 relates to additional indemnity provisions and costs associated with businesses sold  
in prior years.
Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations
The net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations during the year were as follows:
2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
Net cash flow from operating activities (1) (3) (12)
Net cash flow from investing activities 2 3 (2)
1 – (14)
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 121
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
10 Earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings per share are shown on the face of the income statement. The calculation of the average number 
of shares in issue has been made having deducted the shares held by the trustees of the Employee Share T rust and those held 
in treasury by the company. As the Group has reported a basic loss per ordinary share from continuing operations, any potential 
ordinary shares are anti-dilutive and so excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share.
2015 2014 2013
Loss 
£m
Weighted 
average 
shares 
number 
million
Loss 
per share 
pence
Earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
shares 
number 
million
Earnings 
per share 
pence
Earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
shares 
number 
million
Earnings 
per share 
pence
Basic (loss)/earnings  
from continuing operations (252) 383 (66.1) 109 302 36.1 187 293 63.8
Share options − − − – 2 (0.2) – 2 (0.4)
Employee share and  
incentive schemes − − − – 7 (0.8) – 4 (0.9)
Diluted (loss)/earnings  
from continuing operations (252) 383 (66.1) 109 311 35.1 187 299 62.5
Basic loss from  
discontinued operations (4) 383 (1.1) (27) 302 (8.9) (8) 293 (2.7)
Share options − − − – 2 0.1 – 2 –
Employee share and  
incentive schemes − − − – 7 0.2 – 4 –
Diluted loss from  
discontinued operations (4) 383 (1.1) (27) 311 (8.6) (8) 299 (2.7)
Basic and diluted (loss)/profit from continuing operations is calculated as set out below:
 2015
£m
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
(Loss)/profit for the year from continuing operations (253) 106 186
Loss attributable to non-controlling interests 1 3 1
Basic and diluted (loss)/profit from continuing operations (252) 109 187 122
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
10 Earnings per share continued
In order to appreciate the effects on the reported performance of intangible amortisation and impairment, exceptional and 
asbestos related items along with the impact of the potential ordinary shares, additional calculations of earnings per share 
are presented.
2015 2014 2013
(Loss)/
earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
shares 
number 
million
Earnings 
per share 
pence
Earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
shares 
number 
million
Earnings 
per share 
pence
Earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
shares 
number 
million
Earnings 
per share 
pence
Basic (loss)/earnings from 
continuing operations (252) 383 (66.1) 109 302 36.1 187 293 63.8
Exceptional and asbestos  
related items (post-tax) 97 − 25.3 101 – 33.4 47 – 16.0
Amortisation and  
impairment (post-tax) 417 − 108.9 37 – 12.3 27 – 9.2
Basic earnings from continuing 
operations before impairment, 
amortisation, exceptional and 
asbestos related items 262 383 68.1 247 302 81.8 261 293 89.0
Share options − − − – 2 (0.5) – 2 (0.6)
Employee share and  
incentive schemes − 2 (0.4) – 7 (1.8) – 4 (1.2)
Diluted earnings from 
continuing operations before 
impairment, amortisation 
and exceptional and asbestos 
related items 262 385 67.7 247 311 79.5 261 299 87.2
Basic loss from  
discontinued operations (4) 383 (1.1) (27) 302 (8.9) (8) 293 (2.7)
Exceptional items (post-tax) (1) − (0.2) 19 – 6.3 – – –
Basic loss from  
discontinued operations  
before exceptional items (5) 383 (1.3) (8) 302 (2.6) (8) 293 (2.7)
Share options − − − – 2 – – 2 –
Employee share and  
incentive schemes − 2 − – 7 0.1 – 4 –
Diluted loss from  
discontinuing operations 
before exceptional items (5) 385 (1.3) (8) 311 (2.5) (8) 299 (2.7)
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 123
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
11 Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
equipment 
£m
T otal 
£m
Cost
As at 1 January 2015 (restated) 78 172 250
Exchange and other movements (3) (4) (7)
Reclassifications (2) (5) (7)
Additions 4 12 16
Disposals (2) (4) (6)
As at 31 December 2015 75 171 246
Depreciation
As at 1 January 2015 24 76 100
Exchange and other movements (1) (2) (3)
Provided during the year 7 19 26
Disposals (1) (3) (4)
As at 31 December 2015 29 90 119
Cost
As at 1 January 2014 30 95 125
Exchange and other movements 4 (1) 3
Acquired through business combinations 39 73 112
Additions 6 8 14
Disposals (1) (3) (4)
As at 31 December 2014 (restated) 78 172 250
Depreciation
As at 1 January 2014 17 69 86
Exchange and other movements 2 – 2
Provided during the year 6 10 16
Disposals (1) (3) (4)
As at 31 December 2014 24 76 100
Net book value
As at 31 December 2015 46 81 127
As at 31 December 2014 54 96 150
As at 1 January 2014 13 26 39
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2014 
(restated)
£m
The net book value of land and buildings comprised:
Freehold 24 29
Short leasehold 22 25
46 54
The carrying value of land and buildings held under finance lease at 31 December 2015 was £5m (2014: £6m). The amount acquired 
through business combinations was £nil (2014: £6m). Additions during the year include £nil (2014: £nil) under finance leases.
The balance as at 1 January 2015 has been restated following the finalisation of the purchase price allocation of the  
Foster Wheeler acquisition. 124
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
12 Intangible assets
Goodwill 
£m
Customer 
relationships 
£m
Brands/
trademarks 
£m
Order 
backlog 
£m
Patents 
£m
Software 
£m
T otal 
£m
Cost
As at 1 January 2015 
(restated) 2,551 560 186 137 109 123 3,666
Exchange and 
other movements (21) 1 8 − 8 − (4)
Additions 1 − − − − 21 22
Disposals and retirements − (31) − − − (6) (37)
Reclassifications − − − − − 7 7
As at 31 December 2015 2,531 530 194 137 117 145 3,654
Amortisation
As at 1 January 2015 
(restated) 35 107 21 14 1 45 223
Exchange and other 
movements (4) − − 1 1 1 (1)
Impairment loss 308 − − 7 − − 315
Provided during the year − 43 11 43 7 25 129
Disposals and retirements − (31) − − − (6) (37)
As at 31 December 2015 339 119 32 65 9 65 629
Cost
As at 1 January 2014 792 192 23 9 – 66 1,082
Exchange and 
other movements (2) 4 1 – (1) 2 4
Acquired through 
business combinations 1,761 367 162 129 110 5 2,534
Additions – – – – – 51 51
Disposals and retirements – (3) – (1) – (1) (5)
As at 31 December 2014 
(restated) 2,551 560 186 137 109 123 3,666
Amortisation
As at 1 January 2014 35 85 19 7 – 29 175
Exchange and 
other movements − 2 – – – 1 3
Provided during the year – 23 2 8 1 15 49
Disposals and retirements – (3) – (1) – – (4)
As at 31 December 2014 
(restated) 35 107 21 14 1 45 223
Net book value
As at 31 December 2015 2,192 411 162 72 108 80 3,025
As at 31 December 2014 
(restated) 2,516 453 165 123 108 78 3,443
As at 1 January 2014 757 107 4 2 – 37 907
The carrying value of software held under deferred payment arrangements which are similar to finance leases as at  
31 December 2015 was £24m (2014: £30m). Additions during the year include £nil (2014: £33m) of software held  
under deferred payment arrangements.
The impairment loss of £315m relates to a £308m impairment of goodwill in relation to the Global Power Group and  
a £7m impairment of the order backlog intangible asset.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 125
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
12 Intangible assets continued
The Group is required to test its goodwill and intangible assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if indicators  
of impairment exist.
The review of goodwill for indications of impairment by management is performed at the operating segment level, being the lowest 
level of cash-generating units (CGU) monitored for goodwill purposes. With effect from 1 January 2015, the Group adopted three 
new geographical operating segments: Americas; Northern Europe and CIS; and Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe; 
with Foster Wheeler’s E&C Services segment being merged into these segments. Goodwill on the legacy AMEC and Foster Wheeler 
E&C businesses was allocated between these segments on a relative fair value basis.
The table below shows the goodwill allocated to each CGU, post recognition of any impairment losses.
Goodwill 
31 December 
2015 
£m
Pre-tax 
discount rate 
2015 
%
Americas 1,054 11
Northern Europe and CIS 654 11
Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe 266 11
Global Power Group 218 13
The recoverable amount of all CGUs has been based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use cash flow projections 
included in the financial budgets approved by the Board for 2016 and pre-tax discount rates as set out in the table above. For the 
purposes of the calculation of the recoverable amount, the cash flow projections beyond the budgeted period include no growth in 
2017 for the Americas, Northern Europe and CIS, and Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe, and 10% growth in the Global 
Power Group. For all segments, no growth is included in 2018, 5% growth in 2019, 10% growth in 2020 and 3% growth per annum 
thereafter. The long-term growth rates are in line with long-term average growth rates for the regions in which the CGUs operate.
The financial budgets reflect management’s judgement of the future cash flows which includes past experience and expectations 
of future performance. The most significant assumptions relate to trading profit margin and the conversion of trading profit into 
cash (cash conversion). Revenue is underpinned by a secure order book for each CGU and the order book remains strong at 
£6.6 billion as at 31 December 2015 (2014: £6.3 billion). The selection of trading profit margin takes into account the margins 
being generated on contracts in progress and management’s view of the margin on orders received, and is consistent with 
Amec Foster Wheeler’s growth strategy. The cash conversion reflects past experience and current contract mix.
The value-in-use has been compared to the carrying value for each CGU and no impairment is required nor has been charged 
in respect of the Americas, Northern Europe and CIS, or Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe CGUs.
The carrying amount of the Global Power Group CGU has been reduced to its recoverable amount through recognition of 
an impairment loss of £308m against goodwill. This has been included in administrative expenses in the income statement. 
The recoverable amount of the Global Power Group CGU is £396m. The impairment loss arose due to difficult market conditions 
and a reduction in forecast future profits of the Global Power Group. Any adverse changes in the key assumptions would increase 
this impairment loss.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed in respect of these CGUs in order to review the impact of changes in key assumptions. 
The value-in-use calculations referred to above showed headroom of £400m in the Americas CGU and £307m in the Northern 
Europe and CIS CGU. However, applying zero terminal growth would eliminate the headroom and would result in an impairment 
to goodwill of £40m in the Americas CGU and £27m in the Northern Europe and CIS CGU. A zero growth rate would not result  
in an impairment in the Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe CGU.
Consideration was also given to the impact of a 10% decrease in volume, a 1% decrease in margin, or a 1% increase in discount 
rate, in each case holding other assumptions constant. This did not identify any impairments in these CGUs. 126
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
13 Interests in joint ventures
Interests in joint ventures
Details in aggregate of the Group’s interests in all joint ventures that are accounted for using the equity method are as follows:
£m
Net book value
As at 1 January 2015 122
Exchange and other movements 2
Disposal of businesses (9)
Additions 1
Reclassifications 2
T otal comprehensive income 28
Dividends received (42)
As at 31 December 2015 104
As at 1 January 2014 52
Acquired through business combinations 73
Disposal of businesses (2)
Additions 1
T otal comprehensive income 12
Dividends received (14)
As at 31 December 2014 122
Group companies are listed on pages 194 to 201.
Details of material joint ventures
Petropower Energia Limitada
The Group has an 85% interest in Petropower Energia Limitada, a joint venture alongside the state-owned oil company of the 
Republic of Chile, which began commercial operation in November 1998. The Group’s interest is accounted for using the equity 
method in the consolidated financial statements. Summarised financial information of the joint venture, based on its IFRS financial 
statements are set out below:
Summarised Balance Sheet of Petropower Energia Limitada:
2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
Non-current assets 47 51
Current assets, including cash and cash equivalents of £19,583,000 (2014: £14,607 ,000) 35 41
Current liabilities (30) (29)
Non-current liabilities (12) (13)
Equity 40 50
Summarised Income Statement of Petropower Energia Limitada:
2015 
£m
Revenue 43
Cost of sales (20)
Administrative expenses (2)
Profit before tax 21
Income tax expense (5)
Profit for the year 16
Although the Group has an 85% interest in Petropower Energia Limitada, the profits are split according to the joint venture 
agreement. In the year the profit after tax received by the Group from Petropower Energia Limitada was £11m (2014: £2m), 
the carrying value of the investment was £53m (2014: £54m).
In 2014 the income received from Petropower Energia Limitada was immaterial as the Group only acquired the 85% interest 
following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler on 13 November 2014.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 127
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
13 Interests in joint ventures continued
Nuclear Management Partners Limited
The Group has a 36% interest in Nuclear Management Partners Limited. The Group’s interest is accounted for using the equity 
method in the consolidated financial statements. Summarised financial information of the joint venture, based on its IFRS financial 
statements are set out below:
Summarised Balance Sheet of Nuclear Management Partners Limited:
2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
Non-current assets 10 30
Current assets, including cash and cash equivalents of £4,635,000 (2014: £2,449,000) 8 8
Current liabilities (6) (5)
Non-current liabilities – (3)
Equity 12 30
Group’s carrying value of investment 4 11
Summarised Income Statement of Nuclear Management Partners Limited:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Revenue 6 6
Cost of sales (6) (6)
Administrative expenses (2) (3)
Share of post tax results of associate 40 27
Profit before tax 38 24
Income tax expense – –
Profit for the year 38 24
Group’s share of profit for the year 14 9
PPP service concessions
Details of the PPP service concessions are as follows:
Financial 
close
Equity 
stake
Concession 
period
Net equity 
invested
T ransport A13 Thames Gateway 2000 25% 30 years –
Incheon Bridge, Korea 2005 23% 30 years £12m
Power Petropower Energía Limitada, Chile 1998 85% 20 years £53m
Interests in joint operations
The Group does not hold any individual material interests in joint operations in either the current or prior year. 128
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates a number of pension schemes for UK and overseas employees. 
There are three principal defined benefit schemes. In the UK these are the AMEC Staff pension scheme, (which also has an 
associated Executive top-up scheme) and the Foster Wheeler Pension Plan and in the US, The Foster Wheeler Inc. Salaried 
Employees Pension Plan. The AMEC Staff and Executive pension schemes are closed to new members but remain open to further 
accrual. The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan is a hybrid benefit arrangement with distinct defined benefit and defined contribution 
sections. The defined benefit section is closed to new members and further accrual, but the defined contribution section remains 
open to further accrual. The Foster Wheeler Inc. Salaried Employees Pension Plan is also closed to new members and further 
accrual. Contributions by the Group into defined contribution schemes are disclosed in note 6.
The AMEC Staff and Executive pension schemes are average salary plans for UK employees. The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan was 
a final salary pension plan. All three schemes require contributions to be made to a separately administered fund. These schemes 
are governed by the employment laws of the UK. The level of benefits provided depends on the member’s length of service and 
salary each year. Once the benefits are in payment, the pension is adjusted each year relative to the UK’s Retail Prices Index for the 
AMEC Staff and Executive pension schemes. The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan is adjusted each year relative to the UK’s Consumer 
Price Index. Each scheme is established under trust law and are governed by a Board of T rustees, which consists of employers’ 
and employees’ representatives. In addition, the AMEC Staff and Executive pension schemes have two independent trustees. 
The Board of T rustees is responsible for the administration of the plan assets and for the definition of the investment strategy.
Every three years, the Board of T rustees is required by legislation to review the level of funding in the pension plans. The Board 
of T rustees decides the contribution levels in consultation with the employers’ based on the results of this triennial review. In the 
event that there is a funding deficit, the T rustees and the employer will agree a recovery plan to eliminate that deficit over as short 
a period as is reasonably affordable.
Due to the nature of the liabilities, the pension plans are exposed to inflation, interest rate risk and changes in the life expectancy for 
pensioners. As the plan assets include significant investments in quoted equities, the Group is also exposed to equity market risk.
The valuations used have been based on the final valuations of the AMEC Staff pension scheme and AMEC Executive pension 
scheme as at 31 March 2014. The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan’s most recent valuation took place as at 1 April 2013. These 
schemes have been updated by the schemes’ actuaries for the requirement to assess the present value of the liabilities of the 
schemes as at 31 December 2015. The assets of the schemes are stated at their aggregate market value as at 31 December 2015.
The Foster Wheeler Inc. Salaried Employees Pension Plan provides pension benefits to certain full-time employees. Under the 
pension plan, retirement benefits are primarily a function of both years of service and level of compensation. The pension plan 
is closed to new members and further accrual.
Following an employee consultation exercise at the end of 2015, the Company has now confirmed its intention to close its UK 
Staff and Executive defined benefit pension schemes to future accrual from 1 April 2016 and replace them with a new defined 
contribution arrangement. Subject to obtaining the necessary T rustee approval, all legacy defined contribution plans in the  
UK will be merged into the new arrangement by 30 June 2016.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 129
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries are as follows:
31 December 
2015 
%
31 December 
2014 
%
31 December 
2013 
%
The AMEC Staff pension scheme and the AMEC Executive pension scheme
Rate of discount 3.9 3.6 4.6
Rate of inflation 3.0 3.0 3.3
Rate of increase in salaries 3.0 3.0 3.3
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (service before/after 1 January 2008) 2.8/1.9 2.9/2.0 3.2/2.2
The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan
Rate of discount 3.9 3.7 –
Rate of inflation 3.0 3.0 –
Rate of increase in salaries 2.0 1.9 –
Rate of increase in pensions in payment  
(service before/after 5 April 2005, nil before 6 April 1997) 2.0/1.5 1.1 –
The Foster Wheeler Inc. Salaried Employees Pension Plan
Rate of discount 3.9 3.6 –
Rate of inflation 2.3 2.5 –
Rate of increase in salaries N/A N/A –
Rate of increase in pensions in payment N/A N/A –
In addition the Group has a number of smaller overseas schemes. During the year the rate of discount ranged from  
1.5% to 10.1% (2014: 1.8% to 9.0%; 2013: 4.8% to 4.9%). The rate of increase in salaries ranged from 1.9% to 8.0%  
(2014: 1.9% to 8.0%; 2013: 2.8%).
For the three principal defined benefit schemes, the assumed life expectancy is as follows:
31 December 
2015 
Male 
years
31 December 
2015 
Female 
years
31 December 
2014 
Male 
years
31 December 
2014 
Female 
years
31 December 
2013 
Male 
years
31 December 
2013 
Female 
years
The AMEC Staff pension scheme and  
the AMEC Executive pension scheme
Member aged 65 (current life expectancy) 22.4 24.6 22.5 24.6 22.9 24.4
Member aged 45 (life expectancy at 65) 24.1 26.5 24.2 26.5 24.7 26.3
The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan
Member aged 65 (current life expectancy) 23.4 23.2 23.5 23.2 N/A N/A
Member aged 45 (life expectancy at 65) 25.1 25.1 25.3 25.1 N/A N/A
The Foster Wheeler Inc. Salaried 
Employees Pension Plan
Member aged 65 (current life expectancy) 21.1 23.1 21.6 23.7 N/A N/A
Member aged 45 (life expectancy at 65) 23.2 25.2 23.2 25.4 N/A N/A
The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions,  
which, due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice. 130
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2014 
£m
31 December 
2013 
£m
Retirement benefit assets 231 102 102
Retirement benefit liabilities (168) (188) (62)
Retirement benefit net asset/(liability) 63 (86) 40
The retirement benefit net asset/(liability) is analysed as follows:
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2014 
£m
31 December 
2013 
£m
The AMEC Staff and the AMEC Executive pension scheme 184 65 102
The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan 47 37 –
The Foster Wheeler Inc. Salaried Employees Pension Plan (59) (57) –
Other smaller pension schemes (109) (131) (62)
63 (86) 40
The retirement benefit liabilities of £168m (2014: £188m; 2013: £62m) reflect primarily the deficits on the smaller overseas 
schemes.
The major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets are as follows:
31 December 
2015 
per cent
31 December 
2014 
per cent
31 December 
2013 
per cent
Equities 34.6 35.4 41.3
Bonds (including gilts) 51.8 52.6 47.6
Property 8.7 8.4 8.8
Other 4.9 3.6 2.3
100.0 100.0 100.0
The equities and bonds as listed above are predominantly quoted investments. There is a small investment in privately held pooled 
fund investments and the property/other investments are unquoted. 
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
Current service cost, past service cost and administrative expenses 36 33 33
Interest cost 104 84 72
Interest income (102) (86) (73)
T otal amount recognised in the income statement and included within staff costs 
(note 6) 38 31 32
Settlement gain (3) (3) –
T otal amount recognised in the income statement 35 28 32
The total amount is recognised in the income statement as follows:
Cost of sales 22 20 19
Administrative expenses 11 10 14
Net financing expense/(income) 2 (2) (1)
T otal amount recognised in the income statement 35 28 32
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 131
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit liability are as follows:
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
 2013
 £m
As at 1 January 2,931 1,743 1,652
Exchange and other movements (1) 3 (14)
Acquired through business combinations − 898 –
Current and past service cost 32 29 31
Interest cost 104 84 72
Plan participants’ contributions 11 12 12
Actuarial (gains)/charges arising from changes in financial assumptions and 
experience adjustments (177) 278 58
Actuarial (gains)/charges arising from changes in demographic assumptions (14) (19) 7
Settlements (31) (12) (4)
Benefits paid (141) (85) (71)
Reclassifications 3 − −
As at 31 December 2,717 2,931 1,743
The defined benefit obligation can be allocated to the plans’ participants as follows:
2015 
%
 2014 
%
 2013 
%
Active plan participants 20.5 22.0 25.2
Deferred plan participants 28.4 31.3 33.8
Retirees 51.1 46.7 41.0
100.0 100.0 100.0
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 16 years.
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
As at 1 January 2,845 1,783 1,645
Exchange and other movements − 3 (8)
Acquired through business combinations − 826 –
Interest income 102 86 73
Actuarial (losses)/gains (41) 201 105
Employer contributions 36 32 29
Plan participants’ contributions 11 12 12
Administrative expenses (4) (4) (2)
Settlements (28) (9) –
Benefits paid (141) (85) (71)
As at 31 December 2,780 2,845 1,783 132
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
The movement in the scheme net asset/(liability) during the year is as follows:
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
Scheme net (liability)/asset as at 1 January (86) 40 (7)
Exchange and other movements 1 – 6
Acquired through business combinations − (72) –
T otal charge as per note 6 (38) (31) (32)
Employer contributions 36 32 29
Settlements 3 3 4
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income 150 (58) 40
Reclassifications (3) − −
Scheme net asset/(liability) as at 31 December 63 (86) 40
The impact on the defined benefit obligation of the principal pension schemes of changes in the most significant assumptions as 
at 31 December 2015 is shown below: 
The AMEC Staff 
and the 
AMEC Executive 
pension schemes 
£m
The Foster Wheeler 
Pension Plan 
£m
The Foster Wheeler 
Inc. Salaried 
Employees 
Pension Plan 
£m
Discount rate
-10 bps (29) (9) (2)
+10 bps 29 9 2
Inflation
-10 bps 27 4 −
+10 bps (27) (4) −
Salary increase
-10 bps 2 1 −
+10 bps (2) (1) −
Mortality
+1 year (53) (12) (9)
- 1 year 53 12 9
The sensitivity analysis above is based on a method that extrapolates the impact on the defined benefit obligation of reasonable 
changes in key assumptions occurring as at 31 December 2015.
The defined benefit obligations of the other benefit schemes are significantly lower than those of the principal defined benefit 
schemes. Sensitivity analysis of reasonable changes in the key assumptions as at 31 December did not indicate any significant 
changes to the defined benefit obligations of those schemes.
Expected benefit payments from the defined benefit plans in future years are as follows:
£m
Y ear 1 139
Y ear 2 142
Y ear 3 145
Y ear 4 147
Y ear 5 150
Next five years 793
1,516
The Group expects to contribute £36m to its defined benefit pension schemes in 2016. This includes special contributions of £6m.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 133
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Assets Liabilities
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2014 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2014 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 17 15 (10) (9)
Intangible assets 4 14 (226) (264)
Retirement benefits 43 67 (43) (38)
Derivative financial instruments 2 − (2) (2)
Provisions 144 130 − –
Employee share schemes − 1 − –
Other items 12 28 (29) (37)
T ax losses carried forward 30 42 − –
T ax credits carried forward 2 1 − –
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 254 298 (310) (350)
Offset of deferred tax assets and liabilities relating  
to income tax levied by the same taxation authority (204) (242) 204 242
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 50 56 (106) (108)
As at 
1 January 
2015 
£m
Exchange 
and other
 movements 
£m
Reclassifications 
£m
Recognised 
in income 
£m
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income 
£m
 As at 
31 December 
2015 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 6 − − 1 − 7
Intangible assets (250) (6) (1) 35 − (222)
Retirement benefits 29 2 − (5) (26) –
Derivative financial instruments (2) − − − 2 −
Provisions 130 1 − 12 1 144
Employee share schemes 1 − − (1) − −
Other items (9) 1 1 (9) (1) (17)
T ax losses carried forward 42 (1) (1) (11) 1 30
T ax credits carried forward 1 – 1 – − 2
(52) (3) − 22 (23) (56)
As at 
1 January 
2014 
£m
Exchange 
and other 
movements 
£m
Acquisitions 
£m
Recognised 
in income 
£m
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income 
£m
As at 
31 December 
2014 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 13 – (11) 4 – 6
Intangible assets (33) (3) (222) 8 – (250)
Retirement benefits (12) – 35 (5) 11 29
Derivative financial instruments – – (2) – – (2)
Provisions 46 2 84 (2) – 130
Employee share schemes 3 – – (2) – 1
Other items (5) – (6) 2 – (9)
T ax losses carried forward 3 – 28 11 – 42
T ax credits carried forward – – − 1 – 1
15 (1) (94) 17 11 (52)
The deferred tax credit of £22m (2014: £17m) recognised in income consists of a credit of £22m (2014: £16m) relating to continuing 
operations and a £nil credit (2014: £1m) in respect of discontinued operations. 134
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued 
Factors affecting the tax charge in future years
There are a number of factors that may affect the Group’s future tax charge including the resolution of open issues with tax 
authorities, corporate acquisitions and disposals, the use of brought-forward losses and changes in tax legislation and tax rates.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2014 
£m
Deductible temporary differences 322 326
T ax losses 128 121
450 447
During the year the Group withdrew claims made to HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to offset German tax losses of approximately 
£79m against UK taxable profits. This follows a further change to HMRC’s view of the conditions that need to be satisfied for a 
valid claim, based on a ruling in the Court of Justice of the European Union. The point at issue concerns the date on which there 
is certainty that the losses could not be utilised in the country in which they originated. HMRC’s position was that it would be 
necessary to litigate in order to pursue the claims. As the net UK tax benefit of the claims was no more than £10m, the decision 
to withdraw the claim was taken on the basis that there was no longer clear legal precedent on the point at issue and the costs 
of pursuing the claim would be substantial, with no certainty of success.
As at 31 December 2015 the expiry dates of unrecognised deferred tax assets carried forward are as follows:
T ax losses 
£m
Deductible 
temporary 
differences 
£m
T otal 
£m
Expiring within 5 years 3 37 40
Expiring within 6-10 years 10 80 90
Expiring within 11-20 years 46 − 46
Unlimited 69 205 274
128 322 450
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will  
be available against which the Group can utilise these assets.
Unrecognised deferred tax liabilities
No deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of £1,323m (2014: £1,440m) of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and 
joint ventures because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is not 
probable that such differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of unrecognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of these unremitted earnings is estimated to be £28m (2014: £29m).
16 Inventories
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2014 
£m
Raw materials 13 14
13 14
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 135
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
17 Current trade and other receivables
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2014 
(restated)
£m
Amounts expected to be recovered within one year
Gross amounts due from customers 552 542
T rade receivables 717 758
Amounts owed by joint ventures 13 10
Other receivables 63 60
Prepayments and accrued income 72 76
Asbestos related insurance recovery debtor (note 21) 14 13
1,431 1,459
Amounts expected to be recovered after more than one year
Gross amounts due from customers 2 –
T rade receivables 7 5
Amounts owed by joint ventures 1 1
Other receivables 14 4
24 10
1,455 1,469
T rade receivables expected to be recovered within one year include retentions of £34m (2014: £47m) relating to contracts  
in progress. T rade receivables expected to be recovered after more than one year include retentions of £7m (2014: £4m)  
net of £1m impairment (2014: £nil) relating to contracts in progress.
The aggregate amount of costs incurred plus recognised profits (less recognised losses) for all long-term contracts in progress  
for continuing businesses at the balance sheet date was £6,428m.
T rade receivables, amounts owed by joint ventures and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables.
18 Current trade and other payables
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2014 
(restated)
£m
Amounts expected to be settled within one year
T rade payables 584 543
Gross amounts due to customers 328 361
Other taxation and social security costs 50 42
Other payables 225 190
Accruals 198 235
1,385 1,371
Amounts expected to be settled after more than one year
T rade payables 1 2
Gross amounts due to customers 5 5
Other taxation and social security costs 17 19
Other payables 47 40
Accruals 4 1
74 67
1,459 1,438
Gross amounts due to customers include advances received of £5m (2014: £nil).
T rade payables, other payables and accruals are classified as other financial liabilities. 136
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
19 Capital and financial risk management
Capital management 
The objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it has a strong financial position from which to grow the 
business and to maximise shareholder value. The appropriate capital structure for the Group comprises of a mix of debt and 
equity. The mix is determined by considering business profile and strategy, financial policies and availability and cost of funding.
Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the Group is currently in a net debt position. The long-term net debt is targeted to 
be no more than two times trading profit. The Group may exceed this operating parameter should the business profile require it. 
However, it is expected that any increases would be temporary given the net operational cash flows of the Group.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had committed banking facilities of £1,768m (2014: £1,863m). This consists of a £27m project 
debt and a £377m multi-currency revolving facility that was taken out on 18 July 2012. The facility is committed for five years and 
is available for general corporate purposes. The Group has additional facilities totalling $2,010m (£1,363m). This comprises of the 
following: 
 X $830m (£563m) bridge facility maturing August 2016 with a further six month extension at the Company’s option
 X $830m (£563m) term loan maturing in equal instalments in 2017 , 2018 and 2019 
 X $350m (£237m) revolving credit facility maturing May 2016 
As at 31 December 2015, £1,264m (2014: £1,267m) of the loans and facilities were utilised by way of debt and £62m 
(2014: £156m) was utilised by way of Letter of Credit. As at 31 December 2015, the undrawn portion of the Group’s committed 
facilities was £442m.
In November 2014, as part of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG, the Group issued 85 million of ordinary shares. This increased 
share capital by £42m and generated a share premium of £877m, which is recorded on the balance sheet within the merger reserve. 
On 1 March 2016, the Group entered into a new syndicated facility comprising of three tranches; a three-year £650m term loan, 
a five-year £650m term loan and a five-year £400m revolving credit facility. This new facility replaces the company’s existing 
£377m revolving credit facility and the Foster Wheeler acquisition facility of $2.26bn.
Financial risk management
The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are: foreign currency exchange risk; funding and liquidity risk; 
counterparty credit risk; and interest rate risk. The board has approved policies for the management of these risks which are 
reviewed annually.
The Group’s treasury department manages funding, liquidity, credit risk and risks arising from movements in interest and foreign 
currency rates within a framework of policies and guidelines approved by the board, most recently in December 2015. The treasury 
department does not operate as a profit centre and the undertaking of speculative transactions is not permitted.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 137
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
19 Capital and financial risk management continued
Foreign currency exchange risk
The Group publishes its consolidated accounts in Sterling. The majority of the Group’s trading income is denominated in the  
local currency of the business operations which provides a natural hedge against the currency of its cost base. Where commercial 
contracts are undertaken which are denominated in foreign currencies, the Group seeks to mitigate the foreign exchange risk, 
when the cash flow giving rise to such exposure becomes certain or highly probable. This is achieved through the use of forward 
currency arrangements, which may include the purchase of currency options. There are currently no material transactional 
exposures which have been identified and remain unhedged. The Group has no reason to believe that any outstanding forward 
contract will not be able to be settled from the underlying commercial transactions.
A significant portion of the Group’s earnings is generated in non-Sterling currencies. Such overseas profits are translated into 
Sterling at the average exchange rate prevailing throughout the year. There is currently no hedging in place for profits generated 
in non-Sterling currencies but the impact on Group profits is monitored on an ongoing basis. In addition, the Group has various 
assets denominated in foreign currencies, principally US Dollars, Canadian Dollars and Euros. With the introduction of the 
acquisition facilities detailed above the Group hedges translation exposure, wherever possible, by matching the currency of its 
borrowing (either directly or via derivatives) to the currency of its net assets and future free cash flow. As a result, the Group 
has designated a series of derivatives and financial instruments as hedging instruments in net investment hedge relationships. 
In specific circumstances, for example the planned repatriation of foreign assets, the Group may from time to time enter 
into additional net investment hedges to manage foreign exchange risks. The Group applies hedge accounting in respect of 
transactions entered into to manage the cash flow exposures of its borrowings. Forward foreign exchange contracts and cross 
currency interest rate swap contracts are held to manage the cash flow exposures of a portion of borrowings denominated in 
foreign currencies and are designated as cash flow hedges. 
Based on the Group’s net debt as at 31 December 2015, if Sterling were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, the Group’s 
net debt would increase by £46m (2014: £44m). This represents a £130m increase in foreign currency borrowings (2014: £134m), 
a £50m increase in derivative assets designated as cash flow hedges of Group borrowings (2014: £47m) and a £34m increase  
in foreign currency cash and cash equivalents (2014: £43m).
If Sterling were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, then the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross 
currency interest rate swaps, other than those designated as cash flow hedges of foreign currency borrowings, as at 31 December 
2015 would decrease by £51m (2014: £57m).
Movements in the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps would be recognised  
in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve or translation reserve.
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk – cash flow hedges
The Group looks to mitigate the foreign exchange risk arising on foreign currency borrowings and where contracts are awarded in, 
or involve costs in, non-local currency. Forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps are used for this purpose 
and are designated as cash flow hedges. The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values of forward contracts and 
swaps designated as cash flow hedges are as follows:
 2015 
Notional 
contract 
amount 
£m
 2014 
Notional 
contract 
amount 
£m
 2015 
Carrying 
amount and
 fair value 
£m
 2014 
Carrying 
amount and 
fair value 
£m
Non current assets – cash flow hedges of foreign currency borrowings 105 105 6 –
T otal non current assets 105 105 6 –
Current assets – cash flow hedges of contracts in foreign currencies 57 15 1 –
Current assets – cash flow hedges of foreign currency borrowings 328 318 8 1
T otal current assets 385 333 9 1
Current liabilities – cash flow hedges of contracts in foreign currencies 191 44 (9) (1)
T otal current liabilities 191 44 (9) (1)
681 482 6 – 138
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
19 Capital and financial risk management continued
There was no charge for ineffectiveness recognised in either 2015 or 2014. A net foreign exchange loss for the year of £2m was 
recognised in the hedging reserve as a result of fair value movements on derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow 
hedging instruments (£1m) and amounts recycled to the income statement in line with underlying cash flows (£1m).
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk – fair value through income statement
Certain forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps are not designated as cash flow hedges and changes 
in their fair value are recognised through the income statement. The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values 
of these forward contracts and swaps are as follows:
 2015 
Notional 
contract 
amount 
£m
 2014 
Notional 
contract 
amount 
£m
 2015 
Carrying 
amount and 
fair value
 £m
 2014 
Carrying 
amount and 
fair value 
£m
Derivative financial instruments
Current assets 241 229 5 2
Current liabilities 388 422 (5) (12)
629 651 – (10)
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk – net investment hedges
The Group has forward foreign exchange contracts which have been designated as hedges of the net investments in core 
subsidiaries in Canada, the US and Europe. The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values of swaps designated  
as net investment hedges are as follows:
 2015 
Notional 
contract 
amount 
£m
 2014 
Notional 
contract
 amount 
£m
 2015 
Carrying 
amount and 
fair value 
£m
 2014 
Carrying 
amount and 
fair value 
£m
Derivative financial instruments
Non current assets 105 105 12 2
Current assets 111 318 2 8
Current liabilities 168 − (7) −
384 423 7 10
A net foreign exchange loss for the year of £3m (2014: £4m) was recognised in the translation reserve in respect of forward foreign 
exchange contracts, currency interest rate swaps and borrowings designated as net investment hedging instruments.
Other financial derivative assets and liabilities
The Group has other financial derivative assets of £nil (2014: £1m) and financial derivative liabilities of £4m (2014: £6m).
The following tables indicate the periods in which the cash flows associated with the derivative financial instruments are expected 
to occur and the periods in which they are expected to impact profit or loss:
 2015
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Expected 
cash flows 
£m
12 months
 or less 
£m
1 to 2 
years 
£m
2 to 5 
years 
£m
Derivative financial instruments
Assets 34 948 726 12 210
Liabilities (25) 963 739 16 208
9 1,911 1,465 28 418
 2014
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Expected 
cash flows 
£m
12 months 
or less 
£m
1 to 2 
years 
£m
2 to 5 
years 
£m
Derivative financial instruments
Assets 14 1,090 877 2 211
Liabilities (19) 648 361 102 185
(5) 1,738 1,238 104 396
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 139
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
19 Capital and financial risk management continued
Funding and liquidity risk
The Group’s policy aims to ensure the constant availability of an appropriate amount of funding to meet both current and future 
forecast requirements consistent with the Group’s budget and strategic plans. The Group will finance operations and growth from 
its existing cash resources and the £442m undrawn portion of the Group’s committed banking facilities as at 31 December 2015. 
The requirement to enter into additional external facilities has been kept under review during the year. This includes discussions 
with the Group’s main relationship banks to ensure additional bilateral lending capacity is available.
Appropriate facilities will be maintained to meet ongoing requirements for bank guarantees and letters of credit.
Counterparty credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit risk to the extent of non-payment by either its customers or the counterparties of its financial 
instruments. The effective monitoring and controlling of credit risk is a key component of the Group’s risk management activities.
The maximum credit risk exposure on derivatives at 31 December 2015 was £35m, being the total net debit fair values per 
derivative counterparty on forward foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and interest rate swaps. The Group performs 
a Credit Value Adjustment (CVA) and Debit Value Adjustment (DVA) analysis to establish the credit risk inherent in the closing 
derivative portfolio. As at 31 December 2015, the result of this adjustment has no impact on the Group’s income statement. 
In 2014, a similar analysis of a 60 basis point deterioration in the credit quality of the Group’s derivative counterparties had nil 
impact on the Group’s income statement. Credit risks arising from treasury activities are managed by a central treasury function 
in accordance with the board approved treasury policy. The objective of the policy is to diversify and minimise the Group’s 
exposure to credit risk from its treasury activities by ensuring that surplus funds are placed with a diversified range of 25 to 30 
mainstream banks and with each counterparty up to a pre-approved limit. These limits are set at prudent levels by the board and 
are based primarily on publicly available credit ratings of counterparties. Credit ratings are monitored continually by the Group 
treasury department. 
The maximum credit risk exposure on cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits (more than three months) at 31 December 
2015 was £363m (2014: £516m). The Group treasury department monitors counterparty exposure on a global basis to avoid 
an over-concentration of exposure to any one counterparty.
The credit risk associated with customers is considered as part of each tender review process and is addressed initially through 
contract payment terms. Where appropriate, payment security is sought. Credit control practices are applied thereafter during  
the project execution phase. A right to interest and suspension is normally sought in all contracts.
The ageing of trade receivables at the year-end was:
Gross 
receivables 
31 December 
2015 
£m
Impairment 
31 December 
2015 
£m
Gross
 receivables 
31 December 
2014 
£m
Impairment 
31 December 
2014 
£m
Not past due 357 − 402 –
Past due 0 to 30 days 216 − 163 –
Past due 31 to 120 days 90 (3) 99 –
Past due 121 to 365 days 40 (18) 47 (6)
More than one year 88 (86) 100 (93)
791 (107) 811 (99)
The above analysis excludes retentions relating to contracts in progress of £34m (2014: £47m) expected to be recovered within 
one year and £7m (2014: £4m) net of £1m impairment (2014: £nil) expected to be recovered after one year. Net receivables as  
at 31 December 2015 include £2m (2014: £7m) in respect of amounts overdue by more than one year. 140
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
19 Capital and financial risk management continued
Counterparty credit risk continued
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
As at 1 January (99) (16)
Exchange movements (1) –
Increase in impairment allowance (23) (86)
Decrease in impairment allowance 16 3
As at 31 December (107) (99)
Based on past experience, the Group believes that no material impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables 
not past due.
T rade receivable exposures are typically with large companies and government-backed organisations and the credit ratings 
of these organisations are monitored. Credit risks are minimised through the use of letters of credit, parent company guarantees, 
insurance instruments and forward funding where achievable.
The Group’s most significant customer in 2015 accounted for around 8% (2014: 8%) of continuing revenues, and around 2% 
(2014: 4%) of current trade and other receivables. The revenue was generated in both the Americas and AMEASE.
Interest rate risk 
The £377m multi-currency revolving credit facility is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin depending on leverage. 
The $830m (£563m) bridge facility is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin which increases over time. 
The $830m (£563m) term loan is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin depending on leverage. 
The $350m (£237m) revolving credit facility is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin.
The €35m (£26m) project debt is subject to an interest rate of EURIBOR plus a margin. 
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on cash and borrowings. Cash is viewed as temporary with any longer term surplus  
used to repay credit facilities. 
When required the Group uses interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to meet its objective of protecting 
borrowing costs within parameters set by the Board. The Group’s policy is to keep between 30% and 70% of its borrowings 
at fixed rates of interest. Movements in the fair value of interest rates swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps that are 
designated as cash flow hedges of the Group’s borrowings resulting from changes in market interest rates are recognised in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve with the fair value recorded in the balance sheet. At 31 December 
2015, after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps, approximately 28% of the 
Group’s borrowings are at a fixed rate of interest (2014: 23%). The year-end position was below the lower threshold due to the 
ongoing refinancing activity in 2015. This will be rectified in Q1 2016 following the completion of the refinancing activity.
Based on the Group’s gross borrowings as at 31 December 2015, if interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points in all 
currencies then the annual net interest charge would increase by £9m (2014: £9m). A decrease in interest rates by 100 basis 
points in all currencies would have an equal but opposite effect.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 141
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
19 Capital and financial risk management continued
Interest rate risk – contractual maturity and effective interest rates
In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective 
interest rates at the balance sheet date and the periods in which they mature:
2015
Effective 
interest rate 
per cent
Total 
£m
Less than 
1 year 
£m
1 to 2
 years 
£m
2 to 5 
years 
£m
Over 
5 years 
£m
Bank deposits 
(more than three months) 0.47 23 14 4 5 −
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding 
bank overdrafts) 3.00 340 340 − − −
Bank loans 3.28 (1,264) (679) (192) (386) (7)
Finance leases 6.84 (59) (4) (18) (24) (13)
Derivatives classified  
as bank loans − 14 8 – 6 −
(946) (321) (206) (399) (20)
2014
Effective 
interest rate 
per cent
T otal 
£m
Less than
 1 year 
£m
1 to 2 
years 
£m
2 to 5 
years 
£m
Over 
5 years 
£m
Bank deposits 
(more than three months) 0.80 21 18 2 1 –
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding 
bank overdrafts) 1.24 495 495 – – –
Fees capitalised against 
bank facilities – 9 5 2 2 –
Bank loans 1.49 (1,267) (706) (5) (545) (11)
Finance leases 6.54 (61) (9) (9) (26) (17)
(803) (197) (10) (568) (28)
Interest payments of £16m are expected to be paid within one year, £15m between one and two years, £16m between two and five 
years and £nil over five years.
Group borrowing
The Group had no overdrafts as at the end of 2015 or 2014. The bank loans are denominated in Sterling and US Dollars 
(2014: Sterling and US Dollars).
All covenants attached to borrowings have been complied with throughout the current and prior years. 
Fair values
Fair values are determined using observable market prices (level 2 as defined by IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’) as follows:
 X The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward 
price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk-free interest rate 
 X The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps are estimated by discounting estimated future cash 
flows based on the terms and maturity of each contract and using market rates 
All derivative fair values are verified by comparison to valuations provided by the derivative counterparty banks. There are no 
material credit valuation adjustments (CVA) or debit valuation adjustments (DVA) required on the derivatives outstanding at 
31 December 2015. 142
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
20 Other non-current receivables and payables
Other non-current receivables
 2015 
£m
 2014 
(restated)
£m
Asbestos related insurance recovery debtor (note 21) 104 108
Indemnities receivable 16 13
Insurance receivables 4 4
Lease incentives 17 28
Other non-current receivables 4 14
145 167
Other non-current payables
 2015
 £m
 2014 
(restated)
£m
Deferred consideration on acquisition − 2
Unfavourable leases 84 65
Lease incentives 8 7
Other payables 20 26
Other post employment benefits 9 11
121 111
21 Provisions
Asbestos-
related 
litigation 
£m
Project and
environmental
litigation 
£m
Obligations 
relating to 
disposed 
businesses 
£m
Property 
related 
provisions 
£m
Other 
£m
T otal 
£m
As at 1 January 2015 (restated) 400 217 86 19 34 756
Exchange and other movements 18 6 (1) 1 (2) 22
Reclassification 1 (3) 2 2 (2) −
T ransfer out to trade payables − (47) − (2) 2 (47)
Utilised (35) (22) (2) (4) (1) (64)
Provided 1 10 12 3 7 33
Released (9) (7) (19) − (3) (38)
Change in discount rate (5) − − − − (5)
Unwinding of discount 7 − − − − 7
As at 31 December 2015 378 154 78 19 35 664
The balance as at 1 January 2015 has been restated following the finalisation of the purchase price allocation of the Foster 
Wheeler acquisition.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 143
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
21 Provisions continued
Asbestos-related litigation 
Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries in the US and the UK are defendants in numerous asbestos-related lawsuits and 
out-of-court informal claims pending in the US and the UK. Plaintiffs claim damages for personal injury alleged to have arisen 
from exposure to asbestos primarily in connection with equipment allegedly manufactured by certain of our subsidiaries during 
the 1970s or earlier. We expect that these subsidiaries will be named as defendants in additional and/or similar suits and that new 
claims will be filed in the future. Whilst some of these claims have been and are expected to be made in the UK, the overwhelming 
majority have been and are expected to be made in the US.
We assumed the majority of our asbestos-related liabilities when we acquired Foster Wheeler in November 2014. Management 
worked with independent asbestos valuation experts, to measure the asbestos-related liabilities assumed. Asbestos-related 
liabilities recognised by the Group include estimates of indemnity amounts and defence costs expected to be incurred in each 
year in the period to 2050, beyond which time management expects that there will no longer be a significant number of open 
claims. Management’s estimates were based on the following information and/or assumptions: the number of open claims, 
the forecasted number of future claims, the estimated average cost per claim by disease type – mesothelioma, lung cancer 
and non-malignancies, claim filings which result in no monetary payments (the ‘zero pay rate’), as well as other factors. 
Over the last several years, certain of our subsidiaries have entered into settlement agreements calling for insurers to make 
lump-sum payments, as well as payments over time, for use by our subsidiaries to fund asbestos-related indemnity and defence 
costs, and, in certain cases, for reimbursement for portions of out-of-pocket costs incurred. Asbestos-related insurance recoveries 
under executed settlement agreements are recognised in trade and other receivables together with our best estimate of actual 
and probable insurance recoveries relating to our liability for pending and estimated future asbestos claims in the period to 
2050. Our actual insurance recoveries may be limited by future insolvencies among our insurers. We do not recognise insurance 
recoveries due from currently insolvent insurers unless they are subject to court-approved settlement in liquidation proceedings. 
We have discounted the expected future cash flows with respect to the asbestos-related liabilities and the expected insurance 
recoveries using discount rates determined by reference to appropriate risk-free market interest rates.
Asbestos-related liabilities and assets recognised on the Group’s balance sheet were as follows:
2015 2014
US 
£m
UK 
£m
Total 
£m
US 
£m
UK 
£m
T otal 
£m
Asbestos-related provision
Gross provision 432 56 488 454 57 511
Effect of discounting (74) – (74) (76) – (76)
Net provision
1
358 56 414 378 57 435
Insurance recoveries
Gross recoveries (68) (54) (122) (71) (54) (125)
Effect of discounting 4 – 4 4 – 4
Net recoveries (64) (54) (118) (67) (54) (121)
Net asbestos-related liabilities 294 2 296 311 3 314
1  The net asbestos provision of £414m (2014: £435m) is made up of £378m included in provisions (2014: £400m) and £36m (2014: £35m) in respect of 
asbestos provisions included in trade and other payables. 
Estimation of asbestos-related liabilities and insurance recoveries is subject to a number of uncertainties that may result in 
significant changes in the current estimates. Among these are uncertainties as to the ultimate number and type of claims filed, 
the amounts of claim costs, the impact of bankruptcies of other companies with asbestos claims, uncertainties surrounding 
the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, as well as potential legislative changes. 
Fluctuations in market interest rates could cause significant changes in the discounted amount of the asbestos-related liabilities 
and insurance recoveries. 144
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
21 Provisions continued
Project litigation
As described in note 26, the Group is party to litigation involving clients and sub-contractors arising out of project contracts. 
Management has taken internal and external legal advice in considering known or reasonably likely legal claims and actions 
by and against the Group. Where a known or likely claim or action is identified, management carefully assesses the likelihood 
of success of the claim or action. Generally, a provision is recognised only in respect of those claims or actions that management 
considers are probable of success. Additionally, however, the Group recognises provisions for known or likely claims against 
an acquired business if, at the acquisition date, it is possible that the claim or action will be successful and its amount can 
be reliably estimated. 
Provision is made for management’s best estimate of the future legal costs to be incurred in defending each claim or action and  
of the likely settlement costs and/or damages to be awarded for those claims and actions that management considers are likely  
to be successful. Due to the inherent commercial, legal and technical uncertainties underlying the estimation of our project claims, 
the amounts ultimately paid or realised by the Group could differ materially from the amounts, if any, that are recognised in the 
financial statements.
As at 31 December 2015, there were two significant ongoing disputes. Both of these disputes involve Foster Wheeler and were 
ongoing at the acquisition date. Accordingly, in measuring Foster Wheeler’s identifiable assets and liabilities at the acquisition 
date, management established provisions in respect of these disputes and made appropriate reductions to the carrying amount  
of the related receivables.
Power Plant Arbitration – US
Foster Wheeler has been involved in arbitration arising from its role in the construction of a power plant in West Virginia, US. Foster 
Wheeler contracted with its client, Longview Power LLC (‘Longview’), the owner of the power plant, to supply the steam generation 
equipment. Separate contracts existed between Longview and Siemens Energy, Inc. (‘Siemens’) for the supply of the turbine, 
electricity generator and other plant equipment and with Kvaerner North American Construction Inc. (Kvaerner) for the erection  
of the plant. 
Beginning in 2011, various claims and counterclaims were made between Foster Wheeler, Kvaerner, Siemens and Longview. 
In February 2014, Foster Wheeler reached a partial settlement with Longview. In December 2014, various settlement agreements 
were entered into involving the parties, leaving the claims between Foster Wheeler and Kvaerner the only claims to be resolved. 
Kvaerner’s total claims against Foster Wheeler amounted to approximately US$190m in relation to compensation for alleged 
delays, disruptions, inefficiencies and extra work associated with the construction of the plant allegedly caused by Foster 
Wheeler’s performance under its steam generation equipment supply contract. Foster Wheeler claimed approximately US$26m 
from Kvaerner in relation to claims for extra work, delays, scope disputes, and improperly assessed delay liquidated damages, 
as well as the cost to perform certain ongoing rehabilitation work on the steam generation equipment due to erection failures 
by Kvaerner. Pursuant to the settlement agreements reached in December 2014, Foster Wheeler and Kvaerner exchanged parent 
guarantees, securing their respective claims against each other. Foster Wheeler’s parent guarantee was capped at US$58m. 
The arbitration hearing of the dispute between Foster Wheeler and Kvaerner, conducted by the American Arbitration Association, 
occurred in early 2015. In October 2015, the three-arbitrator tribunal rejected Foster Wheeler’s claims in their entirety and 
awarded Kvaerner US$74m, including interest and arbitration costs. Kvaerner commenced an action in New Y ork state court to 
confirm the award. We opposed the action, seeking an order to vacate the award in whole or in part on various grounds. In early 
March 2016, the parties settled their dispute. We are to pay Kvaerner US$70m in full and final settlement of the claims. The parties 
will exchange releases and the court action will be dismissed. 
Refinery Project Arbitration – India
In November 2012, Foster Wheeler commenced arbitration in India against its client seeking collection of unpaid invoices arising 
from services performed on a reimbursable basis in connection with the construction of an oil refinery plant in north-eastern India. 
Our client rejected the claims and has submitted counterclaims totalling approximately 70 billion Indian rupees (approximately 
£740m) for damages, including claims for revenue loss and loss of tax benefits due to delay in the execution of the project. Our 
client has also withheld payment of our invoices on account of delay liquidated damages. 
We strongly dispute our client’s claims. Any liability for delay liquidated damages is capped under the contract at a specified 
percentage of the contract value, currently equivalent to approximately £12m, an amount already retained by our client. Moreover, 
the contract also excludes liability for special damages and consequential damages, including lost profits or product, and contains 
an overall cap on liability for claims in the aggregate of up to a specified percentage of the contract value, currently equivalent 
to approximately £29m. 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 145
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
21 Provisions continued
Refinery Project Arbitration – India continued
An arbitration panel was formed in 2013 and divided the parties’ claims and counterclaims into two tracks. A number of hearings 
were held on the T rack 1 claims during 2014. A first partial award was made to Amec Foster Wheeler in March 2014, but our client 
has petitioned the Delhi court for its annulment, which petition is still pending. In September 2015, the panel issued a further 
partial award on the T rack 1 claims, awarding Amec Foster Wheeler approximately £54m on its invoice claims and dismissing our 
client’s counterclaim allocated to the T rack 1 proceedings. In February 2016, our client petitioned the Delhi court to set aside this 
award as well. The petition is pending. 
The hearing on the T rack 2 claims, which include our client’s main counterclaims, was held in February 2015. The panel’s decision 
on these remaining claims is likewise pending. Limited further proceedings in the arbitration remain pending with respect to 
continuing invoice claim amounts in the T rack 1 proceedings as well as for interest and the costs of arbitration. We will continue 
to defend strenuously the claims made by our client and pursue the collection of unpaid invoices and enforcement of the awards 
made in our favour. As the project is nearing completion but still remained in execution as of the end of 2015, the unpaid amount 
that we are seeking to collect has increased to the equivalent of approximately £56m and may increase further should our client 
continue to withhold amounts from our invoices. Management have made appropriate allowances against these receivables.
Environmental risks
Certain of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, in particular the US and the EU, have environmental laws under which 
current and past owners or operators of property may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of removal or remediation of toxic 
or hazardous substances on or under their property, regardless of whether such materials were released in violation of law and 
whether the operator or owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such substances. Largely as a consequence of the 
acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the Group currently owns and operates, or owned and operated, industrial facilities. It is likely that, 
as a result of the Group’s current or former operations, hazardous substances have affected the property on which those facilities 
are or were situated. The Group have also received and may continue to receive claims pursuant to indemnity obligations from the 
present owners of facilities we have transferred, which claims may require us to incur costs for investigation and/or remediation. 
As at 31 December 2015, the Group held provisions totalling £44m (2014: £33m ) for the estimated future environmental clean-up 
costs in relation to industrial facilities that it no longer operates. Whilst the timing of the related cash flows is typically uncertain, 
the Group expects that certain of its remediation obligations may continue for up to 60 years.
Indemnities and retained obligations
As described in note 26, the Group agreed to indemnify certain third parties relating to businesses and/or assets that were 
previously owned by the Group and were sold to them. As at 31 December 2015, we recognised indemnity provisions totalling  
£78m (2014: £86m). Indemnity provisions principally relate to the indemnification of the purchasers of SPIE in 2006, and the  
Built Environment and other peripheral businesses that were sold in 2007 . During 2015, the Group recognised additional indemnity 
provisions of £12m in relation to businesses sold in previous years and released provisions of £19m that were no longer required 
following settlement of the underlying issues.
Property-related provisions
Property-related provisions related to dilapidations of leasehold buildings. 
Other provisions
Other provisions include £7m (2014: £2m) in respect of the Group’s legal and constructive obligations to fund loss-making joint 
ventures and to meet its share of certain of their obligations, and insurance provisions of £28m (2014: £28m) relating to the 
potential liabilities in the Group’s captive insurance entity and provisions in relation to risks associated with insurance claims. 
These potential liabilities and risks relate predominantly to industrial disease of former employees. These are expected to unwind 
over the next 20 years. 146
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
22 Share capital and reserves
Movements in share capital and reserves are shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity on pages 99 to 101.
Share capital
The share capital of the company comprises ordinary shares of 50 pence each. All the ordinary shares rank pari passu in all 
respects. T o the company’s knowledge and belief, there are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the company or on voting 
rights between holders of shares.
The movement in issued share capital during the year was as follows:
Number £m
As at 1 January 2014 303,822,854 152
Issued during the year 85,052,989 42
As at 31 December 2014 388,875,843 194
Issued during the year 4,255,970 3
As at 31 December 2015 393,131,813 197
Reserves
As at 1 January 2015, there were 5,431,314 shares held in treasury (2014: 6,186,965), during the year 2,273,004 shares were 
transferred to share scheme participants (2014: 755,651) leaving a balance held in treasury as at 31 December 2015 of 3,158,310 
(2014: 5,431,314). £35m (2014: £57m) has been deducted from equity in respect of these shares.
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging 
instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign operations, 
as well as from the translation of liabilities and the cumulative net change in the fair value of instruments that hedge the company’s 
net investment in foreign subsidiaries, that have arisen since 1 January 2004, being the date of transition to adopted IFRS.
Share-based payments
Offers are made periodically in certain countries under the UK and International Savings-related Share Option Schemes which 
are open to all employees in those countries who meet minimum service criteria. Grants of share options are made to participating 
employees that entitle them to buy shares in the company normally after three years at up to 20% discount to the market price of 
the shares at the time of offer. In the US, to conform with the relevant tax rules, options are granted at a maximum discount of 15% 
to the share price at the time of grant and are normally exercisable after two years.
Under the new Long-T erm Incentive Plan, annual awards are made to directors and selected senior employees of nil-cost options 
or restricted shares. Below board level awards are split between a performance based element (half of which is based on a total 
shareholder return related performance condition and the other half on an earnings per share related performance condition)  
and a non-performance element. Awards are made in the form of nil-cost options other than in certain countries where they are 
made in the form of restricted shares. Awards to Executive Directors are as described in the Directors’ remuneration report on 
pages 67 to 80.
Under the Performance Share Plan, annual awards were made to directors and selected senior employees of restricted shares that 
are subject to both market and non-market based conditions calculated over a three-year period. 
Under the Restricted Share Plan, awards were made to selected employees as restricted shares which vest in full after three years 
provided the employee has remained in continuous employment.
Prior to the acquisition, Foster Wheeler’s Compensation and Executive Development Committee administered the Foster Wheeler 
AG Omnibus Incentive Plan for Foster Wheeler’s employees, non-employee directors and third-party service providers. 
Under the terms of the Implementation Agreement, equivalent awards of AMEC shares were granted by AMEC in replacement 
of Foster Wheeler awards and the terms of those replacement awards are equivalent in all material respects to the terms of the 
Foster Wheeler Omnibus Plan. All employees of Foster Wheeler and its subsidiaries and/or affiliates, its non-employee directors, 
and certain of its third-party service providers were eligible to participate in the Foster Wheeler Omnibus Plan. As at the date of 
acquisition, only Foster Wheeler options, Foster Wheeler RSUs and Foster Wheeler PRSUs were outstanding under the Foster 
Wheeler Omnibus Plan.
The share-based payment arrangements operated by the Group are predominantly equity settled and, other than in defined good 
leaver circumstances, require participants to be still in employment with the Group at the time of vesting.
Our current practice is to satisfy awards vesting or options being exercised under the executive plans with market-purchased 
shares held in the Amec Foster Wheeler Employee Share T rust and to satisfy Sharesave options being exercised by the transfer 
of shares held in treasury.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 147
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
22 Share capital and reserves continued
Share-based payments continued
The number and weighted average exercise price of share options under the Savings-related Share Option Scheme are as follows:
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
2015 
pence
Number of 
options 
2015
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
2014 
pence
Number of 
options 
2014
Outstanding on 1 January 819 7,711,995 794 6,691,883
Lapsed/cancelled 850 (1,920,215) 822 (777 ,995)
Exercised 675 (2,295,911) 777 (765,267)
Granted 683 4,674,510 874 2,563,374
Outstanding on 31 December 775 8,170,379 819 7 ,711,995
Exercisable on 31 December 863 373,627 902 200,948
Options were exercised on a regular basis during the year and the average share price for the year was 780 pence  
(2014: 1,102 pence).
Options outstanding on 31 December 2015 have weighted average remaining contractual lives as follows:
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual life 
2015 
years
Number of 
options 
2015
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual life 
2014 
years
Number of 
options 
2014
600.00 pence to 699.99 pence 3.0 3,965,570 – 2,391,513
700.00 pence to 799.99 pence 2.0 467,796 – –
800.00 pence to 899.99 pence 1.3 2,710,501 1.1 3,807 ,935
Over 900.00 pence − 1,026,512 0.2 1,512,547
8,170,379 7 ,711,995
The numbers of shares held under the Performance Share Plan and Restricted Share Plan are as follows:
Number of
 shares 
2015
Number of 
shares 
2014
As at 1 January 6,717,237 4,194,248
Lapsed (1,361,021) (1,110,559)
Vested (1,674,001) (250,328)
Granted 2,510,707 3,883,876
As at 31 December 6,192,922 6,717,237 148
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
22 Share capital and reserves continued
Share-based payments continued
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted and shares awarded are measured by reference to the fair 
value of those instruments. For grants in either the current or preceding years, the pricing models used and inputs (on a weighted 
average basis where appropriate) into those models are as follows:
Savings-related Share Option Scheme 
(Black-Scholes model)
Long-T erm  
Incentive Plan
(Monte Carlo model)
Performance Share Plan 
(Monte Carlo model)
Restricted Share Plan
(Monte Carlo model)
Foster 
Wheeler 
Omnibus 
plan
2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014
Weighted average fair value  
at measurement date 149p 198p 217p 789p 1,006p 948p 949p 960p 1,027p
Weighted average share  
price at measurement date 769p 1,014p 1,061p 938p 1,105p 1,060p 1,082p 1,070p 1,081p
Exercise price 683p 874p 866p n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Expected share price volatility 28% 27% 27% 27% 26% 28% n/a n/a n/a
Option life 3.3 
years
3.3 
years
3.3 
years
2.7
years
3.1 
years
2.8 
years
2.7
 years
2.7 
years
n/a
Expected dividend yield 3.6% 3.5% 4.0% n/a n/a n/a 3.5% 3.0% 3.5%
Risk-free interest rate 1.2% 1.0% 1.0% n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Comparator share price volatility n/a n/a n/a 32% 32% 33% n/a n/a n/a
Correlation between two companies 
in comparator group n/a n/a n/a 40% 50% 50% n/a n/a n/a
The expected share price volatility is based on the historical volatility of the company’s share price.
The performance conditions attaching to the new Long-T erm Incentive Plan and the Performance Share Plan involve a comparison 
of the total shareholder return of the company with that of its comparators and achievement of targeted earnings per share 
growth. The former is a market based test and as such is incorporated into the grant date fair value of the award. There are no 
performance conditions attached to the Restricted Share Plan.
Prior to the acquisition, Foster Wheeler had issued shares awards to employees, non-employee directors and certain third parties 
under the Foster Wheeler AG Omnibus Incentive Plan. Under the terms of the Implementation Agreement, equivalent awards of 
Amec Foster Wheeler shares were granted in replacement of these Foster Wheeler awards. On acquisition awards of 2,400,766 
Amec Foster Wheeler shares were granted. There are no performance conditions attached to these awards.
Dividends
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2015 of 14.2 pence per share, 
which will absorb an estimated £54m of equity. Subject to approval, it will be paid on 4 July 2016 to shareholders on the register 
of members on 27 May 2016. This dividend has not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences for the company. 
This final dividend together with the interim dividend of 14.8 pence (2014: 14.8 pence; 2013: 13.5 pence) per share results in a total 
dividend for the year of 29.0 pence per share (2014: 43.3 pence; 2013: 42.0 pence).
Dividend cover for 2015 is 2.3 times (2014: 1.8 times) based on adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations.
As announced in November 2015, it is the current intention of the Board that ordinary dividends in 2016 will be approximately 
half that declared in 2014, with approximately one-third paid at the interim, and two-thirds as a final dividend.
2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
Dividends charged to reserves and paid
Interim dividend in respect of 2014 of 14.8 pence (2014: interim dividend in respect  
of 2013 of 13.5 pence; 2013: interim dividend in respect of 2012 of 11.7 pence) per share 56 40 36
Final dividend in respect of 2014 of 28.5 pence (2014: final dividend in respect of 2013  
of 28.5 pence; 2013: final dividend in respect of 2013 of 24.8 pence) per share 111 84 72
167 124 108
The amount waived by trustees of the Employee Share T rust in respect of the interim and final dividends was £1m  
(2014: £1m; 2013: £1m).
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 149
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
23 Analysis of net (debt)/ cash
As at 
1 January
 2015 
£m
Cash flow 
£m
Exchange and 
other non-cash 
movements 
£m
As at 
31 December 
2015 
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 377 (46) (24) 307
Bank deposits (less than three months) 118 (85) − 33
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 495 (131) (24) 340
Bank overdrafts − − − −
Cash and cash equivalents 495 (131) (24) 340
Bank deposits (more than three months) 21 2 − 23
Bank loans (1,267) 64 (61) (1,264)
Fees capitalised against bank facilities 9 3 (12) –
Finance leases (61) 11 (9) (59)
Derivatives classified as net debt − (12) 26 14
Net debt as at the end of the year (803) (63) (80) (946)
As at
 1 January 
2014 
£m
Acquisition 
£m
Cash flow 
£m
Exchange and 
other non-cash 
movements 
£m
As at 
31 December 
2014 
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 153 239 (9) (6) 377
Bank deposits (less than three months) 79 29 10 – 118
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 232 268 1 (6) 495
Bank overdrafts (9) – 9 – –
Cash and cash equivalents 223 268 10 (6) 495
Bank deposits (more than three months) 18 – 3 – 21
Bank loans (120) (39) (1,102) (6) (1,267)
Fees capitalised against bank facilities − – 13 (4) 9
Finance leases − (32) 4 (33) (61)
Net cash/(debt) as at the end of the year 121 197 (1,072) (49) (803)
The fair value of bank loans is £1,264m (2014: £1,268m) compared to a carrying value of £1,264m (2014: £1,267m). The fair value  
of finance leases is £59m (2014: £66m) compared to a carrying value of £59m (2014: £61m).
Cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 2015 includes £47m (2014: £60m) that is held in countries from which prior 
approval is required to transfer funds abroad. There are restrictions on the use of £9m (2014: £7m) of cash held on behalf of joint 
venture arrangements and £17m (2014: £28m) held on behalf of customers and collateral against bank guarantees. In addition, 
there are restrictions on the use of a further £16m (2014: £16m) of cash and cash equivalents in respect of commitments of the 
Group’s captive insurance subsidiary to certain insurers. 150
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
24 Acquisitions and disposals
Acquisitions in 2015
On 5 October 2015, the Group acquired the remaining 49.9% shareholding in KROMAV Engenharia Ltda, a company incorporated 
in Brazil for a consideration of £3m. As a result of the transaction, the non-controlling interest released was £1m resulting in a 
charge of £4m recognised in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Mandatory purchase of minority Foster Wheeler shareholders 
On 19 January 2015, Amec Foster Wheeler plc completed the squeeze-out merger under Swiss law (the ‘Squeeze-Out Merger’) 
of Foster Wheeler AG (‘Foster Wheeler’) through its wholly owned subsidiaries AMEC International Investments BV and A-FW 
International Investments GmbH.
All remaining Foster Wheeler shareholders received, for each Foster Wheeler share held, a combination of $16.00 in cash 
and either (i) 0.8998 Amec Foster Wheeler shares, if the shareholder’s address on the books and records of Foster Wheeler 
was outside the United States or (ii) 0.8998 Amec Foster Wheeler American depositary shares (‘ADSs’), if the shareholder’s 
address on the books and records of Foster Wheeler was in the United States.
The cash portion of the consideration was increased by $0.225 for each Amec Foster Wheeler share or Amec Foster Wheeler 
ADS received, in lieu of the Amec Foster Wheeler dividend of £0.148 (announced on 7 August 2014). This was calculated by 
converting the dividend amount to US$ (at the European Central Bank’s 5 January 2015 exchange rate of $1.5223 per £1.00).
In aggregate, Amec Foster Wheeler paid as consideration in the Squeeze-Out Merger £51m ($77m) in cash and issued 4,255,970 
Amec Foster Wheeler shares.
The purchase consideration was allocated as follows:
Recognised 
value 
£m
Assets acquired −
Liabilities assumed −
Net identifiable assets and liabilities −
Amount recognised in the consolidated statement of changes in equity 75
Non-controlling interest acquired 10
85
Consideration
Shares issued 34
Cash paid on completion 51
85
Acquisitions in 2014
Foster Wheeler 
Background
On 6 October 2014, the Group launched a public tender offer to acquire the entire issued share capital of Foster Wheeler AG, 
the ultimate parent company of Foster Wheeler. Pursuant to the tender offer, which closed on 13 November 2014 (the acquisition 
date), the Group acquired 95.3 per cent of the issued share capital of Foster Wheeler AG. 
Consideration payable for the interests in Foster Wheeler acquired by the Group amounted to £1,915m (measured at fair value at 
the acquisition date), of which £979m was settled in cash, £919m was settled by the issue of ordinary shares and ADSs and £17m 
was settled by the grant of replacement share options and awards to Foster Wheeler employees. 
Due to the relatively short period of time that elapsed between the acquisition date and the completion of the 2014 financial 
statements, management had not finalised its assessment of the fair values at the acquisition date of certain of Foster Wheeler’s 
property, plant and equipment, equity-accounted investments, and property-related, legal and environmental obligations and a 
provisional allocation was reported in the 2014 financial statements. The fair value assessment was completed during 2015.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 151
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
24 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Acquisitions in 2014 continued
The purchase consideration has been allocated as follows:
£m
Identifiable assets acquired
Property, plant and equipment 111
Identifiable intangible assets 742
Interests in joint ventures 73
Current tax receivable 13
Deferred tax assets 27
Inventories 11
T rade and other receivables 751
– Gross contractual amounts receivable 818
– Allowance for doubtful debts (67)
Derivative financial instruments (12)
Cash and cash equivalents 265
Liabilities assumed
Bank loans (39)
Finance lease obligations (32)
T rade and other payables (856)
Current tax (65)
Retirement benefit liabilities (72)
Deferred tax liabilities (113)
Provisions (592)
Net identifiable assets acquired 212
Non-controlling interests (23)
Goodwill 1,726
Consideration 1,915
Non-controlling interests in Foster Wheeler were measured at their proportionate share of Foster Wheeler’s identifiable assets  
and liabilities at the acquisition date.
Goodwill of £1,726m has been recognised on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler. Management considers that the goodwill 
is attributable to the future strategic growth opportunities arising from the acquisition, Foster Wheeler’s highly skilled, 
customer-oriented and collaborative assembled workforce, the significant cost synergies that are expected to result from 
the integration of Foster Wheeler with the Group’s existing operations, and the potential for tax synergies. None of the goodwill 
is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Acquisition-related costs relating to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler totalling £33m were recognised within administrative 
expenses during 2014 .
In the period from its acquisition to 31 December 2014, Foster Wheeler contributed £274m to the Group’s revenue and £1m to  
the Group’s trading profit. After amortisation, exceptional items and net asbestos related items, Foster Wheeler generated a loss  
of £44m in the period from acquisition to 31 December 2014.
Management estimated that if Foster Wheeler had been acquired on 1 January 2014, the Group’s revenue for the year would have 
been £1,814m higher than reported at £5,800m. Management was unable to estimate reliably what the Group’s profit or loss for 
the year would have been on this basis, principally because it is not practicable to retrospectively apply the significant purchase 
accounting adjustments that were made to the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities of Foster Wheeler at its acquisition 
date and the tax effects of those adjustments.
Changes to the provisional fair value allocation
As discussed above, during 2015 management completed its assessment of the fair values of Foster Wheeler’s assets and 
liabilities as at the acquisition date resulting in the recognition of an additional goodwill of $245m. The most significant updates 
were as follows: 152
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
24 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Acquisitions in 2014 continued
Longview
As previously disclosed, during 2015, the arbitration panel awarded Kvaerner approximately $74m (approximately £48m) 
in respect of the arbitration with Kvaerner North American Construction Inc arising from GPG’s role in the construction of the 
Longview power plant in West Virginia, US in 2011. As the contract was complete prior to the acquisition, this award has been fully 
reflected in the purchase price allocation. 
Refinery project arbitration – India
As disclosed in the 2014 financial statements, Foster Wheeler commenced arbitration in India against its client seeking collection 
of unpaid invoices in connection with the construction of an oil refinery plant in north-eastern India. Its client rejected the claim 
and submitted significant counterclaims. The provisional purchase price allocation included an allowance against the outstanding 
debts but, due to the ongoing risks and the passage of time, a further charge of £16m has been made. This represents full 
provision against the outstanding receivables.
Other project litigation
A provision of £33m has been established against costs expected to be disallowed and a potential alleged breach of warranty claim 
in respect of design work undertaken on a design, build and construct project based in the Southern US.
Management has performed a detailed review of the contracts in the GPG business and made provisions for defect rectification 
and damages claims totalling £19m across a number of contracts.
A number of smaller provisions (totalling £21m) have been established against specific contact risks.
Receivables and payables
Provision has been made against receivables and unbilled work in progress on a number of contracts (including £10m on one 
contract) that were outstanding as at the acquisition date and remained uncollected at the end of the hindsight period.
Provision has also been made against an employment tax risk associated with a permanent establishment overseas.
Uncertain tax positions
Management has reviewed the ongoing tax positions of Foster Wheeler and increased the provisions for uncertain tax positions 
in a number of jurisdictions. The most significant increases withholding tax on potential deemed distributions.
Property, plant and equipment
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment has been reviewed resulting in a £9m write down of two properties to their 
expected market value.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax liabilities reduced by £23m. This movement includes a potential tax liability on the future unwind of an overseas 
branch, as well as the deferred tax impact of the additional adjustments to the purchase price offset by the impact of the 
finalisation of the intangible asset allocation. The recognition of deferred tax on the purchase price allocation is restricted 
as a result of uncertainty over future profits and capacity constraints.
Restatement
In addition to the above, the acquisition balance sheet as presented on page 151 has been restated to present liabilities of £65m 
in respect of onerous leases within trade and other payables. These liabilities had previously been presented within provisions. 
As part of the finalisation of the acquisition accounting, the acquired intangible assets have been allocated to the relevant 
jurisdictions resulting in a foreign exchange movement between the acquisition date and 31 December 2014. This is reflected  
in the restated consolidated statement of changes in equity for 2014.
Scopus
On 15 December 2014, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Scopus Group (Holdings) Limited (Scopus) for £68m 
with £67m paid on completion and £1m deferred for one year. Headquartered in Aberdeen, UK, with bases in international oil and 
gas hubs, Scopus has around 200 employees who provide specialist engineering services to the global oil and gas, petrochemical 
and nuclear industries.
Due to the relatively short period of time that had elapsed between the acquisition date and completion of the 2014 financial 
statements, management had not yet finalised its assessment of the fair values at the acquisition date of 15 December 2014 at the 
time that the 2014 financial statements were completed. The fair value assessment was completed during 2015, with only minor 
adjustments to the provisional assessment.
Goodwill of £35m has been recognised on the acquisition which management considers is principally attributable to its skilled 
workforce which did not meet the criteria for recognition as an intangible asset at the date of acquisition. This specialist expertise 
will complement Amec Foster Wheeler’s existing project delivery capability across the lifecycle of a project.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 153
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
24 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Acquisitions in 2014 continued
Summary of financial effect
Purchase consideration was provisionally allocated as follows: 
£m
Intangible assets 31
T angible assets 1
T rade and other receivables 7
Cash and cash equivalents 3
T rade and other payables (3)
Deferred tax liability (6)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 33
Goodwill on acquisition 35
68
Consideration 
Cash – paid on completion 67
– deferred 1
68
Scopus did not make a material contribution to the Group’s results for the year and would not have done so even if it had been 
acquired on 1 January 2014.
Acquisitions in 2013 
Automated Engineering Services Corp.
On 15 November 2013, the Group acquired all of the shares in Automated Engineering Services Corp. (AES) for up to US$35m, of 
which US$29m (£18m) was paid on completion and up to $6m (£4m) will be paid after three years dependent on the achievement 
of certain performance targets. 
AES is a professional design engineering nuclear services firm based in Naperville, Illinois, US. It provides plant design/
modification engineering, engineering analysis, safety, licensing and regulatory services, and engineering programme support  
to existing nuclear utilities, primarily in the US. We acquired AES to build on the Group’s position in the nuclear industry in the US, 
allowing us to better serve our clients and providing a strong platform from which to achieve further growth in nuclear services. 
Goodwill of £12m was recognised on the acquisition of AES.
Purchase consideration was allocated as follows:
£m
Intangible assets 6
T rade and other receivables 6
T rade and other payables (2)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 10
Goodwill 12
Consideration 22 154
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
25 Commitments
Operating lease commitments
The total obligations under non-cancellable operating lease rentals for continuing operations are as follows:
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2014 
£m
In one year or less 86 99
Between one and five years 224 249
Over five years 75 124
385 472
Amec Foster Wheeler enters into the following types of lease: short-term plant hires; leases for motor vehicles and office equipment 
with lease periods of two to five years; and longer-term property leases. None of the leases include any contingent rentals.
Finance lease and hire purchase commitments
The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for various items of property and deferred payment arrangements 
which are similar to finance leases for software. These leases have terms of renewal, but no purchase options and escalation 
clauses. Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease. Future minimum lease payments under finance 
leases and hire purchase contracts together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are, as follows:
2015 2014
Minimum
 payments 
£m
Present value 
of payments 
£m
Minimum 
payments 
£m
Present value 
of payments 
£m
In one year or less 6 4 12 9
Between one and five years 49 42 47 35
Over five years 15 13 20 17
T otal minimum lease payments 70 59 79 61
Less amounts representing finance charges (11) − (18) –
Present value of minimum lease payments 59 59 61 61
26 Contingent liabilities
Legal claims and actions
From time to time, the Group is party to litigation involving clients and sub-contractors arising out of project contracts. 
Such litigation includes claims or actions by and against the Group for cancelled contracts, for additional costs incurred  
in excess of contract provisions, as well as for back charges for alleged breaches of warranty and other contract commitments. 
We have recognised provisions for certain known or reasonably likely legal claims or actions against the Group. We do not expect 
known and reasonably likely legal claims or actions for which a provision has not been established to have a material impact on  
the Group’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Indemnities and retained obligations
We have agreed to indemnify certain third parties relating to businesses and/or assets that were previously owned by the Group 
and were sold to them. Such indemnifications relate primarily to breach of covenants, breach of representations and warranties, 
as well as potential exposure for retained liabilities, environmental matters and third party claims for activities conducted by the 
Group prior to the sale of such businesses and/or asset. We have established provisions for those indemnities in respect of which 
we consider it probable that there will be a successful claim. We do not expect indemnities or retained obligations for which a 
provision has not been established to have a material impact on the Group’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Guarantees
The Group has guaranteed certain performance obligations in respect of a refinery/electric power generation plant located in Chile 
in which we hold a non-controlling interest.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 155
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
26 Contingent liabilities continued
Mount Polley
The Mount Polley mine is owned and operated by Mount Polley Mining Corporation, a subsidiary of Imperial Metals Corporation, 
and is located near the town of Likely, British Columbia, Canada. On 4 August 2014, a tailings pond facility at the mine failed 
releasing large quantities of water and mine tailings into the local environment. The dam was in the process of being raised at 
the time of the failure. One of our subsidiaries, along with other parties, had various design and quality assurance responsibilities 
associated with the expansion of this facility. Our subsidiary was providing engineering services at the time of the breach, but did 
not perform the original design.
An Independent Review Panel issued a report on 30 January 2015 concluding that the cause of failure was shearing along a zone 
containing a weak soil layer along with other contributory factors. On December 17 , 2015, the Chief Inspector of Mines for B.C. 
issued a report that for the most part agrees with the conclusions of the Independent Review Panel. At this time, litigation has 
been threatened by the Owner of the Mine and its parent company, Imperial Metals Corporation, but no litigation has yet been 
commenced against the Group. Management’s opinion is that its employees performed in a professional manner consistent with 
the standard of care for a competent engineer on a project of this nature. In addition, the contract between our subsidiary and 
Mount Polley Mining Corporation contains limitations of liability provisions that exclude claims for consequential damages and 
limit the subsidiary’s liability to the amount of professional fees charged, which were less than CDN$1m. 
Amec Foster Wheeler is taking external legal advice on this matter. In light of both internal and external advice, and given the early 
stages of this matter, it is considered possible but not probable that there will be an outflow in respect of this issue.
Tax planning
The Group undertakes tax planning which is compliant with current legislation and accepted practice. Recent changes to the tax 
environment, including the OECD’s project around Base Erosion and Profit Shifting have brought into question the legitimacy of 
tax planning previously undertaken by multinational entities. There have been several recent high profile tax cases against tax 
authorities and large groups. The European Commission has opened formal investigations to examine whether decisions by the 
tax authorities in certain European countries comply with European Union rules. We are monitoring the outcome of these cases in 
order to understand whether there is any risk to the Group. Based on the Group’s current assessment of such issues, it is too early 
to speculate on any areas of challenge and potential liabilities, and as a result, it is not currently considered probable that there will 
be an outflow in respect of these issues.
27 Related party transactions
During 2015 there were a number of transactions with the senior management group, joint venture entities and subsidiary companies.
Transactions with the senior management group
Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler in late 2014, the senior management group now consists of Amec Foster Wheeler plc 
board members and the presidents of the Americas, Northern Europe and CIS, Asia Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe, and 
the Global Power Group. 
The senior management group and relatives controlled 0.7% of the voting rights of the company as at 31 December 2015.
In addition to their salaries, the company also provides non-cash benefits to executive directors and other senior managers and 
they receive share awards under the Performance Share Plan. The company also contributes to a defined benefit plan on behalf 
of certain executive directors. Details of their compensation are as follows:
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
Short-term employee benefits 5 5
Pension costs – –
Equity-settled share-based payments – 1
5 6 156
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
27 Related party transactions continued
Transactions and related balances outstanding with joint ventures
The transactions and related balances outstanding with joint venture entities are as follows:
Value of transactions 
in the year
Outstanding balance 
as at 31 December
 2015 
£m
 2014 
(restated)
£m
 2015 
£m
 2014 
(restated)
£m
Services received 1 − − –
Services rendered 28 29 12 12
Provision of finance − 9 17 25
The 2014 restatement reflects changes to classifications of related party transactions.
In September 2012, the UK government’s Department for Business, Innovation and Skills announced a change to UK legislation 
with respect to the requirement for a UK company to be subject to annual audit. An additional audit exemption has been 
introduced, such that for a subsidiary of a parent established in a European Economic Area state, that subsidiary can be exempt 
from annual audit if certain conditions are met. The principal conditions are the requirement for the subsidiary’s shareholders 
to agree to the exemption and a guarantee to be issued to the subsidiary by the parent undertaking, guaranteeing all of the 
subsidiary’s outstanding liabilities at the year end, until they are satisfied in full.
The Group will be exempting the following companies from an audit in 2015 under Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006,  
all of which are fully consolidated in these accounts: 
Amec Foster Wheeler Finance Asia Limited (Registered number: 6205760)
AMEC Hedge Co 1 Limited (Registered number: 07870120)
AMEC Kazakhstan Holdings Limited (Registered number: 4530056)
Amec Foster Wheeler Property and Overseas Investments Limited (Registered number: 1580678)
AMEC USA Finance Limited (Registered number: 5299446)
AMEC USA Holdings Limited (Registered number: 4041261)
AMEC USA Limited (Registered number: 4044800)
AMEC Wind Developments Limited (Registered number: 8781332)
Ard Ghaoth Wind Farm Limited (Registered number: 7625013)
Auld Clay Wind Farm Limited (Registered number: 7285550)
Castlecary Wind Farm Limited (Registered number: 7611293)
Hilton Wind Farm Limited (Registered number: 7767187)
PI Energy & Emissions Limited (Registered number: SC209704)
Sandiway Solutions (No 3) Limited (Registered number: 5318249)
Sigma Financial Facilities Limited (Registered number: 3863449)
28 Post balance sheet events
Refinancing
On 1 March 2016 the Group completed a refinancing of its main debt facilities by entering into a new facility with a syndicate 
of 20 banks. The new facility, which has three tranches – a three-year £650m term loan, a five-year £650m term loan and 
a five-year £400m revolving credit facility – replaces the company’s existing revolving credit facility and the Foster Wheeler 
acquisition facility. 
Longview
In early March 2016, the Group settled its dispute with Kvaerner as described in note 24. We have agreed to pay Kvaerner $70m 
in full and final settlement of the claims. 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 157
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Note
2015
 £m
2014 
£m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 2 33 31
T angible assets 3 1 1
Investment in subsidiaries 4 4,219 4,480
4,253 4,512
Current assets
Debtors: including amounts falling due after one year of £1,310 m (2014: £1,102 m) 5 1,378 1,149
Cash at bank and in hand 41 93
1,419 1,242
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 (1,661) (2,026)
Net current liabilities (242) (784)
Total assets less current liabilities 4,011 3,728
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 7 (2,091) (1,324)
Net assets 1,920 2,404
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 8, 9 197 194
Share premium account 9 133 101
Capital redemption reserve 9 34 34
Merger reserve 9 540 877
Profit and loss account 9 1,016 1,198
Equity shareholders’ funds 1,920 2,404
The accounts on pages 157 to 165 were approved by the board of directors on 10 March 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Ian McHoul
Chief Financial Officer and interim CEO
Company balance sheet
As at 31 December 2015 158
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Profit and loss 
account 
£m
Total 
£m
As at 1 January 2015 (restated) 194 101 877 34 1,198 2,404
Loss for the year − − − − (368) (368)
Total comprehensive income for the year − − − − (368) (368)
T ransfer of losses from the retained earnings 
to the merger reserve − − (337) − 337 –
Dividend − − − − (167) (167)
Equity-settled share-based payments − − − − 1 1
Utilisation of treasury shares − − − − 15 15
Shares issued 3 32 − − − 35
As at 31 December 2015 197 133 540 34 1,016 1,920
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Profit and loss 
account 
£m
Total 
£m
As at 1 January 2014 152 101 − 34 1,294 1,581
Loss for the year − − − − (3) (3)
Total comprehensive income for the year − − − − (3) (3)
Dividend − − − − (124) (124)
Equity-settled share-based payments − − − − 25 25
Utilisation of treasury shares − − − − 6 6
Shares issued 42 877 − − − 919
T ransfer to merger reserve − (877) 877 − − −
As at 31 December 2014 (restated) 194 101 877 34 1,198 2,404
Company statement of changes in equity 159
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
1 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (FRS 101) 
and under the historical cost convention, except that derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value, in accordance with 
applicable accounting standards and the Companies Act 2006.
The company has not presented its own profit and loss account, as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The results of Amec Foster Wheeler plc are included in the consolidated accounts of Amec Foster Wheeler plc which are available 
from Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ.
The accounts are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
As the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG in November 2014 resulted in the Group securing more than 90% of Foster Wheeler’s 
issued share capital, the acquisition qualifies for merger relief under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 from crediting 
the share premium account. As a result the balance sheet at 31 December 2014 has been restated to present the excess of the 
nominal value of the shares issued of £877m, as a merger reserve.
The company has transitioned to FRS 101 from previously issued UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice for all periods 
presented. T ransition tables showing all material adjustments are disclosed in note 12. The accounting policies which follow 
set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101:
 X the requirements of paragraphs 45(b) and 46-52 of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ (details of the number and weighted-average 
exercise prices of share options, and how the fair value of services received was determined) 
 X the requirements of IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ 
 X the requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ 
 X the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ to present comparative information in respect of:
– paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1 
– paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16 ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’ 
– paragraph 118(e) of IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’
 X the requirements of the following paragraphs of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’:
– 10(d) (statement of cashflows)
–  10(f) (a statement of financial position as at the beginning of the preceding period when an entity applies an accounting policy 
retrospectively or makes a retrospective statement of items in its financial statements, or when it reclassifies items in its 
financial statements) 
– 16 (statement of compliance with all IFRSs) 
– 38A (requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash flow statements)
– 38B-D (additional comparative information) 
– 40A-D (requirements for a third statement of financial position)
– 111 (cash flow statement information) 
– 134-136 (capital management disclosures 
 X the requirements of IAS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’
 X the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’ (requirement 
for the disclosure of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective)
 X the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ (key management compensation) 
 X the requirements in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more 
members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member 
Notes to the company accounts 160
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
1 Accounting policies continued
The preparation of accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, 
income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other 
factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements 
about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised  
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future 
periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Amec Foster Wheeler believe some of these policies require a high level of judgement, and the most critical accounting policies 
and significant areas of judgement and estimation arise from:
Impairment of investments in subsidiaries.
Determining whether the company’s investments in subsidiaries have been impaired requires estimations of the investments’ 
values in use. The value in use calculations require the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the 
investments and suitable discount rates in order to calculate present values. The carrying amount of investments in subsidiaries  
at the balance sheet date was £4,219m (2014: £4,480m) with an impairment loss of £351m recognised in 2015 (2014: £nil).
Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value. Subsequent valuation depends on the designation of the instrument  
and is as described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Foreign currencies
T ransactions in a currency other than Sterling are translated to Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the 
balance sheet date and exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account in the year. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities are measured in terms of historical cost and are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets,  
from the date they are available for use. The estimated useful lives of intangible assets held at 31 December 2015 are as follows:
Software Three to seven years
Interest
Interest is recognised in profit or loss on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
Investments
Investments are stated at cost less impairment losses. Where equity-settled share-based payments are granted to the employees 
of subsidiary companies, the fair value of the award is treated as a capital contribution by the company and the investments in 
subsidiaries are adjusted to reflect this capital contribution.
Pensions
The company participates in the Amec Staff and Executive defined benefit pension schemes. The assets of these schemes are 
held separately from those of the company. As there is no contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the net defined 
benefit cost to individual Group entities, the company has recognised a cost equal to the contributions payable to the schemes 
in respect of the accounting period.
Details of the defined benefit schemes can be found in note 14 of the consolidated accounts.
Contributions to the defined contribution schemes are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they become payable. 
Tangible assets
Property, plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, 
of each asset on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life. The estimated useful lives as at 31 December 2015 are as follows:
Plant and equipment Three to five years
Notes to the company accounts continued 161
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
1 Accounting policies continued
Remuneration of auditors
The detailed information concerning auditors’ remuneration is shown in note 4 of the consolidated accounts.
Share-based payments
There are share-based payment arrangements which allow Amec Foster Wheeler employees to acquire Amec Foster Wheeler 
shares; these awards are granted by Amec Foster Wheeler. The fair value of awards granted is recognised as a cost of employment 
with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the 
employees become unconditionally entitled to the award. The fair value of the award is measured using a valuation model, taking 
into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted. The amount recognised as a cost is adjusted to reflect 
the actual number of shares that vest except where non-vesting is due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the results for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary 
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all temporary differences between the treatment of certain items  
for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required 
by IAS 12 ‘Income T axes’ .
2 Intangible assets
Software 
£m
Cost
As at 1 January 2015 41
Additions 9
As at 31 December 2015 50
Amortisation
As at 1 January 2015 10
Provided during the year 7
As at 31 December 2015 17
Net book value
As at 31 December 2015 33
As at 1 January 2015 31
3 T angible assets
Plant and 
equipment 
£m
Cost
As at 1 January 2015 4
Additions −
As at 31 December 2015 4
Depreciation
As at 1 January 2015 3
Provided during the year −
As at 31 December 2015 3
Net book value
As at 31 December 2015 1
As at 1 January 2015 1 162
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
4 Investments (non-current)
Shares in 
subsidiaries 
£m
Amounts 
owed by 
subsidiaries 
£m
T otal 
investment in 
subsidiaries 
£m 
Cost
As at 1 January 2015 4,062 464 4,526
Additions 90 − 90
As at 31 December 2015 4,152 464 4,616
Provisions
As at 1 January 2015 46 − 46
Additions 351 − 351
As at 31 December 2015 397 – 397
Net book value
As at 31 December 2015 3,755 464 4,219
As at 1 January 2015 4,016 464 4,480
Group companies are listed on pages 194 to 201.
5 Debtors
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2014 
£m
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 6 5
Derivative financial instruments 33 13
Corporation tax 21 24
Prepayments and accrued income 8 5
68 47
Debtors: amounts falling due after one year
Derivative financial instruments 19 2
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 1,291 1,100
1,378 1,149
The deferred tax balance is analysed as follows:
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2014 
£m
Difference between accumulated depreciation and capital allowances (1) (1)
T ax losses 1 –
Share-based schemes − 1
– –
In his budget speech on 8 July 2015, the UK Chancellor of the Exchequer announced reductions in the rate of UK corporation tax 
from 20% to 19% on 1 April 2017 and 18% on 1 April 2020.
As at 31 December 2015, the reductions in the rate of corporation tax to 19% and 18% had been substantively enacted.
Notes to the company accounts continued 163
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2014 
£m
Bank overdrafts 12 8
Bank and other loans 673 693
T rade creditors 42 37
Derivative financial instruments 33 12
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 901 1,276
1,661 2,026
The company has committed banking facilities of £1,741m (2014: £1,826m). This consists of a £377m multi-currency revolving 
facility that was taken out on 18 July 2012. The facility is committed for five years and is available for general corporate purposes. 
In addition on 13 February 2014 the company entered into acquisition facilities totalling $2,260m (£1,449m). This comprises  
of the following:
 X $830m (£563m) bridge facility which matures 5 August 2016 with a further six month extension at the company’s option
 X $830m (£563m) term loan maturing in equal instalments in 2017 , 2018 and 2019
 X $350m (£237m) revolving credit facility maturing May 2016
As at 31 December 2015, £1,236m (2014: £1,230m) of the loans and facilities were utilised by way of debt and £62m 
(2014: £159m) was utilised by way of Letter of Credit.
On 1 March 2016, the Company entered into a new syndicated facility comprising of three tranches; a three-year £650m term 
loan, a five-year £650m term loan and a five-year £400m revolving credit facility. The new facility replaces the Company’s existing 
£377m revolving credit facility and the Foster Wheeler acquistion facility of $2.26bn.
7 Creditors: amounts falling due after one year
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2014 
£m
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 1,509 794
Bank and other loans 563 528
Derivative financial instruments 19 2
2,091 1,324
8 Share capital
The share capital of the company comprises ordinary shares of 50 pence each. All the ordinary shares rank pari passu in all 
respects. T o the company’s knowledge and belief, there are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the company or on voting 
rights between holders of shares.
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2014 
£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares of 50 pence each 197 194
The movement in issued share capital during the year was as follows:
Number £m
As at 1 January 2015 388,875,843 194
Shares issued 4,255,970 3
As at 31 December 2015 393,131,813 197
Share-based payment
Details of share-based payment schemes operated by the company are provided in note 22 to the consolidated accounts. 164
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
9 Reserves
Movements in reserves are shown in the company statement of changes in equity on page 158.
Details of dividends approved by the company and paid during the year are disclosed in note 22 to the consolidated accounts.
During 2012 Amec Foster Wheeler plc generated a significant profit from an internal restructuring. This becomes distributable  
as qualifying consideration is passed to Amec Foster Wheeler plc. As at 31 December 2015, £564m of reserves are considered  
to be distributable.
The company’s loss for the year in 2015 was £368m.
10 Contingent liabilities
Guarantees and indemnities
Guarantees given by the company in respect of borrowings of subsidiaries amounted to £nil as at 31 December 2015 (2014: £nil).
In addition, the company is party to cross-guarantee arrangements relating to overdrafts for certain Group companies. 
The maximum gross exposure as at 31 December 2015 was £79m (2014: £94m).
The company will guarantee the debts and liabilities of the following UK subsidiaries in accordance with Section 479C  
of the Companies Act 2006:
Amec Foster Wheeler Finance Asia Limited (Registered number: 6205760)
Amec Foster Wheeler Property And Overseas Investments Limited (Registered number: 1580678)
AMEC Hedge Co 1 Limited (Registered number: 07870120)
AMEC Kazakhstan Holdings Limited (Registered number: 4530056)
AMEC USA Finance Limited (Registered number: 5299446)
AMEC USA Holdings Limited (Registered number: 4041261)
AMEC USA Limited (Registered number: 4044800)
AMEC Wind Developments Limited (Registered number: 8781332)
Ard Ghaoth Wind Farm Limited (Registered number: 7625013)
Auld Clay Wind Farm Limited (Registered number: 7285550)
Castlecary Wind Farm Limited (Registered number: 7611293)
Hilton Wind Farm Limited (Registered number: 7767187)
PI Energy Emissions Limited (Registered number: SC209704)
Sandiway Solutions (No 3) Limited (Registered number: 5318249)
Sigma Financial Facilities Limited (Registered number: 3863449)
The company has assessed the probability of loss under these guarantees as remote.
Notes to the company accounts continued 165
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
11 Related party transactions
During the year the only related party transactions for which disclosure is required under IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’  
were with the senior management group. As allowed by IAS 24 transactions with wholly owned subsidiary undertakings  
are not disclosed.
Transactions with the senior management group
The senior management group of the company consists of Amec Foster Wheeler plc board members.
The senior management group of the company and their immediate relatives controlled 0.65% of the voting rights of the company 
as at 31 December 2015.
Details of directors’ remuneration are provided in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 67 to 80. 
12 T ransition to FRS 101
For all years up to the year ended 31 December 2014, the company prepared its accounts in accordance with previously issued 
United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice (UK GAAP). For the year ended 31 December 2015, the company has 
transitioned to FRS 101.
In preparing these accounts, the company has started from an opening balance sheet as at 1 January 2014, the company’s date  
of transition to FRS 101, and made those changes in accounting policies and other restatements required for the first-time adoption 
of FRS 101. This note explains the principal adjustments made by the company in restating its balance sheet as at 1 January 2014 
prepared under previously issued UK GAAP and its previously published UK GAAP accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014.
On transition to FRS 101, the company has applied the requirements of paragraphs 6-33 of IFRS 1 ‘First time adoption of 
International Financial Reporting Standards’ .
Restatements required on transition from UK GAAP to FRS 101
Reclassification of software assets
Previously under UK GAAP , software development costs were capitalised as tangible assets. Under FRS 101, these costs meet  
the criteria for capitalisation as intangible assets under IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ and as such have been reclassified from tangible 
assets to intangible assets in the balance sheets as at 1 January 2014 (£26m) and 31 December 2014 (£31m). 166
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Details of incorporation
Amec Foster Wheeler plc is a public limited company that is 
incorporated in England and Wales with the registered number 
01675285.
The Company’s registered office is situated at Booths Park, 
Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, UK.
The Company operates under English law.
The Company’s agent in the US is CT Corporation, whose contact 
address is 111 Eighth Avenue, New Y ork, New Y ork 10011, US.
Origins
Amec Foster Wheeler plc (previously AMEC plc) was formed in 
1982, when Fairclough Construction merged with William Press 
Group. The Matthew Hall Group of Companies was acquired 
in 1988. As a business, we can trace our history back over 
150 years to the origins of these predecessor companies.
Subsequent transformation
In recent years, the Group’s activities have been transformed 
by exiting from civil construction and becoming a consultancy, 
engineering and project management business. We have 
achieved this transformation through a combination of organic 
growth, acquisitions and divestment of non-core activities. 
 X In 2000, we acquired AGRA Inc., a North American 
environmental, engineering and construction services 
company and Ogden Environmental and Energy Services  
Co. Inc., a US environmental consulting company.
 X In 2005, we acquired Paragon Engineering Services, Inc.,  
a Houston-based oil and gas engineering services company 
and NNC Holdings Limited, a UK nuclear consultancy and 
engineering business.
 X In 2007 , we sold our UK-based civil construction businesses.
 X In 2008, we acquired Geomatrix Consultants, Inc.,  
a California-based technical consulting and engineering firm; 
Rider Hunt International Limited, a project services company 
to the oil, gas, chemical, energy and process industries; and 
Bower Damberger Rolseth Engineering Limited.
 X In 2008, we sold our wind developments business.
 X In 2009, we acquired GRD Limited, an engineering and project 
delivery company based in Perth, Australia, specialising in the 
design, procurement and construction of mineral projects.
 X In 2010, we acquired Entec Holdings Limited, a UK-based 
environmental and engineering consultancy company.
 X In 2011, we acquired MACTEC Inc., a US engineering and 
environmental services company; and QED International 
Limited, or qedi, an oil and gas completions and 
commissioning services company.
History and development
 X In 2012, we acquired Energy, Safety and Risk Consultants 
(UK) Limited, or ESRC, a UK-based nuclear technical services 
business Unidel Group Pty Limited, or Unidel, a consulting, 
engineering and technical services company serving 
Australia’s energy, resources and infrastructure sectors 
and a 50% stake in Kromav Engenharia Ltda, or KROMAV, 
a participant in the Brazilian oil and gas market, with an 
option to acquire the outstanding 50% stake.
 X In 2013, we acquired Automated Engineering Services Corp., 
a US design engineering nuclear services firm which provides 
support to existing nuclear utilities.
 X In 2014, we acquired Scopus Group (Holdings) Limited 
(Scopus). Headquartered in Aberdeen, UK, with bases 
in international oil and gas hubs, Scopus has around 200 
employees who provide specialist engineering services to 
the global oil and gas, petrochemical and nuclear industries.
Between 1997 and 2006, we bought and sold interests in SPIE, 
which provided electrical engineering, communications services 
and specialist activities in the energy and rail industries, 
predominantly in France. 
In November 2014, the Company acquired control of Foster 
Wheeler AG, a leading international engineering, construction 
and project management contractor and power equipment 
supplier, by way of a public tender offer. Foster Wheeler AG 
was a Swiss-registered company that was listed on NASDAQ 
in the US. At 31 December 2014, the Company owned, through 
a wholly-owned subsidiary, 95.3% of the issued share capital 
of Foster Wheeler AG. At the time of the acquisition, Foster 
Wheeler had around 12,000 employees and operated in over 
30 countries through two business groups. 
Developments during 2015
During January 2015, the Company acquired the remaining 
shares in Foster Wheeler AG by way of a ‘squeeze-out merger’ 
conducted under Swiss law and Foster Wheeler AG merged 
with and into one of the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiaries. 
In October 2015, we exercised our right to acquire the remaining 
50% stake in Kromav Engenharia Ltda.
In December 2015, we exercised our right to acquire the 
remaining 40% stake in S2V Consulting Pty Ltd, a company 
incorporated in Australia and providing specialised consulting 
services to our oil and gas customers including upstream/
midstream, subsea and pipelines, onshore/offshore and 
production and processing. During December 2015, we also 
sold our interest in Project Management Holdings Limited, 
a company incorporated in Ireland and providing engineering, 
architecture, and project management and construction 
services internationally. 167
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
We describe below those risks and uncertainties that we 
consider to be significant because their outcome may have 
a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial 
condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have not listed 
these risks and uncertainties in any particular order of priority. 
Other risks and uncertainties that are currently unknown to 
us, or that are known but not currently considered by us to 
be significant, could become apparent to us or change and 
therefore may ultimately have such material adverse effects. 
Adverse global economic conditions or other macro-
economic developments in the geographic regions and 
markets in which we operate.
We expect to derive the largest share of our revenue from 
the oil & gas market with a broad exposure from upstream 
to downstream. Over recent years the oil & gas industry has 
faced a number of challenges, including continuing pressure 
on consumer demand, costs and oil & gas prices. As a result 
of the continuing nature of these challenges, many oil & gas 
companies have reduced, and may reduce further, their capital 
expenditure in response to market and investor pressure. 
In our other markets, such as clean energy, spending 
by customers will depend on cost developments for new 
technologies, support for government initiatives and the 
availability of funding for projects; whilst demand for raw 
materials from China may have a significant impact on mining 
projects. We have experienced increased competition for new 
contracts and some customers have requested different, less 
favourable contract terms due to these conditions.
We expect to derive the majority of our revenue from the 
combination of Europe, the US and Canada and will be exposed 
to the impact of global and local economic conditions affecting 
these regions. We may, therefore, be adversely affected if 
economic conditions in these regions deteriorate or become 
more uncertain. 
Adverse or volatile economic conditions may also impact 
liquidity and the availability of credit to our customers, as 
well as the demands of investors for greater returns in these 
markets, each of which may in turn influence customer 
spending on capital investment and/or asset maintenance 
and may result in delays or cancellation of projects. 
If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic 
and political conditions affecting the jurisdictions and markets 
in which we operate, we may be unable to effectively plan for 
or respond to those changes.
Risk factors
Risks associated with operating in emerging markets.
We conduct a portion of our operations in emerging markets. 
Going forward, we expect that our operations will be more heavily 
focused in the Middle East, as well as in other emerging markets, 
such as Latin America and parts of Asia. Our operations in these 
markets are exposed to risks that may not be encountered in 
countries with more well-established economic and political 
systems, which include, to a greater or lesser extent, changes in 
governmental regulations, trade restrictions and laws, tariffs and 
other barriers, the potential for nationalisation of enterprises or 
government policies favouring local production, renegotiation 
or nullification of existing agreements, fluctuations in interest 
rates and currency exchange rates, the introduction of exchange 
controls and other restrictions by foreign governments, 
timeliness of client payments, differing protections for intellectual 
property and enforcement thereof and divergent environmental 
laws and regulations. 
Continuing political and social unrest in the Middle East has 
had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on existing 
and future opportunities in the region.
Changes in commodity prices may adversely impact 
demand for our services.
As a general matter, commodity prices are volatile and are 
influenced by a number of external factors, including the supply 
of and demand for commodities, speculative activities by 
market participants, global political and economic conditions, 
the levels of production in major commodity-producing 
countries and the costs of exploring for, developing, producing 
and delivering the commodities. In particular, fluctuations 
in commodity prices related to the oil & gas, metals, mining 
and minerals industries may adversely impact our business 
since they may adversely affect customer spending on capital 
investment and asset maintenance and may result in delays 
or cancellation of projects.
The reduction in oil prices has adversely impacted investment 
in both oil and gas production by driving international oil 
companies to focus on ways in which they can be more capital 
efficient and this may continue if oil prices remain low. For 
example, such companies may choose to reduce overall levels 
of upstream capital expenditure and look at options to improve 
the efficiency of operating expenditure. Fluctuations in the price 
of metals and minerals, such as gold and copper, have also 
impacted mining customer spending. 
Such declines in the levels of customer spending as a result 
of a reduction in commodity prices could negatively impact 
our operations. Any delay, deferral or size reduction in our 
customers’ projects may restrict the opportunities available 
to us for organic growth and the achievement of our targets.  168
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Adverse changes in macro-economic, market and other 
conditions could result in the impairment of goodwill 
and other intangible assets.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more often if 
an event or circumstance indicates that it may be impaired. 
Other intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever 
there is an indication of impairment. An impairment test is an 
assessment of whether the carrying amount of an asset can be 
supported by the net present value of the future cash flows that 
are expected to be derived from it, either by use in the business 
or from sale. An impairment test requires management to make 
certain critical assumptions including future sales volumes, 
profit margins and long-term growth rates and to determine an 
appropriate discount rate to apply to the estimated cash flows. 
Other factors that may affect revenue and profitability (for 
example, intensifying competition, pricing pressures, regulatory 
changes and other industry developments) are also considered. 
Discount rates are based on current yields on government 
bonds, the level of which may change substantially from period 
to period and which may be affected by political and economic 
developments which are beyond our control. 
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying value of the 
asset is not supported by net present value of the cash flows 
expected to be derived from it. Whilst an impairment loss does 
not in itself affect cash flows, it may be an indication that future 
cash flows will decline. Moreover, any significant impairment 
in the carrying value of goodwill may indicate an associated 
impairment in the related investment held by the parent 
company. No assurance can be given that any such future 
impairment loss in the parent company would not affect the 
Company’s distributable reserves and, therefore, our ability to 
pay dividends to our shareholders.
Failure to meet customer expectations on project delivery 
could result in damage to our reputation and/or loss of 
repeat business and potentially lead to litigation.
Many of the contracts which we enter into with our customers 
are long term and may contain liquidated damages clauses 
relating to on-time delivery and/or liquidated damages relating 
to performance and/or liability in respect of unliquidated 
damages. A number of factors including failure to follow 
best practice guidelines could mean that projects are not 
delivered to time, cost, quality or appropriate health, safety and 
environmental standards and therefore do not meet customer 
expectations or the expectations of the relevant third party. 
Any failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations 
could subject us to damages and/or reduce our margins 
on these contracts. Failure to meet customer expectations 
may also result in disputes or litigation, cancelled contracts, 
additional costs incurred in excess of current contract 
provisions, or back-charges for alleged breaches of warranty 
and other contract commitments. 
Damage to reputation or loss of repeat business as a result 
of our failure to meet our customers’ expectations could 
negatively impact our ability to win new contracts in the future.
Long-term contracts may be subject to early termination, 
variation or non-renewal provisions.
We enter into long-term contracts with customers, which 
are performed over a period that may exceed two years. 
Such contracts may be terminated earlier than expected, 
either within the relevant notice periods or upon default or 
non-performance by ourselves which may result in additional 
costs if adequate compensation is not received. 
Projects included in our order book may be delayed 
or cancelled.
Changes in project scope or schedule create uncertainty as 
to the portion of orders that can be performed or the amount 
of revenue that will be recognised in any given year. Customers 
may also not be able to secure the necessary financing and 
approvals for their projects, which could result in a delay or 
cancellation of the proposed project. Even where a project 
proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that contracted parties 
may default and fail to pay amounts owed. Furthermore, 
fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect the value 
of the order book. As a result of these uncertainties, the order 
book may not be a reliable indicator of our future revenue 
or profitability. 
Risk factors continued 169
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Lump sum contracts are more subject to unanticipated 
modifications, technical problems and delays.
Lump sum contracts carry different risks than reimbursable 
contracts because the selling price of the project is agreed 
based on estimates at the time the contractor enters into the 
contract and the contractor assumes a greater proportion of 
the risks associated with completing the project. In particular, 
in the EPC contracts in which we engage, the contractor often 
assumes the risk of variations from original contract projections 
due to engineering design changes or project modifications 
that the contractor has to make after submitting its tender. 
There may also be unanticipated technical problems with 
the equipment being supplied or developed by the contractor, 
changes in the costs of components, materials or labour, 
difficulties in obtaining required governmental permits or 
approvals, changes in labour conditions and other unexpected 
delays or costs. We may incur a loss on contracts that are 
subject to these amendments if we are unable to obtain a 
variation of the contract, or are not sufficiently reimbursed for 
the costs incurred as a result of these changes or modifications.
We may lose key management or face difficulty in 
attracting and retaining appropriately skilled personnel. 
Our future success is dependent on our ability to attract and 
retain key management and suitably qualified people to execute 
our projects. Despite the change in market conditions in some 
of the markets in which we operate, there is still a scarcity of 
resources for certain key positions and ongoing competition 
for suitably qualified and experienced personnel from other 
companies and organisations. 
While we may have appropriately qualified and experienced 
personnel, we may find it difficult to move them between 
projects and regions and this could impact our ability to meet 
obligations under our contracts. 
Senior management departures or prolonged absences, key 
personnel shortages and difficulties in relocating our personnel 
could adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy and 
manage our operations efficiently. 
Failure to comply with health, safety and environmental 
laws may result in losses.
We are subject to numerous laws, regulations and policies 
concerning the protection of health, safety and the 
environment, such as those concerning the use and production 
of waste and by-products considered to be hazardous under the 
environmental laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which 
we operate, including nuclear and other low-level radioactive 
materials, the remediation of environmental contamination, 
waste water and waste disposal or that otherwise relate to 
environmental protection. Failure to comply with such laws, 
regulations and policies could potentially lead to reputational 
damage, fines, litigation and claims for compensation, 
which can be substantial. Such failure may also result in the 
withdrawal or suspension of licences and permits or we may 
be forced to undertake extensive remedial clean-up action or to 
pay for government-ordered remedial clean-up actions, even in 
cases where such hazards have been caused by third parties.
We may be subject to liabilities for environmental 
contamination as an owner or operator (or former owner 
or operator) of a facility, or as a generator of hazardous 
substances, without regard to negligence or fault. Our clean 
energy business is involved in providing services to operators 
and utilities in the full lifecycle of nuclear energy, from new 
build and reactor support to nuclear decommissioning and the 
management of radioactive and hazardous materials. We could, 
therefore, be exposed to risks associated with the nuclear 
industry and the impact of nuclear regulation. As part of any 
contract involving work or services at or in connection with 
nuclear facilities, we typically require an indemnity in respect 
of nuclear liability from our customers. Where an indemnity 
is not provided, international nuclear conventions, such as the 
Paris Convention and the Vienna Convention, protect us against 
liability, provided that our contracting entity is registered in a 
country which is a signatory of the relevant convention. In cases 
where our customers are not prepared to provide an indemnity 
of this nature and no protection is provided by international 
convention, we may be required to bear the cost of such 
liabilities in addition to any reputational damage.
Changes in environmental laws and regulations, remediation 
obligations, enforcement actions, stricter interpretations of 
existing requirements, future discovery of contamination or 
claims for damages to persons, property, natural resources 
or the environment could result in unanticipated material 
costs and liabilities.  170
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
A major safety incident could lead to reputational damage 
and increase potential liabilities.
We are involved in activities and environments that can be 
dangerous and that have the potential to cause serious injury 
to personnel or damage to property or the environment. Our 
projects are increasingly complex and place employees and 
others near large equipment, dangerous processes, highly 
regulated materials or in remote and challenging environments. 
We are responsible for the safety and security of our employees 
travelling on company business and while working at project 
sites and of third-party personnel while working at project 
sites under our supervision, and, accordingly, must implement 
safety procedures.
Failure to comply with such procedures may cause us to be 
subject to losses and liability under client contracts or statutory 
regulations. Any failure in health and safety performance 
which results in a major or significant health and safety or 
environmental incident is likely to result in additional costs 
in terms of potential liabilities or remediation costs. Such 
failure could generate significant adverse publicity, resulting 
in employee turnover and damage to our reputation which 
may adversely impact our ability to win new business.
Failure or security breaches of our IT systems and/or  
data security may result in losses.
We are dependent on the efficient operation of our IT systems. 
Such systems may fail and/or sensitive data held by them 
may be lost. Information and communication systems are, 
by their nature, susceptible to internal and external security 
breaches, including computer hacker and cyber terrorist 
breaches, employee wilful breaches and the risk of employees 
succumbing to criminal scamming from external sources, and 
can fail or become unavailable for a significant period of time. 
A significant performance failure of the Group’s IT systems could 
lead to loss of control over critical business, project information 
and/or systems (such as design tools, contract costs, invoicing, 
payroll management and/or internal reporting), resulting in an 
adverse impact on the ability to operate effectively or to fulfil 
contractual obligations. Such failure may, in turn, lead to a loss 
of customers, revenue and profitability and the incurring of 
significant remedial costs.
Our operations are especially dependent on the use of internal 
data and customer data. We have incurred, and will continue to 
incur, expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security 
standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry 
standards or contractual obligations relating to the collection, 
use and security of personal information data. Failure to comply 
with such data privacy laws and regulations may result in fines, 
penalties, claims and reputational damage. Additionally, if data 
security controls fail, there is a risk that we will unintentionally 
disclose protected or sensitive data, including important 
intellectual property, which could lead to the violation of client 
confidentiality agreements, reputational harm and the loss of 
critical data.
Failure to comply with anti-corruption laws and 
regulations, economic sanction programmes or other laws 
and regulations may result in us becoming subject to fines 
or penalties and the disruption of our business activities.
Many of the countries in which we operate have anti-corruption 
laws and regulations that restrict the offer or payment of 
anything of value to government officials or other persons with 
the intent of gaining business or favourable government action. 
We are subject to these laws and regulations, including the US 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 and the UK Bribery Act 
2010. Additionally, economic sanctions programmes, including 
those administered by the United Nations, the EU and the US 
Office of Foreign Asset Control, restrict our business dealings 
with certain sanctioned countries. Many of these regulations and 
sanctions programmes establish record-keeping obligations.
We are exposed to the risk of violating anti-corruption laws 
and sanctions regulations applicable in those countries where 
we, our partners or agents operate. Some of the locations in 
which we currently operate lack a developed legal system, have 
high levels of corruption and have proven to be susceptible to 
the occurrence of fraud. Whilst we mandate compliance with 
relevant policies, laws and regulations (including anti-corruption 
laws) and have implemented procedures and controls to 
monitor internal and external compliance, there can be no 
assurance that our policies and procedures will be followed 
at all times or will effectively detect and/or prevent violations 
of the applicable laws or other fraudulent activity by one or 
more of our employees, consultants, subcontractors, agents 
or partners. 
Violations of anti-corruption laws and sanctions regulations 
are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of 
export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from 
government contracts (and termination of existing contracts) 
and revocations or restrictions of licences, as well as criminal 
fines and imprisonment. In addition, any major violations of 
policy, law or regulation (including instances of fraud) could 
have a significant impact on our reputation and consequently 
on our ability to win future business.
Risk factors continued 171
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Funding risks in relation to defined benefit pension 
schemes.
We operate a number of defined benefit pension schemes, 
where careful judgement is required in determining the 
assumptions for future salary and pension increases (for those 
plans that are not frozen), discount rate, inflation, investment 
return and member longevity. We expect to continue to operate 
these schemes, although the most significant schemes are now 
closed. Based on our current assumptions, we expect that we 
will be able to fund these pension schemes without seeking 
recourse to additional external financing. Actual outcomes 
could, however, differ from our assumptions. For example, a 
prolonged period of lower than expected asset returns and/
or unexpected increases in longevity could create or worsen 
a funding shortfall on one or more of the schemes, in which 
circumstances we may agree or be required to make additional 
cash contributions to the schemes to eliminate the funding 
shortfall. If significant, such additional contributions may 
constrain our ability to invest in acquisitions or undertake 
capital expenditure, thereby adversely impacting our growth 
and profitability. 
If the actual number and/or cost to the Group of resolving 
asbestos-related claims is higher than expected, there 
may be an adverse effect on our cash flows and our results 
to the extent that the additional cost is not covered by 
insurance, or expected insurance recoveries are not, 
in fact, realised.
Certain of the company’s subsidiaries have been named 
as defendants in numerous lawsuits and out-of-court 
administrative claims in which the plaintiffs claim damages for 
alleged bodily injury or death arising from exposure to asbestos 
primarily in connection with asbestos placed by others on 
steam generating units and auxiliary equipment assembled, 
installed and/or sold, by those subsidiaries. In the US, certain 
former Foster Wheeler subsidiaries have received claims 
alleging personal injuries due to contracting work performed 
by them and more rarely from exposure to asbestos-containing 
components installed in their steam generating units and 
auxiliary equipment. We expect that these subsidiaries will be 
named as defendants in additional and/or similar suits and 
that new claims will be filed in the future. Whilst some of these 
claims have been and are expected to be made in the UK, the 
overwhelming majority have been and are expected to be made 
in the US. 
We have provided for the estimated indemnity amounts and 
defence costs that we expect to incur in relation to open and 
expected future asbestos-related claims in each year in the 
period to 2050. We have also recognised the estimated future 
recoveries under our insurance arrangements against the costs 
of resolving these claims. 
It is possible that the actual number of future claims brought 
against us and the cost of resolving pending and future claims 
could be substantially higher than expected due to a number 
of factors, which include: 
 X an increase in the rate at which new claims are filed and 
increases in the number of new claimants 
 X adverse changes in the mix of diseases alleged to be suffered 
by the claimants 
 X adverse changes in the mix of claimants making allegations 
 X increases in indemnity payments or defence costs associated 
with asbestos-related claims 
 X decreases in the proportion of claims dismissed with zero 
indemnity payments 
 X indemnity payments being required to be made sooner 
than expected 
 X adverse fluctuations in the discount rate (eg, the 30-year 
US T reasury rate) used to discount the provision for 
asbestos-related claims and related insurance recoveries 
 X adverse changes to forecasting, estimation or valuation 
assumptions or methodologies (whether related to potential 
liabilities, claims and/or associated costs) 
 X payment of damages in amounts greater than expected 
 X adverse changes in legislative or judicial standards governing 
the filing, handling or resolution of asbestos-related claims 
Whilst certain of these claims are covered by insurance, the 
settlements that we made with our insurers were sometimes 
for fixed monetary amounts and/or provide cover only for 
claims made before a specified future date. Accordingly, a 
future increase in the Group’s asbestos-related liabilities would 
not result in an equivalent increase in the amount recoverable 
from those insurers. It is also possible that insurance recoveries 
may not be realised in full and on time or at all, due to insurer 
insolvency or for some other reason. T o the extent that any 
defence and/or indemnity costs incurred by us for open and 
expected future asbestos-related claims are not covered by 
insurance proceeds, we would be responsible for the payment 
of those costs, which would adversely affect our cash flows.
Obligations and liabilities relating to divested  
and non-core businesses.
We remain at risk to potential litigation and business claims 
in relation to divested and non-core businesses where we 
have provided customary warranties to the purchaser or have 
continuing obligations such as to carry out environmental 
remediation. Where appropriate, we have made provision for 
these obligations but it is possible that the actual costs incurred 
in settling any claims will materially exceed those provisions.
We may face risks arising out of our ongoing portfolio review. 
In particular, we may be unable to find purchasers for assets 
or businesses to be disposed, and we may not be able to meet 
the targets associated with our disposal programme. Activities 
arising from the ongoing portfolio review and any subsequent 
disposals will require additional time of key management, as 
well as additional financial resources. T o the extent that we are 
unable to proceed with the portfolio review and any disposals on 
the basis or the time frame we expect, or further management 
or financial resources are required to carry out those activities, 
it may have a negative impact on the Group. 172
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
We assess the financial performance of our businesses using a variety of measures. Certain of these measures are particularly 
important and we have termed them ‘key performance indicators’ . We refer to these measures in the strategic report and use them in 
presentations to investors. In this section, we explain the relevance to us of each of these measures and show how they are calculated.
Some of these measures are non-IFRS measures because they exclude amounts that are included in, or include amounts that are 
excluded from, the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with IFRS, or are calculated using 
financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with IFRS. We do not regard these non-IFRS measures as a substitute for, 
or superior to, the equivalent measures calculated and presented in accordance with IFRS and it should be noted that they may 
not be comparable with similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Profitability measures
Management uses three measures of profitability that are not recognised measures under IFRS: trading profit, trading margin 
and adjusted profit before tax. Each of these measures is based on an IFRS measure of profit but excludes specific items whose 
inclusion in the IFRS measure hinders the comparison of the trading performance of our businesses from one period to another, 
with each other or with those of our competitors. 
Management has identified the following specific items that are excluded in arriving at these non-IFRS measures: exceptional 
items; the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets; and asbestos-related costs (net of insurance recoveries). 
Exceptional items are items of income and expense that are material by their size, incidence or nature and may include, but 
are not restricted to: acquisition-related costs; restructuring costs; gains and losses on the disposal of fixed assets; and gains 
and losses on the disposal or closure of businesses. Acquisition-related costs may include transaction costs (including external 
advisory, legal, valuation and other professional fees and attributable internal costs), the amortisation of acquisition-related 
facility fees, payments to selling shareholders that are accounted for as remuneration and changes in the fair value of contingent 
consideration. Exceptional items that were recognised in continuing operations are analysed in note 5 to the consolidated financial 
statements. 
T rading profit, trading margin and adjusted profit before tax exclude items that can have a significant effect on the Group’s profit 
or loss and should, therefore, be used in conjunction with, and not as a substitute for, the equivalent IFRS measures. Management 
compensates for these limitations by separately monitoring the items that are excluded from the equivalent IFRS measures in 
calculating these non-IFRS measures. 
T rading profit
T rading profit represents profit before net financing expense excluding exceptional items; the amortisation and impairment of 
intangible assets; and asbestos-related costs (net of insurance recoveries). T rading profit includes the Group’s share of the trading 
profit of joint ventures.
T rading profit is the measure used by management to assess the trading performance of the Group’s individual businesses and is the 
measure of segment profit that we present under IFRS. T rading profit is a non-IFRS measure when presented on a consolidated basis.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Continuing operations 
(Loss)/profit before net financing expense (205) 148 243
Intangibles amortisation and impairment 444 49 47
Net asbestos-related (income)/costs (13) 8 –
Exceptional items 108 94 25
Share of trading profit of joint ventures 40 22 28
T rading profit 374 321 343
T rading margin
T rading margin represents trading profit expressed as a percentage of revenue.
T rading margin is a non-IFRS measure that is used by management to measure the success of our businesses in managing their 
cost base and improving profitability.
£m unless stated otherwise 2015 2014 2013
Continuing operations 
Revenue 5,455 3,993 3,974
T rading profit 374 321 343
T rading margin 6.9% 8.0% 8.6%
P erformance measures 173
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Adjusted profit before tax
Adjusted profit before tax represents profit before tax before exceptional items, the amortisation and impairment of intangible 
assets, asbestos-related costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), and the Group’s share of tax on the results 
of joint ventures. 
Adjusted profit before tax is a non-IFRS measure that is used by management to assess the trend in the Group’s overall profitability. 
2015
 £m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Continuing operations 
(Loss)/profit before tax (235) 155 255
Intangibles amortisation and impairment 444 49 47
Net asbestos-related expense (income)/costs (6) 9 –
Exceptional items 121 98 25
Share of income tax of joint ventures 10 6 5
Adjusted profit before tax 334 317 332
Cash flow measures
T rading cash flow (previously operating cash flow)
T rading cash flow represents cash generated from operations before cash flows arising from exceptional items, asbestos-related 
payments (net of insurance recoveries), the difference between retirement benefit contributions and the current service cost, 
legacy settlements and discontinued operations, and currency translation differences on working capital, but including dividends 
received from joint ventures.
T rading cash flow is a non-IFRS measure which is an indicator of the Group’s ability to generate cash from its continuing operations 
before taking into account exceptional items and the servicing of long-term obligations and the settlement of legacy issues.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Cash generated from operations 220 200 292
Net asbestos-related payments 22 5 –
Excess of pension contributions over current service cost 3 2 –
Cash outflow on exceptional items 72 58 21
Legacy settlements and discontinued operations 36 9 14
Currency translation differences (19) (5) 6
Amortisation of finance arrangement fees 12 – –
Dividends received from joint ventures 42 14 8
T rading cash flow 388 283 341
Cash conversion
Cash conversion represents trading cash flow expressed as a percentage of trading profit. Cash conversion is a non-IFRS measure 
that we use as a measure of the efficiency of our businesses in converting their trading results into cash.
£m unless stated otherwise 2015 2014 2013
T rading cash flow 388 283 341
T rading profit 374 321 343
Cash conversion 104% 88% 99% 174
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Other measures
Underlying change in revenue 
Management uses the underlying change in revenue to measure the organic growth of our businesses relative to each other,  
to our markets and to our competitors. 
We define the underlying change as the year-on-year change excluding the effect of flow-through procurement, acquisitions  
and disposals of businesses and currency exchange rate movements.
Underlying change – 2015 compared with 2014
2014 
pro forma 
£m
Currency 
translation
 £m
Acquisitions 
£m
Underlying 
change 
£m
2015 
£m 
Underlying 
change 
%
Continuing operations 
Americas 2,705 34 – (93) 2,646 -3%
NECIS 1,705 (2) 16 (227) 1,492 -13%
AMEASE 1,031 (29) 27 21 1,050 +1%
GPG 454 2 – (92) 364 -20%
Investment Services 16 – – (1) 15 –
Intercompany eliminations (111) – – (1) (112) –
5,800 5 43 (393) 5,455 -7%
Adjusted diluted EPS
Adjusted diluted earnings per share represents profit for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items, the 
amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, asbestos-related costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), 
and the tax effect of those items, divided by the diluted number of ordinary shares. 
Growth in adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations is an indicator of the underlying trend in the Group’s ability to generate 
earnings and may be useful to investors in assessing the value of the Company’s ordinary shares (for example, by way of price 
earnings multiples). 
Whilst IFRS does not define any adjusted EPS measures, the presentation of such measures is permitted in financial statements 
prepared in accordance with IFRS. Accordingly, reconciliations of adjusted diluted EPS to diluted EPS from continuing operations 
for each period presented are included in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.
Dividend cover
Dividend cover is a non-IFRS measure that represents adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations as a multiple of the 
dividend per ordinary share. 
Whilst dividend cover is an indicator of the sustainability of future dividend payments in the context of the Group’s underlying 
trading performance, we can only pay dividends to the extent of the Company’s accumulated distributable reserves. 
2015 2014 2013
Dividend per ordinary share 29.0p
1
43.3p 42.0p
Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations 67.7p 79.5p 87 .2p
Dividend cover 2.3x 1.8x 2.1x
1 Includes the proposed final dividend for 2015 of 14.2p per ordinary share.
Order book
Our order book represents the total remaining value of secured projects to be executed up to any break point in the relevant 
contracts. Contracts are included in our order book only when they are signed and we do not include contracts won by joint ventures. 
Our order book and order intake are significant indicators of our future revenues. As at 31 December 2015, our order book was 
£6.6bn (2014: £6.3bn). We discuss significant recent contract wins in the strategic report on page 16.
P erformance measures continued 175
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Reported under IFRS
£m unless stated 2014 2013 Change
Continuing operations
Revenue 3,993 3,974 0%
Profit before net 
financing expense 148 243 -39%
Profit before tax 155 255 -39%
Cash flow from 
operations 200 292 -32%
Diluted earnings  
per share 35.1p 62.5p -44%
Dividend per share 43.3p
1
42.0p +3%
1  Includes the proposed final dividend for 2014 of 28.5p per ordinary share.
Adjusted measures
£m unless stated 2014 2013 Change 
Underlying 
change
8
Continuing operations
Scope revenue
1
 3,920 3,854 +2% +1%
T rading profit
2
321 343 -6%
T rading margin
3
 8.2% 8.9% -70bps
Adjusted profit before tax
4
317 332 -5%
T rading cash flow
5
 283 341 -17%
Cash conversion
6
88% 99% -110ps
Adjusted diluted  
earnings per share
7
79.5p 87 .2p -9%
1  Scope revenue represents reported revenue less flow-through procurement 
revenue.
2  T rading profit represents profit before net financing expense before the 
amortisation of intangible assets, asbestos-related costs (net of insurance 
recoveries) and exceptional items, but including the Group’s share of the 
trading profit of joint ventures.
3  T rading margin represents trading profit expressed as a percentage of 
scope revenue.
4  Adjusted profit before tax represents profit before tax before exceptional 
items, the amortisation of intangible assets, asbestos-related costs and 
interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), and the Group’s share of tax 
on the results of joint ventures.
5  T rading cash flow represents cash generated from operations before 
cash flows arising from exceptional items, asbestos-related payments 
(net of insurance recoveries), the difference between retirement benefit 
contributions and the current service cost, legacy settlements and 
discontinued operations, and currency translation differences on working 
capital, but including dividends received from joint ventures.
6  Cash conversion represents trading cash flow expressed as a percentage 
of trading profit.
7  Adjusted diluted earnings per share represents profit for the year from 
continuing operations before exceptional items, the amortisation of 
intangible assets, asbestos-related costs and interest expense (net of 
insurance recoveries), and the tax effect of those items, divided by the 
diluted number of ordinary shares.
8  Underlying change excludes the effect of flow-through procurement, 
acquisitions and disposals of businesses and currency exchange 
rate movements.
Prior year operating results
Revenue
Revenue for the year was broadly unchanged compared with 
last year at £3,993m (2013: £3,974m). 
Revenue declined by £175m in the Americas and by £108m 
Europe, but increased by £54m in the Growth Regions. Revenue 
from Oil & Gas was down 13%, Mining was down 14% and E&I 
down 3%, but revenue from Clean Energy was up 11%. Revenue 
in all markets was adversely affected by the strength of sterling, 
particularly against the US dollar. Overall, currency exchange 
rate movements reduced revenue by £238m in 2014 compared 
with 2013.
Foster Wheeler contributed £274m to the Group’s revenue 
during the last seven weeks of the year following its acquisition 
in November 2014.
Flow-through procurement decreased by £47m to £73m 
(2013: £120m).
Excluding flow-through procurement, the effect of acquisitions 
and currency movements, underlying revenue increased by 1%. 
Underlying revenue from Oil & Gas was down 5% and that from 
Mining down 6%, but Clean Energy was up 16% and E&I was 
up 5%. 
Seasonality
The Group’s revenue is generally higher in the second half of 
the year, principally because weather conditions in the northern 
hemisphere are typically more conducive to project activity. 
Administrative expenses
Administrative expenses were £354m (2013: £293m), including 
exceptional items, intangibles amortisation and asbestos-
related costs (net of insurance recoveries) totalling £135m 
(2013: £65m). 
Administrative expenses before intangibles amortisation, 
exceptional items and net asbestos-related costs declined by 
4% to £219m (2013: £228m), principally due to the impact 
of currency movements and reduced share-based payment 
charges. Also determined on this basis, Foster Wheeler’s 
administrative expenses following its acquisition were £26m.
Corporate costs, which comprise the costs of operating central 
corporate functions and certain regional overheads, were £4m 
lower at £31m (2013: £35m).
Profit before net financing expense
Profit before net financing expense was significantly lower at 
£148m (2013: £243m), largely due to exceptional costs incurred 
during 2014 in relation to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler. 176
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets
Intangible assets principally comprise goodwill and identifiable 
intangible assets that were recognised in relation to acquired 
businesses. Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to an 
annual impairment test. No impairment was recognised in 
either 2014 or 2013. 
Intangibles amortisation was £49m (2013: £47m). Whilst an 
additional amortisation expense of £11m was recognised on 
the intangible assets acquired with Foster Wheeler and there 
was the full-year amortisation of intangible assets recognised 
in acquisitions completed in 2013, the year-on-year change was 
reduced because the amortisation expense in 2013 included the 
accelerated amortisation of certain intangible assets. We expect 
the full-year impact of the amortisation of intangible assets 
acquired with Foster Wheeler to be approximately £85m.
Asbestos-related costs (net of insurance recoveries)
During 2014, the Group recognised net asbestos-related costs 
of £8m (2013: £nil) in profit before net financing expense, which 
largely related to the reduction between the acquisition date 
and the year-end date in the discount rate applied to the net 
asbestos-related liabilities assumed on the acquisition of Foster 
Wheeler. In addition, the Group recognised an asbestos-related 
interest expense of £1m (2013: £nil). 
Exceptional items
Net exceptional costs totalling £98m (2013: £25m) were 
recognised in arriving at profit before tax from continuing 
operations, as follows:
 X costs of £41m in relation to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler 
(including transaction costs of £37m within administrative 
expenses and acquisition-related facility fees amortisation 
of £4m within net financing expense)
 X costs of £35m relating to the integration of AMEC and Foster 
Wheeler (including internal staff costs associated with 
identifying and achieving cost synergies)
 X costs of £6m incurred in completing the restructuring of 
AMEC’s business onto a geographical basis
 X a net loss of £16m on the exit of businesses, comprising a 
loss of £21m on businesses sold in the year (principally the 
reverse premium payable on exit from the Group’s investment 
in the Lancashire Waste project), which was partially offset by 
a gain of £5m on the release of a provision no longer required 
in respect of a business closed in a previous year
Trading profit and trading margin
£m unless stated 2014 2013 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 3,993 3,974 0%
Flow-through 
procurement (73) (120)
Scope revenue
1
3,920 3,854 +2% +1%
Profit before net 
financing expense 148 243
Intangibles 
amortisation 49 47
Net asbestos-related 
costs 8 –
Exceptional items 94 25
Share of trading profit  
of joint ventures 22 28
T rading profit
1
 321 343 -6%
T rading margin
1
 8.2% 8.9% -70bps
Order book £6.3bn £4.1bn +55%
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 172 to 174).
T rading profit decreased by 6% to £321m (2013: £343m). 
T rading margin decreased by 70 basis points to 8.2% 
(2013: 8.9%). 
In Americas, trading profit fell due to the impact of currency 
translation and lower levels of activity in Oil & Gas and Mining, 
being partially offset by increased work in Clean Energy. 
T rading margin declined partially due to this change in market 
mix towards lower margin Clean Energy and because of the 
timing of large contract close-outs, which were particularly 
favourable in 2013. In Europe, trading profit and trading margin 
both increased compared with 2013, largely as a result of the 
non-recurrence of the losses from the T eesside Gas Processing 
Plant contract. In the Growth Regions, trading profit fell due 
to the impact of currency translation and a lower contribution 
from Clean Energy and E&I. Compared with 2013, Growth 
Regions trading margin fell due to pricing pressure from 
customers and investment for growth.
Currency exchange rate movements reduced trading profit 
by £22m in 2014 compared with 2013
Prior year operating results continued 177
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Net financing expense 
Net financing expense was £5m (2013: £2m), including net 
bank interest payable of £7m (2013: £2m), net foreign exchange 
losses of £nil (2013: £1m), and net interest income on pension 
assets and liabilities of £2m (2013: £1m). In 2014, net financing 
expense also included a net expense of £1m (2013: £nil) due 
to the unwinding of the discount on asbestos-related liabilities 
(net of insurance recoveries).
A net currency exchange loss of £4m (2013: loss of £1m) 
was recognised in the translation reserve in respect of foreign 
currency borrowings and derivatives held in designated net 
investment hedging relationships.
Share of results of joint ventures
The Group’s share of joint ventures’ profit for the year was £12m 
(2013: £14m).
Profit before tax 
Profit before tax was £155m (2013: £255m) after intangibles 
amortisation of £49m (2013: £47m), net asbestos-related costs 
and interest expense of £9m (2013: £nil), exceptional items of 
£98m (2013: £25m) and the Group’s share of joint ventures’ 
tax expense of £6m (2013: £5m). 
Adjusted profit before tax was 5% lower at £317m 
(2013: £332m), reflecting the overall decline in the Group’s 
trading performance in 2014 compared with 2013.
Taxation
Our tax policy is to manage our obligations in compliance 
with all relevant tax laws, disclosure requirements and 
regulations. We seek to ensure that our approach to tax and 
the tax payments that we make in all territories in which we 
have operations are fully consistent with local requirements, 
taking into account available tax incentives and allowances, 
and are aligned with the Group’s wider business strategy. 
We seek to develop good, open working relationships with tax 
authorities and to engage with them proactively, recognising 
that tax legislation can be complex and may be subject to 
differing interpretations.
During 2014, there was a tax credit on exceptional items of 
£6m (2013: tax charge of £6m), and a tax credit of £12m on 
intangibles amortisation (2013: £20m). In addition, there was 
an exceptional tax charge of £16m in 2013. 
The Group’s share of joint ventures’ income tax expense was 
£6m (2013: £5m).
The Group’s effective tax rate on continuing operations 
(including its share of joint ventures’ income tax expense 
but before exceptional items, intangibles amortisation and 
asbestos-related items) increased to 23.0% (2013: 21.9%). 
The increase principally reflected reduced prior period credits 
which result from agreement of historical items with various 
tax authorities. In addition, 2013 included a credit following 
a reduction in the tax rate applied to the UK pension surplus 
which was not repeated in 2014.
Profit for the year from continuing operations
Profit for the year from continuing operations was £106m 
(2013: £186m) after intangibles amortisation of £49m (2013: 
£47m), the net asbestos-related expense of £9m (2013: £nil), 
net exceptional items of £98m (2013: £25m), and an income 
tax credit on those items of £18m (2013: charge of £2m).
Adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations was  
6% lower at £244m (2013: £260m).
Non-controlling interests
During 2014, there was a loss of £3m attributable to non-
controlling interests (2013: loss of £1m). 
Earnings per share
Diluted EPS was 26.5p (2013: 59.8p), comprising earnings per 
share of 35.1p (2013: 62.5p) from continuing operations and 
a loss of 8.6p (2013: 2.7p) from discontinued operations.
Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations was lower at 
79.5p (2013: 87 .2p), due to the decline in the profit for the year 
from continuing operations and the increase in the number 
of shares in issue as a consequence of the acquisition of 
Foster Wheeler.
Dividend
The board recommends a final dividend of 28.5p per share, 
which, together with the interim dividend of 14.8p per share, 
results in a total dividend of 43.3p per share (2013: 42.0p), an 
increase of 3%. Subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM 
on 14 May 2015, the final dividend will be payable on 2 July 2015 
to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
29 May 2015.
Dividend cover for 2014 is 1.8 times (2013: 2.1 times) based 
on adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations. Going 
forward, the board expects to maintain a progressive dividend 
policy whilst maintaining dividend cover at around two times 
adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations. 178
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Results by operating segment
Americas
£m unless stated 2014 2013 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 2,072 2,247
Flow-through 
procurement (73) (120)
Scope revenue
1
1,999 2,127 -6% +4%
Profit before net 
financing expense 195 211
Intangibles 
amortisation 17 18
Exceptional items (6) 10
Share of trading profit  
of joint ventures 1 2
T rading profit
1
 207 241 -14%
T rading margin
1 
10.2% 11.3% -110bps
Order book
 
£1.2bn £1.4bn -14%
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 172 to 174).
Revenue in Americas was £2,072m (2013: £2,247m), a decline 
of 8%. Excluding flow-through procurement, the effect of 
acquisitions and currency movements, underlying revenue was 
up 4%. Growth in underlying revenue in Clean Energy and E&I 
was partially offset by declines in Oil & Gas and Mining. 
T rading profit fell by 14% to £207m (2013: £241m), largely as a 
result of the reduced levels of activities in Oil & Gas and Mining. 
T rading margin was 10.2%, down by 110 basis points compared 
with 2013. T rading margin declined principally due to increased 
weighting of lower-margin Clean Energy in the product mix 
and due to the timing of large contract close-outs, which were 
particularly favourable in 2013.
Europe
£m unless stated 2014 2013 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 1,119 1,227 -9% -8%
Profit before net 
financing expense 70 63
Intangibles 
amortisation 17 17
Exceptional items 3 1
Share of trading profit  
of joint ventures 11 12
T rading profit
1
 101 93 +9%
T rading margin
1 
9.1% 7.6% +150bps
Order book
 
£1.8bn £1.7bn +3%
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 172 to 174). 
Revenue in Europe fell by 9% to £1,119m (2013: £1,227m), 
primarily due to the reduced level of Oil & Gas activity in the 
North Sea. Underlying revenue declined by 8%.
T rading profit increased by 9% to £101m (2013: £93m). T rading 
margin was 9.1%, up 150 basis points compared with 2013, 
largely as a result of the non-recurrence of losses from the 
T eesside Gas Processing Plant.
Growth Regions
£m unless stated 2014 2013 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 590 536 +10% +18%
Profit before net 
financing expense 20 10
Intangibles 
amortisation 4 12
Exceptional items 2 7
Share of trading profit  
of joint ventures 4 4
T rading profit
1
 30 33 -9%
T rading margin
1 
5.1% 6.2% -110bps
Order book
 
£0.9bn £0.9bn
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 172 to 174). 
Revenue in Growth Regions improved by 10% to £590m 
(2013: £536m), primarily driven by increased revenue from 
Oil & Gas activities in the Middle East and a partial recovery 
in Mining revenue in Australia. Underlying revenue increased 
by 18%, principally due to the exclusion of adverse currency 
exchange rate movements.
T rading profit fell by 9% to £30m (2013: £33m), reflecting lower 
contributions from Clean Energy and E&I. T rading margin was 
5.1%, down 110 basis points compared with 2013, due to pricing 
pressure from customers and investment for growth.
Prior year operating results continued 179
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
E&C Services and Global Power Group
E&C Services and Global Power Group are Foster Wheeler 
business units and therefore contributed to the Group’s 
performance only for the final seven weeks of the year following 
the acquisition of Foster Wheeler in November 2014.
E&C Services contributed revenue of £221m and a trading  
profit of £4m (before intangibles amortisation of £7m).  
As at 31 December 2014, the value of E&C Services’ order  
book was £2.0bn.
Global Power Group contributed revenue of £53m and a trading 
profit of £2m (before intangibles amortisation of £4m). As at 
31 December 2014, the value of Global Power Group’s order 
book was £0.4bn.
Investment Services
During the periods under review, Investment Services 
principally comprised the Incheon Bridge PPP project in Korea 
and the Lancashire Waste project (which the Group exited 
in 2014), the Group’s insurance captive, the Group’s wind 
development activities and a range of other non-core activities. 
Revenue in Investment Services was £6m (2013: £6m). 
Investment Services incurred a loss before net financing 
expense of £16m (2013: £3m), after deducting an exceptional 
loss on disposals of businesses of £21m (2013: £nil). T rading 
profit was £8m (2013: £11m), of which £3m (2013: £7m) was 
derived from joint ventures. 
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations represent the residual assets and 
retained obligations of businesses sold in prior years, together 
with the UK conventional power business that was classified 
as a discontinued operation during 2013. 
Discontinued operations generated a trading loss before 
tax of £10m (2013: loss of £10m) and after a tax credit 
of £2m (2013: £2m) generated a loss for the year of £8m 
(2013: loss of £8m). During 2014, negative revenue of £13m 
was recognised due to the settlement of final accounts and 
additional provisions on certain contracts within the UK 
conventional power business.
Discontinued operations included a loss on disposals of £23m 
(2013: loss £6m) arising from additional indemnity provisions 
and costs associated with businesses sold in prior years. In 
2014, the loss on disposals included a provision of £11m in 
respect of a new claim received in the year related to a contract 
completed by the Built Environment business which was sold 
in 2007 .
Discontinued operations generated an overall loss for the year 
of £27m (2013: £8m).  180
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Our website
Our website, amecfw.com, is the best source of useful, 
up-to-date information about Amec Foster Wheeler and its 
activities, including annual reports, AGM documents and other 
shareholder communications.
All announcements made to the London Stock Exchange can 
be found on our website and you can arrange to receive email 
alerts of such announcements.
Information made available on our website, or on other websites 
mentioned in this annual report, is not, and should not be 
considered as being, part of or incorporated into this annual 
report or our annual report on Form 20-F.
Financial calendar
The Group’s full-year 2014 results and the 2014 annual report 
were published later than usual as a consequence of the 
acquisition of Foster Wheeler having completed so close to the 
Group’s year-end date. As expected we are now moving back 
towards the Group’s normal financial calendar during 2016 
as follows:
Annual General Meeting
1
27 April 2016
Payment of final dividend for 2015
2
4 July 2016
Half-year 2016 results issued 9 August 2016
Payment of interim dividend for 2016 January 2017
Full-year 2016 results issued March 2017
2016 annual report published
3
March 2017
1  Information on the Company’s AGM is provided in the governance report  
on page 81.
2 Subject to approval by shareholders.
3  Our annual report will be filed with the SEC on Form 20-F and periodic 
results announcements will be furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K.
Where they have not yet been determined, the exact dates 
of the above events will be finalised as the year progresses 
and can be found on our website.
Share price
The latest price of the Company’s shares can be found on 
our website and may also be obtained from the London Stock 
Exchange’s website, www.londonstockexchange.com (in both 
cases the live share price is updated with a 15-minute delay).
Dividends
We usually announce our interim dividend for the year with our 
half-year results in August and it is paid in the following January. 
We propose our final dividend for the year with the full-year 
results and, subject to shareholder approval at the subsequent 
AGM, it is paid in the following July.
Dividends can be paid directly into your bank or building 
society account and can also be paid in local currency in 
certain overseas territories. Shareholders should contact 
the Company’s registrars to take advantage of these facilities.
We have a DRIP to allow shareholders to acquire more of 
the Company’s shares rather than receive cash dividends. 
The DRIP is only available to shareholders in certain countries. 
Y ou can find out more on our website or by contacting the 
Company’s registrars.
Registrars
The Company’s registrars are Capita Asset Services. 
They maintain the shareholder register on our behalf and 
handle all administration related to it. They should be your first 
port of call if you have any queries relating to your shareholding 
in Amec Foster Wheeler. 
For DRIP , electronic communications and general enquiries
Email shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk
Website www.capitaassetservices.com
Postal address Capita Asset Services 
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU 
United Kingdom
T elephone
1
 UK  0871 664 03002 
Others +44 20 8639 3399
Payment of dividends overseas
T elephone
1
 +44 20 8639 3405
Email ips@capita.co.uk
1  Lines open 9.00am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday  
(excluding public holidays).
2  Calls cost 12 pence per minute plus your phone company’s access 
charge. Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable 
International rate.
Electronic shareholder communication
The majority of our shareholders now receive information from 
us electronically. If you have elected to do so and have provided 
an email address, you will receive an email from us whenever 
any new shareholder information is published. If you have not 
provided an email address, you will be sent a letter that includes 
details of where the information can be found on our website.
Y ou can register for electronic shareholder communication  
and also manage your personal shareholding online at  
www.capitashareportal.com. Y ou will need your Investor Code 
(IVC) which can be found on your proxy card, share certificate 
or dividend tax voucher.
Printed copies of the annual report
Shareholders may receive a printed copy of the Company’s 
latest annual report on request by writing to our registered 
office or by contacting us on +1 908 730 4000.
Unauthorised brokers (boiler room scams)
Shareholders are advised to be wary if they receive any 
unsolicited calls or correspondence making claims of highly 
profitable investment opportunities. T ypically these investments 
turn out to be worthless or simply do not exist. Such 
approaches are usually made by unauthorised companies and 
individuals and are commonly known as boiler room scams. 
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice or offers to buy 
shares from a source that is unknown to you, we recommend 
that you obtain the name of the person and organisation 
that has contacted you and check whether they are properly 
authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority by visiting its 
website at www.fca.org.uk/register.
If you think that you have been approached by an unauthorised 
organisation, you are advised to contact the Financial Conduct 
Authority’s consumer helpline on +44 (0)800 111 6768 or email 
consumer.enquiries@fca.org.uk.
Information for shareholders 181
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Other information
American Depositary Shares 
ADSs and ADRs
The Company’s ordinary shares are traded in the form of 
American Depositary Shares (ADSs) on the NYSE. Each ADS 
represents one ordinary share.
The ADSs are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts 
(ADRs) issued by Deutsche Bank T rust Company Americas as 
Depositary under a deposit agreement dated 2 October 2014. 
The ADRs are issued in respect of ordinary shares deposited 
with Deutsche Bank AG, as custodian for the Depositary.
ADSs may be held directly by having an ADR (a certificate 
evidencing a specific number of ADSs) registered in your 
name or by holding ADSs in the Direct Registration System, 
or indirectly through a broker or other financial institution.  
If you hold ADSs directly, you are an ADS holder. The Company’s 
ADSs are issued through the Direct Registration System unless 
the investor specifically requests to receive certificated ADRs.
A registered holder is one whose name appears on the books of 
the Depositary. The registered holder is considered the owner of 
record. A beneficial holder is one whose holdings are registered 
in a name other than their own, such as the name of a broker, 
bank or nominee.
ADS holders are not members of the Company but may instruct 
the Depositary on the exercise of voting rights relative to the 
number of ordinary shares represented by their ADSs. 
Role of the Depositary
The Depositary performs the following roles for ADS holders: 
 X distributes company circulars and documents in relation to 
general meetings of the Company (including the AGM) 
 X distributes dividends in US dollars 
 X facilitates the voting process and the exercise of voting rights 
of ADS holders at any general meeting of the Company 
 X issues and cancels the Company’s ADSs 
 X acts as the stock transfer agent 
 X records and maintains the register of ADS holders 
The Company provides to the Depositary all notices of 
meetings of the Company’s shareholders and other reports 
and communications that are made available to the Company’s 
shareholders. The Depositary makes such notices, reports and 
communications available for inspection by recorded holders of 
ADSs and sends voting instruction forms by post to all recorded 
holders of ADSs.
Investors who are not registered with the Depositary because 
their ADRs are held through a nominee account may need to 
make arrangements with their nominee if they wish to receive 
such documents and to be able to exercise their vote through 
the Depositary at general meetings of the Company. 
ADS holders may receive a printed copy of the Company’s  
latest annual report on request by writing to our registered 
office or by contacting us on +1 908 730 4000. 
Dividends
The Depositary will pay to ADS holders cash dividends or other 
distributions it or the custodian receives on the Company’s shares 
after deducting its fees and expenses. ADS holders will receive 
these distributions in proportion to the number of the Company’s 
shares the ADSs represent at the record date (which will be as 
close as practicable to the record date for the Company’s ordinary 
shares) set by the Depositary with respect to the ADSs.
The Depositary will usually convert any cash dividend or other 
cash distribution on the Company’s shares or any net proceeds 
from the sale of any ordinary shares, rights, securities or other 
entitlements into US dollars. Before making a distribution to 
ADS holders, any taxes or other governmental charges that 
must be paid, together with the fees and expenses of the 
Depositary, will be deducted.
ADS enquiries
All enquiries regarding ADS holder accounts and payment  
of dividends should be addressed to the Depositary:
Deutsche Bank Shareholder Services 
American Stock T ransfer & T rust Company 
Operations Center 
6201 15th Avenue 
Brooklyn, NY 11219, US.
Email:  db@amstock.com 
T oll-free number:  (866) 249 2593 
(if calling from within the US) 
Direct dial:  +1 718 921 8124 
(if calling from outside the US)
DB Global Direct
US residents may enrol in DB Global Direct, enabling them to 
invest directly in the Company’s ADSs with reduced brokerage 
commissions and service costs. Registered ADS holders may 
reinvest all or a portion of their dividends in the Company’s 
ADSs through DB Global Direct.
For further information on DB Global Direct, please contact 
Deutsche Bank (as above) or visit www.adr.db.com.
ADS price
The latest price of the Company’s ADSs can be found on 
our website and may also be obtained from the NYSE’s website, 
www.nyse.com (in both cases the live ADS price is updated with 
a 15-minute delay). 
Fees payable by ADS holders
ADS holders are required to pay certain service fees to the 
Depositary.
The Depositary collects its fees for delivery and surrender of 
ADSs directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering 
ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries 
acting for them. The Depositary collects fees for making 
distributions to investors, including payment of dividends 
by the Company, by deducting those fees from the amounts 
distributed or by selling a portion of distributable property 
to pay the fees. The Depositary may collect its annual fee for 
depositary services by deductions from cash distributions or by 
directly billing investors or by charging the book-entry system 
accounts of participants acting from them. The Depositary may 
generally refuse to provide fee-attracting services until its fees 
for those services are paid. 182
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Service Fees
T o any person to whom ADSs are issued 
or to any person to whom a distribution 
is made in respect of ADSs pursuant to 
share dividends or other free distributions 
of shares, bonus distributions, stock 
splits or other distributions (except where 
converted to cash) 
Up to US$0.05 
per ADS issued
Cancellation of ADSs (including in the case 
of termination of the deposit agreement)
Up to US$0.05 
per ADS cancelled
Distribution of cash dividends Up to US$0.05 
per ADS held
Distribution of cash entitlements (other 
than cash dividends) and/or cash 
proceeds, including proceeds from the sale 
of rights, securities and other entitlements 
Up to US$0.05 
per ADS held
Distribution of ADSs pursuant to exercise 
of rights
Up to US$0.05 
per ADS held
Depositary services Up to US$0.05 
per ADS held on 
the applicable 
record date(s) 
established by  
the Depositary
ADS holders are also responsible for paying certain fees and 
expenses incurred by the Depositary such as: 
 X fees for the transfer and registration of the Company’s shares 
charged by the registrar and transfer agent for the shares in 
the UK 
 X expenses incurred for converting foreign currency into  
US dollars 
 X expenses for cable, telex, fax and electronic transmission  
and for delivery of securities 
Since the Company’s ADSs were first issued in November 2014, 
a fee of $0.01 per ADS has been levied on the 2014 interim 
dividend that was paid in January 2015, on the 2014 final dividend 
that was paid in July 2015, and on the 2015 interim dividend that 
was paid in January 2016. 
Fees paid by the Depositary to the Company
The Depositary has agreed to reimburse the Company for a 
portion of certain expenses the Company incurs that are related 
to establishment and maintenance of the ADR programme, 
including, but not limited to, investor relations expenses and 
expenses associated with being a company listed in the US. 
There are limits on the amount of expenses for which the 
Depositary will reimburse the Company. Further, the Depositary 
has agreed to reimburse the Company with certain fees payable 
to the Depositary by ADS holders.
On 4 December 2015, the Company received US$1.79m 
(approximately £1.2m) from the Depositary by way of 
reimbursement of costs incurred during the first year of the 
ADR programme, which commenced on 2 October 2014. 
Share capital
As permitted by English law, the Company has no authorised 
share capital. The Company’s share capital may be increased, 
consolidated or sub-divided by ordinary resolution at a general 
meeting of the Company. 
As at 8 March 2016, the Company’s issued share capital was 
£196,565,907 divided into 393,131,813 ordinary shares of 50 
pence each. Of this number, 3,158,310 ordinary shares were 
registered as treasury shares, leaving a balance of 389,973,503 
ordinary shares with voting rights. 
All of the Company’s ordinary shares are fully paid or were 
issued as fully paid. Accordingly, no further contribution of 
capital may be required by the Company from the holders 
of those shares.
The Company has neither authorised nor issued any conditional 
share capital and has not issued convertible or exchangeable 
bonds, warrants or other securities granting rights to the 
Company’s shares, other than securities granted to directors, 
senior management and employees under the Company’s 
share-based compensation plans. Information on these plans 
is provided in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
As at 8 March 2016, there were 7 ,419,403 share options 
outstanding under the Company’s UK and International SAYE 
schemes and 5,091,126 shares reserved for share awards under 
the Company’s share-based compensation plans (in relation to 
which 1,245,569 shares were held in the Company’s Employee 
Share T rust). Under the terms of the T rust Deed discretion is 
given to the T rustee to vote or abstain from voting shares in the 
Employee Share T rust as it sees fit.
The Articles authorise the Company to purchase its own shares. 
A resolution passed at the Company’s Annual General Meeting 
on 14 May 2015 provided the directors with the authority to 
purchase up 38,884,069 of the Company’s ordinary shares 
in the market, such authority to expire at the end of the 
Company’s next AGM or 1 June 2016, whichever is earlier. 
A resolution will be proposed at the Company’s AGM in April 
2016 to extend the authority of the directors to make market 
purchases of up to 10% of the Company’s ordinary shares 
within prescribed limits. The Company may repurchase shares 
only if the shares are fully paid and out of distributable profits 
or the proceeds of a new issue of shares made for the purpose 
of the repurchase. The UKLA requires that purchase of 15% 
or more of any class of the Company’s share capital must 
be by way of a tender offer to all shareholders of that class.
The Company may reduce its share capital, share 
premium account, capital redemption reserve or any other 
undistributable reserve only by special resolution of its 
shareholders and having obtained the consent of the High 
Court of Justice in England and Wales.
Markets
The primary trading market for the Company’s ordinary shares 
is the London Stock Exchange, on which they have been listed 
since the Company’s formation in 1982. The Company has a 
premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and its ordinary 
shares are admitted to the main market. The Company’s SEDOL 
number is 0028262 (ISIS Code GB0000282623) and its 
trading symbol is AMFW. 
Other information continued 183
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
As at 8 March 2016, the Company’s total market capitalisation 
was approximately £1.8bn and it was a constituent of The 
Financial Times Stock Exchange 250 Index (FTSE 250).
Since November 2014, the Company’s ordinary shares have 
been traded in the form of ADSs on the NYSE. The Company’s 
CUSIP code is 00167X205 (ISIN Code US00167X2053) and 
its ticker symbol is AMFW.
Share price history 
For the periods indicated in the tables below, the highest and 
lowest middle market quotation for the Company’s ordinary 
shares on the London Stock Exchange and the highest and 
lowest sales price of its ADSs on the NYSE were as follows: 
£ per ordinary share US$ per ADS
Y ear ended 31 December High Low High Low
2011 12.51 7.41 n/a n/a
2012 11.72 9.23 n/a n/a
2013 12.07 9.66 n/a n/a
2014 12.62 7.89 16.97 14.47
2015 10.03 3.80 14.83 5.72
Source: Factset
£ per ordinary share US$ per ADS
Quarter High Low High Low
2014
First quarter 11.24 10.20 n/a n/a
Second quarter 12.62 11.65 n/a n/a
Third quarter 12.45 10.59 n/a n/a
Fourth quarter 11.05 7.89 16.97 12.25
2015
First quarter 10.03 7.75 14.83 11.75
Second quarter 9.89 8.16 14.75 12.74
Third quarter 8.60 6.86 13.29 10.49
Fourth quarter 8.44 3.80 12.75 5.72
2016
First quarter
1
5.01 3.32 7 .28 4.57
Source: Factset
£ per ordinary share US$ per ADS
Month High Low High Low
September 2015 8.29 6.86 12.74 10.49
October 2015 8.44 6.98 12.75 10.64
November 2015 7.72 4.17 11.73 6.27
December 2015 4.53 3.80 6.75 5.72
January 2016 4.51 3.41 6.69 4.92
February 2016 4.35 3.32 6.26 4.57
March 2016
1
5.01 3.79 7 .28 5.44
Source: Factset
1 Up to and including 8 March 2016.
Shareholdings
As at 8 March 2016, 15,417 ,801 ADSs equivalent to 3.9% of 
the number of the Company’s ordinary shares in issue were 
outstanding and were held by 1,281 registered holders.
As at 8 March 2016, 136,417 ordinary shares were held by 360 
registered holders with a registered address in the US. Since 
certain of the ordinary shares were registered in the names 
of nominees, the number of shareholders with a registered 
address in the US may not be representative of the number of 
beneficial owners of ordinary shares who are resident in the US. 
In accordance with the DTRs of the UKLA, major shareholders 
are considered to be those that have a beneficial interest in 3% 
or more of the Company’s issued ordinary shares. 
On the basis of notifications received under the Disclosure and 
T ransparency Rules (DTR 5) and other notifications received by 
the Company from shareholders, shareholdings of 3% or more 
of the voting rights in the Company were as follows:
Percentage of voting rights held
As at 31 December 2015 2014 2013 2012
Artisan Partners 
Limited Partnership n/a n/a 5.20% n/a
Mondrian Investment 
Partners Limited 5.28% 5.28% 5.15% n/a
BlackRock, Inc. 5.63% 5.01% n/a 9.97%
1
Legal & General 
Assurance n/a n/a n/a 3.98%
Franklin T empleton 
Institutional, LLC 5.05% n/a n/a n/a
1  In response to a disclosure request under Section 793 of the Companies 
Act 2006, Blackrock, Inc. advised the Company on 19 December 2012 that 
their holding had reduced to 5.52%. 
There were no notifications received under DTR 5 from the 
above shareholders between 31 December 2015 and 8 March 
2016. The shareholding percentages reflect the company’s 
issued share capital at the time of the notifications. 
Each of the Company’s ordinary shares, including those held  
by major shareholders, carries equal voting rights. The 
Company is not, to the best of its knowledge, directly or 
indirectly controlled.
Purchase of ordinary shares
During 2015, the Company did not purchase any of its own 
shares in the market and no purchases of the Company’s 
shares were made by trustees of the Company’s employee 
share schemes.
Options and awards made under the Company’s employee 
share schemes that were exercised or vested during 2015 were 
satisfied by the transfer to the participants of the shares held 
by the Company in treasury or by the trustee of the relevant 
scheme. Details of the Company’s employee share schemes  
are set out in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. 184
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Articles of Association 
We summarise below certain provisions of the Articles 
and applicable English law. The summary is qualified in its 
entirety by reference to the Companies Act 2006 and the 
Articles. Please refer to documents on display on page 191 for 
information on where copies of the Articles can be obtained.
In the following description, a ‘shareholder’ is the person 
registered in the Company’s register of members as the holder 
of a share or shares.
Principal objects
The Articles of Association do not restrict the Company’s 
objects or purposes.
Directors
The board
Under the Articles, the board shall consist of not less than three 
nor more than 15 directors, who shall manage the business and 
affairs of the Company subject to the requirements of English 
law, the Articles and any resolutions of shareholders. 
Appointment, retirement and re-election
Directors may be appointed by the board at any time. Any 
director appointed since the last AGM holds office only until 
the conclusion of the next AGM and then shall be eligible for 
election by shareholders. 
Under the Articles, all directors retire by rotation and are 
eligible for re-election every three years. However, in line with 
the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
each of the directors who wishes to continue in office, and 
is considered eligible by the board, actually offers himself 
or herself for re-election at every AGM. 
Under the Articles, there are no age limits relating to a person’s 
qualification to hold office as a director.
Restrictions on voting
Under the Articles, a director may not vote in respect of any 
contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal in which he or 
she, or any person connected with him or her, has any material 
interest other than by virtue of that person’s interests in the 
Company’s ordinary shares or other securities. However, this 
restriction on voting does not apply to proposals: 
 X giving the director or a third party any guarantee, security  
or indemnity in respect of obligation incurred at the request  
of or for the benefit of the Company 
 X giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to the director or 
a third party in respect of obligations of the Company for which 
the director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity 
or guarantee 
 X relating to an offer of securities of the Company in which the 
director is entitled to participate as a holder of shares or other 
securities or in the underwriting of such shares or securities 
 X concerning any other company in which the director  
(together with any connected person) is a shareholder or  
an officer or is otherwise interested, provided that the director 
(together with any connected person) is not interested in 1% 
or more of any class of such other company’s equity share 
capital or the voting rights available to its shareholders 
 X relating to the arrangement of any employee benefit in which 
the director will share equally with other employees 
 X relating to any insurance that the Company purchases 
or renews for its directors or any group of people 
including directors 
Compensation awarded to the executive directors is determined 
by the remuneration committee.
A director shall not vote nor be counted in any quorum present 
at a general meeting of the Company’s shareholders in relation 
to a resolution on which he or she is not entitled to vote.
Borrowing powers
The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers  
of the Company to borrow money, subject to the limitation  
that the borrowings of the Company and its subsidiaries  
may not exceed two times the ‘adjusted capital and reserves’  
(as defined in the Articles).
Shareholding requirements
Directors are not required under the Articles to hold any 
shares of the Company as qualification to act as a director.
Any director who is not a shareholder is entitled to attend 
and speak at general meetings of the shareholders. 
Other information continued 185
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Rights attaching to ordinary shares
In accordance with English law, the Company’s ordinary shares 
rank equally in all respects.
Dividends
The Company’s ordinary shares carry the right to receive 
dividends and distributions that have been declared by 
the Company. Except in relation to dividends that have 
been declared and rights on a liquidation of the Company, 
ordinary shareholders have no rights to share in the profits 
of the Company. 
English law requires that dividends are paid only out of profits 
available for distribution, as determined in accordance with 
UK GAAP and by the Companies Act 2006, and additionally 
restricts a public company from making a distribution if 
that would reduce the net assets of the company below the 
aggregate amount of its called-up share capital and certain 
undistributable reserves.
Dividends are proposed by the directors. Dividends are 
declared following approval by ordinary resolution of the 
Company’s shareholders at a general meeting of the Company. 
Shareholders may not declare a dividend in excess of the 
amount proposed by the directors. The directors may declare 
and pay interim dividends if they believe that the Company’s 
financial position justifies such payments.
Any unclaimed dividend may be invested or otherwise applied 
for the benefit of the Company until the dividend is claimed. 
Any dividend that remains unclaimed for 12 years after the date 
on which it was declared, or became due for payment, shall be 
forfeited and shall revert to the Company.
If authorised by ordinary resolution of the shareholders, the 
directors may offer to shareholders the right to elect to receive 
a dividend, in whole or in part, by way of an allotment of new 
ordinary shares credited as fully paid.
Voting rights 
Holders of the Company’s ordinary shares have the right to 
receive notice of, and to attend and vote at, all general meetings 
of the Company.
Any shareholder who is entitled to attend and vote at the 
meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any  
of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
Voting at any general meeting is by a show of hands unless a 
poll is duly demanded and held. Under English law, shareholders 
of a public company are not permitted to pass resolutions by 
written consent.
On a show of hands, each shareholder who is present in  
person at the meeting has one vote regardless of the number  
of shares held. 
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or  
by proxy has one vote for each ordinary share held by him.  
A poll may be demanded by the following:
 X the chairman of the meeting; or
 X not less than three members present or by proxy entitled  
to vote; or
 X a member or members present in person or by proxy and 
representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights 
of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting; or
 X a member or members present in person or by proxy and 
holding shares in the Company conferring a right to vote at the 
meeting, being shares on which an aggregate sum has been 
paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid 
up on all the shares conferring that right 
Unless the directors determine otherwise, if any sum remains 
unpaid in relation to a member’s shareholding, that member  
is not entitled to vote in relation to that holding.
Rights in a winding up
If the Company is liquidated (whether the liquidation is 
voluntary or court-supervised), the liquidator is obliged to 
realise the assets of the Company to its creditors and, subject 
to any special rights attaching to any other class of shares that 
may be in issue at the time, any surplus would be distributed 
to the ordinary shareholders according to the amounts paid 
up on the shares held by them.
Pre-emption rights 
English law provides for statutory pre-emption rights that 
apply on an allotment of equity securities (which include the 
Company’s ordinary shares or securities convertible into the 
Company’s ordinary shares). 
Pre-emption rights can be disapplied by a special resolution 
passed by shareholders at a general meeting. Such a resolution 
was passed at the Company’s 2015 annual general meeting 
on 14 May 2015 and provides the directors with the authority 
to allot equity securities or grant rights to subscribe for or 
to convert any security to shares up to a nominal amount 
of £64,158,715, of which up to £9,721,017 could be allotted 
for cash without offering the shares to existing shareholders, 
such authority to expire at the end of the Company’s next AGM 
thereafter or 1 June 2016, if earlier. Resolutions will be proposed 
at the Company’s forthcoming AGM to extend this authority to 
the end of the AGM in 2017 or 1 June 2017 , whichever is earlier.
Variation of rights
Whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into 
different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class  
can only be changed either:
 X with the written consent of the holders of three-quarters 
in nominal value of the issued shares of that class (excluding 
shares held as treasury shares); or
 X with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate 
meeting of the holders of the shares of that class 
The rights attached to any class of shares are not, unless 
otherwise expressly provided by the terms of issue, deemed 
to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking 
equally with them. 186
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
General meetings
An AGM of the Company must be held each calendar year 
and within a period of six months of the day following the 
Company’s accounting reference date (which is 31 December).
Otherwise, the directors may call a general meeting whenever 
they think fit or where required to do so by shareholders holding 
at least 10% of the voting rights of the paid-up capital of the 
Company carrying voting rights (excluding shares held as 
treasury shares). 
General meetings may be held at such place, date and time 
as may be decided by the directors. 
An AGM must be convened by giving not less than 21 days’ 
notice. Other general meetings must also be convened by giving 
not less than 21 days’ notice unless shareholder approval has 
been given for such meetings to be convened on giving only 
14 days’ notice (such approval has been given by the Company’s 
shareholders and is effective until the next AGM when it is 
proposed that it should be renewed).
For the purposes of determining which persons are entitled to 
attend or vote at a meeting, and how many votes such persons 
may cast, the Company must specify in the notice of the 
meeting a time, not more than 48 hours before the time fixed for 
the meeting, by which a person must be entered on the register 
in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
No business shall be transacted at any general meeting unless 
a quorum is present at the time when the meeting proceeds to 
business. T wo shareholders present in person or by proxy shall 
be a quorum.
The directors may require attendees to submit to searches 
or put in place such arrangements or restrictions as they think 
fit to ensure the safety and security of attendees at a general 
meeting. Any member, proxy or other person who fails to 
comply with such arrangements or restrictions may be refused 
entry to, or removed from, the general meeting.
Limitations on voting and shareholding
Neither English law nor the Articles impose any limitation on  
the rights of non-UK residents or foreign shareholders to own 
the Company’s ordinary shares or ADSs, including the rights  
to hold or exercise voting rights on those shares or ADSs.
Disclosure of interests in the Company’s ordinary shares
Under the DTRs, a person is required to notify the Company in 
writing within two days of becoming aware that the voting rights 
which he holds as a shareholder or through his direct or indirect 
holding of financial instruments reaches or exceeds 3% of the 
voting rights in the Company and reaches, exceeds or falls 
below each 1% threshold thereafter.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Company may send a 
notice to any person whom it knows or believes to be interested 
in the Company’s shares requiring such person to confirm 
whether he has such an interest and, if so, the details of the 
interest and any other interest in the Company’s shares of 
which he is aware. 
Under the DTRs, ‘persons discharging managerial 
responsibilities’ (primarily directors and some senior 
executives) and their connected persons are required to notify 
the Company in writing of the occurrence of all transactions 
conducted on their own account in the Company’s shares, 
or derivatives or any other financial instruments relating to 
those shares within four business days of the day on which 
the transaction occurred. 
Mandatory bids
The Articles contain no provisions that would have an effect 
of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of 
the Company. 
However, under the UK City Code on T akeovers & Mergers, if an 
acquisition of the Company’s shares increases the aggregate 
holding of an acquirer and its concert parties to shares carrying 
30% or more of the voting rights in the Company, the acquirer 
and, depending on the circumstances, its concert parties, 
would be required (except with the consent of the Panel on 
T akeovers & Mergers) to make a cash offer for the remainder of 
the Company’s shares at a price not less than the highest price 
paid for the Company’s shares by the acquirer or its concert 
parties during the previous 12 months. Such an offer would also 
be triggered by any acquisition of shares by a person holding 
(together with its concert parties) shares carrying between 
30% and 50% of the voting rights in the Company if the effect 
of such acquisition were to increase that person’s percentage 
of the voting rights.
Amendments
Under English law, the Company’s shareholders may, by special 
resolution, alter, delete, substitute, amend or add to the Articles. 
The directors are not authorised to change the Articles.
Material contracts 
During the last two years, the Group entered into the following 
material contracts (other than contracts entered into in the 
ordinary course of business):
Acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG
Pursuant to an implementation agreement between AMEC and 
Foster Wheeler entered into on 13 February 2014 (as amended 
by the letter agreement dated 28 March 2014, the deed of 
amendment dated 28 May 2014 and the deed of amendment 
dated 2 October 2014, together, the Implementation 
Agreement), AMEC commenced an offer to acquire all 
outstanding Foster Wheeler AG shares on 6 October 2014 
(the Offer). The Offer closed on 13 November 2014 and, upon 
completion of the Offer, AMEC had acquired 95.3% of the 
outstanding Foster Wheeler AG shares.
Following completion of the Offer, on 8 December 2014, 
AMEC (through its subsidiaries) and Foster Wheeler entered 
into a merger agreement, which provided for the squeeze-out 
merger of Foster Wheeler AG under Swiss law. The squeeze-out 
merger was subject to the approval of the merger agreement by 
at least 90% of the outstanding voting rights of Foster Wheeler 
AG, which was received on 19 January 2015.
Other information continued 187
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Agreements with Amec Foster Wheeler directors
Amec Foster Wheeler entered into a letter of appointment 
with Roy Franklin regarding his appointment as a non-executive 
director of Amec Foster Wheeler plc effective 1 January 2016. 
A modification, in the form of a side letter, has been made to 
Ian McHoul’s service agreement reflecting the remuneration 
arrangements that will apply during his appointment as 
interim CEO.
Agreements with Foster Wheeler directors
Pursuant to the Implementation Agreement, AMEC entered into 
letters of appointment with Kent Masters and Stephanie Newby 
regarding their appointment as non-executive directors of Amec 
Foster Wheeler following the completion of the acquisition. 
Amec Foster Wheeler also entered into a co-ordination and 
settlement agreement with Kent Masters relating to his 
termination arrangements as CEO of Foster Wheeler.
Credit facility agreement
In February 2014, the Group entered into a US$2,160m 
credit facility agreement with Bank of America Merrill Lynch 
International Limited as facility agent and Bank of America 
Merrill Lynch International Limited, Bank of T okyo Mitsubishi 
UF J, Ltd., Barclays Bank PLC and The Royal Bank of Scotland 
plc as original lenders. In July 2014, the facility was amended 
to increase the financing available to US$2,260m. The credit 
facility comprises three loan facilities totalling US$1,910m  
and a multi-currency revolving credit facility of US$350m. 
In March 2016, the Group cancelled the above mentioned 
$2,260m credit facility agreement (as amended and restated) 
together with the £377m revolving credit facility (as amended 
and restated) dated July 2012. These were replaced with a 
£650m term loan with a 3-year maturity, a £650m loan with 
a 5-year maturity and a £400m revolving credit facility with a 
5-year maturity between, amongst others, the Company and 
Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited as facility 
agent. Further details of the terms and conditions of the credit 
facility agreement are set out in note 19 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting 
security holders 
There are no UK government laws, decrees or regulations that 
restrict or affect the export or import of capital or that affect the 
payment of dividends, interest or other payments to non-UK 
resident holders of the Company’s securities, except for certain 
restrictions imposed from time to time by the UK T reasury 
pursuant to legislation, such as the United Nations Act 1964 
and the Emergency Laws Act 1964, against the government 
or residents of certain countries.
There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or 
under the Articles, restricting the right of non-UK residents 
to hold or to exercise voting rights in respect of the Company’s 
ordinary shares, except that where any overseas shareholder 
has not provided a UK address for the service of notices, the 
Company is under no obligation to send any notice or other 
document to an overseas address. It is, however, the Company’s 
current practice to send every notice or other document to all 
shareholders regardless of the country recorded in the register 
of members, with the exception of details of the Company’s 
DRIP , which are not sent to shareholders with recorded 
addresses in the US or Canada.
Taxation information for US holders 
Background
A summary is provided below of the material US federal income 
tax and UK tax consequences for a US holder (defined below) 
of owning or disposing of ordinary shares or ADSs of the 
Company. This section addresses only the tax position of a US 
holder who holds ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets.
This section does not consider the provisions of the IRC known 
as the Medicare Contribution tax or the tax consequences for 
holders subject to other special rules, such as: 
 X certain financial institutions 
 X insurance companies 
 X dealers and traders in securities who use a mark-to-market 
method of tax accounting 
 X persons holding ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, 
conversion or other integrated transaction or wash sale or 
persons entering into a constructive sale with respect to the 
ordinary shares or ADSs 
 X persons whose functional currency for US federal income 
tax purposes is not the US dollar 
 X partnerships or other entities classified as partnerships  
for US federal income tax purposes 
 X persons liable to the alternative minimum tax 
 X persons who hold ordinary shares or ADSs in individual 
retirement accounts or other tax-deferred accounts 
 X persons who have ceased to be US citizens or lawful 
permanent residents of the US 
 X tax-exempt organisations 
 X persons who acquired the Company’s ordinary shares or 
ADSs pursuant to the exercise of employee stock options 
or otherwise in connection with employment; or 
 X persons who, directly, indirectly, or by attribution own 10% 
or more of the Company’s voting stock 
Except where expressly stated to the contrary, this section 
does not deal with the position of a US holder who is resident 
or domiciled in the UK for UK tax purposes or who is subject 
to UK taxation on income or capital gains by virtue of carrying 
on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch, 
agency or permanent establishment to which ordinary shares 
or ADSs are attributable, ie those who are referred to below 
as trading in the UK. 188
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
As used herein, a ‘US Holder’ is a person who, for the purposes 
of US federal income tax and UK tax, is a beneficial holder of 
ordinary shares or ADSs and is: 
 X a citizen or individual resident of the US 
 X a corporation (or other entity taxable as a corporation) 
created or organised in or under the laws of the US or any 
political subdivision thereof 
 X an estate whose income is subject to US federal income tax 
regardless of its source 
 X a trust, if a US court can exercise primary supervision over 
the trust’s administration and one or more US persons are 
authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust; or 
 X a trust that has validly elected to be treated as a domestic 
trust for US federal income tax purposes 
This section is based on the IRC, its legislative history, 
existing and proposed regulations, published rulings and court 
decisions, and on UK tax laws and the published practice of 
HMRC, all as at 25 March 2015. These laws, and that practice, 
are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
This section is further based in part upon the representations of 
the Depositary and assumes that each obligation in the deposit 
agreement and any related agreement will be performed in 
accordance with its terms. For US federal income tax purposes, 
the owner of ADRs evidencing ADSs will generally be treated 
as the owner of the underlying shares represented by those 
ADSs. For UK tax purposes, it is likely that HMRC will also regard 
holders of ADSs as the beneficial owners of the ordinary shares 
represented by those ADSs.
Generally, exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs for 
ordinary shares, will not be subject to US federal income tax or 
UK taxation on capital gains, although UK stamp duty reserve 
tax may arise as described below.
The US T reasury has expressed concerns that parties to 
whom ADRs are pre-released may be taking actions that are 
inconsistent with the claiming of foreign tax credits by US 
Holders of ADSs. Such actions would also be inconsistent with 
the claiming of the preferential rates of tax, described below, 
for qualified dividend income. Accordingly, the availability 
of preferential rates of tax for qualified dividend income 
could be affected by actions taken by parties to whom ADRs 
are pre-released.
The following discussion assumes that the Company is not, and 
will not become, a PFIC. We outline below the consequences for 
US Holders should the Company become a PFIC in the future.
Investors should consult their own tax advisers regarding 
the US federal, state, and local, the UK and other tax 
consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary shares 
or ADSs of the Company in their particular circumstances.
T axation of dividends 
UK taxation
Under current UK tax law, the Company is not required 
to withhold tax at source from its dividend payments.
A US Holder who is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes 
and who is not trading in the UK will generally not be liable for 
UK taxation on dividends received in respect of the Company’s 
ADSs or ordinary shares.
US federal income taxation
A US Holder is subject to US federal income tax on the gross 
amount of any dividend paid by the Company out of its current 
or accumulated earnings and profits (as determined for US 
federal income tax purposes). Distributions in excess of the 
Company’s current and accumulated earnings and profits will 
be treated as a return of capital to the extent of the US Holder’s 
basis in the shares or ADSs and thereafter as a capital gain. 
Because the Company has not historically maintained, and 
does not currently maintain, books in accordance with US tax 
principles, the Company does not expect to be in a position 
to determine whether any distribution will be in excess of the 
Company’s current and accumulated earnings and profits as 
determined for US federal income tax purposes. As a result, the 
Company expects that the amounts distributed will be reported 
to the IRS as dividends.
Subject to applicable limitations, dividends paid to certain 
non-corporate US Holders of ordinary shares or ADSs may 
be taxable at the favourable tax rates applicable to long-term 
capital gain if the dividends constitute qualified dividend 
income. A US Holder will be eligible for these rates only if it has 
held the ordinary shares or ADSs for more than 60 days during 
the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend 
date. The Company expects that the dividends paid by the 
Company with respect to its ordinary shares or ADSs will 
constitute qualified dividend income. US Holders should consult 
their own tax advisers to determine whether they are subject 
to any special rules that limit their ability to be taxed at these 
favourable rates.
Dividends must be included in income when the US Holder, 
in the case of shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, 
actually or constructively receives the dividend, and will not be 
eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed 
to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other 
US corporations. For foreign tax credit limitation purposes, 
dividends paid by the Company will be income from a source 
outside the US.
The amount of any dividend paid in pounds sterling will be 
the US dollar value of the sterling payments made, determined 
at the spot sterling/US dollar exchange rate on the date the 
dividend is included in income for federal income tax purposes, 
regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into 
US dollars. If the dividend is converted into US dollars on 
that date, a US Holder should not be required to recognise a 
foreign currency gain or loss in respect of the dividend income. 
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency fluctuations 
during the period from the date the dividend payment is 
included in income to the date the payment is converted into US 
dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss from sources 
within the US.
Other information continued 189
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
T axation of capital gains
UK taxation
A US Holder who is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes 
and who is not trading in the UK will not generally be liable for 
UK taxation on capital gains, or eligible for relief for allowable 
losses, realised or accrued on the sale or other disposal of the 
Company’s ordinary shares or ADSs. A US Holder who is an 
individual and has temporarily ceased to be a resident in the 
UK or has been temporarily treated as non-resident in the UK 
for UK tax purposes for a period of not more than five years 
and who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs 
during that period may, for the year of assessment when the 
individual becomes resident again in the UK, be liable for UK tax 
on capital gains (subject to any available exemption or relief), 
notwithstanding the fact that the individual was not treated as 
resident in the UK at the time of the sale or other disposal.
US federal income taxation
A US Holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares 
or ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal 
income tax purposes equal to the difference, if any, between 
the amount realised on the sale or other disposal and the 
adjusted tax basis of the securities. Any capital gain or loss will 
be a long-term capital gain or loss where the holder has held 
the securities for more than one year. The capital gain or loss 
will generally be income or loss from sources within the US 
for foreign tax credit limitation purposes. The deductibility 
of capital losses is subject to limitations.
PFIC status
Management believes that the Company was not a PFIC 
for US federal income tax purposes for its taxable year ended 
31 December 2015. Management reviews the Company’s PFIC 
status annually and it is subject to change. 
If the Company were to be treated as a PFIC, any gain realised 
on the sale or other disposal of the Company’s ordinary 
shares or ADSs would, in general, not be treated as capital 
gain. Instead, any gain would be treated as if the US Holder 
had realised the gain rateably over the period during which the 
ordinary shares or ADSs were held. Any gain that is allocated 
to the taxable year of the disposal, and to any taxable year 
before the Company became a PFIC, would be taxed as ordinary 
income. Any gain allocated to each other taxable year would 
be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for the taxable year 
to which the gain was allocated and an interest charge in 
respect of the tax attributable to each such year would also 
apply. Similar rules would apply to any ‘excess distribution’ 
(as determined for US federal income tax purposes) received 
on the ordinary shares or ADSs. The preferential rates for 
qualified dividend income received by certain non-corporate 
US Holders would not apply to dividends received in any year 
in which the Company was a PFIC or in any year immediately 
following a year in which the Company was a PFIC.
If the Company was to be treated as a PFIC certain elections 
may be available to US Holders that would result in alternative 
treatments of the ordinary shares or ADSs. If the Company were 
to be treated as a PFIC in any taxable year in which a US Holder 
held ordinary shares or ADSs, the holder may be required to file 
annual reports with the IRS containing such information as may 
be required by the US T reasury Department.
Inheritance and estate taxes
UK inheritance tax may apply to a deemed transfer which 
occurs on death, and to gifts to individuals within the seven 
years preceding death. For UK inheritance tax purposes, a 
transfer of shares at less than full market value may be treated 
as a gift and particular rules apply where the donor reserves or 
retains some benefit in the shares. Special UK inheritance tax 
rules also apply to companies and to trustees of settlements.
An individual who is neither domiciled nor deemed domiciled 
in the UK is only chargeable to UK inheritance tax to the extent 
the individual owns assets situated in the UK. Whilst UK tax law 
is unclear as to whether the Company’s ADSs are considered 
to be situated in the UK for inheritance tax purposes, HMRC 
is likely to take the view that they, as well as the Company’s 
ordinary shares, are situated in the UK.
However, HMRC considers that the US/UK Double T axation 
Convention on Estate and Gift T ax applies to inheritance tax. 
Consequently, a US Holder who is domiciled in the US for 
the purposes of the US/UK Double T axation Convention and 
is not for such purposes a UK national will not be subject to 
UK inheritance tax on their death or on a lifetime transfer of 
the Company’s ordinary shares or ADSs, provided that any 
applicable US federal gift or estate tax is paid, unless the 
ordinary shares or ADSs are part of the business property 
of a permanent establishment of an enterprise situated in the 
UK or pertain to a UK fixed base used for the performance of 
independent personal services. Where the ordinary shares 
or ADSs have been placed into trust by a settlor, they may 
be subject to UK inheritance tax, unless, when the trust was 
created, the settlor was domiciled in the US and was not a 
UK national.
A UK national who is domiciled in the US will be subject to both 
UK inheritance tax and US federal estate tax but will be entitled 
to a credit for US federal estate tax charged in respect of the 
Company’s ordinary shares or ADSs in computing the liability 
to UK inheritance tax. Similarly, a US citizen who is domiciled 
or deemed domiciled in the UK will be entitled to a credit 
for UK inheritance tax charged in respect of the Company’s 
ordinary shares or ADSs in computing the liability for US 
federal estate tax.  190
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
US information reporting and back-up withholding
Payments of dividends and other proceeds to a US Holder  
with respect to the Company’s ordinary shares or ADSs by  
a US paying agent or other US intermediary will be reported 
to the IRS and to the US Holder as may be required under 
applicable regulations. 
Unless the US Holder is an exempt recipient, back-up 
withholding tax may apply to these payments if the US Holder 
fails to provide an accurate taxpayer identification number or 
certification of exempt status or fails to comply with applicable 
certification requirements. 
Any back-up withholding tax deducted may be credited against 
the US Holder’s US federal income tax liability, and, where the 
back-up withholding tax exceeds the actual liability, the US 
Holder may obtain a refund by timely filing the appropriate 
refund claim with the IRS.
Foreign financial asset reporting
US taxpayers that own certain foreign financial assets, including 
debt and equity of foreign entities, with an aggregate value 
in excess of US$50,000 at the end of the taxable year or 
US$75,000 at any time during the taxable year (or, for certain 
individuals living outside the US and married individuals filing 
joint returns, certain higher thresholds) may be required to file 
an information report with respect to such assets with their 
US federal income tax returns. 
The Company’s ADSs or ordinary shares constitute foreign 
financial assets subject to these requirements unless they 
are held in an account at a financial institution (in which case 
the account may still be reportable if maintained by a foreign 
financial institution). 
UK stamp duty and SDRT
UK stamp duty is charged on certain documents, including 
instruments for the transfer of registered ownership of ordinary 
shares. T ransfers of ordinary shares are generally subject to UK 
stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration (rounded 
up to the nearest £5).
SDRT is charged where there is an unconditional agreement 
to transfer shares in UK companies for consideration in money 
or money’s worth. SDRT is generally charged at the rate of 0.5% 
of the agreed consideration (rounded up to the nearest penny). 
The charge to SDRT will be cancelled, and any SDRT already 
paid will be refunded, if within six years of the unconditional 
agreement an instrument of transfer is produced to HMRC 
and the appropriate stamp duty paid. 
Neither stamp duty nor SDRT will be payable on any purchase 
or transfer of the Company’s ADSs, provided that the ADSs and 
any separate instrument or written agreement to transfer are 
executed and remain at all times outside the UK. 
UK legislation does, however, provide for stamp duty or SDRT 
to be charged at the rate of 1.5% of the amount or value of 
the consideration (or, in some circumstances, the value of the 
shares concerned) on a transfer or issue of ordinary shares 
to the Depositary or to certain persons providing a clearance 
service (or their nominees or agents) for the conversion into 
ADRs. In accordance with the deposit agreement, any tax or 
duty payable on deposits of ordinary shares by the Depositary 
or by the custodian of the Depositary will be typically charged 
to the party to whom ADSs are delivered against such deposits.
Following litigation on the subject, HMRC has accepted that 
it will no longer seek to apply the 1.5% SDRT charge when new 
shares are issued to a clearance service or depositary receipt 
system on the basis that the charge is not compatible with 
EU law. In HMRC’s view, however, the 1.5% SDRT or stamp 
duty charge will continue to apply to transfers of shares into 
a clearance service or depositary receipt system unless they 
are an integral part of the issue of share capital. HMRC’s view 
is currently being challenged in further litigation. 
Neither stamp duty nor SDRT will be payable on a transfer of 
ordinary shares where no beneficial interest passes, including 
the transfer of underlying ordinary shares from the Depositary 
to a holder of the Company’s ADSs.
Foreign currency translation 
For the periods indicated in the tables below, the average 
exchange rate between sterling and the US dollar, calculated by 
using the average of the exchange rates at the close of business 
in London on the last trading day of each month in the period, 
were as follows:
Y ear ended 31 December £1=US$
2011 1.60
2012 1.59
2013 1.57
2014 1.65
2015 1.52
For the periods indicated in the table below, the high and low 
exchange rate between sterling and the US dollar were as follows: 
£1=US$
Month High Low
September 2015 1.5587 1.5127
October 2015 1.5473 1.5128
November 2015 1.5418 1.5035
December 2015 1.5215 1.4738
January 2016 1.4743 1.4155
February 2016 1.4599 1.3868
March 2016
1
1.4263 1.3946
1 Up to and including 8 March 2016.
At the close of business in London on 8 March 2016, 
the sterling/US dollar exchange rate was £1=US$1.42.
Other information continued 191
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
NYSE listing standards specify that the nominating/corporate 
governance committee is responsible for identifying individuals 
qualified to become members of the board and to recommend 
to the board a set of corporate governance principles. The 
Code requires companies to have a nominations committee 
but does not require a corporate governance committee. 
Our nominations committee is concerned only with the 
membership of the board. Corporate governance issues 
are discussed and decided upon at meetings of the board.
NYSE listing standards require the audit committee to 
comprise at least three independent directors. Whilst our Audit 
Committee comprises independent non-executive directors 
(and currently has four members), it should be noted that only 
two members of the committee need be present for there to 
be a quorum. 
Compliance certification
NYSE rules require that the CEO of a US company must 
certify to the NYSE each year that he or she is not aware of 
any violation by the Company of any of the NYSE’s corporate 
governance listing standards. As the Company is a foreign 
private issuer, the CEO is not required to make this certification. 
However, the CEO is required to notify the NYSE promptly in 
writing if any of the Company’s executive officers become aware 
of any non-compliance with those NYSE corporate governance 
listing standards that are applicable to the Company. 
Documents on display
The Company is subject to the information requirements of 
the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign 
private issuers. In accordance with these requirements, the 
Company files an annual report on Form 20-F and other related 
documents with the SEC. Certain other announcements made 
by the Company are furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K. 
Information submitted by the Company to the SEC may be 
inspected at the SEC’s public reference rooms located at 
100 F Street NE, Washington, DC, 20549. Information on the 
operation of the public reference room can be obtained by 
calling the SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy 
on +1 800 732 0330. 
Y ou may also access information submitted by the Company 
to the SEC through the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov
Significant differences between corporate governance 
practices and NYSE listing standards 
Background
Our corporate governance practices are designed to be 
compliant with the principles and provisions specified by the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. Our statement of compliance with 
the principles and provisions of the Code is set out on page 40.
We have also adopted the corporate governance requirements 
of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related listing 
standards of the NYSE, to the extent that they are applicable 
to a foreign private issuer. We disclose below the significant 
differences between our corporate governance practices and 
those that are required of US companies that are listed on 
the NYSE. 
Corporate governance guidelines
The Code contains a series of principles and provisions.  
It is not, however, mandatory for companies to follow these 
principles. Instead, companies must disclose how they have 
applied them and, if applicable, must disclose and explain 
the reasons for any areas of non-compliance. By comparison, 
the NYSE listing standards require US companies to adopt 
and disclose corporate governance guidelines.
Independence 
Different tests of independence for directors are applied under 
the Code and the NYSE listing standards. The board has carried 
out an assessment based on the independence requirements 
of the Code and has determined that, in its judgement, each 
of the non-executive directors except Kent Masters, on account 
of his previous employment by Foster Wheeler, is independent 
within the meaning of those requirements. As the Company is 
a foreign private issuer, the board is not required to take into 
consideration the definition of independence set out in the 
NYSE’s listing standards. 
Committees
NYSE listing standards require US companies to have a 
nominating/corporate governance committee, an audit 
committee and a compensation committee, each composed 
entirely of independent directors. Each of these committees 
is required to have a written charter which addresses the 
committee’s purpose and responsibilities and the compensation 
committee must have sole authority and adequate funding to 
engage compensation consultants, independent legal counsel 
and other external advisers.
We have terms of reference for our nominations committee, 
audit committee and remuneration committee, each of which 
complies with the requirements of the Code and is available for 
inspection on our website. Whilst these terms of reference are 
generally consistent with the requirements of the NYSE listing 
rules, they may not address all aspects of those rules.  192
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Item Form 20–F caption Location in this document Page
1 Identity of directors, senior management and advisers Not applicable n/a
2 Offer statistics and expected timetable Not applicable n/a
3 Key information
A – Selected financial data Five-year record 202
Foreign currency translation 190
Performance highlights 1
B – Capitalisation and indebtedness Not applicable n/a
C – Reasons for the Offer and Use of Proceeds Not applicable n/a
D – Risk Factors Risk factors 167-171
4 Information on the Company
A – History and development of the Company History and development 166
Note 24 – Acquisitions and disposals 150-153
B – Business overview Amec Foster Wheeler at a glance 2-5
Chief Executive’s statement 7-9
Our business model 12-13
Delivering excellence 14-17
Global market trends 23
Our markets 24-25
Financial review 28-37
C – Organisational structure Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures 194-201
D – Property, plant and equipment Financial review – Property, plant and equipment 36
4A Unresolved staff comments None
5 Operating and financial review and prospects
A – Operating results Financial review 28-34
Prior year operating results 175-179
B – Liquidity and capital resources Financial review – Liquidity and capital resources 33-34
Note 19 – Capital and financial risk management 136-141
Note 23 – Analysis of (net debt)/cash 149
C – Research and development, patents, licences etc Financial review – Research and development 35
Note 4 – Profit before net financing expense – 
continuing operations
115
D – T rend information Global market trends 23
Financial review 28-37
Performance measures – order book 174
E – Off-balance sheet arrangements Financial review – Off-balance sheet arrangements 37
Note 25 – Commitments – Operating lease 
commitments
154
Note 26 – Contingent liabilities 154-155
F – T abular disclosure of contractual obligations Financial review – Contractual obligations 37
G – Safe harbor Forward-looking statements 204
6 Directors, senior management and employees
A – Directors and senior management Conflicts of interest 50
Our board of directors 41-43
B – Compensation Directors’ remuneration report 67-80
Note 27 – Related party transactions 155-156
Note 14 – Retirement benefit assets and liabilities 128-132
C – Board practices Our board of directors 41-43
Directors’ remuneration report 67-80
Audit committee 58-62
Remuneration committee 65-66
D – Employees Note 6 – Staff costs and employee numbers 118
Directors’ remuneration report 72-78
E – Share ownership Note 22 – Share capital and reserves 146-148
– Share-based payments
Note 27 – Related party transactions 155-156
7 Major shareholders and related party transactions
A – Major shareholders Directors’ report – significant arrangements – 
change of control
83
Other information – Shareholdings 183
B – Related party transactions Note 27 – Related party transactions 155-156
C – Interests of experts and counsel Not applicable n/a
Cross reference to F orm 20-F 193
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Item Form 20–F caption Location in this document Page
8 Financial information
A –  Consolidated financial statements  
and other financial information
Consolidated financial statements 
Report of independent registered public 
accounting firm
96-156 
94
– Legal proceedings Note 26 – Contingent liabilities 154-155
– Dividends Financial Review – Dividend 31
B – Significant changes None n/a
9 The offer and listing
A – Offer and listing details Other information – Share price history 183
B – Plan of distribution Not applicable n/a
C – Markets Other information – Markets 182-183
D – Selling shareholders Not applicable n/a
E – Dilution Not applicable n/a
F – Expenses of the issue Not applicable n/a
10 Additional information
A – Share capital Not applicable n/a
B – Memorandum and articles of association Other information – Articles of Association 184-186
C – Material contracts Other information – Material contracts 186-187
D – Exchange controls Other information – Exchange controls and other 
limitations affecting security holders
187
E – T axation Other information – T axation information for US 
Holders
187-190
F – Dividends and paying agents Not applicable n/a
G – Statement by experts Not applicable n/a
H – Documents on display Other information – Documents on display 191
I – Subsidiary information Not applicable n/a
11 Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk Note 19 – Capital and financial risk management 136-141
12 Description of securities other than equity securities
A – Debt securities Not applicable n/a
B – Warrants and rights Not applicable n/a
C – Other securities Not applicable n/a
D – American depositary shares Other information – American Depositary Shares 181-182
13 Defaults, dividend arrearages and delinquencies None n/a
14 Material modifications to the rights of security holders  
and use of proceeds 
None n/a
15 Controls and procedures Accountability – Internal controls 57
16A Audit Committee financial expert Audit committee – Members 59
16B Code of ethics Leadership – Board role and responsibilities 45
16C Principal accountant fees and services Audit committee – External audit 61
16D Exemptions from the listing standards  
for audit committees
Not applicable n/a
16E Purchase of equity securities Other information – Purchase of ordinary shares 183
16F Change in registrant’s certifying accountant Not applicable n/a
16G Corporate governance Other information – Significant differences  
between corporate governance practices  
and NYSE listing standards
191
16H Mine safety disclosure Not applicable n/a
17 Financial statements Not applicable n/a
18 Financial statements Consolidated financial statements 96-156
19 Exhibits Filed with the SEC 194
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
We set out below details of all the Company’s subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. Except where indicated, all subsidiaries 
listed below are wholly owned, incorporated in England & Wales and carry on their activities principally in their countries of 
incorporation. Except where marked with an asterisk, the Company’s shareholdings are held indirectly through subsidiaries. All of the 
active subsidiaries are included in the consolidation. Decisions made in the joint ventures concerning operating and financial policies 
essential to the activities and performance of the company are made in accordance with the relevant joint venture agreement. 
Subsidiaries
Name Jurisdiction % interest Class of shares
418750 Canada Inc. Canada 100 Common
4900 Singleton, L.P . United States 100 Partnership Interest
AFW E&C Holdings Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AFW Finance 2 Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AFW Finance 3 Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AFW Hungary Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
A-FW International Investments GmbH Switzerland 100 Quotas
AFW Investments 2 Limited England & Wales 100 Preference, Ordinary
AFW Investments Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AFW Luxembourg 1 S.a.r.l Luxembourg 100 Share Capital
AFW Luxembourg 2 S.a.r.l Luxembourg 100 Share Capital
AGRA Ambiental S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 Class of B
AGRA Argentina S.A. Argentina 100 Ordinary
AGRA Foundations, Inc. United States 100 Common
AGRA Holdings, Inc. United States 100 Common
AMEC (AGL) Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC (BCS) Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC (Bermuda) Limited Bermuda 100 Ordinary
AMEC (F.C.G.) Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 Ordinary
AMEC (MH1992) Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC (MHL) Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC (WSL) Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Architectural, Inc. United States 100 Common
AMEC Asia Pacific Limited Hong Kong 99 Ordinary
AMEC Australia Finance Company Pty Ltd Australia 100 Redeemable, Ordinary
AMEC Australia Finance No. 2 Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
AMEC Australia T reasury Company Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
AMEC Australia T reasury LP Australia 100 Capital
AMEC BDR Limited Canada 100 Class of B, Class of A
AMEC BKW Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Bravo Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC Building Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC CADE Ingeniería y Desarrollo De Proyectos Limitada Chile 100 Normal
AMEC Canada Finance ULC Canada 100 Common
AMEC Canada Holdings Inc. Canada 100 Common
AMEC Canada Investments Company Limited Jersey 100 Ordinary
AMEC Canada Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary*
AMEC Capital Projects Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Chile Ingeniería y Construcción Limitada Chile 100 Normal
AMEC Civil Engineering Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Civil, Inc. United States 100 Common
AMEC Construction Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Construction Management, Inc. United States 100 Common
AMEC Construction Scotland Limited Scotland 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC Contractors (W/A) Limited Nigeria 100 Ordinary
AMEC Design and Management Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC Developments, Inc. United States 100 Common
AMEC do Brasil Participações Ltda Brazil 100 Quotas
AMEC E&E Caribe, LLP Puerto Rico 98 Class of A
AMEC Earth & Environmental Limited Canada 100 Common, Class of A
AMEC Earth & Environmental LLP United States 100 Interest
AMEC Engineering and Consulting of United States, Inc. United States 100 Common
AMEC Engineering Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC Engineering Limited Hong Kong 100 Ordinary
AMEC Environment & Infrastructure SRL Romania 100 Ordinary
AMEC Eurasia Limited Russian Federation 100 Ordinary
AMEC Europe B.V. Netherlands 100 Ordinary*
AMEC Executive Pensions T rustee Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC Facilities Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Focus Pensions T rustee Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
Amec Foster Wheeler & BBS Limited Ghana 80 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler (B) SDN BHD Brunei Darussalam 99 Ordinary
Related undertakings
As at 31 December 2015 195
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Name Jurisdiction % interest Class of shares
Amec Foster Wheeler (Perú) S.A. Peru 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler AES, Inc. United States 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler Americas Limited Canada 100 Class of B, Common, Class of A
Amec Foster Wheeler Arabia Ltd. United States 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler Asia K.K. Japan 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Australia Holding Company Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Bimas Birlesik Insaat ve Muhendislik A.S. T urkey 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler Cameroun SARL Cameroon 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler Canada Ltd. Canada 100 Class of A
Amec Foster Wheeler Constructors, Inc. United States 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler Consulting Poland Sp. z o.o. Poland 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler E & I GmbH Germany 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler E&C Services, Inc. United States 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler Earth and Environmental (UK) Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Energi Aktiebolag Sweden 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Energia Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico 100 Class of A
Amec Foster Wheeler Energia Oy Finland 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler Energia Polska Sp. z o.o. Poland 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Energia, S.L.U. Spain 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler Energie GmbH Germany 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler Energy Fakop Sp. z o.o. Poland 22.7 Group II
50 Group III
63.56 Group I
Amec Foster Wheeler Energy Limited England & Wales 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler Energy Management (Shanghai) Company Limited China 100 Membership Interest
Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering & Construction Design (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. China 100 Capital
Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering & Consulting (Shanghai) Co., Ltd China 100 Capital
Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100 Non, Class, Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Environment & Infrastructure Pty Ltd Australia 100 Class of D, Class of Z
Amec Foster Wheeler Environment & Infrastructure UK Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Environment & Infrastructure, Inc. United States 100 Common, Preference
Amec Foster Wheeler Finance Asia Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
Amec Foster Wheeler Finance Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
Amec Foster Wheeler France S.A. France 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler Global E&C S.r.l. Italy 100 Capital
Amec Foster Wheeler Group Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
Amec Foster Wheeler Iberia S.L.U. Spain 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler Inc. Canada 100 Class of B
Amec Foster Wheeler India Private Limited India 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler International Ingenieria y Construcción Limitada Chile 100 Normal
Amec Foster Wheeler International T rading (Shanghai) Company Limited China 100 Membership Interest
Amec Foster Wheeler Italiana S.r.l. Italy 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler Kamtech, Inc. United States 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler Martinez, Inc. United States 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler NCL Limited Canada 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler North America Corp. United States 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear Czech Republic, a.s. Czech Republic 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear France SAS France 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear Holdings Limited England & Wales 100 A Ordinary, B Ordinary, C 
Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear International Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear RO SRL Romania 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear Slovakia s.r.o. Slovakia 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear UK Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Oil & Gas, Inc. United States 100 Preference, Class of A
Amec Foster Wheeler OPE Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 Redeemable Preference, Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Operations Ghana Limited Ghana 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Power Group Asia Limited Hong Kong 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Power S.r.l. Italy 100 Quotas
Amec Foster Wheeler Power Systems, Inc. United States 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler Power Vietnam Limited Liability Company Viet Nam 100 Membership Interest
Amec Foster Wheeler Properties (Pty) Limited South Africa 100 Ordinary, B Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Property and Overseas Investments Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
Amec Foster Wheeler s.r.o. Czech Republic 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Service (Thailand) Limited Thailand 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler South Africa (PTY) Limited South Africa 70 A Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler T alcahuano, Operaciónes y Mantenciones Limitada Chile 100 Equity Interest
Amec Foster Wheeler USA Corporation United States 100 Common 196
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Name Jurisdiction % interest Class of shares
Amec Foster Wheeler Ventures, Inc. Florida 100 Common
Amec Foster Wheeler Zektin Architecture Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Amec Foster Wheeler Zektin Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
AMEC Geomatics Limited Canada 49 Class of A
100 Class of B
AMEC Global Renewables UK Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Global Resources Pte Limited Singapore 100 A Ordinary, B Ordinary, C 
Ordinary
AMEC Global Services Pte Ltd Singapore 100 Ordinary
AMEC GRD SA B.V. Netherlands 100 Ordinary
AMEC Growth Regions Support FZ LLC United Arab Emirates 100 Ordinary
AMEC Guatemala Engineering and Consulting, Sociedad Anonima Guatemala 99.96 Common
AMEC Hedge Co 1 Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Holdings (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 Ordinary
AMEC Holdings, Inc. United States 100 Common
AMEC Holland B.V. Netherlands 100 Ordinary
AMEC Industrial Programs, LLC United States 100 Interest
AMEC Infrastructure Limited Canada 100 Common
AMEC Infrastructure Services Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC International Investments B.V. Netherlands 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC International Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Investments B.V. Netherlands 100 Ordinary
AMEC Investments Europe Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Kazakhstan Holdings Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC King Wilkinson (Nigeria) Limited Nigeria 100 Ordinary
AMEC Korea Limited Korea, Republic of 100 Ordinary
AMEC Kuwait Project Management and Contracting Company W.L.L. Kuwait 49 Ordinary
AMEC Liberia Inc Liberia 100 Ordinary
AMEC Limited Liability Company Azerbaijan 100 Ordinary
AMEC Limited Liability Partnership Kazakhstan 100 Capital
AMEC LLC Mongolia 100 Common
AMEC Manufacturing and Services Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Massachusetts, Inc. United States 100 Common
AMEC Mechanical and Electrical Services Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Michigan, Inc. United States 100 Common
AMEC Mining Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC Minproc (Proprietary) Limited South Africa 100 Ordinary
AMEC Minproc Bulgaria EOOD Bulgaria 100 Ordinary
AMEC Minproc Projects (New Zealand) Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
AMEC Minproc UK Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC New Zealand Limited New Zealand 100 Ordinary
AMEC Newco LLC United States 100 Membership Interest
AMEC Nominees Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC North Carolina, Inc. United States 100 Common
AMEC NSS Limited Canada 100 Common
AMEC Nuclear Consultants International Limited Jersey 100 Ordinary
AMEC Nuclear M & O Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Nuclear Overseas Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Nuclear Projects Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Offshore (Nigeria) Limited Nigeria 75 Ordinary
AMEC Offshore Developments Limited Scotland 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC Offshore Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC Offshore Services Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Oil & Gas World Services, Inc. United States 100 Common
AMEC Oil Gas and Process Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 Ordinary
AMEC Operations Limited Guernsey 100 Ordinary
AMEC Operations S.R.L Romania 100 Ordinary
AMEC Overseas (Cyprus) Limited Cyprus 100 Ordinary
AMEC Partners Korea Limited Korea, Republic of 54 Ordinary
AMEC Petroleo e Gas Limitada Brazil 100 Quotas
AMEC Power (Asia) Limited Thailand 21.98 Preference
100 Common
AMEC Process & Energy Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 Ordinary
AMEC Process and Energy International Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC Process and Energy Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Programs, Inc. United States 100 Common
AMEC Project Investments Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Projetos e Consultoria Ltda Brazil 100 Ordinary
AMEC Services Limited England & Wales 100 Preference, Ordinary
AMEC South America Limited Canada 100 Class of A 
AMEC Spareco (12) Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary, Class of E
Related undertakings continued
As at 31 December 2015 197
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Name Jurisdiction % interest Class of shares
AMEC Spareco (14) Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Staff Pensions T rustee Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC T rustees Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC USA Finance Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC USA HOLDCO LLC United States 100 Common 
AMEC USA Holdings Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
AMEC USA Holdings, Inc. United States 100 Common 
AMEC USA Investments LLC United States 100 Class of A, Common
AMEC USA Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Utilities Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Wind Developments Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AMEC Zektin Group Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Amplemark Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
Applied Environmental Research Centre Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
Aquenta Consulting (NZ) Limited New Zealand 100 Ordinary
Aquenta Consulting Pty Ltd Australia 100 Class of Z, Ordinary
Ard Ghaoth Wind Farm Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
Atlantic Services Limited Bermuda 100 Ordinary
Atlantis Hedge Co 1 Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
Atlantis Hedge Co 2 Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
, Redeemable 
Preference
#
Attric International FZ LLE United Arab Emirates 100 Nominal
Attric Ltd England & Wales 100 Ordinary
Auld Clay Wind Farm Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
AYMEC de Mexico S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 Series I, Series II
Barsotti’s Inc. United States 100 Common
Bauunternehmung Kittelberger GmbH Germany 100 Ordinary*
Burman Griffiths Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Burman Griffiths Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Business Consultancy Group Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
Camden County Energy Recovery Corp. United States 100 Common
Campro AGRA Limited Canada 100 Common
Castlecary Wind Farm Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
CK T emple Holdings Ltd. Canada 100 Class of A, Class of C, Class of E
Conequip, S.A. Spain 100 Common
Continental Finance Company Ltd. Bermuda 100 Common
Energia Holdings, LLC United States 100 Membership Interest
Energy, Safety and Risk Consultants (UK) Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
Entec Holdings Limited England & Wales 100 A Ordinary, B Ordinary, C 
Ordinary
Entec Investments Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
Equipment Consultants, Inc. United States 100 Common
Exergy Engineering Services, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 Min. Fixed Capital
Exergy Engineering, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 Min. Fixed Capital
Fast Reactor T echnology Limited England & Wales 51 Ordinary
Financial Services S.à r.l. Luxembourg 100 Capital
Foster Wheeler (G.B.) Limited England & Wales 100 Common
Foster Wheeler (Gibraltar) Holdings Limited Gibraltar 100 Redeemable Preference, Ordinary
Foster Wheeler (London) Limited England & Wales 100 Common
Foster Wheeler (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 Class of A, Class of B
Foster Wheeler (Nigeria) Limited Nigeria 100 Common
Foster Wheeler (Philippines) Corporation Philippines 100 Common
Foster Wheeler (Process Plants) Limited England & Wales 100 Common
Foster Wheeler (QLD) Pty Ltd Australia 100 Common
Foster Wheeler (Thailand) Limited Thailand 100 Common
Foster Wheeler (WA) Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Foster Wheeler America Latina, Ltda. Brazil 100 Quotas
Foster Wheeler Andes, Inc. United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Asia Limited United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Avon, Inc. United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Caribe Corporation, C.A. Venezuela 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Chile, S.A. Chile 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Colombia S.A.S. Colombia 100 Shares
Foster Wheeler Constructors de Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico 100 Ordinary
Foster Wheeler Continental B.V. Netherlands 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Development Corporation United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler E&C (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 70 Ordinary
Foster Wheeler E&C Argentina S.A. Argentina 100 Registered
Foster Wheeler E&C Limited England & Wales 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Eastern Private Limited Singapore 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Energy Corporation United States 100 Common 198
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Name Jurisdiction % interest Class of shares
Foster Wheeler Energy Manufacturing, Inc. United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Engineering A.G. Switzerland 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Environmental (UK) Limited England & Wales 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Environmental Company Nigeria Limited Nigeria 87 Ordinary
Foster Wheeler Environmental Corporation United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Europe England & Wales 100 Ordinary
Foster Wheeler Europe B.V. Netherlands 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Finance LLC United States 100 Membership Interest
Foster Wheeler Hellas Engineering and Construction Societe Anonyme Greece 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Holdings Ltd. Bermuda 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Hydrox, Inc. United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Inc. United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Intercontinental Corporation United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler International Corporation United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Kazakhstan LLP Kazakhstan 100 Shares
Foster Wheeler Limited England & Wales 100 Common
Foster Wheeler LLC United States 100 Membership Interest
Foster Wheeler Ltd. Bermuda 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Maintenance, Inc. United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Management AG Switzerland 100 Ordinary
Foster Wheeler Management Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
Foster Wheeler Middle East Corporation United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Operations, Inc. United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Petroleum Development Limited England & Wales 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Petroleum Services S.A.E. Egypt 100 Ordinary
Foster Wheeler Real Estate Development Corp. United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Realty Services, Inc. United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Santiago, Inc. United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Services, Inc. United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler T rading Company, Ltd. Bermuda 100 Common
Foster Wheeler US Power Group Inc. United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Virgin Islands, Inc. United States 100 Common
Foster Wheeler World Services Limited England & Wales 100 Common
Foster Wheeler Zack, Inc. United States 100 Common
FW (Gibraltar) Limited Gibraltar 100 Ordinary
FW Chile Holdings 2 Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
FW Chile Holdings Ltd. Cayman Islands 100 Shares
FW Energie B.V. Netherlands 100 Common
FW Europe B.V. Netherlands 100 Common
FW Europe Financial Holdings S.à r.l. Luxembourg 100 Shares
FW European E & C Ltd. Bermuda 100 Common
FW Financial Holdings GmbH Switzerland 100 Membership Interest
FW Holdings S.à r.l. Luxembourg 100 Shares
FW Hungary Licensing Limited Liability Company Hungary 100 Ownership Interest
FW Investment Holdings S.à r.l. Luxembourg 100 Class of B, Ordinary
FW Investments Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
FW Management Operations, Ltd. Bermuda 100 Common
FW Netherlands C.V. Netherlands 100 Partnership Interest
FW TURNA S.r.l. Italy 100 Common
FWPS Specialty Products, Inc. United States 100 Common
Geosafe Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Global Carbon Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Global Mining Projects and Engineering, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 Capital
GRA T echnology Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Graf-Wulff US Corp. United States 100 Common
GRD Asia Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
GRD Asia Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
GRD Developments Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
GRD ESAP Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
GRD Investments Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
GRD New Zealand Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary, Redeemable
GRD Normet Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
GRD Oil & Gas Pty Ltd Australia 100 Class of A
GRD Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
GRD Renewables Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
GRD Waste Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Hilton Wind Farm Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
Howe AGRA Limited Canada 100 Common
IDC Property Investments Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
Ingen Holdings Limited Scotland 100 Ordinary
Ingen-Ideas Limited Scotland 100 Ordinary
Related undertakings continued
As at 31 December 2015 199
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Name Jurisdiction % interest Class of shares
James Scott Engineering Group Limited Scotland 100 Ordinary
†
, Cumulative Preference
†
, 
2nd Cumulative Preference
†
James Scott Limited Scotland 100 Ordinary
KEC International Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
KIG Immobilien Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH (internal: KIG I GmbH) Germany 100 Ordinary
KIG Immobiliengesellschaft mbH & Co. KG (Internal: KIG I KG) Germany 100 Ordinary
King Wilkinson, Inc. United States 100 Common
Kirfield Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Kromav Engenharia S.A. Brazil 50 Ordinary
Lewis Wind Power Holdings Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
Macraes New Zealand Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
MACTEC Architectural Services, Inc. United States 100 Common
MACTEC Constructors, Inc. United States 100 Common
MACTEC Consulting, LLC United States 100 Interest
MACTEC E&C International, Inc. United States 100 Common
MACTEC E&C, LLC United States 100 Interest
MACTEC Engineering and Consulting, Sociedad Anonima (Nicaragua) Nicaragua 98 Common*
MACTEC Environmental Consultants, Inc. United States 100 Common
MACTEC Mexico S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 Common
Martinez Cogen Limited Partnership United States 99 Partnership Interest
MASA Ventures Limited Canada 100 Common
MASA Ventures, Inc. United States 100 Common
McCullough Associates, Inc. United States 100 Common
MDIC Inc. United States 100 Common
MDM Africa Holdings (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100 Ordinary
MDM Engineering (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100 Ordinary
MDM Engineering Group Limited British Virgin Islands 100 Shares
MDM Engineering Investments Ltd Mauritius 100 Shares
MDM Engineering Projects Ltd Mauritius 100 Shares
MDM Engineering SPRL Belgium 100 Ordinary
MDM Projects-T anzania Limited T anzania 100 Common
MDM T echnical Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100 Class of A
MDM UK Finance Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
Metal and Pipeline Endurance Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
Minproc Engineers Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Minproc Group Superannuation Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Minproc Overseas Projects Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Minproc Projects (Ghana) Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Minproc T echnology Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Monenco Jamaica Limited Jamaica 100 Ordinary*
Monenco Nigeria Limited Nigeria 60 Ordinary
Montreal Engineering (Overseas) Limited Bahamas 100 Ordinary
Mossel Bay Energy IPP (proprietary) Limited (RF) South Africa 90 Common
National Nuclear Corporation Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
NexDSS, Inc. United States 100 Common
NorthAm Engineering, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 Class I Series A, Class I Series B,
  Class II Series A1, Class II Series B1
Nuclear Consultants International (Proprietary) Limited South Africa 84.9 Ordinary
Nucleus T raining Limited England & Wales 100 B Ordinary
Octagon International Properties Pty Ltd Australia 100 Class of A
OOO Amec Foster Wheeler Russian Federation 100 Quota
OOO Foster Wheeler Energia Russian Federation 100 Ordinary
OPE O&G Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100 Ordinary
Operations Analysis, Inc. United States 100 Common
OS Marine Access UK Limited Scotland 100 Ordinary
P .E. Consultants, Inc. Mauritius 100 A Ordinary, B Ordinary
Performance Improvements (PI) Group Limited Scotland 100 Class of A, Class of C
Performance Improvements (PI) Limited Scotland 100 A Ordinary, C Ordinary
Perryville Corporate Park Condominium Association, Inc. United States 66.66 Unit Holder Interest
Perryville Service Company Ltd. Bermuda 100 Common
PI Energy & Emissions Limited Scotland 100 Class of A, Class of B
PI Gas T urbines Limited Scotland 100 Ordinary
PI Group B.V. Netherlands 100 Ordinary
PI TMC B. V . Netherlands 100 Ordinary
Press Construction Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
Primat Recruitment Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
Process Consultants, Inc. United States 100 Common
Process Industries Agency Limited England & Wales 100 Common
Process Plants Suppliers Limited England & Wales 100 Common
PT AGRA Monenco Indonesia 100 Ordinary
PT Amec Foster Wheeler Indonesia Indonesia 84.62 Class of A 200
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Name Jurisdiction % interest Class of shares
PT Foster Wheeler O&G Indonesia Indonesia 90 Ordinary
PT Simons International Indonesia Indonesia 100 Ordinary
QED International (Kazakhstan) Limited Liability Partnership Kazakhstan 100 Capital
QED International (UK) Limited Scotland 100 Ordinary
QED International FZ LLC United Arab Emirates 100 Capital
QED International LLC United States 100 Membership Interest
QED International Ltd Mauritius 100 Ordinary
QEDI Commissioning and Completions (Canada) Limited Canada 100 Common
Qedi Completions & Commissioning Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Rider Hunt International (Alberta) Inc. Canada 100 Common, Preference
Rider Hunt International (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 Ordinary
Rider Hunt International (Singapore) Pte Limited Singapore 100 Ordinary
Rider Hunt International (USA) Inc. United States 100 Common
Rider Hunt International (WA) Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Rider Hunt International B.V. Netherlands 100 Ordinary
Rider Hunt International Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
S2V Consulting Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Sandiway Solutions (No 3) Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
Scopus Engineering Holdings Ltd Scotland 100 Ordinary
Scopus Engineering Limited Scotland 100 Ordinary
Scopus Group (Holdings) Limited Scotland 100 A Ordinary, B Ordinary, C 
Ordinary
Sehold, Inc. United States 100 Common
Sellafield Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
SIE Siam Limited Thailand 100 Common
Sigma 2 AFW Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
Sigma Financial Facilities Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
Simons International Engineering Ltd. Thailand 100 Common
Simons Pacific Services Pte Ltd. Singapore 100 Ordinary
Simons-Eastern Consultants, Inc. United States 100 Common
South Shore Nominees Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
Specialist Equipment Solutions Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
T erra Nova T echnologies Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary
T erra Nova T echnologies, Inc. United States 100 Common
The IDC Group Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
Thelco Co. United States 100 Common
T ouchstone General Contracting, Engineering Consultancy and Project 
Management LLC
Iraq 100 Ordinary
T ray (UK) Limited England & Wales 100 Preference, Ordinary
T ray Field Services Limited England & Wales 100 Common
T ray, Inc. United States 100 Common
William Ellis (Etchingham) Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary
†
, Preference
†
Y ork Jersey Liability Ltd. Bermuda 100 Common
Joint ventures
Name
% 
interest Address 
ABV Consultants Ltd. 50 Suite 400, 111 Dunsmuir Street, Vancouver, BC, V6B 5W3, Canada
ACM Health Solutions Limited 33.33 Carillion House, 84 Salop Street, Wolverhampton, WV3 0SR, England
AFWA DUBA Salina Cruz, S. de R.L. de C.V. 50 Carlos Salazar, #2333, Colonia Obrera, Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico
AMEC - Merrick Joint Venture, LLC 60 Suite 100, 780 Vista Blvd., Sparks, NV, 89434, United States
AMEC - SAI Joint Venture, LLC 50 Suite 180, 751 Arbor Way, Blue Bell, PA, 19422-1951, United States
AMEC BKW Arabia Limited 50 Al Khobar - Saudi Arabia, Saudi Arabia
AMEC Black & McDonald Limited 50 11 Frazee Avenue, Dartmouth, NS, B3B 1Z4, Canada
AMEC Black Cat LLC 49 5th Floor Al Aqaria T ower, Building No. 34, Museum Street, Old Salata Area, 
Street 970, Zone 18, P .O Box No. 24523 Doha, Qatar
Amec Foster Wheeler Energy Ltd and Partners Engineering Company 50 Karawan T owers, South Block, King Faisal Road, Al-Khobar, Saudi Arabia
Amec Foster Wheeler Power Machinery Company Limited 52 East Zone, Jinguzhou, Xinhui District, Phone # 86-750-6390311,  
Fax# 86-750-6391312, Jiangmen City, China
AMEC Larastia Sdn. Bhd. 49 Suite 10.2, Level 10, East Wing, Rohas Perkasa, No.8 Jalan P . Ramlee, 50250 
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
AMEC Libya Engineering Consultancy JSC 65 MAPEL Compound KM., 27 Ghaser Bengashir, P .O. Box 83306, T ripoli, Libyan 
Arab Jamahiriya
AMEC Samsung Oil & Gas, LLC 49 10777 Clay Road, Houston, TX, 77041-5497 , United States
Beca AMEC Limited 50 Ground Floor, Beca House, 21 Pitt Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
Boldt AMEC LLC 40 2525 North Roemer Road, Appleton, WI, 54912, United States
CEJV Ingeniería y Construcción Limitada 50 Av. Isidora Goyenechea 2800, Floor 32, Las Condes, Santiago, 7550647 , Chile
Centro Energia Ferrara S.p.A. 41.65 P .le Privato G. Donegani, 12, Ferrara, T el. 0532-597757 , Fax 0532-597766, 
Milan, 44100, Italy
Centro Energia T everola S.p.A. 41.65 Via Andrea Doria 41/G, Roma, 00192, Italy
Clough AMEC Beca Ltd 33.33 Ground Floor, Beca House, 21 Pitt Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
Related undertakings continued
As at 31 December 2015 201
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Name
% 
interest Address 
Clough AMEC Pty Ltd 50 Level 12, 58 Mounts Bay Road, Perth, 6000, Australia*
Clough AMEC SEA Pte Ltd 50 991E Alexandra Road, #01-25, 119973, Singapore
Consorcio AMEC CADE / PSI Consultores Limitada 50 Av. Jose Domingo, Canas No 2640, Nunoa, Santiago, 7750164, Chile
Consorcio Consultor Systra / Cade Idepe / Geoconsult Limitada 40 Av. Jose Domingo, Canas No 2640, Nunoa, Santiago, 7750164, Chile
Consorcio de Ingeniería Geoconsult Cade Idepe Limitada 50 Av. Jose Domingo, Canas No 2640, Nunoa, Santiago, 7750164, Chile
Consorcio de Ingeniería Systra Cade Idepe Limitada 50 Av. Jose Domingo, Canas No 2640, Nunoa, Santiago, 7750164, Chile
Construcciòn e Ingenierìa Chile FI Limitada 50 Avenida Andrés Bello 2711, Piso 22 - Comuna Las Condens, Santiago, Chile
Construcciòn e Ingenieria FIM Chile,Limitada 33.33 Avenida Santa Maria 2810, Comuna de Providencia, Santiago, Chile
COPEL-AMEC S/C Ltda. 47.5 Rua Carneiro Lobo, No. 468, conjuntos 1301 a 1303, Centro Empresarial 
Champs Elysees, Curitiba, State of Parana, Brazil*
Core T ech - Amec Foster Wheeler, LLC 50 Suite 180, 751 Arbor Way, Blue Bell, PA, 19422-1951, United States
Enutek (Pty) Ltd 50 8 Wolseley Street, Woodmead East, 2157 , South Africa
F. & N.E. Limited 50 Croft Road, Crossflatts, Bingley, West Y orkshire, BD16 2UA
F.& N.E. (1990) Limited 50 Croft Road, Crossflatts, Bingley, West Y orkshire, BD16 2UA
FluorAMEC, LLC 49 2711 Centerville Rd., Suite 400, Wilmington, New Castle, DE, 19808,  
United States
FLUOR AMEC II, LLC 45 100 Fluor Daniel Drive, Greenville, SC, 29607-2770, United States
Foster Wheeler (Hebei) Engineering Design Co., Ltd. 49 CEFOC Information Mansion, Zhongshan West Road No. 356, Shijiazhuang, 
China
Foster Wheeler Kentz Energy Services DMCC 50 PO Box 26593, Unit 3601, Tiffany T ower, Cluster W, Jumeirah Lakes T owers, 
Dubai, United Arab Emirates
Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd 23 3, Incheondaegyo Expressway, Jung-gu, Incheon, Republic of Korea
Isgec Foster Wheeler Boilers Private Limited 49 Radaur Road, Y amunanagar 135001, Haryana, India
Isolux Monenco Medio Ambiente S.A. 49 Calle Juan Bravo, 3-C, Madrid, 28006, Spain
King Wilkinson (Saudi Arabia) Limited 50 PO Box 1110, Al Khobar, 31952, Saudi Arabia
Lewis Wind Power Limited 50 EDF Energy, GSO Business Park, East Kilbride, G74 5PG, Scotland
Lomellina Energia S.r.l. 39.2 Vecchia Strada Vicinale per Vigevano, Parona, Pavia, 27020, Italy
MF Waste S.r.l. 49 Via XXV Aprile, 18, Rovato, 25038, Italy
Nan - Amec Foster Wheeler, LLC 50 98-1238 Kaahumanu St., Suite 400, Pearl City, HI, 96782, United States
NorthEast Power Alliance, LLC 47 1979 Lakeside Parkway, Suite 400, T ucker, GA, 30084, United States
Northern Integrated Services Limited 50 Ledingham Chalmers, Johnstone House, 52-54 Rose Street, Aberdeen,  
AB10 1HA, Scotland
†
Nuclear Management Partners Limited 36 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
OTEPI Foster Wheeler, S.A. 50 Zona Rental Universidad Metropolitana, Edificio Otepi, T errazas del Avila, 
Caracas 1070, Edo Miranda, VE
Paragon Angola Engenharia e Serviços, Limitada 60 Largo do Pescador no 8, IIha de Luanda, Luanda, Angola
Petropower Energia Limitada 85 Milaflores Street No. 222, 24th Floor, City and Commune of Santiago, CL
PT AMEC Berca Indonesia LLC 50 JI. Cikini Raya No. 95, CCM Building Floor 4 th, Jakarta Pusat, 10330, 
Indonesia
PWR Power Projects Limited 50 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Road Management Services (A13) Holdings Limited 25 Carillion House, 84 Salop Street, Wolverhampton, WV3 0SR, England
Road Management Services (A13) plc 25 Carillion House, 84 Salop Street, Wolverhampton, WV3 0SR, England
Runway Omega B.V. 50 Kosterijland 20, 3981 AJ, Bunnik, Netherlands
Shanghai Zone Petrochemical Engineering Co., Ltd 50 No. 143 Jinyi Road, Jinshan District, Shanghai, 200540, China
Sigma 3 (North Sea) Limited 66.66 C/O CMS Cameron McKenna, 6 Queens Road, Aberdeen, AB15 4ZT ,  
United Kingdom
Socar-Foster Wheeler Engineering LLC 35 88A Zardaby Avenue,Baku, Azerbaijan
South Kensington Developments Limited 50 Portland House, Bickenhill Lane, Solihull, Birmingham, B37 7BQ, England, 
United Kingdom
SSBV Consultants Inc. 33.33 Suite 400, 111 Dunsmuir Street, Vancouver, BC, V6B 5W3, Canada
T eshmont Consultants Inc. 50 1190 Waverley Street, Winnipeg, MB, R3T 0P4, Canada
UK Nuclear Restoration Limited 50 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Voreas S.r.l. 50 Via S. Caboto 15, Corsico, Milan, 20094, Italy
Associates
Name Jurisdiction % interest Class of shares
AMEC Al T urki LLC Oman 35 Ordinary
Foster Wheeler Adibi Engineering Iran (Islamic Republic of) 45 Class of B
T eshmont Consultants LP Manitoba 30 Partnership Interest
T eshmont GP Inc. Manitoba 30 Common
†
Directly held by Amec Foster Wheeler plc
#
Class A, B, C, D, E, F and G Redeemable Preference shares exist
*In liquidation 202
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Consolidated income statement data
Y ear ended 31 December
£m unless stated 2015 2014 2013
Restated
1
 
2012
Restated
1
 
2011
Continuing operations
Revenue 5,455 3,993 3,974 4,088 3,133
Adjusted profit before tax
2
334 317 332 327 316
Exceptional items (121) (98) (25) (24) (6)
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (444) (49) (47) (44) (39)
Net asbestos-related income/(expense) 6 (9) – – –
Share of tax of joint ventures (10) (6) (5) (5) (7)
Profit before tax (235) 155 255 254 264
Income tax (18) (49) (69) (47) (53)
Profit from continuing operations (253) 106 186 207 211
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations (4) (27) (8) 2 16
Profit for the year (257) 79 178 209 227
Earnings per ordinary share
Continuing operations:
– Basic (66.1)p 36.1p 63.8p 65.2p 64.4p
– Adjusted diluted
3
67.7p 79.5p 87 .2p 78.6p 71.6p
T otal operations:
– Basic (67.2)p 27 .2p 61.1p 65.8p 69.2p
– Diluted (67.2)p 26.5p 59.8p 64.6p 67.8p
Dividends per ordinary share
4
29.0p 43.3p 42.0p 36.5p 30.5p
Dividend cover
5
2.3x 1.8x 2.1x 2.2x 2.3x
Consolidated balance sheet data
As at 31 December
£m unless stated 2015
2014
(restated) 2013 2012 2011
Goodwill and other intangible assets 3,025 3,443 907 969 848
Other non-current assets 675 599 253 245 203
Current assets 1,872 2,023 1,224 1,304 1,404
Total assets 5,572 6,065 2,384 2,518 2,455
Current liabilities (2,261) (2,292) (1,004) (1,151) (828)
Non-current liabilities (1,703) (1,777) (256) (284) (253)
Net assets 1,608 1,996 1,124 1,083 1,374
Share capital 197 194 152 154 169
Other reserves 1,402 1,780 970 925 1,204
Equity attributable to holders of the parent 1,599 1,974 1,122 1,079 1,373
Non-controlling interests 9 22 2 4 1
Total equity 1,608 1,996 1,124 1,083 1,374
Number of ordinary shares in issue (millions) 393 389 304 308 338
Net working capital 167 75 99 54 55
Net (debt)/cash (946) (803) 121 99 521
1  The selected financial data set out above has been extracted from the consolidated financial statements for the relevant year prepared in accordance 
with IFRS except that the income statement data for 2012 and 2011 has been restated to reflect the reclassification in 2013 of the UK conventional power 
business as a discontinued operation and the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ . The 2014 balance sheet was restated following the 
completion of the fair value assessment on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities recognised on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
2  Adjusted profit before tax represents profit before tax before exceptional items, the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, asbestos-related 
costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), and the Group’s share of tax on the results of joint ventures.
3  Adjusted diluted earnings per share represents profit for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items, the amortisation of intangible assets, 
asbestos-related costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), and the tax effect of those items, divided by the diluted number of ordinary shares. 
4 The dividend for 2015 includes the proposed final dividend for the year of 14.2p per ordinary share. 
5 Dividend cover represents the dividend per ordinary share as a multiple of adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations.
Five-year record (unaudited) 203
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
ADSs American Depositary Shares, evidenced 
by ADRs, the form in which the 
Company’s ordinary shares are traded 
on the NYSE 
ADRs American Depositary Receipts, issued 
in respect of ordinary shares deposited 
with State Street Bank & T rust Company, 
as custodian for the Depositary
AGM Annual General Meeting of the 
Company’s shareholders
AMEC used for convenience to refer to the 
Company and its subsidiaries prior to 
the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, unless 
the context requires otherwise 
Amec Foster Wheeler used for convenience to refer to the 
Company and its subsidiaries, unless 
the context requires otherwise
the Articles the Company’s Articles of Association, 
which set out the Company’s 
constitution
Basis point one hundredth of one percentage point
the board the collective term for the executive and 
non-executive directors of the Company 
CEO Chief Executive 
CFO Chief Financial Officer
the Code the UK Corporate Governance Code 
issued by the FRC (formerly the 
Combined Code)
the Companies Act 
2006
the Companies Act 2006 of England and 
Wales, as amended
the Company Amec Foster Wheeler plc, formerly 
AMEC plc
the Depositary Deutsche Bank T rust Company 
Americas, the Depositary for the 
Company’s ADR programme 
Downstream the refining or processing of crude oil 
into finished fuel products
the DRIP the Dividend Re-Investment Plan 
operated by the Company
the DTRs the Disclosure & T ransparency Rules  
of the UKLA 
E&C Engineering & Construction
E&I Environment & Infrastructure
EPC Engineering, Procurement & 
Construction (conducted on a fixed 
price basis)
EPCM Engineering, Procurement & 
Construction Management (conducted 
on a cost-reimbursable basis)
the EU the European Union
Glossary
Euro or € the common currency used in the 
majority of the member countries  
of the EU
the FCA the UK Financial Conduct Authority
Foster Wheeler used for convenience to refer to Foster 
Wheeler AG and its subsidiaries, unless 
the context requires otherwise
the FRC the UK Financial Reporting Council 
GPG the Global Power Group, one of the 
Group’s business units
the Group the Company and its subsidiaries
HMRC Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs,  
the UK taxation authority
HVEC High Value Execution Centre
the IASB the International Accounting  
Standards Board
IFRS International Financial Reporting 
Standards, comprising accounting 
standards issued by the IASB
the IRC the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 
as amended
the IRS the Internal Revenue Service, the US 
taxation authority
LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate, a 
benchmark interest rate for instruments 
of the specified currency and maturity
NASDAQ the National Association of Securities 
Dealers Automated Quotations
the NYSE the New Y ork Stock Exchange
a PFIC a Passive Foreign Investment Company 
for US federal income tax purposes
Pound sterling, £, 
pence or p
the currency of the UK
SDRT Stamp Duty Reserve T ax
the SEC the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission
SOX the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
UK the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland
UK GAAP accounting practice generally accepted 
in the UK
UKLA UK Listing Authority
Upstream the exploration, production and 
transportation of oil and gas
US the United States of America
US dollars, US $,  
cents or c
the currency of the US
US GAAP accounting principles generally 
accepted in the US 204
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
This annual report contains a number of ‘forward-looking 
statements’ with respect to the Group’s financial condition, 
results of operations and certain of the Group’s plans 
and objectives.
In particular, such forward-looking statements include 
statements with respect to: 
 X our expectations regarding the Group’s financial and operating 
performance, including statements contained within the 
strategic report on pages 1 to 39 of this document, including 
the Outlook statement on page 37 , and the performance 
of joint ventures and newly-acquired businesses 
 X intentions and expectations regarding the contracts entered 
into by the Group or by third parties, including new services, 
such as the supply of consultancy, engineering and project 
management services 
 X expectations regarding the global economy and the Group’s 
operating environment, including future market conditions 
and trends 
 X revenue and growth expected from Amec Foster Wheeler’s 
business and its expectations with respect to long-term 
shareholder value growth 
 X our ability to acquire new contracts, expected growth 
prospects and growth in our customer base generally 
 X expected benefits associated with the acquisition  
of Foster Wheeler 
Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, 
identified by their use of a date in the future or such words 
as ‘will’ , ‘anticipates’ , ‘aims’ , ‘could’ , ‘may’ , ‘should’ , ‘expects’ , 
‘believes’ , ‘intends’ , ‘plans’ or ‘targets’ . By their nature, 
forward-looking statements are inherently predictive, 
speculative and involve risk and uncertainty because they 
relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur 
in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause 
actual results and developments to differ materially from those 
expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. 
These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:
 X global economic conditions or other macro-economic 
developments in the geographic regions and markets in which 
the Group operates, including fluctuations in exchange rates 
 X changes in commodity prices which may impact demand 
for the Group’s services 
 X the Group’s exposure to the risks associated with operating 
in emerging markets 
 X the failure to meet customer expectations on project delivery, 
which could result in damage to reputation and/or loss of 
repeat business and potentially lead to litigation 
 X long-term contracts which may be subject to early 
termination, variation or non-renewal provisions 
 X projects included in the Group’s order book which may 
be delayed or cancelled 
 X lump-sum contracts, which are subject to the risks 
associated with unanticipated modifications, technical 
problems and delays 
 X the loss of senior management or difficulty in attracting 
and retaining appropriately skilled personnel 
 X the failure to comply with health, safety and 
environmental laws 
 X the possibility of major safety incidents that can lead 
to reputational damage and increase potential liabilities 
 X obligations and liabilities relating to the Group’s divested 
and non-core businesses 
 X the failure or security breaches of its information technology 
systems and/or data security 
 X the failure to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations, 
economic sanction programmes or other laws and regulations, 
which may result in the Group becoming subject to fines or 
penalties and the disruption of its business activities 
A review of the reasons why actual results and developments 
may differ materially from the expectations disclosed or implied 
within forward-looking statements can be found under the 
heading ‘Risk factors’ on pages 167 to 171 of this document. 
All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements 
attributable to the Company or any persons acting on its behalf 
are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred 
to above. No assurances can be given that the forward-looking 
statements in this document will be realised. Subject to 
compliance with applicable law and regulations, the Company 
does not intend to update these forward-looking statements 
and does not undertake any obligation to do so.
F orward-looking statements This report is printed using vegetable-based inks by CPI Colour, a carbon 
neutral registered printing company. CPI Colour is also certified to ISO 9001, 
ISO 14001, and holds the FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council) Chain of Custody. 
This report is printed on Olin Smooth Absolute White, a paper produced from 
100% ECF (elemental chlorine free) wood pulps from well managed forests  
certified in accordance with the rules of the FSC®. The producing mill is  
certified to ISO 14001.
Designed and produced by Langsford +44 (0) 20 7378 1457 www.langsford.co.uk Amec Foster Wheeler plc
Annual report and accounts 2015
Registered office
Booths Park 
Chelford Road 
Knutsford 
Cheshire  
WA16 8QZ 
UK
Head office
Old Change House 
128 Queen Victoria Street 
London 
EC4V 4BJ 
UK
T elephone: +44 (0) 20 7429 7500
www.amecfw.com
