 ANNUAL REPORT 2015
DRIVING CHANGE,  
DEFINING OUR FUTURE
ANGLO AMERICAN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION
DRIVING CHANGE, 
DEFINING OUR FUTURE
While the mining industry continues to face considerable 
external pressures as global economic uncertainty  
prevails and the developing world’s demand drivers evolve,  
we have responded decisively to materially strengthen our 
balance sheet through sustainably improving cash flows  
and focusing our strategy.
We will redefine our portfolio by focusing on our global 
leadership positions in diamonds and platinum group metals 
and our world class position in copper. Anglo American will be 
focused on its competitive, long life assets, with considerable 
organic growth opportunities, that mine the materials that  
are expected to benefit from long term consumer-driven 
growth trends as the global economy evolves and emerging 
market economies mature. Anglo American will be uniquely 
positioned for these expanding markets.
Our ability to operate responsibly, efficiently and effectively  
is at the heart of how we do business and cater to society’s 
needs, and how we will deliver the sustainable value that  
all our stakeholders demand and expect.
Throughout the Strategic Report we use a number of 
financial and non-financial measures to assess our 
performance. The measures are defined on page 180.
The return on capital employed (ROCE) measure  
used throughout this report is attributable ROCE  
and is the primary return measure used in the Group. 
See page 182 for the definition and calculation of 
attributable ROCE.
‘Tonnes’ are metric tons, ‘Mt’ denotes million tonnes, 
‘kt’ denotes thousand tonnes and ‘koz’ denotes 
thousand ounces; ‘$’ and ‘dollars’ denote US dollars 
and ‘cents’ denotes US cents.
Cover images 
1. Haul trucks in the 
open pit at Los Bronces 
copper mine in Chile. 
2. The expanding 
Forevermark™ diamond 
brand is now available in 
1,760 outlets worldwide.
3. Safety representative 
Richard Tshimenze 
inspects a blast area  
in the open pit at  
Venetia diamond mine  
in South Africa.
4. Processors  
Raesetja Teffo (left)  
and Malesela Kutumela 
at the water-filtration  
plant at Platinum’s 
Mogalakwena North 
concentrator in  
South Africa.
5. Inspecting equipment 
at the Los Bronces  
Las Tórtalas mine are 
hyperbaric filters 
operation co-ordinator 
Sergio Aliago (left) and  
mechanical maintenance 
operator Luis Toro.
6. Thickeners at the 
concentrator plant at 
Collahuasi copper mine 
located in the Andes in 
northern Chile, 3,500 
metres above sea level.
6
5
4
3 1 2
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
DRIVING CHANGE,
DEFINING OUR FUTURE
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015
DRIVING CHANGE,  
DEFINING OUR FUTURE
Other sources of information
You can find this report and additional information about  
Anglo American on our corporate website. 
Although we have chosen not to produce an ‘integrated report’,  
we have included a comprehensive overview of our non-financial 
performance in this report. More detailed information on our 
sustainability performance is provided in our Sustainability Report. 
This can be found on our corporate website.
For more information, visit 
www.angloamerican.com/reporting 01
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
GROUP
PERFORMANCE
Strategic report
02 At a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Our business model
08 Marketplace review
12 Chief Executive’s statement
16  Strategic imperative: Focus the portfolio
20 Strategic imperative: Focus on delivery
24  Strategic imperative: Develop  
core business processes
30  Strategic imperative: Create a  
high performance culture 
34 Key performance indicators
36 Group financial review
40 Managing risk effectively
46 Platinum
49 De Beers
52 Copper
54 Nickel
56 Niobium and Phosphates
58 Iron Ore and Manganese
62 Coal
64 Corporate and other
Governance
65 Chairman’s introduction
66 Directors
69 Executive management
71 The Board in 2015
76 Sustainability Committee
77 Nomination Committee
78 Audit Committee
80 Audit Committee report
82 Remuneration Committee
83 Directors’ remuneration report
84 Policy on director remuneration
93  Director remuneration in 2015
101 Outstanding share interests
104 Remuneration in 2016
105 Committee members during 2015 
106 Seven-year remuneration and returns
108 Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
108 Responsibility statement
Financial statements
110 Independent auditor’s report
114 Principal statements
118 Notes to the financial statements
169  Financial statements of the  
parent company
172 Summary by business operation
173 Key financial data
174 Exchange rates and commodity prices
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
176 Estimated Ore Reserves
178 Estimated Mineral Resources
Other information
180 Performance measures
183 Production statistics
186 Quarterly production statistics
187 Non-financial data
188 The business – an overview
190 Directors’ report
193 Shareholder information
194 Other Anglo American publications
CONTENTS PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
Underlying EBIT
$2.2 b n
Total dividends paid per share
$0.32
Underlying earnings
$ 0. 8 b n
Total capital expenditure
$4.0 b n
2015
2014
$0.8 bn
Total recordable case  
frequency rate (TRCFR)
0.93
Underlying earnings per share
$0.64
Net debt
$ 12. 9 b n
Energy consumption 
1 06 Million GJ
Loss attributable to equity 
shareholders
$
(
5.6
)
  bn
2015
2014
$2.2 bn
$4.9 bn
$2.2 bn
2015
2014
$0.64
$1.73
2015
2014
$(5.6) bn
$(2.5) bn
Number of fatalities
6
2015
2014
6
6
2015
2014
0.93
0.80
2015
2014
106 Million GJ
108 Million GJ
$0.32
$0.85
2015
2014
$4.0 bn
$6.0 bn
2015
2014
$12.9 bn
$12.9 bn
2015
2014
222 Mm
3
Group attributable ROCE
5%
2015
2014
5%
9%
GHG emissions
 18 Mt CO
2
 equivalent
Total new water consumed
222  M m ³
18 Mt
17 Mt
2015
2014
196 Mm
3
2015
2014
Loss per share
$
(
4.36
)
 
2015
2014
$(4.36)
$(1.96) 02 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
REPOSITIONING 
THE BUSINESS 
We are focusing our business on our core portfolio of  
world class assets (as highlighted in the map opposite) – in 
diamonds, platinum group metals (PGMs) and copper – that 
provide the raw materials to meet growing consumer-driven 
demand in the world’s maturing and developed economies. 
We are focused on making a real difference, through safe  
and responsible mining, to provide the ingredients to meet 
those aspirations – from homes, vehicles, household 
appliances and electronics to luxury goods such as jewellery.
Our mining operations, future growth projects and exploration 
and marketing activities will extend across southern Africa, 
South and North America, Asia and Europe. Our portfolio  
of competitive, long life mining assets will be positioned to 
deliver robust profitability and cash flows through the  
price cycle.
We are adapting to create a greatly streamlined and agile 
business, with the technical and marketing expertise and 
critical mass to compete effectively for, and to deliver, future 
opportunities, both within and beyond our portfolio.
Base metals and minerals
COPPER
$228 million  
Underlying EBIT
10%  
Group EBIT
3%  
ROCE
4 
Operating assets
(2)
708,800 
Production tonnes
Chile 
Asset location
NICKEL
$(22) million  
Underlying EBIT
(1)%  
Group EBIT
(1)%  
ROCE
2 
Operating assets
(2)
30,300 
Production tonnes
Brazil 
Asset location
NIOBIUM AND 
PHOSPHATES
$119 million  
Underlying EBIT
5%  
Group EBIT
14%  
ROCE
4 
Operating assets
(2)
6.3  
niobium
 1 , 1 1 1  
 phosphates fertiliser 
Production thousand 
tonnes
Brazil 
Asset location
Precious metals
PLATINUM
$263 million  
Underlying EBIT
12%  
Group EBIT
4%  
ROCE
17 
Operating assets
(2)
2,337,300 
Production ounces 
platinum
South Africa 
Zimbabwe 
Asset locations
Diamonds
DE BEERS
$571 million  
Underlying EBIT
26%  
Group EBIT
6%  
ROCE
9 
Operating assets
(2)
28.7 
Production million carats 
(100% basis)
Botswana 
South Africa 
Namibia 
Canada 
Asset locations
1
6
4
1
32
2
8 0
3
 4
2
0
0
2
*
1
3
1 2
2
AR
CORE ASSETS
STRATEGIC REPORT AT A GLANCE
CHILE
COLLAHUASI
Product: Copper 
Type: Open pit 
Production 2015: 200.3 kt (attributable) 
Reserve Life: 70 years
LOS BRONCES
(1)
Product: Copper 
Type: Open pit 
Production 2015: 401.7 kt 
Reserve Life: 25 years
CANADA
VICTOR
Product: Diamonds 
Type: Open pit 
Production 2015: 0.6 million carats 
Life of Mine: 3 years
GAHCHO KUÉ (PROJECT)
Product: Diamonds 
Type: Open pit 
Production 2015: due to commence H2 2016 
Life of Mine: 13 years
For more information
See page 46
For more information
See page 49
For more information
See page 52
For more information
See page 54
For more information
See page 56 03
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
Corporate and other
$(64) million  
Underlying EBIT
(3)%  
Group EBIT
Australia,  
Brazil, Chile,  
China, Europe, 
Singapore,  
South Africa  
Locations
Bulk commodities
IRON ORE AND 
MANGANESE
$671 million  
Underlying EBIT
30%  
Group EBIT
5%  
ROCE
9 
Operating assets
(2)
54,052  
iron ore
3,112  
manganese ore
214  
manganese alloys 
Production thousand 
tonnes
South Africa 
Brazil 
Australia 
Asset locations
COAL
$457 million  
Underlying EBIT
21%  
Group EBIT
9%  
ROCE
19 
Operating assets
(2)
21,208  
metallurgical – export
33,758  
thermal – export 
Production thousand 
tonnes
Australia 
South Africa 
Colombia 
Asset locations
 Shaded area represents countries of 
operation as at 31 December 2015.
*  Orapa complex includes: Damtshaa and 
Letlhakane operations; Namdeb includes 
Elizabeth Bay, Mining Area 1 and Orange 
River operations; and Debmarine 
Nambia relates to the Atlantic 1 
operation. Amandelbult includes Dishaba 
and Tumela operations. Mogalakwena 
and Modikwa Reserve Life truncated to 
the last year of current Mining Right. Only 
five years of Ore Reserves are declared 
for Mototolo as per Glencore policy. 
Venetia Life of Mine is the combined 
open pit and underground operations.
(1)
  Includes Chagres, which will be retained 
and remain as an integrated smelter.
(2)
  Operating assets relates to mining or 
processing operations contributing to  
the Group’s results during 2015. Included 
within De Beers’ operating assets is  
Snap Lake, which was placed onto care  
and maintenance in December 2015. 
Kumba Iron Ore’s Thabazimbi mine, 
which ceased mining in September 2015, 
is excluded from Iron Ore and 
Manganese operating assets.
(3)
  In addition to the assets listed, the 
Group’s platinum mines are also 
supplemented by Anglo American 
Platinum’s three smelters at Polokwane, 
Mortimer and Waterval, as well as its 
Precious Metals Refinery and Base Metals 
Refinery, all located in South Africa.
REPOSITIONING 
THE BUSINESS 
We are focusing our business on our core portfolio of  
world class assets (as highlighted in the map opposite) – in 
diamonds, platinum group metals (PGMs) and copper – that 
provide the raw materials to meet growing consumer-driven 
demand in the world’s maturing and developed economies. 
We are focused on making a real difference, through safe  
and responsible mining, to provide the ingredients to meet 
those aspirations – from homes, vehicles, household 
appliances and electronics to luxury goods such as jewellery.
Our mining operations, future growth projects and exploration 
and marketing activities will extend across southern Africa, 
South and North America, Asia and Europe. Our portfolio  
of competitive, long life mining assets will be positioned to 
deliver robust profitability and cash flows through the  
price cycle.
We are adapting to create a greatly streamlined and agile 
business, with the technical and marketing expertise and 
critical mass to compete effectively for, and to deliver, future 
opportunities, both within and beyond our portfolio.
1
6
4
1
32
2
8 0
3
 4
2
0
0
2
*
1
3
1 2
2
AR
SOUTH AFRICA
(3)
MOGALAKWENA*
Product: PGMs 
Type: Open pit 
Production 2015: 392,000 ounces 
Reserve Life: >25 years
AMANDELBULT*
Product: PGMs 
Type: Underground 
Production 2015: 437,000 ounces 
Reserve Life:  13-20 years
VENETIA*
Product: Diamonds 
Type: Open pit and underground 
Production 2015: 3.1 million carats 
Life of Mine: 31 years 
VOORSPOED
Product: Diamonds 
Type: Open pit 
Production 2015: 0.7 million carats 
Life of Mine: 6 years
BAFOKENG-RASIMONE
Product: PGMs 
Type: Underground 
Production 2015: 180,000 ounces 
(100% basis)
Reserve Life: 25 years
MOTOTOLO*
Product: PGMs 
Type: Underground 
Production 2015: 115,000 ounces 
(100% basis)
Reserve Life: 5 years
MODIKWA*
Product: PGMs 
Type: Underground 
Production 2015: 105,000 ounces 
(100% basis)
Reserve Life: >27 years
BOTSWANA
JWANENG
Product: Diamonds 
Type: Open pit 
Production 2015: 9.8 million  
carats 
Life of Mine: 20 years
ORAPA COMPLEX*
Product: Diamonds 
Type: Open pit 
Production 2015: 10.6 million 
carats
Life of Mine: 2-24 years 
NAMIBIA
NAMDEB*
Product: Diamonds 
Type: Opencast 
Production 2015: 0.5 million carats 
Life of Mine:  4-20 years 
DEBMARINE NAMIBIA*
Product: Diamonds 
Type: Offshore marine mining 
Production 2015: 1.3 million carats 
Life of Mine: 20 years
ZIMBABWE
UNKI
Product: PGMs 
Type: Underground, mechanised 
Production 2015: 66,000 ounces 
Reserve Life: 30 years
For more information
See page 58
For more information
See page 62
For more information
See page 64
More detailed information on our  
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources 
can be found on our corporate website  
www.angloamerican.com/ore-reserves-
and-mineral-resources-report-2015 04 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
OUR BOLD STEPS TO 
TRANSFORM OUR FUTURE
DISPOSAL AND CLOSURE OF ASSETS
During 2015, disposal transactions completed or 
announced amounted to $2.1 billion, and our disposals 
programme has subsequently been increased to a 
cumulative total of $5-6 billion by the end of 2016. 
Discussions are currently under way with potential buyers  
of our Niobium and Phosphates businesses and our  
Barro Alto and Codemin nickel operations in Brazil; as well 
as our Moranbah and Grosvenor coal mines in Australia, 
amongst others. Appropriate decisions about such disposals 
will be made over time, based on value and other factors.
In light of the commodity price environment, the Company 
has ceased or is ceasing production at a number of 
operations. Operations that have been placed onto long 
term care and maintenance include Peace River Coal  
and Snap Lake (diamonds) in Canada, while Thabazimbi 
(iron ore) in South Africa has reached the end of its life  
and is being closed. Plans have been initiated to place 
Twickenham (platinum) in South Africa onto care and 
maintenance, while the Damtshaa (diamonds) operation at 
the Orapa complex in Botswana was placed onto temporary 
care and maintenance from 1 January 2016.
STABILISING THE BALANCE SHEET 
We have seen the positive effects of productivity 
improvements in our operations throughout the year.  
These, combined with significant cost reductions, coupled 
with asset sales, and assisted by favourable exchange  
rate movements in our major countries of operation,  
have enabled us to keep net debt at a stable $12.9 billion, 
despite persistent price decreases for our commodities. 
LIQUIDITY AND DEBT TARGETS
Despite maintaining strong liquidity, with c.$15 billion of 
cash and undrawn facilities, we are nevertheless taking 
further steps to substantially strengthen the balance sheet, 
thus unlocking value and supporting the rebuilding of 
shareholder equity. Given the current extremely low price 
levels for our products, which may persist for some time, we 
are targeting a significant reduction of our net debt to below  
$10 billion in 2016, and to be less than 2.5 times EBITDA in 
the medium term. 
Following on from these cost reductions and cash savings, 
we are targeting being free cash flow positive in 2016, at 
current prices and exchange rates.
DIVIDEND
We maintained a 32 cents per share dividend at the  
interim stage. However, given the sharply deteriorating 
commodity price environment in the second half of the  
year, and the need to conserve cash and reduce debt, 
regrettably we had to take the unavoidable step of 
suspending dividend payments. When we resume  
dividend payments, we will move to a payout ratio-based 
policy, which we will define at that time. 
RESULTS
Anglo American’s own basket of commodity prices, which 
declined by 9% in 2014, decreased by a further 24% in 2015, 
with our share price slumping to record lows. We delivered 
underlying EBIT of $2.2 billion (2014: $4.9 billion). Over the 
past two years, price falls have impacted underlying EBIT by 
$6.6 billion, of which $4.2 billion was in 2015 alone. 
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
Given that no mining company in today’s market can rely  
on an early uplift in prices, we have acted to create a new  
Anglo American with a deleveraged balance sheet. 
We are, therefore, refining our focus towards a core portfolio 
of a reduced number of world class assets. These comprise 
our leading positions in diamonds, platinum group metals 
(PGMs) and our very attractive position in copper. They are 
long life, competitive assets – with the mineral potential to 
organically grow to create an attractive new Anglo American 
business with good profitability through the cycle. They are 
also mid- to late-cycle commodities and products which 
afford our Group greater exposure to the fast-growing 
consumer sectors of the global economy, within which  
lie a number of next-generation clean energy and other 
environmental technologies that rely upon such products. 
We will thus, over time, rebalance the Group away from the 
commodities which are more heavily linked to the steel 
industry and the urbanisation phase of development in  
China and other emerging and developing economies. 
The restructuring will be challenging given its scale and 
boldness, but the streamlined organisation structure and 
clearly defined Operating Model under Mark Cutifani’s 
leadership, as well as the well-thought-through plans for 
discussion with our wide range of stakeholders, give us 
confidence in their execution.
In 2015, the world economy continued to struggle, 
with most emerging economies slowing sharply. 
Russia and Brazil fell into deep recessions. 
China’s continuing slowdown, and the associated 
renminbi weakness, triggered severe turbulence 
in financial markets and depressed demand for 
industrial materials. This had a major impact on 
the prices of our mined products and mining 
equities, which continued their steep fall, 
accelerating towards the end of the year . 
Sir John Parker
STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 05
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
SAFETY
One critical and enduring priority for us is the Board’s 
continued close involvement with safety. We make no 
apology that safety performance is at the front end of our 
agenda at every Board meeting, with our goal being to 
achieve zero injuries. 
In 2015, our Group regrettably recorded six fatalities.  
However, this level, while six too many, equals the record  
low figure reported in 2014 – when the number of  
hours worked at many of our deep level, and potentially  
hazardous, platinum mines was significantly lower  
owing to a five-month period of industrial action.
Any death while on company business saddens us all.  
In our Sustainability Committee, under the dedicated 
chairmanship of Jack Thompson, himself an experienced 
miner, we investigate the causes and lessons learnt for  
each loss of human life in great detail. Our much improved 
second six months with, notably, a fatality-free final quarter, 
was particularly encouraging.
VALUES AND CULTURE
In today’s increasingly stringent legal and regulatory 
environment, mining companies are being subjected to 
unprecedented close scrutiny by their various stakeholders. 
This behoves everyone who works for Anglo American to 
constantly work on building the trust that is an integral part 
of our deep-seated reputation for doing the right thing, 
including a respect for human rights everywhere, and to 
show zero tolerance to any form of bribery and corruption.
During the year, the Board requested outside input  
and challenge in assessing the Ethical Framework  
at Anglo American. Following on from this, several 
recommendations were made and considered by  
the Board. Implementation of the recommendations  
approved by the Board will take place during 2016. 
As a Board, we acknowledge that, in practical terms, the  
‘tone from the top’ starts with us, regardless of the state  
of the market. This is particularly true for me as your 
Chairman in my dealings with Board members, senior 
management and all manner of stakeholders. It is also the 
case for our Chief Executive, and his management team,  
who are required to conduct all engagements – both inside 
and outside the business – with the respect and integrity 
demanded. And it is how each of us, as employees of  
Anglo American, should embody the Company’s values in 
our daily work. Actions and behaviours speak louder than 
any words and set the tone at all levels in our organisation.  
In these exceptionally tough times for our industry, it  
is especially important that our integrity, consistency  
in behaviour and transparency in all our dealings  
remain paramount.
THE BOARD
Succession planning at Board level for all Board members, 
including the Chairman, is kept under regular review by the 
non-executive directors and the Nomination Committee. 
Tony O’Neill, our Group Director of Technical and 
Sustainability, was appointed to the Board in July as 
Technical Director, and I should like to acknowledge his  
vast mining experience, knowledge, inventiveness and  
the strong leadership he has brought to our technical  
team, particularly in supporting the turnaround of 
underperforming operations. We have also, with great 
regret, had to accept the resignation of Phuthuma Nhleko  
as he had expressed a wish to concentrate on his business 
interests in South Africa. The Board would like to thank him 
for his keen commercial and strategic capability, and sound 
judgement over the past four years.
During 2015, we commenced an external evaluation of the 
Board and we remain committed to doing this every three 
years, as well as to upgrading our internal process of 
evaluation in the intervening years.
A WORD OF THANKS
I want to particularly thank all our Board members and the 
executive management team led by Mark Cutifani for the 
professionalism and dedication to find the right strategic 
route through the turbulent and uncertain period we are 
experiencing in the mining industry.
My thanks and the appreciation of the whole Board go to  
all our employees and contractors, who have been through 
and continue to face significant change as we navigate 
towards calmer waters.
OUTLOOK 
Following the plunge in mining commodity prices from  
2012, the outlook for raw materials remains challenging  
as China’s continuing slowdown unfolds and policymakers  
try to rebalance and restructure the economy away from  
its heavy reliance on infrastructure investment. In addition, 
the potential for higher US interest rates and a stronger 
dollar could present stiff headwinds for the global economy, 
especially emerging economies. However, with commodity 
prices at such depressed levels, following some four years  
of decline, we are finally beginning to see more supply-side 
discipline in certain of our commodities and a reduction in 
expenditure on large-scale mining expansion projects, 
which should in due course put a floor under prices.
Against this background, Anglo American has responded  
with a bold plan to concentrate the business, within a  
strong balance sheet, on an established core of world class 
assets. This will place us well as China’s economy matures 
and as developed consumer-led economies – especially  
the US and Europe – continue to grow.
As your Chairman, I believe that the new Anglo American  
will be more resilient and positioned to generate sustainable 
positive returns and growth for shareholders through the 
mining cycle.
OUR STRATEGIC REPORT
Our 2015 strategic report, from pages 2 to 64, was reviewed 
and approved by the Board on 15 February 2016. 
Sir John Parker 
Chairman
Strategic report 06 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
CREATING VALUE THROUGH MINING THE  
RAW MATERIALS REQUIRED TO MEET  
GROWING CONSUMER- DRIVEN DEMAND
STRATEGY
The Group Management Committee (GMC) is responsible for developing Anglo American’s strategy  
and policies, as discussed and approved by the Board. Implementation of the strategy is monitored by  
the GMC, and measured through our KPIs, against our pillars of value.
STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL
BUSINESS INPUT  
CAPITALS
These capitals are the key stocks 
of value that are increased, 
decreased or transformed 
through the activities of our 
organisation, over the short, 
medium and long term. 
FINANCIAL
Our shareholders own the business. 
They expect attractive, sustainable 
returns, reflecting the risk they take  
in funding the business. 
HUMAN
Our people are the business. We 
aim to resource the organisation 
with a capable, engaged and 
productive workforce. We are 
committed to ensuring no harm 
comes to any of our workforce.
INTELLECTUAL
We aim to drive aggressive 
innovation to support consistent 
over-delivery on commitments. We 
link our technical and marketing 
knowledge to ensure we invest our 
efforts in the key leverage points in 
the ‘mine to market’ value chain.
NATURAL
In order for us to mine, we first need 
to find locations rich in the minerals 
our customers need. Once 
operational, we require water, 
electricity and fuel in order to run 
our mines, process our products 
and move them to our customers.
MANUFACTURED
Throughout our value chain,  
we require a host of specialised 
equipment. The products we 
purchase, through our optimised 
supply chain, must deliver  
optimum value. 
SOCIAL AND 
RELATIONSHIPS
Open and honest engagement with 
our stakeholders is critical in gaining 
and maintaining our social and legal 
licence to operate and, therefore, 
the sustainability of our business.
The transition to a more streamlined business 
delivers a portfolio uniquely positioned for the 
expanding consumer-driven markets through: 
 • Focusing on those commodities positioned to  
meet the shift away from infrastructure investment 
towards consumer-driven demand, i.e. diamonds,  
PGMs and copper.
 • Retaining and developing our highest quality  
world class ore bodies with competitive industry  
cost positions, driving sustainable profitability 
throughout the cycle.
 • Streamlining the portfolio, though preserving  
balance to ensure there is not over-reliance on  
any one product group or geography, while retaining 
established technical and marketing capabilities and 
the critical mass to compete effectively for, and  
deliver, future opportunities.
OUR DIVERSE VALUE CHAIN…
As a company, we operate across the entire mining 
value chain – from exploration through to marketing. 
Although we are focused on resource development, 
mining and operations, we are developing other areas 
of the value chain, e.g. our marketing capabilities, when 
we can see opportunities to deliver increased value.
Find: our exploration teams discover mineral 
deposits in a safe and responsible way to 
replenish the Mineral Resources that underpin 
our future success.
Plan and build: working with all our 
stakeholders, we plan and build some of the 
most effective, efficient and environmentally 
sound mines in the world. 
Mine: we operate open pit and underground 
mines, although we will move to predominantly 
open pit mining as we transition the portfolio.
Process: we generate additional  
value by processing and refining many  
of our products. 
Move and market: we provide products to 
our customers around the world, meeting their 
specific technical and logistical requirements.
Close or divest: In whatever way we exit an 
operation, we do so in accordance with our 
Good Citizenship Business Principles, with a 
focus on the social and environmental impact.
TOGETHER, 
WE CREATE 
SUSTAINABLE 
VALUE THAT 
MAKES A REAL 
DIFFERENCE
OUR BUSINESS 
MODEL
   For more information See page 14 07
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
CREATING VALUE THROUGH MINING THE  
RAW MATERIALS REQUIRED TO MEET  
GROWING CONSUMER- DRIVEN DEMAND
MEASURING VALUE THROUGH 
OUR SEVEN PILLARS 
SAFETY AND HEALTH
To do no harm to our workforce. 
ENVIRONMENT
To minimise harm to the environment. 
SOCIO-POLITICAL 
To partner in the benefits of mining with  
local communities and governments.
PEOPLE
To resource the organisation with an  
engaged and productive workforce. 
PRODUCTION
 
To extract our Ore Reserves in a  
sustainable way to create value. 
COST
To be competitive by operating as  
efficiently as possible. 
FINANCIAL
To deliver sustainable returns to  
our shareholders. 
   For more information See page 34
CAPITAL ALLOCATION
With a high quality asset portfolio and diverse  
value chain, we can focus our effort and capital  
at the points in the value chain that deliver most  
value, according to the commodity we are mining  
and current and projected market conditions.
  For more information on how we allocate capital See page 21
SOCIAL RELATIONSHIPS
SOCIAL RELATIONSHIPS
SOCIAL RELATIONSHIPS
SOCIAL RELATIONSHIPS
SOCIAL RELATIONSHIPS
PLAN AND 
BUILD
MINE
FIND
MOVE AND
MARKET
PROCESS
CLOSE OR 
DIVEST
RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk is inherent in all our business activities. We  
are committed to an effective, robust system of risk 
identification and an effective response to such  
risks to support the achievement of our objectives.
GOVERNANCE
The aim of good governance is to promote excellent decision-making and the effective execution of those decisions. 
In practice, this means ensuring decisions are made by the right people, with the right information, at the right time 
and that they are then executed effectively. Our governance controls throughout the business ensure that we act 
ethically and with integrity for the benefit of our people, our stakeholders, our business and the world at large.
   For more information See page 40   For more information See page 65 08 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT MARKETPLACE REVIEW
MARKETPLACE 
REVIEW
India’s economy is the exception to this weaker growth story. 
Following the election of Narendra Modi’s Bharatiya Janata 
Party, GDP growth has picked up markedly. If the new 
government implements more far-reaching reforms, the 
economy could see its growth rate running at around 
7%-8% per year in the medium term.
THE TRANSITION OF EMERGING ECONOMIES 
China’s slowdown is, however, also a corollary of the 
authorities’ determination to rebalance and restructure  
the economy. Over the past two decades, the country  
has experienced an extended investment boom. The 
government is now promoting a less capital-intensive 
growth model. Inevitably, this implies lower aggregate 
economic growth rates and weaker demand growth in  
many commodity-intensive sectors, such as steel and 
cement, albeit mitigated by potentially stronger demand  
for other metals and minerals, including diamonds, PGMs 
and copper.
2015 proved to be yet another challenging year  
for the mining industry – continued economic 
uncertainty, slowing economic growth and demand, 
and the resulting sharply lower commodity prices  
led to the value of many mining companies falling  
to historic lows and management teams having to 
implement a range of initiatives to reduce operating 
and capital costs, to conserve cash and protect their 
balance sheets.
THE SHIFTING GLOBAL 
ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
A number of global trends have developed in recent  
years that have had a significant bearing on the economic 
performance and prospects of many countries that play  
a major role in the global trade of mined products:
CHINA’S SLOWDOWN 
According to the IMF , global GDP increased by 3% in  
2015, compared with 3½% in 2014. Since the global 
financial crisis in 2008/09, the world economy’s growth  
rate has consistently fallen short of its pre-crisis levels, 
raising concerns about a protracted ‘secular stagnation’ 
within the advanced economies, in which growth is 
persistently weak. In the emerging economies, average 
growth rates are likely to remain depressed as China’s 
infrastructure-fuelled boom fades.
The IMF estimates that the advanced economies grew  
by 2% in 2015, slightly faster than in 2014. While growth 
picked up modestly in the US, Europe and Japan, it remains 
subdued relative to the pre-crisis trend, and there are 
worries the crisis has had a long term detrimental effect on 
the future path of output.
The emerging economies experienced a further marked 
slowdown in 2015, with aggregate growth of 4% compared 
with 4½% in 2014. China’s economy has slowed  
significantly in recent years as it has begun to mature 
following a period of unprecedented national infrastructure 
development that absorbed ever larger volumes of raw 
materials, particularly iron ore and metallurgical coal for 
steel production. Most forecasters expect a further 
slowdown over the next five to 10 years, reflecting the end  
of the investment boom, diminishing potential for ‘catch-up’ 
growth, a shrinking workforce, and a significant debt 
overhang in the corporate sector. 
The continuing slowdown in China is inevitably inflicting 
damage on other emerging economies, and especially 
among mining-commodity producers. Economists are  
now becoming more cautious about medium term growth 
prospects in these economies. Brazil and South Africa have 
suffered particularly from the drop in commodity prices, 
which has only been partly offset by their weaker currencies. 
Their underlying potential growth rates have fallen to around 
2%-2½% a year compared with 3½%-4% at the height of 
the commodity boom. 
%
60
57
42
23
50
38
22
12
45
34
15
5
Iron ore 2014
 2010
 2005
 2000
Copper 2014
 2010
 2005
 2000
Nickel 2014
 2010
 2005
 2000
Source: IMF
Household consumption
Investment
2012 2002 1992 1982 1972 1962 1952
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Source: China’s National Bureau of Statistics 09
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
SUPPLY OF COMMODITIES EXCEEDING DEMAND
The decline in investment expenditure in China has  
weighed particularly on prices for metals and minerals.  
As a result, 2015 marked a year of much weaker demand 
growth for most mined commodities, while supply 
continued to increase. 
A number of supply cuts have been implemented across  
the mining industry. To date, however, such cuts have proved  
to be insufficient to stimulate a meaningful price recovery  
in the absence of stronger demand growth. 
Diamonds
End-consumer demand for diamonds continued to be 
robust in the US, which is the largest consumer market for 
polished diamonds, with an estimated 45% share of 
demand. Chinese demand growth for diamond jewellery 
saw a considerable slowdown after being the engine of 
growth for the industry in the last decade. Other emerging 
markets saw weaker consumer demand, exacerbated by the 
strength of the US dollar. The resulting demand weakness 
was amplified into the value chain, with jewellery retailers 
reducing their desired stock levels and, consequently, their 
purchasing from the midstream. Faced with lower polished 
demand and high stocks, built up during 2014 and early 
2015, the midstream sector reduced its demand for rough 
diamonds, which caused a build-up of inventory, with 
downward pressure on rough diamond pricing. 
Looking forward, global carat production is expected  
to grow followed by a period of stabilisation. Post-2020, 
there is potential for a production decline given the lack  
of recent discoveries of significant scale and depletion of  
the resource base. This decline in production, combined 
with the expected growth in consumer demand for  
diamond jewellery, points to strong prospects for the 
diamond business in the medium to long term.
Precious metals
Platinum production recovered from strike-affected 2014 
levels, with an estimated 14% increase in mined supply, to 
reach levels similar to 2013. Supply from autocatalyst 
recycling, however, is thought to have decreased as 
recyclers held onto scrap in the low price environment. 
Higher platinum offtake by the autocatalyst and industrial 
sectors was largely offset by lower demand from the 
jewellery sector. Combined with outflows from physical 
exchange traded funds (ETFs), the net effect was a more 
balanced market in comparison with the substantial market 
deficit in 2014. Palladium demand for autocatalyst and 
industrial applications was relatively stable year-on-year.  
In line with the platinum market, the increase in mined 
supply, together with outflows from ETFs, reduced the 
significant market deficit recorded in 2014. The weak  
South African rand contributed to the steady decline in  
PGM prices through 2015.
Although, in the near term, the growth outlook for PGMs  
is unclear due to potentially reduced platinum jewellery 
demand in China and uncertainty surrounding the 
autocatalyst market, longer term demand is forecast to be 
robust given the expected demand for new and cleaner 
vehicles in maturing economies, coupled with increasingly 
stringent global emissions legislation.
Base metals 
Slowing demand growth was a key contributor to the  
weak copper market during 2015 – global consumption  
was below expectations, while forecasts for Chinese 
demand growth in particular have been scaled back. 
Although cuts or unintended disruptions to output increased 
during 2015, removing close to 1.2 Mt of copper from global 
mined production, recently commissioned mines are now 
ramping up and are set to add considerable tonnage to the 
market over the medium term. Over the long term, supply is 
expected to struggle to meet growing demand given limited 
sources of new primary copper supply, declining grades and 
more challenging mining conditions in the existing global 
portfolio of ageing copper mines.
Despite the ban on Indonesian exports of nickel ore 
continuing in 2015, a number of factors negatively affected 
the nickel market. These included an abrupt fall-off in 
Chinese (and global) stainless steel production, by far the 
largest end-using sector of nickel, as well as Chinese nickel 
pig iron output beating expectations. Refined production 
growth outside of China also remained reasonably strong in 
the absence of significant price-induced cutbacks, even as 
the declining price cut deep into the global cost curve. As a 
consequence, LME inventories increased throughout the 
year, reaching unprecedented levels by year end.
Bulk commodities 
Steel demand fell globally by about 3% in 2015 – the first 
annual decline since 2009 – largely due to Chinese demand 
softening by around 5%. This resulted in a decrease in the 
consumption of both metallurgical coal and iron ore.
Iron ore fundamentals deteriorated on the back of declining 
global demand and strong growth in low-cost supply, 
particularly from Australia. A number of new projects are 
ramping up, or are expected to be commissioned in the near 
future, delivering a total of 250 Mtpa of new supply since 
2013, equivalent to 12% of 2015 global supply, compared 
with demand growth of only 50 Mtpa.
Indexed 2015 commodity prices
Jan 2015 Dec 2015
Price Index, 1 January 2015 = 1.0
0.5
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
1.0
1.1
Source: Anglo American Commodity Research
Iron ore (Platts 62% CFR China)
Iron ore (34)%
Thermal coal
Thermal coal (15)%
Metallurgical coal 
Metallurgical coal (26)% 
Nickel
Nickel   (29)%
Platinum
Platinum (24)%
Copper
Copper (28)%
Diamonds
Diamonds (15)%
Anglo American basket price
Anglo American (24)% 10 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT MARKETPLACE REVIEW
MANAGING CAPITAL ALLOCATION PRIORITIES  
AND REDUCING DEBT 
The now lengthy period of commodity price weakness  
has had a significant impact on the health of mining 
companies’ balance sheets. Across the mining sector, 
companies are making efforts to preserve cash and  
reduce capital commitments. Capital expenditure – both 
future commitments and actual spend – has been cut 
considerably, with few new projects being approved for 
development and, indeed, corporate focus has now  
shifted to placing loss-making, excess capacity onto care  
and maintenance. 
A MORE DIFFICULT MINING ENVIRONMENT
Grade deterioration and ore reserve depletion are  
important determinants of both longer term supply 
requirements and cost trends. A wide variety of factors 
is likely to continue to provide structural upward cost  
pressure, including: availability of both water and power; 
declining head grades; technical problems; increasing 
infrastructure costs as mines are built in more remote 
locations; and the shift to underground mining as easy to 
access near-surface ore bodies are depleted. Consequently, 
mining companies face a significant challenge to reduce 
costs and improve productivity against a background  
of limited investment appetite and few significant 
breakthroughs in technological capability. Technological 
innovation and a focus on operational improvements are 
likely to be critical to the achievement of sustainable cost  
and productivity improvements.
STAKEHOLDER ACTIVISM AND  
GOVERNMENT REGULATION 
Mining companies across the world are facing greater 
demands and expectations from increasingly vocal 
stakeholder groups, with often competing interests.
Governments, which had become used to high levels of 
revenue from mining at the peak of the commodity cycle,  
are having to adjust to a much more challenging 
environment. They are under pressure to strike a balance 
between delivering more benefit and regulatory reform, 
while at the same time not deterring much-needed private 
sector investment. 
TRAINING AND RETAINING SKILLED EMPLOYEES 
AND MAINTAINING SOUND LABOUR RELATIONS
As mining methods become more technically complex, the 
need to train and retain skilled staff becomes ever more 
important. In an environment where older, less-productive 
mines are being placed onto care and maintenance or sold, 
and technical innovation leads to more mines being 
mechanised, maintaining positive labour relations enables 
business continuity and enhanced productivity, as skilled 
labour shortages and industrial unrest can significantly 
affect production and costs. 
In metallurgical coal, the slump in Chinese imports largely 
offset stronger demand from India and other Asian markets, 
with overall seaborne trade reducing slightly from 290 Mt  
in 2014, to around 275 Mt. While Australian supply was 
maintained, other less competitive sources such as the  
US and Canada were displaced.
The impact of China’s slowing growth profile, coupled with 
an increase in hydro-power generation in the country, also 
affected thermal coal demand there, with imports falling  
by c.25% year-on-year. However, the continued reliance  
on thermal coal for power generation, particularly in the 
developing world, has limited the downward price impact  
of slowing growth relative to other bulk commodities.
PROLONGED DOWNTURN IN COMMODITY PRICES
The combination of subdued demand and, in some 
instances, oversupply of commodities has placed  
significant downward pressure on prices. The chart on  
page 9 shows the percentage reduction in the prices of  
the metals and minerals produced by Anglo American  
over the course of 2015.
As the global market for commodities has deteriorated,  
the mining sector has been characterised by a marked 
reduction in costs in most regions, resulting in average 
industry costs falling; for example, metallurgical coal costs 
have declined by an estimated 15% over the year. However,  
the oversupply of many commodities has meant that prices 
have generally fallen by considerably more than costs,  
which has led to a significant portion of the industry 
becoming loss-making.
CHALLENGES FACING  
THE MINING INDUSTRY  
AND ANGLO AMERICAN
In light of the global trends described above, there are  
a number of challenges currently facing the mining industry 
and Anglo American, including:
REDUCING COSTS 
Significant cost reductions and efficiency efforts are being 
undertaken across the mining industry in a bid to improve 
relative positions on commodity cost curves and, hence, 
profitability. The measures being taken include: headcount 
reductions; a focus on core assets to improve productivity, 
with many companies taking the decision to close capacity 
and remove high cost production; and maintaining strong 
capital discipline. Lower oil prices have helped many 
producers lower their input costs (although higher energy 
costs and high inflation in both South Africa and Brazil  
have hampered cost reduction efforts in those commodity 
producing countries), while the devaluation of many local 
currencies is also helping miners’ costs in US dollar terms. 
One of the effects of weakening local currencies, however,  
is that marginal producers are being supported for longer, 
thereby prolonging the period of oversupply.
MARKETPLACE REVIEW continued 11
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
FOCUS ON DE BEERS,  
PGMS AND COPPER
 • M at er ia l l y s t r e a m l i ne d  
core portfolio of 16 assets
 • Improved competitive profile  
– advantaged cost positions,  
world class ore bodies, and 
balance of geographic  
and end markets
 • Asset quality, mineral 
endowment options and  
scale to support future 
opportunities
 • D i f f er ent iat e d , p r em i u m 
positioning for expanding 
consumer-driven markets.
PORTFOLIO 
TRANSFORMATION  
UNDER WAY
 • Nickel, Niobium and 
Phosphates, and Moranbah 
and Grosvenor metallurgical 
coal disposal processes  
under way
 • Further progress made on 
other previously announced 
disposal processes, including 
certain platinum assets in 
South Africa, and thermal and 
metallurgical coal operations 
in South Africa and Australia.
CASH FLOW ENHANCEMENTS 
FURTHER STRENGTHEN 
BALANCE SHEET
 • $1.9 billion of cost and 
productivity improvements in 
2016, expected to continue 
into 2017 and beyond as the 
organisation is aligned with 
streamlined portfolio
 • Step change 50% ($250 million) 
central and global support cost 
reduction in the medium term
 • 25% year-on-year reduction  
in total capex expected, to  
less than $3.0 billion in 2016
 • Dividend suspended and  
will resume with payout ratio  
when appropriate
 • Strong liquidity maintained, 
with c.$15 billion of cash and 
undrawn facilities.
In response to the significant challenges  
facing the mining industry as a whole  
and Anglo American, including the lower 
commodity price environment, we have 
set out the details of wide-ranging 
measures that will sustainably improve 
cash flows and materially reduce net debt, 
while focusing the Group’s strategy and 
streamlining the organisation. 
Anglo American will be focused on 
competitive, long life assets with 
considerable organic growth opportunities 
that mine the materials expected to benefit 
from long term, consumer-driven growth 
trends as the global economy evolves and 
developing economies mature.
ANGLO AMERICAN’S 
RESPONSE
FOCUSED PORTFOLIO THAT DELIVERS
SOCIO-ECONOMIC 
TRENDS
Current global economic trends 
suggest slowing demand growth  
for infrastructure investment 
commodities, towards more  
consumer-driven product demand.
512 million
Forecast number of middle class households in 
China and India combined by 2030, compared 
to 204 million in 2015, a 150% increase.
9 
Nine of the most important jurisdictions  
worldwide – covering 80% of global car sales –  
are adopting more stringent vehicle emission  
and fuel economy standards.
 $270 billion
Global new investment in renewable energy  
in 2014, an increase of 17% on 2013.
CONSUMER  
TRENDS
The burgeoning middle class in 
emerging markets is stimulating 
consumer spending, while the 
developed world is experiencing 
rising demand for clean energy 
technologies and renewables.
2%–4.5%
Global rough diamond demand in  
real value terms is expected to grow  
between 2% and 4.5% annually over  
the next 15 years.
20 million
The number of electric vehicles, 
including plug-in hybrid and fuel cell 
vehicles, the Electric Vehicles Initiative 
seeks to help deploy by 2020.
9,000 lbs
A photovoltaic solar farm plant can  
use approximately 9,000 lbs of copper 
per megawatt of peak capacity.
ANGLO AMERICAN 
DELIVERS
Our core portfolio will focus on 
De Beers, PGMs and Copper, driven 
by consumer-driven markets.
 
 
 
De Beers
Through our 85% interest in De Beers, 
the world’s leading diamond company, 
we offer a differentiated and high  
quality position to meet growing 
consumer demand. 
PGMs
As the world’s leading PGM  
producer, we are helping to develop 
innovative technologies in fields  
such as automotive, clean energy  
and chemicals.
Copper
With interests in two of the world’s 
largest copper mines, we supply  
copper products to a range of industries, 
including telecommunications, 
renewable energy technologies and 
electric vehicles.
Meeting 
global 
consumer- 
driven 
demands
Sources:  
Bain & Company, The International Council on 
Clean Transportation, Frankfurt School – UNEP 
Collaborating Centre, Copper Development 
Association Inc., and Clean Energy Ministerial. 
   For more information See page 16 12 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
CREATING THE NEW  
ANGLO AMERICAN 
Mark Cutifani
(1) 
Excludes $0.8 billion 
volume downside at  
De Beers in response 
to market conditions.
(2) 
See page 180 for  
the definition and 
calculation of copper 
equivalent unit costs.
(3) 
The Life of Mine plan 
for Mogalakwena 
mine extends until 
2105, beyond the 
current Mining Right 
expiry (in 2040). 
Applications for 
extensions to the 
Mining Right will be 
submitted at the 
appropriate times. 
There is reasonable 
expectation that such 
extensions will not  
be withheld.
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
In my previous annual statement I reiterated that creating  
a platform of operational excellence is fundamental to 
delivering the full potential from our asset base, independent 
of the market’s external influences. In fact, weaker markets 
emphasised a greater need for operating discipline, to 
ensure that we are operating to deliver optimal cash flows 
while preserving the assets’ longer term integrity. In 2015, 
we have continued to focus our attention on those assets 
that contribute the majority of earnings to Anglo American 
and that offer us the greatest upside potential.
Of particular note, our two world class copper assets in  
Chile have both recovered well from their respective 
challenges. The mitigation plans put in place at Los Bronces 
in response to the water shortages in the first half of 2015 
proved effective and, once those water constraints were 
lifted following much-needed snowfall, the operation’s 
strong performance in the second half of the year delivered 
total annual production of 401,700 tonnes, just 1% below 
the prior year. Similarly at Collahuasi, where certain plant 
stability issues were identified early in the year, the operation 
delivered an exceptional performance in the last quarter, 
resulting in production of 200,300 tonnes (attributable) for 
the year, only a 3% decrease, despite the major challenges 
that were confronted.
In our Platinum business, the flagship Mogalakwena mine, 
with more than 25 years of Reserve Life
(3)
 and a highly 
competitive cost position, achieved a further 6% increase  
in production to 392,000 ounces for the year. The strong 
mining performance resulted from a number of operational 
enhancements, including improved equipment efficiencies, 
better drill penetration rates, increased shovel loading  
hours and truck loads, while higher grade and increased 
concentrator recovery performance combined to deliver 
record production.
In Australia, at our underground longwall metallurgical  
coal operations, we have seen significantly improved 
performance underpinned by improved cutting rates.  
This has been achieved by embedding automation to  
enable bi-directional cutting at Grasstree, resulting in  
record production at that mine through a 40% increase in 
run-of-mine tonnes. Bi-directional cutting is also planned  
to be rolled out at Moranbah in 2016, building on the 7% 
increase in run-of-mine tonnes achieved in 2015. At both 
operations, the implementation of the Operating Model  
has resulted in the stabilisation of processes through 
detailed planning while driving accountabilities to the 
operating teams.
At the Sishen iron ore mine in South Africa, the sharply 
deteriorating iron ore price during 2015 caused us to take a 
fresh look at the already revised mine plan, with a focus on 
reducing operating costs further. This work is in progress 
and requires a significant scaling back of the mine’s 
considerable waste stripping activities, achieved by 
redesigning the pit to a smaller and lower cost configuration, 
to preserve the economic sustainability of the mine through 
Against the strong headwinds of a 24% decrease in the 
basket price of our products, our ongoing intense focus  
on operational costs and productivity delivered a  
$1.3 billion
(1)
 underlying EBIT benefit in the year, providing 
some mitigation. Weaker prices accounted for a $4.2 billion 
negative impact to underlying EBIT, while weaker  
currencies in our producer countries served to provide  
$1.8 billion of mitigating benefit. The net negative effect  
of $2.4 billion was the major driver of the 55% decrease  
in underlying EBIT to $2.2 billion for the year. Overall, our 
copper equivalent unit costs
(2)
 reduced by a further 16%  
in US dollar terms, representing a 27% total reduction  
since 2012. Despite our internal improvements, underlying 
EBITDA decreased by 38% to $4.9 billion and underlying 
earnings reduced by 63% to $0.8 billion.
We have, however, been able to maintain our level of  
net debt and liquidity at $12.9 billion and $14.8 billion 
respectively, through improvements we have made to  
the business, significant capex reductions, making the  
tough decisions on some of our more marginal assets  
and the delivery of our asset disposal commitments. 
Recalibrated commodity price assumptions and losses  
on the disposal of certain assets have caused us to record 
pre-tax impairments and related charges in the second  
half of $3.8 billion.
Safety and environmental performance is a leading  
indicator of how businesses are run. The greater the  
degree of planned work and stable operations, the safer  
our people will be. In 2015, we achieved the Group’s best 
safety performance in a full production year, reflecting  
the intense focus on high risk activities, standards and 
controls. I am particularly pleased with the 80% reduction  
in environmental incidents since 2013. However, I am  
deeply saddened to report that we lost six of our colleagues 
during the year, reminding us in the most acute way how 
much work we still have to do to ensure our people go  
home safely from work every day. I am encouraged,  
though, by the significant improvement in the second half  
of the year, with a fatality-free final quarter. The achievement  
of this milestone reminds us all that our goal of zero harm  
is achievable.
The global economic environment and its effects 
on prices presented the industry with significant 
challenges during 2015.
STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 13
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
a potentially prolonged iron ore price environment. As a 
result, Kumba is targeting a cash break-even position at an 
iron ore price of less than $40 per tonne.
In Brazil, our Nickel business has benefited from the tough 
decision, in 2014, to intervene to rebuild the two furnaces. 
The 12-month rebuild process was delivered ahead of plan 
and below budget and without a single lost time injury –  
a remarkable achievement for the entire team. First 
production was achieved in September 2015, and we  
have seen a 10% improvement in C1 unit costs compared 
with 2014, largely as a result of having two furnaces 
operating at their full design capacity.
DELIVERING PORTFOLIO COMMITMENTS
Our portfolio transformation is well on track, from c.65 
assets in 2013 to 45 today. We completed or announced 
$2.1 billion of disposal transactions in 2015, largely from  
the $1.6 billion completed sale of our 50% interest in 
Lafarge Tarmac to Lafarge SA, as agreed in 2014. This 
transaction brought the aggregate proceeds received  
by Anglo American for the sale of its Tarmac assets to 
approximately $2.5 billion since the decision to sell Tarmac 
in 2008. We have subsequently also announced the sale of 
our interests in the Tarmac Middle East businesses to Colas, 
part of the Bouygues Group.
In Copper, we completed the sale of our Norte assets 
(Mantoverde and Mantos Blancos) in Chile to an Audley 
Capital-led consortium for $300 million, with potential 
upside. We have since agreed a number of other 
transactions, including the sale of the Rustenburg platinum 
operations to Sibanye Gold for at least ZAR4.5 billion in 
nominal terms (approximately $275 million) and the sale of 
the Dartbrook thermal coal mine in Australia to Australian 
Pacific Coal for up to A$50 million (approximately 
$36 million).
Post the year end, we agreed the sale of the Callide  
thermal coal mine in Australia to Batchfire Resources for  
an undisclosed sum; this transaction remains subject to a 
number of conditions.
We have made significant progress, albeit in an environment 
that has been deteriorating at a faster pace. 
CREATING THE NEW ANGLO AMERICAN
We are taking decisive action to sustainably improve our 
cash flows and materially reduce net debt, while focusing on 
our most competitive assets. We will focus the portfolio on 
our global leadership positions in diamonds and PGMs and 
our world class position in copper. This unique combination 
of assets, enhanced by our commercial marketing expertise, 
will have the advantage of benefiting from the ongoing shift 
away from infrastructure investment towards consumer-
driven demand, positioning Anglo American for these 
expanding markets. We will manage our other assets, in bulk 
commodities and other minerals, for cash generation or 
disposal over time.
We have a detailed series of measures, including  
the delivery of $1.9 billion of cost and productivity 
improvements, to deliver positive free cash flow in 2016  
and beyond, and an additional $3-4 billion in asset disposal 
proceeds. As a result, we are targeting a net debt reduction 
of $3 billion to less than $10 billion in 2016, assuming current 
commodity prices and exchange rates, and are targeting net 
debt of $6 billion in the medium term, supporting a return to 
a solid investment grade credit rating.
We of course recognise the current challenging 
environment in which to deliver disposals. We are already 
engaged with parties interested in several of our assets,  
but we will only complete those transactions which deliver 
appropriate value for our investors. So, while we have 
accelerated our disposal processes, and given our targeted 
positive free cash flow and our robust liquidity position, we 
will take appropriate time to secure value outcomes from the 
disposal programme.
The materially streamlined core portfolio of 16 assets  
will also enable a step change 50% reduction in central  
and global support costs and a c.60% reduction in indirect 
headcount as assets are sold and central support 
requirements are downsized and recalibrated. 
Our core portfolio creates a highly attractive, competitive 
and well balanced business, with the leverage of scale, 
technical expertise and mineral endowment options, which 
offer considerable upside potential over the long term.  
By taking such action, we are creating a Group that will  
also be significantly stronger in the short term – it will be 
streamlined, focused, with lower overhead and indirect 
costs and positioned to deliver robust profitability and  
cash flows through the cycle. 
PARTNERS IN THE FUTURE
During the year we maintained our work on developing 
strong relationships with host communities and continued 
the roll-out of our stringent Social Way standards across  
our businesses. Performance against Social Way 
requirements improved significantly in 2015, although a 
continuing focus will be required to achieve full compliance 
by the end of 2016. 
Just as 2015 was a difficult year for the mining industry, 
it was a challenging one for host communities, with the 
implementation of operational efficiency measures, the 
placing of mines onto care and maintenance and mine 
closures negatively affecting host communities, as 
evidenced by protests in mining communities across  
South Africa. In response, we have continued to roll out  
our new approach to socio-economic development which 
leverages our value chains and skills, focusing in particular 
on local procurement, enterprise development, and local 
government capacity development. We have also  
developed a unique diagnostic tool to measure progress 
and effectiveness in this critical area and this is being 
deployed at certain of our operations.  14 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
economies, mainly reflecting some improvement in  
Europe. But emerging economies, particularly the large 
commodity producers, suffered from the effects of  
China’s marked slowdown.
Over the next few years, most forecasters expect a 
strengthening of global economic growth, albeit gradually, 
principally in response to firmer recoveries in the US and 
Europe. Consumer spending is picking up and business 
investment should strengthen. India’s economy should 
continue to grow more strongly, in contrast to more subdued 
activity in Brazil, Russia and South Africa.
China’s economy is adjusting to its ‘new normal’. Its 
aggregate growth rate is falling owing to several longer term 
trends: the end of its infrastructure investment boom, less 
potential for ‘catch-up’ growth, an ageing population, and a 
debt overhang in the corporate sector. Its demand for some 
commodities – notably those most related to infrastructure 
We have continued to engage in broader dialogues about 
society’s expectations of the mining industry, not least to 
ensure that we are listening to what our host communities 
need. The engagement between mining companies and 
faith groups continues to yield productive discussions, with 
events held in Rome and Cape Town and a number of site 
visits organised to help contextualise the nature of the 
challenge while also highlighting proven successes. We 
have also continued to integrate the Development Partner 
Framework, whose development was hosted by the  
Kellogg Innovation Network at Northwestern University,  
into our own approach to managing community relations. 
OUTLOOK
The world economy continued to struggle in 2015, with 
output growth falling short of expectations yet again.  
There were signs of encouragement in the advanced  
STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION
DRIVING  
CHANGE
OUR MISSION  
AND VISION
$1.3bn
$1.3 billion
(1)
 of cost 
and productivity 
improvements 
delivered in 2015
$2.0bn
$2.0 billion  
capex reduction  
to $4.0 billion, 
including a 30% 
decrease in SIB 
capex in 2015
$2.1bn
$2.1 billion disposal 
transactions 
completed or 
announced in 2015
A number of 
operations across 
the Group have 
ceased or are 
ceasing production
>$400m
>$400 million 
underlying EBIT 
improvement  
from marketing 
activities since 
2013
~
$100m
Avoided energy 
costs in 201 5 driven 
by ECO
2
MAN  
and business 
improvement 
projects
1,500
Indirect support 
roles reduced by 
1,500 in 2015
FOCUS ON  
DELIVERY
Maintaining a highly 
competitive mindset 
with innovation and 
outstanding delivery at 
the forefront of how we 
drive change
DEVELOP CORE 
BUSINESS 
PROCESSES
Becoming industry 
leaders in critical areas, 
extracting maximum 
value from our assets 
and products
CREATE A HIGH 
PERFORMANCE  
CULTURE
Ensuring our 
organisation and people 
have the critical core 
skills to improve returns 
FOCUS THE 
PORTFOLIO
Prioritising time and 
capital on the assets 
that offer the most 
attractive long term 
value creation potential
DEFINING  
OUR FUTURE
A CHANGING 
WORLD
The ongoing  
economic slowdown  
in developing countries 
and the precipitous  
fall in commodity  
prices requires  
Anglo American to 
strengthen its balance 
sheet, while focusing  
its strategy, acting 
decisively to achieve 
our ambition…
“To create a resilient 
business that delivers 
robust profitability and 
sustainable, positive 
cash flows through the 
price cycle.”
OUR MISSION: 
Together, we create 
sustainable value 
that makes a real 
difference
OUR VISION:
To be partners  
in the future
(1) 
Excludes $0.8 billion volume downside at De Beers in response to market conditions. 15
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
investment such as iron ore and coal – is likely to remain 
weak for several years. But there are some encouraging 
signs of a gradual rebalancing of the economy. Consumer 
spending has been robust and many analysts expect this 
trend to continue, which implies a more positive and 
sustainable demand outlook for diamonds, PGMs and 
copper, amongst others.
THANK YOU
On behalf of my colleagues on the Group Management 
Committee, I would like to thank all our people across the 
business and our widespread and diverse stakeholders for 
their hard work and support. This is a period of considerable 
change in Anglo American’s long history of evolution and  
I appreciate the support of our stakeholders in helping to 
deliver the sustainable value that we all demand and expect.
I also thank the members of the Board and our chairman, 
Sir John Parker, for their wise counsel and unwavering 
support for the changes we are making to create the new 
Anglo American.
Mark Cutifani 
Chief Executive
DECISIVE  
ACTION
 In order to achieve our 
ambition, delivery of the 
measures set out on page  
1 1 will now form the focus  
of our strategic imperatives:
 • Focus on De Beers, PGMs 
and Copper
 • Portfolio transformation 
under way 
 • Cash flow enhancements  
to further strengthen the 
balance sheet
THE NEW  
ANGLO AMERICAN
A streamlined, competitive business 
with a clear and differentiated 
investment proposition.
Strategically advantaged world class assets:  
World class ore bodies with competitive industry 
cost positions and long reserve lives.
Materially streamlined business:  
Moving from 45 to 16 core assets across diamonds, 
PGMs and copper.
Well-balanced portfolio:  
No over-reliance from any one product group  
or geography and retaining the critical mass to 
compete effectively for, and deliver, the attractive 
future growth opportunities across the portfolio.
Sustainable profitability:  
With competitive cash cost profiles and long  
lives, the portfolio will be positioned to produce 
sustainable profitability through the cycle.
Differentiated, premium positioning for  
expanding consumer-driven markets:  
Enhanced by our marketing expertise, the Group 
will be positioned to benefit from changing demand 
patterns as the global economy evolves and as 
emerging market economies mature.
REMUNERATION
Anglo American’s remuneration policy for executive 
directors is designed to encourage delivery of the Group’s 
strategy in a responsible and sustainable manner. The main 
elements of the remuneration package are basic salary, 
annual bonus and long term incentive plan (LTIP). 
ANNUAL BONUS 
      
Annual bonus performance measures include:
 • 50% on underlying earnings per share (EPS). EPS is one 
of the Group’s key financial measures of performance and 
is set on an annual basis to ensure targets are demanding 
yet realistic 
 • The remaining measures are non-financial and include 
project delivery, capital allocation, business improvement, 
stakeholder engagement and employee development 
 • A deduction is applied if safety targets are not met. 
To help ensure sustainable long term performance, 60% 
of any annual bonus is deferred into shares for a minimum  
of three years and is subject to clawback. 
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 
  
The LTIP performance measures are aligned to our strategic 
objectives over a three-year performance period. Vested 
LTIP awards are subject to clawback and must be held for  
an additional two years, to encourage alignment of executive 
and shareholder interests. 
The LTIP performance measures and weightings are:
 • 25% Group total shareholder return (TSR) relative to the 
Euromoney Global Mining Index
 • 25% Group TSR relative to the FTSE 100 index
 • 50% attributable ROCE to reflect the strategic  
focus on disciplined capital allocation.
For more information go to 
Key Performance Indicators page 34
  Safety and Health 
 Environment 
 Socio-political 
 People 
 Production 
 Cost 
 Financial
We measure our 
performance 
through our  
pillars of value 
which underpin 
everything we do  16 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
At Anglo American, we are accelerating our strategic transformation by focusing on our 
core portfolio to meet changing market demand dynamics. World class, long life assets, 
focused on De Beers, PGMs and Copper , will create a well-balanced and financially 
sustainable business.
FOCUS THE PORTFOLIO
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE
DRIVING CHANGE
DISPOSAL TRANSACTIONS COMPLETED OR 
ANNOUNCED IN 2015 
$2. 1 billion
IN LIGHT OF THE COMMODITY PRICE ENVIRONMENT  
WE HAVE CEASED, OR ARE CEASING, PRODUCTION  
AT A NUMBER OF OPERATIONS
SALE OF PLATINUM’S RUSTENBURG OPERATIONS 
AGREED; COPPER’S NORTE ASSETS SOLD
Price upside potential from both transactions.
DEFINING OUR FUTURE
STRATEGIC FOCUS ON:
De Beers, PGMs and Copper 
DISPOSALS TARGET IN 2016  
$3-4 billion
MATERIALLY STREAMLINED CORE PORTFOLIO  
OF 16 ASSETS
Evaluation and sale processes for a number of  
Anglo American’s assets are in process.
MOGALAKWENA – ONE OF THE WORLD’S GREAT MINES
Mogalakwena is Platinum’s top-priority asset and the world’s biggest 
open pit platinum mine – with the potential to lift annual platinum 
production by 50% from ~400,000 ounces to 600,000 ounces.
In 201 5, while reducing unit costs by 7% in local currency terms 
owing to tight cost management and a series of productivity 
initiatives, Mogalakwena commanded the highest rand basket  
price in Platinum’s portfolio at R32,850 per platinum ounce. It also 
generated significant operating free cash flow, while keeping cash 
operating margins at 50%, despite weaker prices.
Whereas traditional underground mines require high labour intensity, 
Mogalakwena is a highly mechanised operation, with fewer, more 
highly skilled employees. As a result, it is a safer place to work – 
reflected in its strong safety performance.
Success has not always come easily. Unlike most platinum operations 
based primarily on Merensky and UG2 ore, Mogalakwena mines the 
Platreef, where palladium is slightly more abundant than platinum and 
grades are more variable. It is also harder to break and uses more 
energy to do so – problems only solved through Platinum further 
developing its metallurgical and processing technologies.
The mine’s recent introduction of the Operating Model will build on 
these firm foundations by improving business performance through 
ensuring that the right work is done at the right time in the right way. Drilling, loading and hauling operations in Mogalakwena’s huge open pit. 17
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
The primary source of competitive advantage in the 
mining industry is to own high quality, low cost, long  
life assets in structurally attractive commodities.
The continuing deterioration in commodity markets  
has necessitated decisive action to restore the  
strength of our balance sheet by sustainably improving 
cash flows and materially reducing net debt. We are 
evaluating the sale of a number of large and high 
quality assets, while evolving market demand dynamics 
have also informed our core asset choices, as we focus 
our strategy. These actions will create a more resilient 
business to deliver robust profitability and cash flows 
through the cycle. 
PORTFOLIO TRANSFORMATION 
In the assessment of our core portfolio, we examined both 
the quality of individual assets and our competitive positions 
in our various product groups, while also reviewing evolving 
supply and demand dynamics. We will focus on those assets 
where we hold most competitive advantage – being our 
world class diamond, PGM and copper assets.
This unique combination of assets, enhanced by our 
commercial marketing expertise, will have the advantage of 
benefiting from the ongoing shift away from infrastructure 
investment towards consumer-driven demand, positioning 
Anglo American for these expanding markets.
Transitioning to a core portfolio
Moving to 16 core assets
Copper
Platinum Nickel
Niobium 
and Phosphates
De Beers Coal
Iron Ore and Manganese
Core
16
2014
55
2015
45
DE BEERS
Botswana
Jwaneng
Orapa complex
South Africa
Venetia
Voorspoed
Namibia
Namdeb (Land)
Debmarine Namibia
Canada
 Victor
Gahcho Kué
Our 16 core assets
COPPER
Chile
Los Bronces
Collahuasi
PLATINUM
South Africa
Mogalakwena
Amandelbult 
BRPM
Mototolo
Modikwa
Zimbabwe
Unki
At Anglo American, we believe that the recent pull-back in 
Chinese infrastructure investment is a significant structural 
trend and think it unlikely that India, or any other emerging 
economy, will be in the position to bridge that gap in the 
short to medium term. We believe it is more likely that 
consumer-driven product demand – for example for homes, 
vehicles, household appliances and electronics, as well as 
for luxury goods such as jewellery – will be driven by the 
burgeoning middle class in emerging and more developed 
economies, and will emerge as a stronger force in demand 
for mined products.
Focus on De Beers, PGMs and copper 
Anglo American is focusing its portfolio via the  
following principles: 
 • Strategically advantaged world class assets:  
Typically characterised by world class ore bodies with 
competitive industry cost positions and long reserve  
lives, within strategically advantaged product groups –  
Anglo American has global leadership positions in 
diamonds and PGMs and a highly competitive position  
in copper.
 • Materially streamlined business: Moving from 45 to  
16 core assets across three operating business units will 
enable much more efficient and effective management  
of an asset portfolio that already drives the vast majority  
of long term profitability. 18 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
 • Well-balanced portfolio: Although greatly streamlined 
and physically smaller, the portfolio will remain well 
balanced to ensure there is not over-reliance from any  
one product group or geography. Anglo American  
will retain its established technical and marketing 
capabilities and the critical mass to compete effectively  
for and deliver the attractive future growth opportunities 
across the portfolio.
 • Sustainable profitability: Due to their competitive cash 
cost profile and long lives, the portfolio will be positioned  
to produce sustainable profitability through the cycle, with 
approximately $2.8 billion of EBITDA delivered from those 
core assets in 2015.
 • Differentiated, premium positioning for expanding 
consumer-driven markets: While strengthening the 
balance sheet, the core portfolio, enhanced by the Group’s 
marketing expertise, positions the Company to benefit 
from changing demand patterns as the global economy 
evolves and as emerging market economies mature.
By focusing on De Beers, PGMs, and Copper,  
Anglo American will have established a unique and high 
quality position to benefit from these consumer trends.
The portfolio will be structured around:
De Beers
Anglo American holds an 85% interest in De Beers,  
the world’s leading diamond company, which currently 
produces around a third of the world’s rough diamonds  
by value. 
De Beers will continue its mining operations across 
Botswana (Jwaneng and the Orapa complex, which  
includes Damtshaa – with Damtshaa placed onto temporary 
care and maintenance in January 2016 – and Letlhakane), 
Canada (Victor), Namibia (Namdeb (Land) and Debmarine 
Namibia) and South Africa (Venetia and Voorspoed).  
Within its operating portfolio, De Beers has one of the 
largest diamond resources, by volume, in the world at  
Orapa and one of the richest diamond mines, by value,  
at Jwaneng. De Beers is also due to complete the 
development of the 51% owned Gahcho Kué mine in 
Canada, with production expected to begin in the second 
half of 2016, while progressing the underground 
development at the Venetia mine.
PGMs
Anglo American’s interests in PGMs are held through  
its 78% owned subsidiary Anglo American Platinum 
(Platinum). Our platinum business is the world’s leading 
PGM producer with positions in the world’s two largest PGM 
deposits – the Bushveld Complex in South Africa and the 
Great Dyke in Zimbabwe.
Platinum will continue its current repositioning around  
a leaner, ‘best-in-class’ core operating footprint at the 
Mogalakwena and Amandelbult mines in South Africa and 
Unki in Zimbabwe, alongside its joint venture interests in the 
Bafokeng-Rasimone platinum mine, the Mototolo mine and 
the Modikwa mine in South Africa.
In 2015, these assets had a combined production of  
1.3 million ounces of platinum (metal in concentrate). 
Mogalakwena is the highest margin platinum producer  
in the industry and, as one of the only large open pit PGM 
mines globally, becomes the core of a much more flexible 
and lower risk business. The operating mines will be 
supplemented by Platinum’s three smelters at Polokwane, 
Mortimer and Waterval, as well as its Precious Metals 
Refinery and Base Metals Refinery, which will continue to 
process material received from both owned mines and  
third parties.
Copper
Anglo American has concentrated its copper business 
around its interests in two of the world’s largest copper 
mines – Los Bronces (including the Chagres smelter)  
and Collahuasi in Chile. In 2015, Los Bronces, a 50.1% 
owned subsidiary, produced 401,700 tonnes of copper. 
Collahuasi, 44% owned, produced 455,300 tonnes of 
copper (200,300 tonnes on an attributable basis). On 
average, the two assets operate at C1 unit cash costs  
of $1.45/lb
(1)
 and, with Reserve Lives of 25 years and  
70 years, respectively.
Anglo American’s copper portfolio and global exploration 
platform present a number of attractive organic growth 
options from relatively high grade mineral endowments, 
such as its feasibility stage Quellaveco copper project in 
Peru, as well as long term growth projects, including the 
further development of the Los Bronces District in Chile,  
the expansion of Collahuasi, the copper-nickel-PGM project 
Sakatti in Finland and a promising copper exploration 
position in Papua New Guinea.
FOCUS THE PORTFOLIO continued
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE
(1) 
Weighted average  
C1 unit cash cost, 
including both  
Los Bronces and 
Collahuasi at 100%. 19
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Asset divestments
Disposals completed in 2015 
The evaluation and sales processes for a number of  
Anglo American’s major non-core assets are progressing. 
During 2015, we completed or announced $2.1 billion of 
disposal transactions, including from our 50% share of the 
Lafarge Tarmac JV ($1.6 billion) that was agreed in 2014, 
and the sale of the Norte copper assets in Chile ($0.3 billion), 
while also announcing the sale of the Rustenburg platinum 
mines to Sibanye Gold. Sales have recently been agreed  
for the Dartbrook and Callide coal mines in Australia 
(subject to a number of conditions) and the sale of the 
Kimberley Mines has been completed.
Non-core portfolio
Discussions are currently under way to assess the potential 
disposal value of the Nickel business and Moranbah and 
Grosvenor metallurgical coal assets, alongside our sale 
process for the Niobium and Phosphates businesses. 
Discussions with potential buyers are expected to take 
several months. Any final decision on sale will depend on 
value as compared to the significant EBITDA and cash flow 
contribution these low operating cost, long life assets are 
expected to make to the Group. 
Sales processes are also under way across several coal 
assets in Australia and South Africa. The Union platinum 
mine in South Africa has been restructured and production 
significantly reduced, while also progressing the sale of  
the asset.
In light of the commodity price environment, the Group has 
ceased, or is ceasing, production at a number of operations. 
Operations that have been closed or placed onto care and 
maintenance include Peace River Coal and Snap Lake 
(diamonds) in Canada, while Thabazimbi (iron ore) in  
South Africa has reached the end of its life and is being 
closed. Plans have also been initiated to place Twickenham 
(platinum) in South Africa onto care and maintenance. It  
is expected that the aggregate cost of carrying out these 
actions will be approximately $0.2 billion in 2016.
At Kumba Iron Ore, the reconfiguration of the Sishen  
mine to transition to a lower strip ratio and operational  
cost position is progressing well and, combined with further 
operational improvements at Kolomela, is expected to add 
to the Group’s cash flow generation at prevailing iron ore 
prices. The Company has initiated a review to consider 
options to exit from Kumba at the appropriate time, including 
a potential spin-out.
At the Minas-Rio iron ore operation in Brazil, work has  
been prioritised to optimise the operation for the current  
iron ore price environment to ensure that it is cash flow 
positive in 2016 and subsequent years. Work is also 
progressing to secure the required licences that underpin 
the full ramp-up over time that will also ensure the long term 
sustainability of Minas-Rio for all its stakeholders. All such 
work is expected to be completed over the next three years, 
at which time options for the asset will be assessed.
At Anglo American Platinum, assets other than those 
identified as part of its long term core portfolio will be 
reviewed to determine the optimum path to realise 
shareholder value. The joint venture operations will continue 
to be operated in a separate management structure.
The target for the disposals programme has been  
increased to $5-6 billion by the end of 2016, with $3-4 billion 
expected in 2016, having already completed or announced 
$2.1 billion in 2015. While the full repositioning of  
Anglo American is expected to take time to ensure 
transactions deliver appropriate value, and to allow 
engagement with critical stakeholders, all non-core assets 
will be managed actively and their performance optimised  
in the best long term interests of all stakeholders. 20 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
As global uncertainty continues and commodity prices remain volatile, it has become 
more important than ever to deliver significant and necessary change within our 
business. In such a challenging environment, we are committed to managing what is  
in our control; achieving cost and productivity improvements, to enhance cash flows 
through the cycle and further strengthen our balance sheet.
FOCUS ON DELIVERY
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE
LOS BRONCES ROLLS OUT OUR OPERATING MODEL
Even at the best of operations there is always room for improvement. 
At Los Bronces, one of our world class copper assets in Chile, we are 
taking a hard look at the operation’s ongoing competitiveness, using 
key metrics such as the ore body’s quality and expandability, the mine’s 
absolute cost- and margin-curve position, and its operating risk profile.
T o date, we have seen encouraging results: plant operating time,  
at 94%, is very close to best practice, as is truck utilisation. Labour 
productivity is also expected to increase, alongside improving 
operational stability and higher plant throughput.
T o drive increased value, we recently introduced our Operating  
Model, starting in the processing plants. As the Model rolls out, we  
will implement a number of new initiatives, including further study on 
the nature of the mineral endowment and how best to exploit it. We  
will also work on ways to increase metal production through grade 
engineering. This is a low cost approach that has the potential to 
substantially increase ore grades presented to the mill, thereby leading 
to greater output.
Such improvements are expected to yield an additional 1 5,000 tonnes 
of copper a year by 201 7 , with an 1 1 % lower processing cost per tonne, 
offsetting a gradual decline in grade. Haul trucks unload ore at the primary crusher in Los Bronces’ open pit.
DRIVING CHANGE
COST AND PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENTS IN 2015
$1.3 billion
REDUCTION IN COPPER EQUIVALENT UNIT COSTS  
IN US DOLLAR TERMS SINCE 2012
27%
CAPEX REDUCTION IN 2015, TO $4.0 BILLION  
33%
DIVIDEND SUSPENDED AND WILL RESUME WITH A
PAYOUT RATIO-BASED POLICY WHEN APPROPRIATE  
DEFINING OUR FUTURE
NET DEBT (PRO FORMA) BY END OF 2016  
<$10 billion
COST AND PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENTS EXPECTED IN 
2016 – WITH GROUP EXPECTED TO BE FREE CASH FLOW 
POSITIVE IN 2016 AT CURRENT PRICES 
$1.9 billion
CAPEX IN 2016 
<$3.0 billion 21
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
The portfolio decisions we have made have enabled  
a comprehensive re-assessment of operating, capital 
and indirect costs across Anglo American. Building 
upon the platform of the asset review in 2013,  
following which our operational performance 
improvement programme was executed, we have  
taken the appropriate measures to enable the delivery 
of positive free cash flow in 2016, with further 
improvement expected in 2017 and beyond, assuming 
commodity prices and exchange rates remain at or 
around current levels.
These operational improvements, coupled with a 
substantially reduced capital expenditure profile  
and the targeted proceeds from our asset disposal 
programme, are expected to reduce net debt to less 
than $10 billion in 2016, assuming current commodity 
prices and exchange rates. We are targeting net debt  
of $6 billion in the medium term, supporting a return to 
a solid investment grade credit rating.
CASH FLOW ENHANCEMENT THROUGH THE CYCLE 
Building a stable operational platform
A key component of our operational performance 
improvement programme is the implementation of 
Anglo American’s Operating Model.
The Operating Model is an essential enabler for delivering 
our production targets, and ultimately for reducing our 
operating costs. It enables operational stability to deliver 
predictable outcomes; reduces variation in order  
to increase capability and efficiency; and provides clarity  
so team members have a clear understanding of their work  
in order to facilitate consistent outcomes. This focus on 
data-driven decision making, detailed planning, operating 
excellence and execution has led to lower operating costs, 
improved productivity and the potential to both lower and 
defer capital expenditure.
The Operating Model has three components, which 
address: operational strategy; execution of work; and 
continuous improvement. Our approach has been to 
establish the sections of the value chain in those assets 
which constrain performance and implement the 
appropriate component of the Operating Model that  
unlocks the most value. 
By the end of 2015, the Operating Model principles had 
been fully, or partially, implemented at six sites. During 2016, 
we will continue to implement the Operating Model across 
those assets where it will deliver the most meaningful 
improvements in operating and financial performance.
Costs and productivity
Embedding the Operating Model principles across various 
parts of the business led to a significant improvement in 
equipment efficiencies and performance during 2015.
On the basis of a more stable operating platform,  
$1.3 billion of underlying EBIT benefit from cost and 
productivity improvements was delivered in 2015. As a 
result of these initiatives, copper equivalent unit costs  
were reduced by a further 16% in US dollar terms, 
representing a 27% total reduction since 2012.
Looking forward, our ongoing focus on operational 
improvement is expected to deliver $1.9 billion of cost  
and productivity improvements in 2016 relative to 2015, 
building upon the $1.3 billion delivered in 2015. We will 
predominantly concentrate on reducing operating and 
support costs by $1.2 billion, as well as $700 million of 
productivity (volume) related gains. 
    For more information on our support cost reductions   
See page 31
PRIORITISED CAPITAL ALLOCATION
We continue to apply our capital allocation model across  
the Group in the management of the balance sheet. In 2013, 
we targeted a long term net debt range of $10- 12 billion.  
At the same time, given the weak market for commodities, 
we targeted a level of $15 billion of liquidity. This liquidity 
buffer, along with the minimal step-up in interest charges 
and lack of covenants, significantly reduces the downside 
impact to the Group in the event that an investment grade 
credit rating is not sustainable for a period of time.
The deterioration in commodity markets has necessitated  
a review of our net debt target and we now expect to reduce 
net debt to less than $10 billion (on a pro forma basis) by  
the end of 2016, and to c.$6 billion in the medium term  
via disposals and positive free cash flows. We are also 
targeting a net debt: EBITDA ratio of less than 2.5 times in 
the medium term. 
Anglo American continues to have strong liquidity,  
with $14.8 billion of undrawn facilities and cash as at  
31 December 2015, and its objective of a solid investment 
grade credit rating remains unchanged. Near term debt 
maturities consist of $1.6 billion in 2016 and $2.6 billion  
in 2017.
In the near term, our focus remains to optimise the Group’s 
cash flow in order to protect and strengthen the balance 
sheet, while maintaining the operational integrity of our 
assets. Discretionary project spend has been suspended, 
with the exception of the investment required to maintain 
high value assets or future growth options. We continue to 
apply our rigorous processes and criteria for all project 
investment, including stay-in-business projects; however, 
future performance will not be jeopardised for short term 
cash flow gains. 22 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
In 2016, we expect capital expenditure to be less than  
$3.0 billion, with $1.2 billion of project spending as the 
Gahcho Kué and Grosvenor projects reach completion  
and as Minas-Rio’s ramp-up continues. In 2017, we expect 
capital expenditure to be reduced by a further $500 million 
to $2.5 billion.
In 2015, as part of the overall capital allocation process,  
the Board also reviewed its dividend policy in light of the 
significant changes to the market environment and the 
subsequent impact on cash flows and net debt. Following 
the review, the Board recommended the suspension of the 
dividend. The commitment to a dividend during the ordinary 
course of business remains a core part of the Group’s overall 
capital allocation approach and the Board recommended 
that, upon resumption, Anglo American should adopt a 
payout ratio-based dividend policy in order to provide 
shareholders with exposure to improvements in commodity 
prices, while retaining cash flow flexibility during periods of 
weaker pricing.
Projects and capital expenditure
Following an increased focus on capital discipline and  
in response to current conditions, capital expenditure  
was reduced, before capitalised losses, to $4.0 billion  
(2014: $6.0 billion). The reduction was largely driven by a 
41% decline in expansionary capital expenditure, mainly 
owing to the Minas-Rio iron ore project in Brazil moving  
into its ramp-up phase.
Expansionary capital expenditure remains focused  
on the delivery of our portfolio of existing major projects,  
including Gahcho Kué, Venetia Underground and 
Grosvenor. As these projects transition into production, 
expansionary capital expenditure will continue to  
decrease, which will enable the Group to further align its 
level of growth investment with prevailing commodity 
market conditions.
Stay-in-business (SIB) capital expenditure declined by  
30% to $1.4 billion (2014: $2.0 billion), as the roll-out of the 
Operating Model across our assets delivered an optimised 
SIB capital expenditure plan. 
Projects in ramp-up in 2015
In Nickel, the rebuild of the two furnaces at Barro Alto  
was concluded ahead of schedule and budget. Delivery  
of first metal from the second furnace rebuild occurred  
in September, more than one month ahead of expectations, 
and nameplate capacity production should be achieved  
through 2016.
Niobium’s Boa Vista Fresh Rock project reached 69% of 
nameplate capacity in December 2015, and is expected to 
reach full nameplate capacity in the third quarter of 2016.
The Minas-Rio iron ore operation continued to ramp up  
in 2015, with increases in quarter-on-quarter production 
throughout the year. The operation is expected to reach 
commercial production capacity in 2016, although it will 
remain in ramp-up throughout the year.
Capital expenditure
(1)
$ million
Year ended  
31 Dec 2015
Year ended  
31 Dec 2014
Expansionary 1,936 3,257
Stay in business 1,384 1,973
Development and stripping 740 868
Proceeds from disposal of 
property, plant and equipment
(30) (71)
Total 4,030 6,027
Net capitalised losses/(profits) 147 (9)
Total capital expenditure 4,177 6,018
(1) 
See page 180 for the definition of capital expenditure.
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE
FOCUS ON DELIVERY continued
$12.9 bn $3-4 bn
<$10 bn
~$6 bn
To come from 
cash generation 
and disposals
Disposals 
2016
Dec 2016  
net debt target
Target net debt evolution
Dec 2015 
net debt
Medium term 
net debt target 
at spot 23
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Projects advanced in 2015
De Beers’ Gahcho Kué project in Canada is progressing 
well, with key land use, water licence and surface leases all 
now received. In addition, all six Impact Benefit Agreements 
(with indigenous communities) have been completed. As at 
31 December 2015, the project was 83% complete and 
remains on track for first production during the second half 
of 2016, with commercial production expected in the first 
quarter of 2017.
Construction of De Beers’ Venetia Underground mine  
in South Africa continues to progress, with the decline 
advanced to more than 1,100 metres and the project  
21% complete. The underground operation is expected  
to become the principal source of ore at Venetia from  
late 2022.
Projects initiated in 2015
No new major growth projects were initiated during 2015,  
in line with the Group’s focus on improving cash flows.
Evaluation and exploration expenditure
Recognising the long term nature of the business, 
Anglo American’s proven track record and expertise in 
exploration discoveries, and the importance of maintaining  
a portfolio of high value replacement and organic growth 
options, we have continued to retain and advance select 
studies, with a focus on maintaining our established social 
commitments and managing costs appropriately. 
This expenditure is focused on the core product groups  
of diamonds, PGMs and copper, with small expenditures 
supported where required to enable the exit of certain other 
assets for value. We are continuing to enhance our approach 
to studies and evaluation, with a greater emphasis on 
assessing a broad range of options early in the study phase 
in order to mitigate risk, identify opportunities and minimise 
sunk costs. As a result, evaluation expenditure reduced to 
$145 million in 2015 (2014: $218 million) and expenditure 
on exploration activities was 15% lower at $154 million 
(2014: $181 million). 24 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
DEVELOP CORE  
BUSINESS PROCESSES
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE
At Anglo American, our core business processes refer to the fundamentals of our  
work throughout our value chain. With innovation and outstanding delivery at the 
forefront of how we deliver change, the business processes we are implementing are 
vital to the success of our core activities and achieving best practice across the Group. 
DRIVING CHANGE
AVOIDED ENERGY COSTS IN 2015 DRIVEN BY ECO 2MAN 
AND BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS 
~$100 million  
UNDERLYING EBIT IMPROVEMENT SINCE 2013 FROM 
MARKETING ACTIVITIES 
>$400 million
78% OF LOS BRONCES’ WATER REQUIREMENTS  
MET BY RE-USED/RECYCLED WATER IN THE YEAR  
78%
DEFINING OUR FUTURE
MULTI-HORIZON INITIATIVES TO COME OUT OF  
OUR OPEN FORUM EVENTS
Focused on finding safer, more efficient, environmentally 
friendly and sustainable ways to unlock mineral value. 
9 
OUR IMMEDIATE FOCUS IS ON SECURING ADEQUATE 
SUPPLIES OF ENERGY AND WATER AND USING  
THOSE RESOURCES MORE EFFICIENTLY
In the long term, however, we must find viable alternatives for 
traditional sources of energy and reduce our reliance on ‘new’ 
water to near zero.
Laboratory processor Tshegofatso Morake tests samples at Platinum’s Precious Metals 
Refinery in Rustenburg, South Africa.
UNLOCKING VALUE FROM MINOR PGMS
By focusing on understanding the needs of customers and 
leveraging Anglo American’s industry-leading position, our 
Marketing business unlocked additional value across our range  
of PGMs in 2015. 
As the world’s largest primary producer of ruthenium, iridium and 
osmium – by-products from the mining and refining of platinum, 
and palladium – we developed customer relationships covering a 
wide range of products in the chemicals, electrical, catalyst and 
specialist alloy sectors, in order to deliver greater commercial value 
from these ‘minor’ PGMs. 
Products developed in these fields are often new and at the 
forefront of innovation. By fully understanding the requirements  
of our customers, we are able to unlock full commercial value to 
market. Revised packaging, stockholding in strategic locations, 
local sales offices and adapted payment terms were just some of 
the many steps we took to meet customer needs.
Customer mapping, market intelligence, ongoing dialogue with 
end-users and tailored solutions have all contributed to making 
these metals a steady and reliable source of income. 
With PGMs forming part of our core portfolio, we will continue to 
focus on market development, including direct funding of research 
and/or co-investment in start-ups, thus enabling the sustainable 
use of minor PGMs in existing and new applications.  25
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
We are starting to see tangible benefits from the 
roll-out of our Operating Model across our core assets; 
a more stable and predictable operating performance 
is leading to improved productivity and costs, fewer 
environmental incidents and a fuller understanding of 
our mine-to-market value chain. Working together with 
all our stakeholders, we will begin to deliver on the full 
potential of our portfolio and enhance the sustainable 
value we can create for our host communities.
DRIVING TOWARDS OPERATING EXCELLENCE 
Our technical and operational base is now firmly established, 
building on the principles of the Operating Model, which  
delivered $1.3 billion of cost and productivity improvements 
in 2015, and a 27% improvement in indexed unit costs (in 
US dollar terms) since 2012. This foundation of clearly 
understanding the main value drivers and achieving 
operating excellence across our asset base will continue to 
accelerate the delivery of additional benefits as we strive 
towards operating our assets to their full potential. 
A primary focus has been to recognise the main drivers  
of value across our business, from the ore body through to 
market. Through a clearer understanding of the potential  
of our ore bodies and the application of innovative mining 
methods and technologies, combined with the development 
of processing flowsheets optimised to specific ore bodies, 
we are positioning ourselves to realise even greater value 
from our assets. 
Los Bronces, as a Tier 1 copper asset, has been the focus  
of many of the improvement efforts. Developing a better 
understanding of the Los Bronces ore body characteristics 
and modifying our operating practices have led to 
improvements in copper and molybdenum recoveries.  
This approach will unlock additional metal production at 
lower cost while minimising capital investment, thereby 
enhancing the operation’s sustainability. In addition, 
developments in the field of grade engineering may 
materially improve the grade of ore feedstock through 
integrating our understanding of the ore body with the 
optimal configuration of mining and processing practices, 
potentially leading to increased metal production. 
During 2015, FutureSmart™, Anglo American’s approach  
to innovation, successfully completed three Open Forums, 
one each on Sustainability, Processing and Mining. The 
outcomes, developed in collaboration with 90 external 
partners, yielded in excess of 3,000 ideas for step-changes 
in business transformation. These have been distilled into  
a programme of nine multi-horizon initiatives that seek to 
address our critical challenges, and to find safer, more 
efficient, environmentally friendly and sustainable ways  
to unlock mineral value. 
MARKETING PRODUCTS FOR FULL VALUE
Our Marketing business (Marketing), created in 2014, 
continues to make solid progress through marketing 
activities designed to create maximum value across the 
entire value chain – from mine to customer. 
Marketing is now well established and, through our 
dedicated sales and marketing hubs in Singapore and 
London, we have continued to improve customer focus  
and build on our strong relationships across the portfolio, 
including: PGMs; copper; iron ore; metallurgical and thermal 
coal; nickel and niobium. Our collaborative work across  
the commodities helps create a more co-ordinated 
customer approach, reinforces our customer and supplier 
relationships, and deepens our knowledge in order to realise 
additional profit from the sale of our own equity volumes, our 
trading activities and our third party supply of products.
Good progress has been made against each of the  
principal ‘levers’ identified to generate additional profit  
for the Group. With increasing market challenges, we  
are broadening our focus:
 • Marketing excellence: building on the basics.
 • Value chain optimisation: creating an efficient flow from 
mine to market so that customers get the right products,  
at the right time, and leveraging shipping services. 
 • Trading and third party supply: buying and trading third 
party material to complement the physical portfolio.
 • Next generation: new ideas delivering value in the  
longer term.
These levers will remain relevant as Anglo American  
moves to a more focused, core portfolio. All marketing 
activities are executed in an increasingly sophisticated  
risk management environment. Ensuring the risk factors 
which impact Marketing, including price, credit, operational, 
and regulatory risks, are transparent and comprehensively 
managed is a key priority, thereby maximising value for  
the Group.
Marketing has already improved underlying EBIT by  
more than $400 million since 2013, most of it through 
additional income. A large proportion of this additional  
value is currently being generated through the marketing  
excellence activities, while other levers are also becoming 
increasingly important. 
We continue to increase direct sales to end customers, 
rather than through sales agents, across the majority of 
commodities. The value of sales made to intermediaries, 
rather than end users, reduced from c.60% in 2012, to  
less than 10% in 2015. Some specific examples include 
increased minor PGM sales made possible by sales channel 
development and increased direct copper metallic sales into 
China through the development of direct relationships and 
establishment of local support. 26 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
A number of value chain optimisation activities in the year 
created additional earnings, including the expansion of our 
shipping portfolio with linked freight trades that realised  
cost advantages and benefits relative to stand-alone  
routes. With this additional capacity, we have expanded  
our CFR-delivered shipping offer.
We have made significant progress in our approach to 
planning through our Integrated Sales and Operations 
Planning work. This work ensures we maximise value  
from the ore bodies we mine, and smoothly manages all 
activities from mine to customer in a collaborative and 
transparent way. 
Our improved approach to planning and co-ordination 
across the mining value chain has also helped the Group  
to continue to increase its logistics capacities.
Good progress has been made with thermal coal trading.  
A new activity launched in 2014, thermal coal trading is  
now fully established and delivering against expectations. 
The trading capability in thermal coal has put a strong 
foundation in place, which we are now using to progress 
further initiatives across the other commodities, particularly 
as we move towards mid- to late-cycle exposure.
MANAGING OUR IMPACTS ON COMMUNITIES  
AND THE ENVIRONMENT
As a mining company, our aim is to have a net positive lasting 
impact on our host communities. However, in helping to 
uplift such communities, typically through the provision  
of jobs and infrastructure, we acknowledge that the 
exploration, extraction and processing of ore reserves  
can result in the disturbance of land and the generation  
of mineral residue, as well as atmospheric and water 
emissions. Social impacts typically associated with mining 
may include population influx and demographic change, 
land acquisition and resettlement, competition  
for natural resources, effects on community health and 
potential human rights infringements in our supply chain. 
We have a responsibility to manage our social and 
environmental impacts in line with legal requirements, and  
in such a way that, on balance, host communities can benefit 
from mining. Responsible environmental management  
and sound community relations can influence our access  
to land and capital, improve resource security, and reduce 
operational costs and closure liabilities.
Anglo American’s environmental and social risks and 
activities are managed in line with our mandatory 
Environment Way and Social Way performance 
requirements, and are increasingly integrated into the 
roll-out of the Operating Model. The principal environmental 
and social risks facing our business are associated with 
human rights, socio-economic development, water quality 
and security, energy security, climate change and mine 
closure. We report extensively on our approach and 
performance related to these and other material 
sustainability issues in our Sustainability Report.
For more information, visit 
www.angloamerican.com/sustainability-report-2015
During 2015, Anglo American recorded six Level 3 (medium 
impact) environmental incidents. These incidents had no 
material financial impact on the business and resulted in no 
lasting harm to the environment. No Level 4-5 (high impact) 
incidents were reported.
Water management
Water is of increasing significance to our business, given  
that 75% of our operations are located in countries with  
high levels of water risk. The water related challenges faced 
by our sites typically fall into three categories: water security; 
managing highly variable rainfall; and mitigating the impact 
of mining activities on water quality and the rights of  
other users. 
For the third consecutive year, we exceeded our 2020 water 
savings target of 14%; by the end of 2015 we had achieved 
an estimated 16% water saving against our projected water 
usage. Water saving projects, which include more effective 
dust suppression, dewatering of tailings and more efficient 
ore separation, saved the Group approximately 25 million m
3
 
of water (2014: 36 million m
3
). Anglo American’s total new 
water consumption increased from 196 million m
3
 in 2014 to  
222 million m
3
 in 2015, largely owing to ramp-up activities  
at Minas-Rio.
Production at Los Bronces copper mine in Chile was 
constrained by water supply challenges in 2015. The 
operation has continued to implement technical solutions  
to prevent further impact on business, with water 
transported via a 56 kilometre pipeline from the Las Tórtolas 
tailings dam to Los Bronces. Los Bronces is currently 
recycling 78% of available water. At a Group level, 64%  
of our water requirements during the year were met by 
recycling/re-using water (2014: 68%). 
DEVELOP CORE BUSINESS PROCESSES continued
Million m
3
Total water consumed against business as usual 
2011–2015
   
0
100
50
150
200
250
Water consumed in ongoing business
Water consumed by acquisitions, projects and corporate functions
(1)
Water consumed by divested businesses
Water savings
(1)
 Recent acquisitions, projects and corporate functions have not been included 
in the energy, GHG and water reduction target setting process. 
2015 2011 2012 2013 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE 27
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Energy security
Our core mining, refining, and transport activities are 
dependent on adequate and reliable sources of energy. 
Insecurity of supply has the potential to compromise our 
production goals as well as the safety of our employees. 
Reducing energy consumption saves the business money, 
helps improve energy security and mitigates our 
contribution to climate change.
The Group’s total energy consumption was 106 million GJ 
(2014: 108 million GJ). The significant increase in energy 
consumption at Minas-Rio, owing to ramp-up activities, was 
offset by energy savings at the Coal business in South Africa 
and Australia, Kumba Iron Ore and Nickel. Progress on 
operational energy and carbon performance is driven 
through our energy- and carbon-management programme, 
ECO
2
MAN. By year end, a total of 325 ECO
2
MAN and 
business improvement projects accounted for energy 
savings of 5.8 million GJ, representing a 7% reduction 
against the 2015 figure and c.$100 million in avoided  
energy costs. New energy reduction targets have been  
set for all operations. 
In South Africa, our operations remain vulnerable to power 
outages owing to shortages at peak electricity demand 
times. In consequence, all South African business units  
have emergency preparedness plans in place, including 
specific protocols to minimise the impact of load curtailment 
on production by allocating power rationing to sites, 
equipment and processes with catch-up capacity. We  
are also discussing with the government incentives for 
co-generation and base-load independent power projects.
Electricity supply in Brazil is highly reliant on hydropower, 
and the recent drought there raised concerns over power 
insecurity. These were mitigated by the increased use of 
thermal power generation and higher levels of rainfall 
experienced towards the end of the year. 
Climate change
We recognise our responsibility to play a positive role in  
the global transition to a low-carbon future and to protect 
our employees, assets and host communities against  
the potential physical impacts of climate change. 
We expect that climate change will affect our business in 
three principal ways: climate regulation and taxation will 
have a financial effect on our business; demand for PGMs 
and copper in low-carbon technologies will increase; and 
the physical and social impacts of a changing climate may 
affect our operations and host communities. 
In 2015, Anglo American operations were responsible  
for 18 million tonnes of CO
2
-equivalent emissions  
(Mt CO
2
e) (2014: 17 Mt CO
2
e). This increase was due to  
the ramp-up at the Minas-Rio and Grosvenor projects in 
Brazil and Australia, respectively, as well as an upwards 
revision of the global warming potential of methane by the 
Australian government. Through ECO
2
MAN, we were able 
to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 22% in 
relation to 2015’s consumption. This amounts to 4.6 million 
tonnes of avoided CO
2
e. During 2015, new carbon-
reduction targets were set for each operation. 
The new focus of Anglo American’s portfolio presents 
significant opportunities associated with climate change. 
Copper and PGMs are critical products in facilitating 
alternative energy technologies. Demand for copper is 
expected to increase given its use in several low-carbon 
technology applications (such as hybrid and electric  
vehicles which typically contain two to three times more 
copper than conventional vehicles). A key development  
area for platinum is the use of fuel cells to provide power, 
both in stationary applications such as residential power,  
and in mobile applications such as power trains for vehicles. 
Energy consumed in ongoing business
Energy consumed by acquisitions, projects and corporate functions
(1)
Energy consumed by divested businesses
Energy savings
(1)
 Recent acquisitions, projects and corporate functions have not been included 
in the energy, GHG and water reduction target setting process.
Million GJ
2015 2011 2012 2013 2014
Total energy consumed against business as usual 
2011–2015
   
0
80
60
40
20
100
120
140
GHGs emitted in ongoing business
GHGs emitted by acquisitions, projects and corporate functions
(1)
GHGs emitted by divested businesses
GHG savings
(1)
 Recent acquisitions, projects and corporate functions have not been included 
in the energy, GHG and water reduction target setting process.
Million tonnes CO 2 e
Total GHG emissions against business as usual 
2011–2015
   
0
15
10
5
20
25
2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 28 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
An important focus of our climate change programme 
involves understanding the likely impacts of physical  
and regulatory changes associated with climate change  
in the future. Carbon pricing scenarios are factored into 
project investment decisions and climate change risk  
and adaptation assessments have been conducted at 
vulnerable operations.
We welcome the important forward commitments  
made at Paris COP21. On the ground, we will continue to 
engage around proposals for tighter legislation or to help 
clarify where there is policy uncertainty. We have a clear 
position on climate change and on coal in our business, for 
engagement with stakeholders. It is available for download 
on angloamerican.com 
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
Our Social Way defines Anglo American’s governing 
framework for social performance. It provides clear 
requirements for all Anglo American-managed sites to: 
ensure that policies and systems are in place to engage  
with affected communities; avoid, prevent and mitigate 
adverse social impacts; and maximise development 
opportunities. During 2015, we rolled out a revised Social 
Way, which has been updated to reflect evolving stakeholder 
expectations and international best practice. Each site is 
assessed annually. More in-depth reviews of priority issues 
are undertaken as a part of the operational risk assurance 
process. The self-assessment results for 2014 provided a 
baseline for performance against the revised Social Way. 
The 2015 results reflect a steady improvement across 
almost all the requirements and the percentage of serious 
non-compliances has decreased from 8% to 1%. Each  
site is implementing an improvement plan where it has  
not met Anglo American standards or its own stated 
performance targets.
Social instability and industrial unrest remain a particular 
challenge and priority in South Africa. To address this, we 
continue to seek to engage and work collaboratively with 
employees, unions and the South African government, 
and also with communities around our mines.
Working with stakeholders 
2015 was a particularly difficult year for the global mining 
industry, characterised by plunging commodity prices, 
volatile markets and political instability. This challenging 
business context underlines the importance of building 
trusted relationships across stakeholder groups. The 
uncertain operating environment also has important 
implications for mining companies’ socio-political licence  
to operate, and is placing renewed pressure on companies 
to find approaches that balance short term shareholder 
expectations with society’s longer term needs. 
Managing uncertainty 
The commodity market downturn, combined with the  
effects of local currency depreciation, the decision to put 
some mines onto care and maintenance, consequent job 
losses and the decline in royalty and tax revenues, have all 
added pressure on governments in resource-dependent 
countries which are now struggling to meet social 
expectations. There have also been corruption scandals  
in some of our host countries that have affected wider  
levels of trust in business and government. This has helped 
create a climate of regulatory uncertainty and a lack of clear 
political leadership and direction. 
Governments want to tighten regulation and drive more 
benefit from their mining sector, while at the same time 
recognising the need not to deter the incentive to invest and 
operate at a time when economic conditions are so difficult. 
Policy implications may encompass labour relations, 
environmental performance, health and safety, tax reform, 
corporate governance, local procurement, beneficiation, 
and indigenisation, as well as the wider delivery of social 
objectives, such as the provision of housing and roads.
In response, Anglo American strives to develop and 
maintain constructive relationships with government and 
regulatory officials, both at the individual company and 
operational level, as well as more broadly through national 
and international industry sector bodies. Strong monitoring 
mechanisms are in place to track regulatory developments, 
promote understanding of regulatory requirements across 
affected areas of the business, and drive full compliance 
Group-wide.
Mine closure
Our approach to ensuring responsible mine closure 
emphasises the importance of designing, planning and 
operating a mine with closure in mind, and planning for 
post-closure long term sustainability in consultation with 
communities and other stakeholders. In doing so, we aim to 
reduce long term risks and liabilities to our business from an 
environmental and socio-economic perspective, and to 
ensure that we leave a positive legacy when our mines 
conclude their operational lives.
Our Mine Closure Toolbox provides a structured approach 
to closure planning and management. It is aimed at ensuring 
that the full spectrum of opportunities, risks and liabilities is 
effectively identified, that plans are fully costed, and that 
provision is made for the planned operational life of the mine 
or premature closure. The Toolbox is available publicly as a 
leading-practice resource for other companies to access.  
It is used throughout our managed operations and also at 
some operations managed by our joint venture partners. 
Within the Group, the Toolbox is designed to be used in 
conjunction with our Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox 
(SEAT) in order to support an integrated approach to 
mine-closure planning.
DEVELOP CORE BUSINESS PROCESSES continued
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE 29
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Partners in the future
Mining companies across the world are facing greater 
demands and expectations from increasingly vocal 
stakeholder groups, with often competing interests. 
Compounding these demands are the lower levels of  
trust that many stakeholders have of the business world. 
Anglo American’s ambition is to become ‘partners in the 
future’. In so doing, we seek to maximise the benefits of 
mining and mitigate net negative consequences, particularly 
as they relate to host communities. 
With most of our operations in the developing world, our 
commitments to host governments and communities 
extend far more widely than creating direct jobs and  
paying taxes. We seek to ensure that the benefits we 
generate flow more directly to communities around our 
operations and that we respond effectively to increasing 
stakeholder expectations. 
Over the past two years, we have been implementing a  
new approach to socio-economic development delivery. 
The first element involves supporting local markets, where 
we promote local procurement, enterprise development 
and workforce development. These programmes create  
a strong platform for job creation within and outside the 
mining value chains. The second element focuses on 
building local capacity to allow development to be sustained 
beyond the mining sector, and after mine closure. This 
includes, for example, social investment such as education 
and health programmes.
In 2015, 17% ($1.8 billion) of supplier expenditure was  
with host communities (2014: $1.8 billion, 15%), while our 
enterprise development programmes in Botswana, Brazil, 
Chile, South Africa and Peru supported 62,661 businesses 
and created/sustained 108,423 jobs. 
In 2015, Anglo American’s corporate social investment  
(CSI) expenditure in local communities, including by the 
Anglo American Chairman’s Fund and Zimele, totalled  
$124.1 million (2014: $135.8 million). This figure represents 
6% of underlying EBIT, less underlying EBIT of associates 
and joint ventures. While the bulk of our socio-economic 
development strategy is designed to leverage core business 
activities, much of our CSI investment continues to support 
vulnerable and marginalised stakeholders unable to 
participate in our core value chains. Health and education 
are strategic focus areas in our CSI and a top priority for 
national and community level stakeholders.
 
%
Community  50,636
development
Education and training 22,349
Other 15,318
Health and welfare 13,560
Sports, art, culture  6,668
and heritage
Institutional  5,405
capacity development
Water and sanitation 4,657
Environment 2,523
Disaster and  1,942
emergency relief
Energy and  902
climate change
Employee  188
matched giving 
and fundraising 
Total   124,148
$’000
41
18
12
11
5
4
4
2
2
1
–
 Global expenditure by type
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
%
South Africa 85,845
Chile 14,147
Brazil  11,970
Peru  4,453
Namibia  3,521
Rest of world 2,371
Australia 943
United Kingdom 480
Botswana  418
Total   124,148
69
11
10
4
3
2
1
–
–
$’000
 Global expenditure by country 30 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
To deliver on our objectives, we rely on a capable and engaged workforce.  
Our high performance culture encourages all employees to give their best  
and places their health and safety at the top of our agenda. 
CREATE A HIGH  
PERFORMANCE CULTURE
DEFINING OUR FUTURE
HEADCOUNT REDUCTION FROM 128,000 TO c.50,000  
AS THE PORTFOLIO RESTRUCTURE IS COMPLETED 
c.50,000
COST SAVINGS FROM CHANGES TO CENTRAL  
SUPPORT COSTS IN THE MEDIUM TERM
$250 million
Platinum’s CEO, Chris Griffith, addresses staff as part of Mogalakwena mine’s  
Global Safety Day events.
GLOBAL SAFETY DAY
We inaugurated Global Safety Day in 201 1 to unite everyone on the 
importance of arriving home safely at the end of each day and of the 
responsibility of everyone for safety. It is the only time employees  
and contractors come together to focus on our shared challenge. 
In 2015, the project team introduced a ‘controls protect and keep  
you safe’ theme to drive stronger ownership and engagement.  
This highlights the protective role controls play – for individuals,  
their families, teams and communities – while encouraging people  
to improve their own understanding and use of controls. 
Over a three month period, leaders, managers, supervisors and  
all employees and contractors were given opportunities to think 
about the role controls play in their personal and work lives and  
how well they understand and lead on their use. Everyone came 
together on Safety Day to identify what could be done to improve 
control use. This then fed into local action and improvement plans. 
An employee online survey to evaluate the impact of the day 
demonstrated that 98% of participants understood completely  
or near-completely the importance of controls in protecting and 
keeping them safe, with 56% saying controls had significantly 
improved their safety behaviour and 30% that they had done  
so ‘quite a bit’. Given this successful outcome, we will be adopting  
a similar approach for Safety Day in 2016.
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE
DRIVING CHANGE
INDIRECT ROLES REDUCED TO AROUND 11,500  
ACROSS THE GROUP (2014: 1 3,000) 
 11,500
FEMALE MANAGERS ACROSS THE GROUP 
25% 31
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
We continue to foster our high performance  
culture, through building an organisation structure  
that is fit for purpose, resourcing this structure with  
the best capability and empowering leadership to 
deliver results.
BUILDING AN ORGANISATION THAT IS  
FIT FOR PURPOSE 
We continue to create a lean and more effective business 
that is built around strong commodity-focused operating 
units and functions that provide value-adding expert  
leadership, improve business performance and ensure 
effective governance. 
During 2015, we reviewed our organisation to structure 
work more effectively, establish clear accountabilities and 
authorities, and remove duplication. This work focused 
initially on indirect support roles (those not directly involved 
in production) at the Group Corporate centres. This resulted 
in a significant reduction in employee numbers, while 
ensuring we have the most capable people in the right roles 
to deliver on our strategic objectives. By the end of 2015, the 
number of people working for Anglo American in indirect 
roles had reduced to around 1 1,500 from 13,000 in 2014. 
As the Group’s portfolio is streamlined to focus on diamonds, 
PGMs and copper, we expect our total headcount to reduce 
from 128,000 to around 50,000 through disposals and 
restructuring, with the majority of these roles expected to  
be transferred to new owners of the assets. We will further 
review our corporate support structures and overheads to 
ensure they remain fit for purpose and are aligned to the 
future portfolio. In order to reduce duplication and increase 
capability, we will also review the role of each function within 
the context of a global support model. 
We expect that the future rightsizing of our corporate 
support structures will lead to a reduction of indirect roles 
from the current 1 1,500 to less than 5,000. The changes  
to central support costs alone are expected to contribute 
$250 million of cost savings in the medium term.
MANAGING TALENT AND DEVELOPING SKILLS
Resourcing Anglo American’s simplified organisation 
structure with the right capability is essential for success  
and continues to be the focus of the ‘fit for purpose’ exercise. 
In assessing capability, we consider technical skills and 
knowledge that have been acquired through experience  
and practice; mental processing ability; social process skills; 
and application (the degree of drive and commitment a 
person displays).
If we are to withstand the current challenges, we need to 
foster a culture centred on business outcomes. Achieving 
this hinges on strong leadership from line managers, to 
ensure we are doing only essential work, with only people 
who are adding significant value, and giving them the 
authority to do their job effectively.
Providing development and training to our leaders and 
workforce continues to improve the resilience of our 
business and is a key means for people to grow in their  
work. We have a range of external and internal development 
programmes currently in use across the Group, where we 
made an investment of more than $100 million on training  
in 2015. In an increasingly competitive market for limited 
skills, we continue to invest in developing a pipeline of future 
talent through our support of 3,500 graduates, bursars, 
apprentices and trainees.
DIVERSITY
Anglo American embraces diversity and complies with 
relevant legal obligations wherever we have operations.  
We seek a workforce that represents the regions within 
which we operate and we provide opportunities for broader 
development within those regions. A diverse workforce 
brings greater diversity of thought to tackle the challenges 
we face. We continually develop our workforce so that we 
will have this diversity among our leaders of the future. By 
year end, women made up 18% of our overall workforce 
(2014: 16%) and 25% of managers (2014: 24%). 
In our South African operations, we continue to promote 
transformation. By year end, 60% of our management 
comprised historically disadvantaged South Africans. The 
impending third iteration of the Mining Charter is expected 
to define new commitments that will encourage further 
progress in our business.
ENCOURAGING SOUND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
Throughout our organisation restructures, we maintain a 
focus on managing employment separations respectfully 
and fairly. We endeavour to follow due legal process in all 
countries in which we have a presence and seek to engage 
with governments, employees and unions in order to make 
the difficult situation as fair and transparent as possible. We 
work with affected employees to honour our commitments 
and offer support measures, including external services, to 
assist with finding employment elsewhere. 
Approximately 72% of our current permanent workforce is 
represented by work councils, trade unions or other similar 
bodies and covered by collective bargaining agreements. 
PROTECTING LABOUR RIGHTS
As signatories to the United Nations Global Compact, we  
are committed to the labour rights principles provided in  
the International Labour Organization core conventions, 
including the right to freedom of association and collective 
bargaining, the eradication of child and forced labour and 
non-discrimination. We do not tolerate any form of labour 
rights abuse, and full observance of these issues is also 
required of our suppliers in tenders. Compliance is audited. 32 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
ENSURING A SAFE WORKING ENVIRONMENT
The safety, health and well-being of our employees are a  
top priority and a core value at Anglo American. We strive to 
achieve our goal of zero harm by managing our activities in  
a way that eliminates incidents, minimises risk and promotes 
excellence in the performance of our operations.
In 2015, three employees and three contractors lost their 
lives in work-related activities at operations managed by 
Anglo American. This is the same record low of six lives  
lost recorded in 2014, when four employees and two 
contractors died. The Group’s fatality injury frequency rate  
at the end of 2015 represented a negligible increase on  
the 2014 performance.
Any loss of life is unacceptable and we continue to dedicate 
considerable effort to achieving our vision of zero harm. As 
part of this, we initiated a Group-wide control improvement 
programme during 2015. This aims to ensure we have the 
right controls in place for all our major safety risks and that 
they are properly understood, used and their effectiveness 
regularly monitored.
For each incident resulting in loss of life or a critical injury, an 
independent investigation is conducted to understand the 
causes and remedial actions required. The lessons learned 
from each are shared via our Group Learning from Incidents 
(LFI) process and discussed at Board Sustainability 
Committee, executive and site management levels. 
Particular emphasis is placed on ensuring that actions 
relating to critical controls are implemented in a timely 
manner to prevent repeats. 
Despite continuing to put considerable effort into improving 
how we manage safety, our total recordable case frequency 
rate rose by 16% to 0.93 (2014: 0.80). While the regression 
was partly due to Platinum having resumed normal 
operating conditions following the strike-affected period in 
2014, more work needs to be done to renew the downward 
trend of recent years. 
Regulatory and voluntary safety stoppages resulted in lost 
production at Platinum, and to a lesser extent at Kumba. 
While the overall number of stoppages and associated lost 
production decreased year-on-year at Platinum, it remains a 
priority for the business to engage with regulators to ensure 
that such interventions are used as a last resort. 
Our safety strategy and management approach are 
risk-based and focus on making sure that we have the  
right culture and controls in place to operate safely. They  
are both founded on three key principles: a mindset of  
zero harm, no repeats, and the application of simple, 
non-negotiable standards. During 2015, we added further 
impetus to improving control use, driven by work in five 
linked areas: leadership, effective planning and standards, 
supervision, incidents, and risk management. These will 
remain our priorities in 2016.
PROMOTING HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
Effective management of health risks protects our  
people, enhances productivity and is essential for 
minimising potential long term liabilities. Extending our 
health promotion activities to the broader community  
also supports our internal health drive.
In 2015, 42% of employees were reported to be working in 
environments with noise levels in excess of the occupational 
exposure limit, and approximately 9% of employees were 
working in environments where they were potentially at risk 
of exposure to inhalable hazards. 
CREATE A HIGH PERFORMANCE CULTURE continued
4,000
0
500
1,500
2,500
3,000
3,500
1,000
2,000
2.5
0
0.5
1.5
2
1
2012 2013 2014
Medical treatment cases
Lost-time injuries
TRCFR
Lost time injuries, medical treatment cases and 
total recordable case frequency rate 2011–2015
2011 2015
TRCFR
FIFR
FIFR Fatalities
Total number of fatal injuries and fatal injury 
frequency rate 2011–2015
   
0
10
5
15
20
25
30
0
0.006
0.004
0.002
0.008
0.010
0.012
0.014
0.016
Fatalities
2012 2013 2014 2011 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE 33
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
While we have intensive programmes in place to ensure that 
employees and contractors working in such environments 
are trained to use personal protective equipment, our focus 
is on addressing the source of occupational health risk.
Our overall approach to occupational hygiene is aligned with 
the Anglo American Operational Risk Management (ORM) 
process, which requires that operations identify health risks, 
implement controls to mitigate those risks, monitor the 
effectiveness of controls, and learn from incidents in order 
to prevent repeats. Targets for the implementation of the 
ORM are being set and will influence the performance-
based remuneration of senior executives.
The number of new cases of occupational diseases reported 
in 2015 was 163 (2014: 175). This translates to an incidence 
rate of 0.177 (2014: 0.175) per 200,000 hours worked – a 
small year-on-year increase due to the reduced number  
of employees in 2015. Improvement, in absolute terms,  
was noted in the following areas: a 47% reduction in 
musculoskeletal disorders; a 33% reduction in coal-
workers’ pneumoconiosis; and a 12% reduction in noise-
induced hearing loss.
 Anglo American has recorded no cases of silicosis owing to 
exposure at our operations since 201 1. However, despite the 
significant year-on-year decrease, we continue to report 
cases of coal-workers’ pneumoconiosis. These cases are 
thoroughly investigated to better understand their causes, 
including the past and current occupational exposure 
profiles of those who become ill, as well as the potential 
sources of coal dust in the workplace. Based on this 
information, we continue to implement measures to improve 
our management of risks associated with coal dust.
Through the industry work group that was formed by 
Anglo American and other South African mining peers,  
we continue to address issues relating to compensation  
and medical care for occupational lung disease in the  
gold mining industry in South Africa.  34 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
KEY PERFORMANCE 
INDICATORS
(1)
 The table above reflects historically reported KPIs against our seven pillars. It does not represent our new business scorecard.
STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
PILLARS OF VALUE
(1)
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIs) RESULTS AND TARGETS
(2)
 
Safety and Health 
To do no harm to  
our workforce.
For more information see  
Create a high performance  
culture on page 30
Work related fatal injury frequency rate (FIFR) 
FIFR is the number of employee or contractor fatal injuries  
due to all causes per 200,000 hours worked.
New cases of occupational disease (NCOD)
Number of new cases of occupational disease diagnosed 
among employees during the reporting period.
Total recordable case frequency  
rate (TRCFR) 
TRCFR is the number of fatal injuries, lost 
time injuries and medical treatment cases 
for both employees and contractors per 
200,000 hours worked.
 
Environment
To minimise harm  
to the environment.
For more information see  
Develop core business  
processes on page 24
Energy consumption 
Measured in million gigajoules (GJ).
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  
Measured in million tonnes of CO
2 
equivalent emissions.
Total new water consumed 
Total new water consumed includes  
water used for primary and non-primary 
activities, measured in million m
3
.
 
Socio-political
To partner in the benefits of 
mining with local communities 
and governments.
For more information see  
Develop core business  
processes on page 24
Corporate social investment 
Social investment, as defined by the London Benchmarking 
Group, includes donations, gifts in kind and staff time for 
administering community programmes and volunteering in 
company time and is shown as a percentage of underlying 
EBIT, less underlying EBIT of associates and joint ventures.
Enterprise development 
Number of companies supported, and 
number of jobs sustained, by companies 
supported by Anglo American enterprise 
development initiatives.
 
People
To resource the organisation 
with an engaged and  
productive workforce.
For more information see  
Create a high performance  
culture on page 30
Voluntary labour turnover 
Number of permanent employee resignations as a  
percentage of total permanent employees.
Gender diversity 
Percentage of women, and female 
managers, employed by the Group.
 
Production
To extract our Ore Reserves 
in a sustainable way to  
create value.
For more information see  
Group Financial Review on page 36
Production volumes  
Production volumes for the year are discussed at a commodity 
level within each business unit section of the annual report  
(see pages 46–64). Quarterly production figures are shown  
on page 186.
 
Cost
To be competitive by operating 
as efficiently as possible. 
For more information see  
Group Financial Review on page 36
Unit costs of production  
Unit costs of production are discussed at a commodity  
level within each business unit section of the annual report  
(see pages 46–64). Other factors that impact costs across  
the Group are discussed in the Group Financial Review  
(see page 36). 
 
Financial
To deliver sustainable returns  
for our shareholders. 
For more information see  
Group Financial Review on page 36
Attributable ROCE 
The return on adjusted capital employed attributable to equity 
shareholders of Anglo American. It excludes the portion of the 
return and capital employed attributable to non-controlling 
interests in operations where Anglo American has control but 
does not hold 100% of the equity. It is calculated as annualised 
underlying EBIT divided by adjusted capital employed.
Underlying earnings per share  
Underlying earnings are net profit 
attributable to equity shareholders, before 
special items and remeasurements. 35
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
(2) 
The results and targets in the KPI table above include wholly owned subsidiaries and joint operations over which Anglo American has management control.
(3) 
Includes eight months of Anglo American Norte.
(4) 
Based on reported production in 2014, i.e. not adjusted for impact of strike.
FIFR
Target: Zero fatal incidents
6 fatalities, 0.00352 FIFR
6 fatalities, 0.00346 FIFR
2015
2014
TRCFR
Target: 10% year-on-year reduction 
The ultimate goal of zero harm remains
0.93 
0.80
2015
2014
NCOD 
T arget: Zero (long term)
163 
175 
2015
2014
Energy consumption
Million GJ total energy used
Target: 7% saving vs. 2015 projected business as usual (BAU)
Performance: 7% saving vs. 2015 
106 
108
2015
2014
GHG emissions
Mt CO
2 
-equivalent
Target: 19% saving vs. 2015 projected BAU
Performance: 22% saving vs. 2015
18
17 
2015
2014
Total new water consumed
Mm
3
 new water consumed
Target: 14% saving vs. 2020 projected BAU
Performance: 16% saving vs. 2015
222 222
196 
2015
2014
Enterprise development
Businesses supported
   
62,661
58,257
2015
2014
108,423
96,873
2015
2014
Enterprise development
Jobs sustained
   
Gender diversity
Women as a percentage of total workforce
   
18%
16%
2015
2014
Gender diversity
Women as a percentage of management
   
25%
24%
2015
2014
1.9%
2.0%
2015
2014
Voluntary labour turnover
 
 
 
Copper
(3)
(5)% Group total 5%
(7)% Kumba 
Coal (5)%
 
 
 
Nickel (19)%
Niobium 34%
Phosphates (fertiliser) 0%
(12)%
25%
De Beers
Platinum (produced ounces)
Production change
% change versus 2014
 
 
 
Copper
(3)
(9)% Group (copper equivalent) (16)%
(23)% Coal – Australia and Canada
Coal – South Africa (13)%
 
 
 
Nickel (12)%
Kumba (9)% (6)%
(28)%
(4)
De Beers
Platinum
Group unit cost movements – US$ nominal basis
% change versus 2014
Group attributable ROCE
5%
9%
2015
2014
Underlying EPS
$0.64
$1.73
2015
2014
PILLARS OF VALUE
(1)
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIs) RESULTS AND TARGETS
(2)
 
Safety and Health 
To do no harm to  
our workforce.
For more information see  
Create a high performance  
culture on page 30
Work related fatal injury frequency rate (FIFR) 
FIFR is the number of employee or contractor fatal injuries  
due to all causes per 200,000 hours worked.
New cases of occupational disease (NCOD)
Number of new cases of occupational disease diagnosed 
among employees during the reporting period.
Total recordable case frequency  
rate (TRCFR) 
TRCFR is the number of fatal injuries, lost 
time injuries and medical treatment cases 
for both employees and contractors per 
200,000 hours worked.
 
Environment
To minimise harm  
to the environment.
For more information see  
Develop core business  
processes on page 24
Energy consumption 
Measured in million gigajoules (GJ).
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  
Measured in million tonnes of CO
2 
equivalent emissions.
Total new water consumed 
Total new water consumed includes  
water used for primary and non-primary 
activities, measured in million m
3
.
 
Socio-political
To partner in the benefits of 
mining with local communities 
and governments.
For more information see  
Develop core business  
processes on page 24
Corporate social investment 
Social investment, as defined by the London Benchmarking 
Group, includes donations, gifts in kind and staff time for 
administering community programmes and volunteering in 
company time and is shown as a percentage of underlying 
EBIT, less underlying EBIT of associates and joint ventures.
Enterprise development 
Number of companies supported, and 
number of jobs sustained, by companies 
supported by Anglo American enterprise 
development initiatives.
 
People
To resource the organisation 
with an engaged and  
productive workforce.
For more information see  
Create a high performance  
culture on page 30
Voluntary labour turnover 
Number of permanent employee resignations as a  
percentage of total permanent employees.
Gender diversity 
Percentage of women, and female 
managers, employed by the Group.
 
Production
To extract our Ore Reserves 
in a sustainable way to  
create value.
For more information see  
Group Financial Review on page 36
Production volumes  
Production volumes for the year are discussed at a commodity 
level within each business unit section of the annual report  
(see pages 46–64). Quarterly production figures are shown  
on page 186.
 
Cost
To be competitive by operating 
as efficiently as possible. 
For more information see  
Group Financial Review on page 36
Unit costs of production  
Unit costs of production are discussed at a commodity  
level within each business unit section of the annual report  
(see pages 46–64). Other factors that impact costs across  
the Group are discussed in the Group Financial Review  
(see page 36). 
 
Financial
To deliver sustainable returns  
for our shareholders. 
For more information see  
Group Financial Review on page 36
Attributable ROCE 
The return on adjusted capital employed attributable to equity 
shareholders of Anglo American. It excludes the portion of the 
return and capital employed attributable to non-controlling 
interests in operations where Anglo American has control but 
does not hold 100% of the equity. It is calculated as annualised 
underlying EBIT divided by adjusted capital employed.
Underlying earnings per share  
Underlying earnings are net profit 
attributable to equity shareholders, before 
special items and remeasurements.
Corporate social investment
2015: 6.0% of underlying EBIT, less associates and joint ventures
2014: 3.0% of underlying EBIT, less associates and joint ventures
$124m
$136m
2015
2014 36 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Anglo American reported underlying earnings  
of $0.8 billion (2014: $2.2 billion), with underlying 
EBIT decreasing by 55% to $2.2 billion.
The Group achieved a favourable cost performance in 2015, 
even allowing for the benefits of weaker local currencies.  
At Platinum, year-on-year cash operating costs per unit of 
platinum production (metal in concentrate) decreased by 
28% to $1,508 per ounce, owing primarily to the impact of 
the industrial action on costs in 2014, and the benefit of the 
weaker rand. As a result of cost savings and the benefit of 
weaker local currencies at De Beers, consolidated unit  
costs declined from $1 1 1 /carat to $104/carat, despite lower 
volumes. In Copper, there was a $208 million reduction  
in on-mine cash costs of the retained operations, driven  
by cost saving initiatives, including a 16% reduction in 
headcount at Los Bronces. Nickel C1 unit costs decreased 
by 12%, driven by the weaker Brazilian real, partly offset by 
inflation and lower production volumes owing to the furnace 
rebuilds. During the year, Kumba reduced controllable costs 
by $8/tonne to achieve an average cash break-even price  
of $49/tonne (CFR China). Coal Australia FOB costs 
decreased by 7% in local currency terms following increased 
productivity at underground mines and cost reductions, 
resulting in the lowest unit costs since 2007. Coal South 
Africa delivered flat unit costs, despite planned lower 
production and inflationary pressures.
INCOME STATEMENT 
Group underlying EBIT was $2.2 billion, a 55% decrease 
(2014: $4.9 billion).
Underlying EBIT
$ million
Year ended  
31 Dec 2015
Year ended  
31 Dec 2014 
Platinum 263 32
De Beers 571 1,363
Copper 228 1,193
Nickel (22) 21
Niobium and Phosphates 119 124
Iron Ore and Manganese 671 1,957
Coal 457 458
Corporate and other (64) (215)
Total 2,223 4,933
Underlying earnings 
Group underlying earnings were $0.8 billion, a 63% 
decrease (2014: $2.2 billion). 
Net finance costs 
Net finance costs, before special items and 
remeasurements, excluding associates and joint  
ventures, were $458 million (2014: $256 million). The 
increase was driven by lower interest income due to  
a reduction in the average cash balance held by the  
Group (2015: $6,963 million, 2014: $7,878 million)  
and net foreign exchange losses in the current period,  
primarily driven by the weakening of the Brazilian real  
and South African rand.
Falling prices were seen across most products  
($4.2 billion impact on underlying EBIT), with the 
average iron ore CFR China price down 42% and 
copper price down 20%, only partly offset by weaker 
commodity currencies ($1.8 billion impact). After 
adjusting for inflation, cash costs decreased as a result 
of cost-reduction initiatives across the Group  and 
falling input costs such as diesel, rubber and steel. 
Weaker rough diamond demand negatively affected 
underlying EBIT, although this was partially offset by 
increased sales volumes at Coal Australia, Coal South Africa, 
Kumba Iron Ore (Kumba) and Platinum.
Net debt remained flat at $12.9 billion. Significantly weaker 
operational cash flows were, for the most part, offset by a  
$2.0 billion reduction in capital expenditure, as expansionary 
projects approach completion and stay-in-business capital 
expenditure has been reduced. In addition, Anglo American 
received $1.7 billion in net disposal proceeds, primarily from 
Lafarge-Tarmac and Anglo American Norte. 
Full year post-tax impairments of $5.7 billion have been 
recorded in operating special items, reflecting the impact  
of deteriorating market conditions, including weaker prices,  
on asset valuations.
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE  
(PRODUCTION/COSTS) 
Operational performance was in line with expectations 
across the majority of the business. Platinum production 
rose by 25%, largely due to the recovery from the 2014 
strike, as well as a strong mining performance at 
Mogalakwena and Amandelbult. Rough diamond production 
decreased by 12% in response to prevailing trading 
conditions. Copper production decreased by 5%, largely 
due to the disposal of Anglo American Norte, effective from 
1 September 2015. On a pro forma basis (excluding the 
impact of Anglo American Norte), production was 1% lower, 
driven by the impact of drought conditions on throughput at 
Los Bronces and plant instability at Collahuasi during the 
third quarter, partly offset by higher grades.
Nickel production decreased by 19% to 30,300 tonnes, 
reflecting the impact of the furnace rebuilds at Barro Alto.  
At Niobium, the 34% increase in output to 6,300 tonnes 
reflected the ongoing ramp-up of the BVFR project. 
Production at Kumba decreased by 7% owing to mining 
constraints at Sishen. The ramp-up of Minas-Rio continued, 
with increases in quarter-on-quarter production throughout 
the year. Output at Coal Australia and Canada increased by 
1%, despite Peace River Coal (which produced 1.5 Mt in 
2014) being on care and maintenance for the year. At Coal  
South Africa, export production decreased 4%, owing to  
the planned closure of a section at Goedehoop and lower 
production at Mafube as it transitions to a new mining area.
GROUP FINANCIAL  
REVIEW
STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW 37
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Underlying earnings
Year ended 31 Dec 2015
$ million
Underlying 
EBIT
Net finance 
costs and 
income tax 
expense
Non-
controlling  
interests
Underlying 
earnings
Platinum 263 (56) (39) 168
De Beers 571 (274) (39) 258
Copper 228 (120) (41) 67
Nickel (22) 3 – (19)
Niobium and Phosphates 119 (71) – 48
Iron Ore and Manganese 671 (323) (250) 98
Coal 457 (158) (7) 292
Corporate and other (64) (34) 13 (85)
Total 2,223 (1,033) (363) 827
Reconciliation to loss for the period from underlying earnings
$ million
Year ended  
31 Dec 2015
Year ended  
31 Dec 2014 
Underlying earnings 827 2,217
Operating special items (5,972) (4,374)
Operating remeasurements (178) (1)
Non-operating special items (1,278) (385)
Financing special items and remeasurements 615 36
Special items and remeasurements tax 47 2
Non-controlling interests on special items and remeasurements 584 38
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ special items and remeasurements (269) (46)
Loss for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company (5,624) (2,513)
Underlying earnings per share (US$) 0.64 1.73
Tax 
The effective rate of tax, before special items and 
remeasurements and including an attributable share of 
associates’ and joint ventures’ tax, increased to 31.0% at 
year end (31 December 2014: 29.8%). This increased rate 
was due to the net impact of certain prior year adjustments, 
the remeasurement of withholding tax provisions across  
the Group, and the relative levels of profits arising in our 
operating jurisdictions. In future periods, it is expected that 
the effective tax rate will remain above the United Kingdom 
statutory tax rate.
Special items and remeasurements 
Special items and remeasurements primarily relate to 
impairments in respect of the Minas-Rio iron ore project  
of $2.5 billion; Capcoal, Peace River Coal and other  
assets within the Coal segment of $1.2 billion; assets and 
investments within the Platinum business of $0.7 billion;  
the Snap Lake operation within the De Beers business  
of $0.6 billion; and the write-down to fair value of the 
Rustenburg platinum mine of $0.7 billion. Full details of  
the special items and remeasurements charges are to be 
found in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
Strategic report 38 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW
Net debt
$ million 2015 2014
Opening net debt (12,871) (10,652)
EBITDA
(1)
 4,419 7,104
Working capital movements 25 9
Other cash flows from operations (204) (164)
Cash flows from operations 4,240 6,949
Capital expenditure including related derivatives
(2)
(4,177) (6,018)
Cash tax paid (596) (1,298)
Dividends from associates, joint ventures and financial asset investments 333 460
Net interest (540) (473)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (242) (823)
Attributable free cash flow (982) (1,203)
Dividends paid to Company shareholders (1,078) (1,099)
Disposals (net proceeds) 1,745 44
Other net debt movements 285 39
Total movement in net debt (30) (2,219)
Closing net debt
(3)
(12,901) (12,871)
(1) 
EBITDA is underlying EBITDA, as described in note 3 to the financial statements, less EBITDA of associates and joint ventures.
(2) 
Please see note 22 to the financial statements for the definition of capital expenditure.
(3) 
Net debt excludes the own credit risk fair value adjustment on derivatives of $555 million (31 December 2014: Nil).
GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW continued
GROUP ROCE
Attributable ROCE declined to 5% in 2015 (2014: 9%) 
primarily as a consequence of weaker commodity prices, 
partly offset by improved operational performance and 
recovery from the platinum strike in 2014, the benefit of 
weaker local currencies, a lower proportion of post-tax 
earnings attributable to non-controlling interests and  
lower average attributable capital employed. Average 
attributable capital employed was lower at $32.6 billion 
(2014: $38.7 billion), driven by impairments, offset by 
ongoing capital expenditure.
The previous ROCE measure, used to track the Driving 
Value programme, incorporated a number of adjustments, 
principally to reverse the impact of certain impairments and 
acquisition fair value adjustments. The new attributable 
ROCE measure has been developed to allow a clearer link to 
the published financial statements. Comparatives have been 
restated to align with the current period presentation, and 
capital employed by segment is disclosed in note 3 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
BALANCE SHEET
Net assets of the Group decreased to $21.3 billion  
(2014: $32.2 billion), driven primarily by impairments of  
$5.7 billion, losses on disposals of subsidiaries and joint 
ventures, foreign exchange losses of $4.1 billion, and 
depreciation of $2.6 billion. Capital expenditure, including 
capitalised operating cash outflows, for the year was  
$4.2 billion, while net debt remained flat at $12.9 billion,  
as explained below.
LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING 
At 31 December 2015, the Group had undrawn committed 
bank facilities of $7.9 billion and cash of $6.9 billion. The 
Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of 
reasonably possible changes in trading performance, 
indicate the Group’s ability to operate within the level of its 
current facilities. The Group has certain financial covenants 
in place in relation to external debt which are not expected  
to be breached in the foreseeable future.  39
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
NET DEBT
Net debt (including related hedges) of $12,901 million  
was $30 million higher than at 31 December 2014, 
representing gearing of 37.7% (31 December 2014: 28.6%). 
Net debt is made up of cash and cash equivalents of  
$6,889 million (31 December 2014: $6,747 million) and 
gross debt including related derivatives of $19,790 million 
(31 December 2014: $19,618 million). Net debt remained  
flat year-on-year, with significant cash outflows arising on  
capital expenditure, the payment of dividends to Company 
shareholders and to non-controlling interests, and interest 
payments, offset by cash generated from operations and 
disposal proceeds.
Anglo American received net proceeds from disposals  
of $1,745 million (31 December 2014: $44 million), primarily 
for the sale of its 50% interest in Lafarge Tarmac and for the 
sale of Anglo American Norte, taking into account disposed  
cash and transaction costs.
CASH FLOW 
Cash flow from operations
Cash flow from operations decreased by $2,709 million to 
$4,240 million (31 December 2014: $6,949 million), driven 
by the 38% decrease in underlying EBITDA. Cash inflows on 
operating working capital were $25 million (31 December 
2014: inflows of $9 million). These were due to a decrease  
in operating receivables, primarily at Kumba, owing to lower 
realised prices, offset by increases in inventories at 
De Beers, resulting from lower volumes sold.
Attributable free cash flow
Attributable free cash flow increased by $221 million  
to an outflow of $982 million despite cash flow from 
operations decreasing by $2,709 million. The improvement 
was primarily due to a reduction in capital expenditure  
of $1,841 million to $4,177 million (31 December 2014:  
$6,018 million), mainly owing to the Minas-Rio iron  
ore project in Brazil moving into its ramp-up phase.  
Cash tax paid and dividends paid to non-controlling  
interests decreased by $1,283 million in total, driven  
by lower earnings.
Net disposal proceeds of $1,745 million relate primarily  
to the completion of the sale of the Group’s interests in 
Lafarge Tarmac and Anglo American Norte.
DIVIDENDS
Analysis of dividends
US cents per share
Year ended  
31 Dec 2015
Year ended 
31 Dec 2014
Interim dividend 32 32
Recommended final dividend – 53
Total dividends 32 85
No final dividend was declared for 2015 (final dividend  
2014: 53 US cents per ordinary share). Total dividends  
paid to Company shareholders during 2015 were  
$1,078 million (31 December 2014: $1,099 million). 
Further protecting its balance sheet and cash position, 
Anglo American announced in December 2015 its decision 
to suspend dividend payments. The commitment to a 
dividend during the ordinary course of business remains a 
core part of the Group’s overall capital allocation approach  
and the Board has recommended that, upon resumption,  
Anglo American should adopt a payout ratio-based dividend 
policy in order to provide shareholders with exposure to 
improvements in commodity prices, while retaining cash 
flow flexibility during periods of weaker pricing. 40 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
MANAGING RISK 
EFFECTIVELY
Anglo American recognises that risk is inherent 
in all its business activities. Our risks can have  
a financial, operational or reputational impact. 
As understanding our risks and developing 
appropriate responses are critical to our future 
success, we are committed to an effective,  
robust system of risk identification and an 
effective response to such risks to support  
the achievement of our objectives. 
Byron Grote 
Chairman, Audit Committee
HOW DOES RISK RELATE TO OUR  
STRATEGIC ELEMENTS?
Risks can arise from events outside of our control or from 
operational matters. Each of the risks described on the 
following pages can have an impact on our ability to achieve 
our strategic elements:
 • Where we compete: optimising and streamlining  
our portfolio;
 • How we win: maximising our performance;
 • Critical core skills: creating a capable organisation.
VIABILITY STATEMENT
The directors confirm that they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will continue in operation and 
meet its liabilities as they fall due for the next three years. 
This period has been selected for the following reasons:
 • The Group’s strategy and budgeting process is aligned 
with a three-year view;
 • The current volatility in commodity markets makes 
confidence in a longer assessment of prospects highly 
challenging; and
Anglo American’s assessment 
of strategic, operational, project 
and sustainable development 
related risks
1. Identifying risks 
A robust methodology is used to identify key risks across the Group;  
at business units, operations and projects. This is being applied 
consistently through the development and ongoing implementation  
of a Group integrated risk management standard.
2. Analysing risks and controls to manage identified risks 
Once identified, the process will evaluate identified risks to establish 
root causes, financial and non-financial impacts and likelihood of 
occurrence. Consideration of risk treatments is taken into account  
to enable the creation of a prioritised register and in determining 
which of the risks should be considered as a principal risk.
3. Determining management actions required
Effectiveness and adequacy of controls are assessed. If  
additional controls are required, these will be identified and 
responsibilities assigned.
4. Reporting and monitoring
Management is responsible for monitoring progress of actions to 
mitigate key risks and determine if the risk is operating within the limits  
of our risk appetite. Management is supported through the Group’ s 
internal audit programme, which evaluates the design and effectiveness 
of controls. The risk management process is continuous; key risks are 
reported to the Audit Committee, with sustainability risks also being 
reported to the Sustainability Committee.
 • The Group will undergo a significant transition over the 
next three years. The viability statement is aligned with 
completion of that transition.
The directors’ assessment has been made with reference  
to the Group’s current position and prospects, including the 
impact of the proposed restructuring and the expected 
disposal proceeds and a robust analysis of its principal risks. 
Assessment of financial performance and cash flows, 
including debt repayment, has been performed over the 
three year period using budgeted commodity prices and 
foreign exchange rates. Financial performance and cash 
flows have then been subjected to stress and sensitivity 
analysis over the three year period, using a range of 
conservative commodity prices and foreign exchange rates.
We have then considered the severe but plausible financial 
impact of other risks the Group faces, combining certain 
different principal risks and other significant risks faced by 
the Group under a number of different scenarios modelled 
over the three year period.
Our assumptions in making the viability statement primarily 
relate to the financial impacts of our principal risks and our 
mitigation of those risks.
1
4
2 2
3
STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY 41
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
PRINCIPAL RISKS
We define a principal risk as a risk or combination of  
risks that would threaten the business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity of Anglo American.  
In addition to these principal risks we continue to be  
exposed to other risks related to currency, inflation, 
information and cyber security, community relations, 
environment, infrastructure and human resources. These 
risks are subject to our normal procedures to identify, 
implement and oversee appropriate mitigation actions.
   Principal risks 1–7 on pages 42–44
CATASTROPHIC RISKS
We also face certain risks that we deem catastrophic risks. 
These are very high severity, very low likelihood events that 
could result in multiple fatalities or injuries, an unplanned 
fundamental change to strategy or the way we operate, and 
have significant financial consequences. We do not consider 
likelihood when assessing these risks as the potential 
impacts mean these risks must be treated as a priority. 
Catastrophic risks are included as principal risks.
   Catastrophic risks 8–11 on pages 44–45
RISK APPETITE
We define risk appetite as ‘the nature and extent of risk 
Anglo American is willing to accept in relation to the pursuit 
of its objectives’. We look at risk appetite from the context  
of severity of the consequences should the risk materialise, 
any relevant internal or external factors influencing the risk 
and the status of management actions to mitigate the  
risk. A scale is used to help determine the limit of appetite  
for each risk, recognising that risk appetite will change  
over time. 
If a risk exceeds appetite, it will threaten the achievement of 
objectives and may require a change to strategy. Risks that 
are approaching the limit of the Group’s risk appetite may 
require management actions to be accelerated or enhanced 
in order to ensure the risks remain within appetite levels.
    Further details on the risk management and internal control systems and the 
review of their effectiveness are provided on pages 80–81 
PRINCIPAL RISKS AT A GLANCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 11
Commodity prices
Political and regulatory
Organisation change
Portfolio restructuring
Minas-Rio
South Africa power
Safety
– Catastrophic risks
Likelihood
Impact
LOW
MEDIUM
SIGNIFICANT HIGH
3 7 4 5 6
2
1
 
Position of arrow indicates 
movement of risk since 2014
8 11 – 42 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
1. COMMODITY PRICES Pillars of value:
Global macro-economic conditions 
leading to sustained low commodity 
prices and/or volatility.
Root cause: The most significant factors 
contributing to this risk at present are the 
slowdown in growth in China and other 
emerging markets, low growth rates in 
developed economies and an oversupply  
of commodities into the market, particularly 
the raw materials such as iron ore and 
metallurgical coal used in steel making. 
Other factors such as weak regional 
economies and conflict can also influence 
the economic environment and contribute  
to weak commodity prices. 
Impact: Low commodity prices can result  
in weakened levels of cash flow, profitability 
and valuation. Debt costs may rise owing  
to rating agency downgrades and the 
possibility of restricted access to funding. 
The Group may be unable to complete its 
divestment programme within the desired 
timescales or achieve expected values.  
The capability to invest in growth projects  
is limited during periods of low commodity 
prices – which may, in turn, affect future 
performance.
Mitigation: High levels of liquidity will  
be maintained during the current cycle.  
An organisation change programme 
incorporating cost reductions, continued 
roll-out of the Operating Model, reductions 
in capital expenditure and the divestment of 
certain assets is under way. The Board 
regularly monitors progress of these actions.
 This risk has increased since 2014
Risk appetite: Operating outside the  
limits of our appetite and mitigation actions 
are in place.
Commentary: Current economic 
conditions are having a negative impact on 
commodity prices and represent the biggest 
immediate threat to Anglo American’s 
financial performance. We have announced 
significant portfolio changes (see pages 
16– 19) as a response to commodity  
price risk.
2. POLITICAL AND REGULATORY Pillars of value:
 
Uncertainty and adverse changes to 
mining industry regulation, legislation or 
tax rates can occur in any country in 
which we operate. 
Root cause: The Group has no control over 
political acts or changes in local tax rates. 
Our licence to operate through mining rights 
is dependent on a number of factors 
including compliance with regulations. 
Impact: Uncertainty over future business 
conditions leads to a lack of confidence in 
making investment decisions, which can 
influence future financial performance. 
Increased costs can be incurred through 
additional regulations or resource taxes, 
while the ability to execute strategic 
initiatives that reduce costs or divest  
assets may also be restricted; all of  
which may reduce profitability and affect 
future performance. Political stability can 
also result in civil unrest or nullification of 
existing agreements, mining permits or 
leases. These may adversely affect the 
Group’s operations or results of those 
operations.
Mitigation: Anglo American has an active 
engagement strategy with the governments 
and regulators within the countries in which 
we operate or plan to operate. We assess 
portfolio capital investments against political 
risks and avoid or minimise exposure to 
jurisdictions with unacceptable risk levels. 
We actively monitor regulatory and political 
developments on a continuous basis.
No change in risk
Risk appetite: Operating within the limits  
of our appetite.
Commentary: Current global economic 
conditions have a significant impact on 
countries whose economies are exposed  
to the downturn in commodities, placing 
greater pressure on governments to find 
alternative means of raising revenues, and 
increase the risk of social and labour unrest. 
These factors could increase the political 
risks faced by the Group.
   
MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY continued
STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY
Pillars of value:
  
Safety and Health 
 
Environment 
 
Socio-political 
 
People 
 
Production 
 
Cost 
 
Financial 43
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
4. PORTFOLIO RESTRUCTURING Pillars of value:    
Inability to divest assets in the timeframe 
required and/or for expected value.
Root cause: Current economic conditions, 
particularly in commodity markets, are 
reducing the number of potential asset 
acquirers and are affecting the value that  
can be obtained. Completion of transactions 
can be complex, and involve numerous 
stakeholders – such as regulators, 
government, joint venture partners, 
employees and local communities – and 
each may have different expectations.
Impact: Weakened levels of cash flow, 
reduced profitability and a resultant negative 
impact on the valuation of Anglo American 
may result, along with an inability to reduce 
debt and improve financial performance. 
Any credit rating agency downgrade may 
increase the cost of debt, while an inability  
to deliver portfolio changes could result  
in loss of investor confidence and  
reputational damage.
Mitigation: The divestment process 
involves comprehensive stakeholder 
engagement and initiatives to generate 
buyer interest. The Board regularly monitors 
progress of individual transactions.
No change in risk
Risk appetite: Operating within the limits  
of our appetite.
Commentary: Progress was made during 
2015, following the successful divestment  
of the Lafarge Tarmac stake and the  
Anglo American Norte assets which, 
together, delivered $1.9 billion in gross 
proceeds. In addition, the proposed sale  
of Anglo American Platinum’s Rustenburg 
mining and concentrating operations to 
Sibanye was announced in September. 
Non-delivery is deemed a principal risk in  
its own right as it is a critical component of 
the response to weak commodity prices.
   
3. ORGANISATION CHANGE Pillars of value:
 
 
Failure to accelerate and deliver the 
organisation change programme  
will lead to a loss of shareholder 
confidence in the ability to transform 
Anglo American and result in a  
reduced valuation.
Root cause: The urgency to deliver  
change is high, but constraints exist in 
different geographies, including 
employment regulations and political  
factors that may delay timing and delivery  
of the organisation change.
Impact: Weakened levels of investor 
confidence, a decreased company valuation 
and reputational damage are possible 
outcomes if this risk materialises. Weaker 
cash flows, lower levels of profitability and 
debt rating downgrades, with a resultant 
increased cost of debt and possibly reduced 
access to financing, could also occur should 
this risk materialise. Employee morale and 
retention of key skills may also be affected.
Mitigation: Progress has been achieved  
in all the various actions associated with the 
Group’s organisation change. Mechanisms 
are in place to monitor progress, identify 
constraints to implementation, and to 
measure the benefits delivered. The  
Board regularly reviews the progress of 
these initiatives.
No change in risk
Risk appetite: Operating within the limits  
of our appetite.
Commentary: The organisation change  
programme incorporates redesign of 
corporate functions, implementation of  
the Operating Model, capital expenditure 
reviews, delivery of the marketing strategy 
and cost reduction initiatives. Non-delivery  
is deemed a principal risk in its own right as  
it is a critical component of the response to 
weak commodity prices.
5. MINAS-RIO Pillars of value:     
Delay in obtaining the operating licence 
extension and inability to achieve 
production targets during ramp-up.
Root cause: Production has been impacted 
by water availability due to reduced rainfall. 
Increased regulatory scrutiny for the licence 
extension can be expected as a result of a 
major tailings dam incident involving loss  
of life at a competitor facility in Brazil in 
November, while there is also the continuing 
need to manage community issues. Both 
may delay completion of the civil works 
associated with the mine’s development. 
Delays in obtaining licences are causing 
operational constraints.
Impact: Inability to achieve planned 
production and revenues and/or reductions 
in the cost of production. This may also  
result in loss of investor confidence and 
reputational damage. 
Mitigation: A comprehensive  
stakeholder engagement plan is in place to 
manage the licence extension and actions 
are being taken to address the ramp-up  
risks identified.
 This risk has increased since 2014
Risk appetite: Operating within the limits  
of our appetite.
Commentary: An extension to the 
operating licence has been requested and  
is expected to be delivered by September 
2016. The process to extend the licence 
through to December 2022 has also started 
and risks to achieving that extension have 
been identified. Risks to the production 
ramp-up have also been assessed, including 
optimisation of the flotation plant and  
water availability. 
   
     44 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY continued
8. TAILINGS DAM FAILURE Pillars of value:     
A release of waste material leading  
to loss of life, injuries, environmental 
damage, reputational damage, financial 
costs and production impacts.
Root cause: T ailings dam failures can result 
from over-topping, poor operating practices, 
instability of pit slopes, inadequate design and 
construction, or seismic events.
Impact: Potential for multiple fatalities and 
injuries, long term environmental damage, 
significant reputational damage and loss of 
licence to operate. The financial impact 
associated with clean-up costs and legal 
liability claims could be substantial.
Mitigation: Anglo American employs 
technical standards that provide minimum 
design criteria and operational performance 
requirements; all of which are regularly 
inspected by technical experts. Assurance 
work is conducted to monitor the controls 
associated with management of tailings  
dam facilities.
No change in risk
Risk appetite: Operating within the limits  
of our appetite.
Commentary: Tailings dam failure is 
considered a catastrophic risk – i.e. a very 
high severity but very low frequency event 
that must be treated with the highest priority.
    
7. SAFETY Pillars of value:      
Failure to deliver a sustained 
improvement in safety performance.
Root cause: Inability to deliver a sustained 
improvement in safety performance will 
result from a failure of management 
interventions and training initiatives to 
translate into behavioural change by all 
employees and contractors.
Impact: Loss of life, workplace injuries and 
safety-related stoppages all immediately 
impact production; while, over the longer 
term, such factors are also a threat to our 
licence to operate.
Mitigation: A continued, relentless focus  
on safety improvement and safety risk 
management is adopted by executive 
management. Operating standards and 
guidelines are in place to mitigate safety risk, 
supported by robust risk management and 
risk assurance processes. 
No change in risk
Risk appetite: Operating within the limits  
of our appetite.
Commentary: Senior management 
continues to treat safety risk management  
as its top priority. In 2015, lost-time injuries 
decreased, excluding Platinum, compared 
with the prior year, demonstrating continued 
progress in reducing workplace injuries. 
Six people lost their lives at Anglo American’s 
managed operations during 2015, the same 
number as in 2014.
    
6. SOUTH AFRICA POWER Pillars of value:     
Electricity supply not able to meet the 
country’s demands, leading to unplanned 
outages and failure of the national grid.
Root cause: Anglo American is a  
significant consumer of power owing to  
the extent of our operations in South Africa. 
The risk is created through the state’s lack  
of investment in generating capacity and a 
maintenance backlog in some generating 
facilities, leading to unplanned outages.
Impact: Unplanned and short-notice power 
supply outages can lead to production 
shortfalls, with a negative effect on revenue, 
costs and productivity. There are potential 
safety implications, particularly for 
underground mines and process activities. 
Loss of critical computing systems can 
interrupt normal business activities.
Mitigation: Daily interactions are held with 
senior management of the state-owned 
power supplier to understand short and long 
term supply issues. Business units have 
emergency generation capability for deep 
level shafts and procedures are in place to 
minimise disruption.
 This risk has increased since 2014
Risk appetite: Operating within the limits  
of our appetite.
Commentary: Installed generation capacity 
is not operating at 100%, particularly during 
summer months, leaving the system 
vulnerable, with any supply shortfalls 
requiring national load-shedding and/or 
curtailment. Significant improvements are 
not expected in the near term.
    
STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY
Pillars of value:
  
Safety and Health 
 
Environment 
 
Socio-political 
 
People 
 
Production 
 
Cost 
 
Financial 45
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
11. FIRE AND/OR EXPLOSION Pillars of value:
     
Fire and explosion risks are present at  
all mining operations and processing 
facilities such as smelters and refineries 
in our Platinum, Copper and Nickel 
businesses.
Root cause: The combined presence of 
fuel, heat and oxygen, as well as conditions 
that can lead to the concentration and 
confinement of these elements, can cause 
an explosion – including gas, coal dust 
(particularly in underground mines),  
sulphide dust or furnace gas explosions.
Impact: Multiple fatalities and injuries, 
damage to assets, loss of production, 
reputation damage and loss of licence  
to operate. Financial costs associated  
with recovery and liability claims may  
be significant.
Mitigation: Technical standards exist  
that provide minimum criteria for prevention 
of underground explosions and fire. 
Inspections are carried out by technical 
experts and assurance work is conducted  
to assess the effectiveness of controls.  
Third party reviews of fire risk are  
conducted at each location where  
significant risk is present.
No change in risk
Risk appetite: Operating within the limits  
of our appetite.
Commentary: Fire and explosion is 
considered a catastrophic risk – i.e. a very 
high severity but very low frequency event 
that must be treated with the highest priority.
    
10. MINESHAFT FAILURE Pillars of value:
    
A sudden and unexpected failure of  
a mineshaft.
Root cause: There are 23 vertical shafts  
in our Platinum and Coal business units. 
Mineshaft failure can occur as a result of 
rope failure, fire and explosion in a shaft, 
flooding, power failure, mud rush, 
conveyance failure or structural failure.
Impact: Multiple fatalities and injuries, 
damage to assets, production loss and 
reputational damage. Financial costs 
associated with recovery and liability  
claims may be significant.
Mitigation: Technical standards exist that 
provide minimum criteria for mineshaft 
management. Inspections are carried out  
by technical experts and assurance work  
is conducted to assess the effectiveness  
of controls.
No change in risk
Risk appetite: Operating within the limits  
of our appetite.
Commentary: Mineshaft failure is 
considered a catastrophic risk – i.e. a very 
high severity but very low frequency event 
that must be treated with the highest priority.
   
9. SLOPE WALL FAILURE Pillars of value:
     
A sudden and unexpected failure  
of a slope causing landslides and  
inrush to pit or other asset (such as  
a pipeline), leading to loss of life,  
injuries, environmental damage, 
reputational damage, financial costs  
and production impacts. 
Root cause: Slope wall failure can result 
from inadequate design, unexpected 
adverse geological conditions, shortcomings  
in the mining process, or natural events such 
as seismic activity or excessive rainfall.
Impact: Potential for multiple fatalities or 
injuries, significant production impact and 
damage to assets. Financial costs associated 
with recovery and legal claims may be 
extensive. Regulatory issues may result  
and community relations may be affected.
Mitigation: Technical standards exist  
that provide minimum criteria for slope 
stability design and operation. Monitoring  
of slope movement is conducted at all  
open pit operations. Inspections and training 
and awareness programmes are provided  
by technical experts, and assurance work  
is conducted to assess the effectiveness  
of controls. 
No change in risk
Risk appetite: Operating within the limits  
of our appetite.
Commentary: Slope wall failure is 
considered a catastrophic risk – i.e. a very 
high severity but very low frequency event 
that must be treated with the highest priority.
     46 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
PLATINUM
Chris 
Griffith 
CEO –  
Anglo 
American 
Platinum
Anglo American is the leading primary producer of PGMs, providing the world  
with around 40% of all newly mined platinum. All of our operations are located  
in the Bushveld Complex in South Africa, with the exception of Unki mine on the  
Great Dyke formation in Zimbabwe. 
DRIVING CHANGE
PRODUCTION RECORD AT MOGALAKWENA 
392,000 ounces
COST PER TONNE REDUCTION AT MOGALAKWENA 
7% VS 2014
HEADCOUNT REDUCTION IN YEAR 
8%
DEFINING OUR FUTURE
SALE OF RUSTENBURG OPERATIONS AGREED WITH 
SIBANYE GOLD FOR AT LEAST R4.5 BILLION (NOMINAL) 
Sibanye shareholder approval gained and South African 
competition and regulatory approvals in train
UNION PLATINUM MINE IDENTIFIED FOR SALE  
Operation has been restructured and production significantly 
reduced while also progressing the sale of the asset
JOINT VENTURE OPERATIONS WILL CONTINUE TO BE 
OPERATED IN A SEPARATE MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE 
Kroondal, Pandora and other joint ventures under review to 
determine optimum path to realise shareholder value over time
STRATEGIC REPORT: PLATINUM
Boom drill operator Adros Bonongwa drilling in the south section of Unki mine in Zimbabwe. 47
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
dampened sentiment towards PGMs. In addition, further 
supply from above ground inventories and a weakening rand 
led to price declines in the year. Mined metal in South Africa 
recovered to above 2013 levels, following strike-affected 
2014, though production from both Russia and North 
America fell. Total secondary supply declined owing to lower 
jewellery recycling volumes in China and reduced scrap 
incentives in the automotive sector. Declines in jewellery 
and investment demand were offset by a relatively strong 
performance by the automotive and industrial sectors.
    For more information refer to the Marketplace review section   
See pages 8–10
OPERATING PERFORMANCE 
Total platinum production (metal in concentrate) rose by 
25% to 2,337,000 ounces (2014: 1,870,000 ounces). The 
increase was attributable to recovery from the five-month 
strike and subsequent ramp-up in the prior year, as well as a 
strong mining performance at Mogalakwena, Amandelbult 
and Unki mines.
Mogalakwena mine, which was unaffected by strike action  
in 2014, continued its robust operational performance, with 
growth in production resulting from higher concentrator 
recoveries and higher head grades, despite a community 
protest action which resulted in a loss of 9,000 ounces. Total 
output from Mogalakwena increased by 6% to 392,000 
ounces (2014: 370,000 ounces), with a 5% increase in 
on-mine production of platinum to 368,000 ounces, while toll 
concentrating activities at a third party concentrator yielded 
24,000 ounces. As a result, the unit cost per platinum ounce 
(metal in concentrate) at Mogalakwena decreased by 20% 
to $1,369 per ounce, including the benefit of the weaker rand. 
Production at Amandelbult increased from 219,000 ounces  
to 437,000 ounces owing to the mine returning to normal 
production following the strike, as well as an improved 
mining performance.
Unki mine in Zimbabwe produced 66,000 ounces, an 
increase of 7%, on the back of improved mining efficiencies 
and higher grades. 
Rustenburg, including the Western Limb Tailings, increased 
output by 202,000 ounces to 485,000 ounces, largely 
driven by the recovery from the industrial action. Rustenburg 
was further consolidated into two mines; East and West 
mine, and is in the process of implementing its optimised 
mine plan. This has led to an increase in immediately 
available Ore Reserves, improved productivity and 
increased profitability.
INTRODUCTION
At Anglo American Platinum, we are optimising and 
reconfiguring our portfolio. Once complete, we will  
have a ‘best in class’ core operating footprint at the 
Mogalakwena and Amandelbult mines in South Africa 
and Unki in Zimbabwe, alongside our joint venture 
interests in Bafokeng-Rasimone, the Mototolo mine  
and Modikwa mine in South Africa. Also in South Africa,  
we own smelting and refining operations which treat 
concentrates, not only from our wholly owned mines, 
but also from our joint venture partners and third parties.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATING OVERVIEW 
Underlying EBIT increased by $231 million to $263 million 
(2014: $32 million). This was due to an improved operational 
performance following the 2014 industrial action, higher 
sales volumes, the weakening of the South African rand 
against the dollar, and an annual inventory adjustment which 
improved underlying EBIT by $181 million. 
Year-on-year cash operating costs per unit of platinum 
production (metal in concentrate) decreased by 28% to 
$1,508 per ounce, excluding projects, owing primarily to  
the impact of the industrial action on costs in 2014, and  
the benefit of the weaker rand. On a 2014 financial year 
strike-adjusted unit cost basis, rand cash operating costs 
per unit of platinum production increased by 6% as a result 
of mining inflation costs, specifically relating to electricity 
and employment. This compares, however, to a mining 
inflation rate of ~ 7% in South Africa. On a strike-adjusted  
US dollar basis, unit costs were 10% lower, reflecting the 
benefit of the weaker rand.
MARKETS 
2015 2014
Average platinum market price ($/oz) 1,051 1,385
Average palladium market price ($/oz) 691 803
Average rhodium market price ($/oz) 932 1,173
Average gold market price ($/oz) 1,160 1,266
US$ realised basket price – Pt ($/Pt oz) 1,905 2,413
Rand realised basket price – Pt (ZAR/Pt oz) 24,203 26,219
The average US dollar basket price per platinum ounce sold 
decreased by 21% in 2015 to $1,905, despite platinum and 
palladium demand exceeding supply from mining and 
recycling for the fourth consecutive year. The prospect of 
monetary tightening in the US, growth concerns in China, 
uncertainty surrounding Greece’s possible exit from the 
euro, and the unfolding vehicle emissions scandal all 
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Production 
volume
(k’oz)
(1)
Sales 
volume 
(k’oz)
Price 
($/Pt oz)
(2)
Unit cost 
($/Pt oz)
Revenue 
($m)
Underlying 
EBITDA 
($m)
Underlying 
EBIT 
($m)
Capex  
($m) ROCE
Platinum 2,337 2,471 1,905 1,508 4,900 718 263 366 4%
Prior year 1,870 2,115 2,413 2,081 5,396 527 32 576 0%
Mogalakwena 392 422 2,585 1,369 1,092 496 368 151 –
Prior year 370 382 3,277 1,742 1,271 504 371 196 –
Amandelbult 437 433 1,641 1,382 712 97 36 53 –
Prior year 219 279 2,117 2,384 593 (37) (96) 68 –
Other operations 1,508 1,616 – – 3,096 177 (89) 156 –
Prior year 1,281 1,454 – – 3,532 118 (185) 306 –
Project and corporate – – – – – (52) (52) 6 –
Prior year – – – – – (58) (58) 6 –
(1) 
In keeping with industry benchmarks, production disclosure has been amended to reflect own mine production and purchases of metal in concentrate. Previous disclosure of own mine production and 
purchases of metal in concentrate was converted to equivalent refined production using standard smelting and refining recoveries. 
(2) 
Average US$ basket price. 48 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT PLATINUM
PLATINUM continued
Union mine, which has recovered in the aftermath of  
the 2014 strike, produced 141,000 ounces, an increase of 
53,000 ounces, despite the closure of its decline section in 
2014. Union’s continued focus is on ensuring it improves 
performance in line with its optimised mine plan.
Section 54 safety stoppages affected production across 
almost all operations, predominantly in the first half of the 
year. The Department of Mineral Resources has been 
engaged to ensure the impact of such stoppages is limited 
and that Section 54 notices are only used as a last resort.
Production from the joint venture and associate portfolio, 
inclusive of both mined and purchased production, 
decreased by 2%. Lower output was largely the result of 
safety stoppages following fatal incidents at Bafokeng-
Rasimone platinum mine, closure of two shafts at Bokoni 
and lower grades at Mototolo. This was partly offset by 
higher production from Kroondal.
Refined platinum production increased by 30% to 
2,459,000 ounces (2014: 1,890,000 ounces) owing to 
production returning to normal following the 2014 strike,  
as well as operational improvements. In addition, a physical 
count of in-process metals conducted in the first half of the 
year led to an inventory increase of 130,000 ounces. The 
subsequent processing of this additional inventory resulted 
in refined platinum production of 2,459,000 ounces 
exceeding 2,337,000 ounces of produced metal.
In line with the return to normal production levels, refined 
palladium output increased by 30%, while refined 
production of rhodium was 33% higher. 
As a result of higher refined production, platinum sales 
volumes increased by 17% to 2,471,000 platinum ounces. 
OPERATIONAL OUTLOOK 
It is anticipated that platinum production (metal in 
concentrate) will remain between 2.3-2.4 million ounces  
in 2016. The required process to put the Twickenham 
project onto care and maintenance will commence in 2016. 
It is estimated that cash unit costs will be R19,250-R19,750 
per platinum ounce (metal in concentrate) for 2016. Platinum 
believes the focus on cost rationalisation will enable it to meet 
its goals of keeping costs below mining inflation. 
43
26
26
5
100
Autocatalyst: gross 
Industrial
Jewellery: net
Investment
Total   
 
 
 
 
 
%
Platinum demand by use in 2015
Source: Anglo American Platinum
%
81
24
2
(7)
100
Autocatalyst: gross 
Industrial
Jewellery: net
Investment
Total   
 
 
 
 
 
Palladium demand by use in 2015
Source: Anglo American Platinum 49
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
DE BEERS
Anglo American owns 85% of De Beers, the world’s leading diamond company.  
The balance of 15% of De Beers is owned by the Government of the Republic of 
Botswana. Our diamond operations are located in four countries: Botswana, Canada, 
Namibia and South Africa. In Botswana and Namibia, we work in partnership with  
our host governments.
Philippe 
Mellier 
CEO –  
De Beers 
Group
STRATEGIC REPORT: DE BEERS
DRIVING CHANGE
PRODUCTION REDUCED IN RESPONSE  
TO WEAKER TRADING CONDITIONS 
12% (3.9 million carats)
UNIT COST REDUCTIONS  
6% vs 2014
NUMBER OF FOREVERMARK™ ‘DOORS’
(1)
 
1,760 
DEFINING OUR FUTURE
CONTINUED INVESTMENT IN FUTURE GROWTH
 • Gahcho Kué progress at 83% with first production  
scheduled for H2 2016
 • Jwaneng’s Cut-8 is expected to become the mine’s main 
source of ore in 2018
 • Venetia Underground continues to progress and is expected 
to become the mine’s principal source of ore from 2022
PORTFOLIO CHANGES:
 • Snap Lake mine in Canada placed onto long term care and 
maintenance as of December 2015
 • Damtshaa – a satellite mine at Orapa in Botswana – was 
placed onto temporary care and maintenance in January 2016
 • Sale of Kimberley Mines, in South Africa, completed in  
January 2016
In Botswana, Jwaneng’s Cut-8 extension is progressing on the south eastern side of the open pit.
INTRODUCTION
De Beers and its partners produce about a third of the world’s 
rough diamonds by value, with the majority sold via Global 
Sightholder Sales to long term contract customers and 
accredited buyers, and the remainder via De Beers Auction  
Sales to auction customers. Downstream assets include the  
De Beers Diamond Jewellers joint venture and the Forevermark™ 
brand, which now features in 1,760 outlets in 35 key consumer 
markets around the world. Finally, Element Six sells synthetic 
diamonds to the industrial diamond supermaterials industry.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW
De Beers’ underlying EBIT decreased by 58% to $571 million  
(2014: $1,363 million). This was the result of weaker rough diamond 
demand and lower revenue, offset in part by tight operating cost 
control and favourable exchange rates. 
Total De Beers revenue fell by 34% to $4.7 billion (2014: $7.1 billion), 
mainly driven by lower rough diamond sales, which declined by 36%  
to $4.1 billion. This was due to a 39% reduction in consolidated sales 
volumes to 19.9 million carats (2014: 32.7 million carats), partly offset 
by a 5% increase in the average realised diamond price. 
(1) 
A Diamond is Forever™ and Forevermark™ are trademarks  
of The De Beers Group of Companies. 50 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT DE BEERS
This 5% increase in average realised diamond prices to  
$207 /carat (201 4: $198/carat), reflected a stronger product 
mix, despite an 8% lower average rough price index for the 
period. From the final Sight in 201 4 to the final Sight in 201 5, 
the De Beers rough price index declined by 1 5%.
Owing to weaker rough diamond demand, De Beers 
reduced production, costs and capital expenditure. As  
a result of the cost saving programmes, supported by 
favourable exchange rate movements, consolidated  
unit costs declined from $1 1 1 /carat to $104/carat.
MARKETS
Global consumer demand for diamond jewellery in 2015  
is expected to have declined marginally in US dollar terms 
from the record levels of 2014, as growth in the US was 
offset by the economic slowdown in China and the strength 
of the dollar.
The US, the largest market for polished diamonds at 
approximately 45% of global market value, again saw  
the strongest growth, albeit at a slower rate than in 2014. 
Demand for diamond jewellery by Chinese consumers  
was stable, while in India, diamond jewellery demand 
contracted in local currency terms.
Weaker than expected consumer demand in 201 5 resulted in 
retailers reducing their demand for polished diamonds from 
the midstream manufacturers. A build-up in polished stocks  
in the midstream put downward pressure on polished prices, 
and reduced the midstream’s willingness to purchase 
additional rough diamonds. This was exacerbated by a more 
stringent financing environment.
    For more information refer to the Marketplace review section   
See pages 8–10
OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Mining and manufacturing
Rough diamond production decreased by 12% to 
28.7 million carats (2014: 32.6 million carats) as 
De Beers reduced production in response to prevailing 
trading conditions. 
Debswana’s production decreased by 16% to 20.4 million 
carats, driven by a reduction in tailings production at 
Jwaneng, combined with the bringing forward of planned 
maintenance at both Jwaneng and Orapa. Debswana is 
focusing on improving reliability and cash costs, while 
maintaining flexibility, with Damtshaa, a satellite of Orapa, 
being placed onto temporary care and maintenance from 
1 January 2016, affording the option of efficiently resuming 
production when market conditions allow.
In South Africa, production was in line with 2014, though 
below planned 2015 production. A decline at Venetia,  
owing to lower throughput and a reduction in tailings 
processing – again, in response to softer trading conditions 
– was offset by increased production at Kimberley. The 
completion of the sale of Kimberley Mines to Ekapa 
Minerals was announced on 21 January 2016. 
Production at Namdeb Holdings decreased by 6%, as a 
result of a focus on lower grade mining areas in response  
to prevailing trading conditions. This impact was partly 
compensated by increased availability of the Mafuta vessel 
at Debmarine Namibia. The terms of a new 10-year sales 
agreement between De Beers and the Government of the 
Republic of Namibia are currently being finalised.
DE BEERS continued
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(1)
Production
volume
(000’cts)
Sales 
volume
(000’cts)
(2)
Price 
($/ct)
(3)
Unit cost
($/ct)
(4)
Revenue
($m)
(5)
Underlying 
EBITDA 
($m)
Underlying 
EBIT 
($m)
Capex  
($m) ROCE
De Beers 28,692 19,945 207 104 4,671 990 571 697 6%
Prior year 32,605 32,730 198 111 7,1 14 1,818 1,363 689 13%
Debswana 20,368 – 178 34 – 379 352 101 –
Prior year 24,237 – 172 31 – 604 579 114 –
Namdeb Holdings 1,764 – 553 273 – 147 120 30 –
Prior year 1,886 – 581 283 – 207 177 37 –
South Africa 4,673 – 131 81 – 282 174 279 –
Prior year 4,634 – 155 89 – 344 243 296 –
Canada 1,887 – 275 229 – 154 65 254 –
Prior year 1,848 – 312 279 – 178 77 186 –
Trading – – – – – 107 100 2 –
Prior year – – – – – 579 572 4 –
Other
(6)
– – – – – (79) (240) 31 –
Prior year – – – – – (94) (285) 52 –
(1) 
Prepared on a consolidated accounting basis, except for production which is stated on a 100% basis.
(2) 
Total sales volumes on a 100% basis were 20.6 million carats (2014: 34.4 million carats).
(3) 
Price for the mining business units based on 100% selling value post-aggregation.
(4) 
Based on the total cost per carat recovered, including depreciation.
(5) 
Includes rough diamond sales of $4.1 billion (2014: $6.5 billion).
(6) 
Other includes Element Six, downstream and acquisition accounting adjustments. 51
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
In Canada, production was in line with the prior year as  
lower grades at both Snap Lake and Victor were offset  
by improved throughput. In December 2015, De Beers 
announced that Snap Lake would be placed onto long term 
care and maintenance with immediate effect.
Element Six experienced challenging trading conditions 
throughout the year, primarily as a result of the effect on 
sales of the contraction in global oil and gas drilling activity. 
The resulting impact on revenue and operating margins was 
partly offset by a cost-containment programme, affecting 
both direct and indirect costs. The plant in Sweden has been 
closed, while the plants in South Africa and Ireland have 
been upgraded and restructured to optimise production  
and reduce the cost base.
Brands
Forevermark™ continued to expand and is now available  
in 1,760 outlets – a 14% increase on 2014 – across  
35 markets and, despite the challenging trading conditions,  
the brand achieved double-digit sales growth. In March 
2015, a new grading and inscription facility was opened  
in Surat in India, with the potential to process up to  
$500 million worth of diamonds annually. In August, 
Forevermark™ announced the relaunch of the  
A Diamond is Forever™ marketing campaign, which began 
in the US and India in advance of the key selling season  
in the fourth quarter. De Beers also invested in additional 
holiday marketing campaigns to further stimulate diamond  
jewellery gift giving across the key US and China markets;  
these campaigns were received positively by the industry.
De Beers Diamond Jewellers maintained its focus on 
fast-growing markets, with 35 stores in 12 key consumer 
markets around the world, and continued to see strong  
sales in the higher-end market and with Chinese  
consumers worldwide. 
Outlook
De Beers expects the US market to remain the main driver 
of growth in consumer demand in 2016. The extent of  
global growth will, however, be dependent upon a number  
of macro-economic factors, including the strength of the 
dollar and economic performance in China, and their impact 
worldwide. Longer term, the sector is likely to continue to 
see benefit from a continuing rise in the world’s middle 
classes in emerging markets, particularly in China and India.
Rough diamond demand in 2016 will be dependent upon 
consumer demand for diamond jewellery and the resultant 
levels of restocking required by retailers and, consequently, 
the midstream. Diamond production (on a 100% basis) for 
2016 is forecast to be in the range of 26-28 million carats, 
subject to trading conditions. Consistent with this level of 
production, plans are in place to deliver $200 million  
of cash savings in production costs, overheads and  
capital expenditure.
De Beers’ strategy across the pipeline
De Beers operates across the diamond value chain. The Upstream stage is concerned with exploration and mining. Moving down the 
pipeline, the Midstream stage involves the sorting and selling of rough diamonds. At the Downstream stage, manufactured jewellery  
pieces arrive at retail jewellers, to be purchased by the end consumer. 
De Beers has mining operations in four countries. Its principal sales channel is Global Sightholder Sales, which sells diamonds to around  
80 of the world’s leading diamantaires, or Sightholders, at its 10 annual Sights. Finally, De Beers has access to the end consumer through  
its Forevermark™ brand, which now features in 1,760 outlets worldwide, and through the De Beers Diamond Jewellers joint venture retail 
jewellery stores.
Upstream
Operational excellence
Midstream
Unique value proposition
Downstream
Demand generation and  
future growth platform
Exploration  
and projects 
Mining
Rough 
distribution  
and trading
Polished 
manufacturing  
and trading 
Jewellery  
manufacturing
Jewellery  
retail
Consumers 52 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
In Chile, we have interests in two major copper operations: a 50. 1% interest in the  
Los Bronces mine, which we manage and operate, and a 44% share in the Collahuasi 
mine; we also manage and operate the El Soldado mine and Chagres smelter  
(50. 1% interest in both). In Peru, we have an 81.9% interest in the Quellaveco project. 
Duncan 
Wanblad 
CEO –  
Base Metals  
and Minerals
COPPER
STRATEGIC REPORT: COPPER
DRIVING CHANGE
LTIFR  
36%  
PLANT OPERATING TIME 
94%  
Los Bronces’ average grinding time, excluding impact  
of water restrictions in 201 5
C1 UNIT COST
(1)
  
9% reduction versus 2014
(1) 
Includes eight months of Anglo American Norte.
reduction versus 2014  
(managed operations)
DEFINING OUR FUTURE
$300 MILLION RECEIVED FROM SALE OF NORTE 
COPPER ASSETS 
Chagres to be retained as an integrated smelter
OPERATING MODEL ROLL-OUT AT LOS BRONCES PLANT
Optimisation of the entire plant process stream is expected  
to achieve a step-up in plant throughput of 10,000 tonnes per  
day during 2016, increasing productivity and reducing plant 
operating costs. Operating Model to be fully rolled out at the 
mine in 2017, further increasing operational efficiency and  
cost performance
RESPONDING TO MARKET CONDITIONS THROUGH 
REDESIGN AND RIGHTSIZING OF THE BUSINESS
Reduction of over 1,700 permanent headcount during 2015 
(excluding sale of Anglo American Norte), c.13% of workforce, 
plus additional reductions of head office and support  
functions under way
Holding tanks at the Confluencia plant at the Los Bronces operation in Chile. 53
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
INTRODUCTION
Our operations produce copper concentrate, copper 
cathodes, copper anodes and associated by-products 
such as molybdenum, silver and gold.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATING OVERVIEW
Underlying EBIT decreased by 81% to $228 million. This 
was largely due to a 20% decline in the average LME copper 
price, as well as lower by-product prices and a 7% decline  
in sales volumes. The decrease in revenue was partly 
mitigated by the effects of the weaker Chilean peso and a 
$208 million reduction in on-mine cash costs of the retained 
operations. These were driven by cost-reduction initiatives 
and productivity improvements, including a 16% reduction 
in headcount at Los Bronces and an 18% reduction at 
Collahuasi. At 31 December 2015, 197,631 tonnes of  
copper were provisionally priced at 214 c/lb. Provisional 
pricing of copper sales resulted in a negative underlying 
EBIT adjustment of $366 million (2014: $196 million).
MARKETS
2015 2014
Average market prices (c/lb) 249 311
Average realised prices (c/lb) 228 300
Growth in mine supply outweighed underlying demand 
growth in 2015, resulting in a market surplus for the  
metal. In particular, prices were adversely affected by 
weaker construction activity and manufacturing output  
in China, which accounts for almost half of global copper 
consumption. After a collapse at the start of the year,  
LME copper prices steadily gained ground, peaking close  
to $3/lb in May. Since then, bearish speculative funds have 
driven prices lower, culminating in a retreat towards $2/lb  
in the fourth quarter. Sell-offs by investors have been fuelled 
by volatile equity markets and concerns over China’s  
economic outlook.
    For more information refer to the Marketplace review section   
See pages 8–10
Operating performance
Production at Los Bronces was marginally lower at  
401,700 tonnes, with the impact of drought-related water 
restrictions on plant throughput offset by an increased 
cut-off grade and higher achieved recoveries. The water 
restrictions had a net negative impact on production of 
18,000 tonnes. The operation is focused on its longer term 
water strategy, which aims to achieve greater resilience to 
extreme climatic conditions.
Anglo American’s share of Collahuasi’s production 
decreased by 3% to 200,300 tonnes owing to lower ore 
feed as a result of planned plant maintenance, as well as 
speed restrictions imposed on the two smaller processing 
lines in the second and third quarters following the detection 
of vibrations in the SAG mills. The vibration issue was 
successfully resolved, delivering a step-change in plant 
operating times in the fourth quarter, as part of the 
implementation of a wider plan to achieve stability in  
the operation of the plant. Higher-cost oxide production  
ramped down from 1 October, resulting in lost production  
of ~3,000 tonnes. 
Production at El Soldado increased by 1 1 % to 36,100 tonnes, 
attributable to higher grades and increased recovery arising 
from improved ore availability.
Operational outlook
Production in 2016 is expected to be in line with 2015,  
when adjusted for the disposal of Anglo American Norte  
and the curtailment of oxide production at Collahuasi,  
which have a combined impact of around 120,000 tonnes.  
A recovery in throughput at Los Bronces and Collahuasi  
is anticipated to be offset by expected lower grades, 
particularly at Los Bronces. Full year 2016 production 
guidance remains unchanged for the retained operations  
at 600,000-630,000 tonnes.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Production
volume
(kt)
Sales 
volume
(kt)
(1)
Realised 
price 
(c/lb)
C1 unit 
cost 
(c/lb)
Revenue 
($m)
Underlying 
EBITDA 
($m)
Underlying 
EBIT 
($m)
Capex  
($m) ROCE
Copper 709 706 228 154 3,539 942 228 659 3%
Prior year 748 755 300 169 4,827 1,902 1,193 728 18%
Los Bronces 402 408 – 149 1,852 622 240 228 –
Prior year 405 404 – 154 2,497 1,173 822 199 –
Collahuasi
(2)
200 198 – 142 971 381 167 109 –
Prior year 207 209 – 144 1,311 707 495 185 –
Other operations 107 100 – – 716 55 (63) 322 –
Prior year 137 142 – – 1,019 138 (8) 344 –
Projects and corporate – – – – – (116) (116) – –
Prior year – – – – – (116) (116) – –
(1) 
Excludes 41kt third party sales from Mantos Blancos.
(2) 
44% share of Collahuasi production, sales and financials.
Escondida 
Morenci 
Collahuasi 
Chuquicamata 
El Teniente 
Los Bronces 
Los Pelambres 
Antamina 
Grasberg 
Buenavista 
Source: Wood Mackenzie 54 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
NICKEL
Our Nickel business is well placed to serve the global stainless steel industry,  
which depends on nickel and drives demand for it. Our assets are in Brazil, with  
two ferronickel production sites: Barro Alto and Codemin, in the state of Goiás.
Duncan 
Wanblad 
CEO –  
Base Metals  
and Minerals
STRATEGIC REPORT: NICKEL
DRIVING CHANGE
FURNACE REBUILDS AT BARRO ALTO  
COMPLETED BELOW BUDGET AND WITH  
DESIGN CAPACITY ACHIEVED  
30 kt production in 2015
DECREASE IN C1 UNIT COSTS AT BARRO ALTO
(1)
 
15% since 2012 (pre-rebuild) 
SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENT IN SAFETY
Codemin L TI-free since June 201 4 – over 2. 1 million man-hours 
worked. Barro Alto furnace rebuild project registered more than 
1.3 million man-hours without an L TI
(1) 
Barro Alto C1 unit costs from Q4 2015 (after furnace rebuilds), excluding the impact of 
foreign exchange and inflation.
DEFINING OUR FUTURE
A DECISION HAS BEEN TAKEN TO EVALUATE A SALE  
OF OUR NICKEL BUSINESS
Discussions with potential buyers are under way
EARLY ATTAINMENT OF COMMERCIAL PRODUCTION 
FROM BARRO ALTO IN 2015
Successful furnace rebuilds and ramp-ups executed in 2015, 
setting the stage to reach a nominal capacity production year in 
2016. Total nickel production (including Codemin) expected to 
reach 45,000-47,000 tonnes
C1 UNIT COSTS AT BARRO ALTO EXPECTED  
TO BE <350 C/LB 
Full capacity production and other operational improvements 
leading to an expected C1 unit cost of less than 350 c/lb – firmly 
within the lower half of the industry cost curve
The ferronickel plant at Barro Alto in Brazil, where rebuilding of the operation’s two furnaces has recently been completed. 55
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
FINANCIAL AND OPERATING OVERVIEW 
Underlying EBIT loss of $22 million was $43 million lower  
(2014: $21 million profit), principally driven by the lower 
nickel price and inflation, partly offset by the benefit to  
costs of the weaker Brazilian real. 
The Barro Alto project continued to be capitalised until 
October, when commercial production was achieved.  
Barro Alto’s underlying capitalised operating loss was 
$(46) million, a $198 million decrease over the prior year 
(2014: $152 million profit), owing to the ongoing furnace 
rebuild and consequent lower production volumes, lower 
nickel prices and inflation, partially offset by a net exchange 
rate benefit.
Nickel C1 unit costs decreased 12%, driven by the weaker 
Brazilian real, partly offset by inflation and lower production 
volumes owing to the furnace rebuilds.
Following the successful furnace rebuilds and subsequent 
ramp-up, Barro Alto C1 unit costs averaged 350 c/lb in the 
last quarter of the year, a significant improvement compared 
with 2012 (pre-rebuild). This was mainly the result of higher 
throughput, lower energy consumption (owing to higher 
efficiencies being achieved at the new coal pulverisation 
plant and efforts to reduce electricity consumption), lower 
overhead costs and favourable exchange rates.
MARKETS 
2015 2014
Average market prices (c/lb) 536 765
Average realised prices (c/lb) 498 731
The average LME nickel cash settlement price decreased  
by 30% to 536 c/lb as the impact of slower Chinese 
economic growth continued to exert downward pressure  
on commodity prices. World stainless steel production (the 
end use for around 65% of all nickel) was flat year-on-year, 
matching 2014’s record output. Nickel pig iron production  
in China declined by approximately 18%, or 85,000 tonnes, 
owing to the ongoing Indonesian nickel ore export ban; this 
led to a near-doubling of Chinese ferronickel imports in 
2015, which reached a record high of 137,000 tonnes  
(Ni contained). This, in turn, resulted in an improvement  
in ferronickel market fundamentals, and a decrease in 
ferronickel discounts, through the year.
    For more information refer to the Marketplace review section   
See pages 8–10
OPERATING PERFORMANCE 
Nickel production decreased by 19% to 30,300 tonnes, 
reflecting the furnace rebuilds at Barro Alto. The rebuilds 
were concluded ahead of schedule, with the delivery of first 
metal from the second furnace occurring in September 
(more than one month ahead of plan), and production has 
now reached nameplate capacity of 2.4 million tonnes of ore 
feed per annum. At Codemin, production was in line with 
2014 at 9,000 tonnes.
OPERATIONAL OUTLOOK 
Following the successful furnace rebuilds and faster  
than anticipated ramp-ups executed in 2015, nameplate 
capacity production should be achieved at Barro Alto 
through 2016, with total nickel output expected to be 
45,000-47,000 tonnes.  
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Production
volume
(t)
Sales 
volume
(t)
Price 
(c/lb)
C1 unit 
cost 
(c/lb)
Revenue 
($m)
Underlying 
EBITDA 
($m)
Underlying 
EBIT 
($m)
Capex  
($m) ROCE
Nickel segment 30,300 32,000 498 431 146 (3) (22) 26 (1)%
Prior year 37,200 36,100 731 491 142 28 21 14 1%
Nickel 30,300 32,000 498 431 146 9 (10) 26 (1)%
Prior year 37,200 36,100 731 491 142 40 33 14 1%
Projects and corporate – – – – – (12) (12) – –
Prior year – – – – – (12) (12) – – 56 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
NIOBIUM AND 
PHOSPHATES
With the ramp-up of the Boa Vista Fresh Rock (BVFR) plant, we move to being the  
No. 2 niobium producer in the world, with our operations located in Goiás state, Brazil. 
Our phosphates business, based in the country’s agricultural heartland in Goiás state,  
is the second largest in Brazil.
Duncan 
Wanblad 
CEO –  
Base Metals  
and Minerals
STRATEGIC REPORT: NIOBIUM AND PHOSPHATES
DRIVING CHANGE
RAMP-UP AT BVFR – % COMPLETE 
69% 
NIOBIUM PRODUCTION INCREASE 
34% vs 2014
SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENT IN SAFETY AT CUBATÃO 
2.4 million man-hours LTI-free 
DEFINING OUR FUTURE
OUR NIOBIUM AND PHOSPHATES BUSINESSES  
HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED FOR SALE
Discussions are under way with parties interested in acquiring 
the Niobium and Phosphates businesses
FULL PRODUCTION EXPECTED FROM BVFR IN Q3 2016
Once the BVFR plant reaches nameplate capacity, production 
from installed capacity is expected to increase to 6,800 tonnes 
per year
POTENTIAL FOR FURTHER PLANT DEBOTTLENECKING
Capacity increases in Niobium’s metallurgy section and 
adjustments at the existing concentrator to allow the processing 
of alternative feed sources will take total annual capacity to 
9,000 tonnes
The secondary grinding mills at the Boa Vista Fresh Rock niobium facility in Brazil.  57
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
INTRODUCTION
Most of the niobium ore we mine comes from the  
Boa Vista open pit; it is then processed to produce 
ferroniobium, which is exported to steel plants, where  
it is a key component in the manufacture of specialist  
high strength steels. 
Phosphorus is a basic component of all living things 
and phosphates are a vital ingredient of fertilisers. Our 
Chapadão mine in Ouvidor has a long mine life, as well 
as some of Brazil’s highest grades of phosphate ore. 
Ours is an integrated operation that covers mining 
phosphate ore, refining it to produce P
2
O
5
 concentrate, 
and processing into intermediate and final products. 
FINANCIAL AND OPERATING OVERVIEW
Niobium
Underlying EBIT of $33 million was 52% lower  
(2014: $69 million), as a result of the capitalisation of sales 
associated with the ramp-up of Boa Vista Fresh Rock 
(BVFR), inflation and rehabilitation provision increases, 
partly compensated by the benefit of the weaker  
Brazilian real.
Underlying EBIT of $17 million from BVFR was  
capitalised in 2015, as the project had not reached 
commercial production. 
Phosphates
Underlying EBIT of $91 million was 38% higher  
(2014: $66 million), mainly due to the positive impact of  
the weaker Brazilian currency on operating costs and lower  
study costs, partly offset by inflation, reduced sales volumes 
and lower realised pricing (including the impact of the 
weaker Brazilian real on prices).
MARKETS 
Niobium
Despite a strong first six months, worldwide demand  
for ferroniobium has softened, while global production 
capacity has increased slightly. This decline in demand was 
driven by the challenging conditions in the Chinese steel 
industry and lower investments in oil and gas pipeline  
steel. As a result, average niobium prices weakened across 
all regions. 
Phosphates
The average MAP CFR Brazil price was marginally lower at 
$479/tonne (2014: $487 /tonne), mainly as a result of softer 
demand in Brazil and lower than expected Indian imports in 
the second half. 
OPERATING PERFORMANCE 
Niobium
Production increased by 34% to 6,300 tonnes, mainly due 
to the ongoing ramp-up of the BVFR plant (which achieved 
first production in late 2014). The plant reached 69% of 
nameplate capacity in December 2015. 
Phosphates
Production of 1.1 million tonnes of fertiliser was broadly in line 
with the prior year. Phosphoric acid production decreased 
by 10%, mainly due to maintenance repairs at the Cubatão 
processing plant. Phosphoric acid is a key component of 
dicalcium phosphate (DCP); consequently, DCP production 
was 10% lower owing to the priority given to phosphoric acid 
sales in Cubatão.
OPERATIONAL OUTLOOK 
Niobium
Production from installed capacity is expected to increase  
to 6,800 tonnes once the BVFR plant reaches nameplate 
capacity in the third quarter of 2016. This, when combined 
with certain metallurgical debottlenecking activities 
currently being implemented, will take the total annual 
capacity to 9,000 tonnes.
Phosphates
Fertiliser and DCP production in 2016 is expected to  
be broadly similar to 2015. Phosphoric acid production is 
expected to increase to around 300,000 tonnes, driven  
by improved performance at Cubatão following the 
maintenance repairs in the second half of 2015. 
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Production
volume
(kt)
Sales 
volume
(kt)
Price 
($/t)
Unit cost 
(c/lb)
Revenue 
($m)
Underlying 
EBITDA 
($m)
Underlying 
EBIT 
($m)
Capex  
($m) ROCE
Niobium and Phosphates – – – – 544 146 119 50 14%
Prior year – – – – 666 152 124 239 16%
Niobium 6.3 5.1 – – 111 40 33 26 6%
Prior year 4.7 4.6 – – 180 75 69 198 15%
Phosphates 1,111 1,060 479 – 433 111 91 24 30%
Prior year 1,113 1,097 487 – 486 88 66 41 16%
Projects and corporate – – – – – (5) (5) – –
Prior year – – – – – (11) (11) – – 58 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
IRON ORE AND 
MANGANESE
Pedro 
Borrego 
Interim CEO 
– Iron Ore 
Brazil
Anglo American’s iron ore operations provide customers with niche, high iron content ore, 
a large percentage of which is direct-charge product for blast furnaces. 
Norman 
Mbazima 
CEO –  
Kumba  
Iron Ore
STRATEGIC REPORT: IRON ORE AND MANGANESE
DRIVING CHANGE
REDUCTION IN COST PER WASTE TONNE  
AT SISHEN MINE (INCLUDING DEFERRED STRIPPING)
3% vs 2014
HEADCOUNT REDUCTION AT KUMBA 
16% vs 2014
CAPEX AT IRON ORE OPERATIONS OF $1.4 BILLION 
47% reduction vs 2014
DEFINING OUR FUTURE
KUMBA IRON ORE IDENTIFIED AS NON-CORE
Kumba Iron Ore’s Sishen and Kolomela assets will be actively 
managed to further improve performance in the short term, 
while determining the optimal route and timing for exit 
OPTIMISING MINAS-RIO AS A NON-CORE ASSET
Work has been prioritised to secure the necessary licences  
to underpin the ramp-up and long term sustainability of the 
operation, while also optimising the business to ensure positive 
cash flows at expected iron ore levels
THABAZIMBI MINE CLOSURE PLAN  
IN IMPLEMENTATION
Mining at Thabazimbi ceased at the end of September 2015. 
Closure procedures have been implemented and all activity at 
the mine is expected to cease at the end of H1 2016 
Drilling, loading and hauling activity in Kumba Iron Ore’s open pit at Kolomela, South Africa. 59
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
INTRODUCTION
In South Africa, we have a majority share (c.70%) in 
Kumba Iron Ore, which supplies lump and fine ore; 
while, in Brazil, we have developed the integrated 
Minas-Rio operation, which supplies iron ore pellet-
feed products. 
In manganese, we have a 40% share in Samancor 
Holdings in South Africa, Groote Eylandt Mining 
Company Pty Ltd (GEMCO) and Tasmanian Electro 
Metallurgical Company (TEMCO) in Australia. 
FINANCIAL AND OPERATING OVERVIEW
Kumba
Underlying EBIT decreased by 61% to $739 million  
(2014: $1,91 1 million), mainly attributable to the 42% fall in 
the iron ore benchmark price to an average of $56/tonne. 
Realised FOB export prices averaged $54/tonne, 42% 
lower than in 2014. Total cash costs, however, declined by 
18%, with costs associated with the 10% increase in waste 
mined more than offset by the weakening of the South 
African rand against the dollar. Kumba reduced controllable 
costs by $8/tonne to achieve an average cash break-even 
price of $49/tonne (CFR China) in 2015. In 2016, Kumba is 
targeting to be cash break-even at an iron ore price of below 
$40/tonne. The cost improvements include savings in 
capital expenditure, in operating costs, and productivity 
gains in mining and processing operations. 
Sales of 47.8 Mt (2014: 45.3 Mt) were achieved, an increase 
of 6%, following an improved logistics performance and the 
shipment of 3.4 Mt through the multi-purpose terminal at 
the Saldanha port. As a result, Kumba reduced its Saldanha 
port stockpile to 1.2 Mt, while total finished-product stock 
decreased to 4.7 Mt by year end (2014: 6.5 Mt).
Iron Ore Brazil
Underlying EBIT loss was $21 million (2014: $34 million 
loss), net of a $251 million loss that was capitalised as the  
Minas-Rio project continued to ramp up.
The project is expected to reach commercial production 
during 2016, although it will remain in ramp-up throughout 
the year. 
Samancor
Underlying EBIT decreased by $156 million to $22 million, 
driven primarily by lower manganese prices and a 9% 
decrease in ore sales.
MARKETS
Iron ore
2015 2014
Average market prices  
(IODEX 62% Fe CFR China spot price –  
$/tonne)
56 97
Average realised prices  
(Kumba export – $/tonne) (FOB Saldanha)
54 91
Average market prices  
Iron ore (MB 66% Fe Concentrate  
CFR – $/tonne)
67 112
Average realised prices  
(Minas-Rio – $/tonne) (FOB wet basis)
41 57
Seaborne iron ore prices continued their downward trend  
in 2015, with the Platts IODEX 62% Fe CFR China spot  
price falling 42% to average $56 per dry metric tonne. 
Overcapacity in the Chinese steel sector has resulted in 
steel prices touching record lows. A shift in the focus of 
Chinese mills to cost rather than productivity has led to 
reduced price differentials across iron ore grades. In 
addition, the seaborne iron market remained oversupplied 
throughout the year, further depressing the iron ore price, 
although there was a noticeable slowdown in supply growth 
as projects reached execution and high-cost marginal 
suppliers withdrew from the market.
Kumba and ArcelorMittal SA have amended the pricing 
terms of their supply agreement from a cost-based to an 
export-parity price. In the current market environment, 
which presents significant challenges for the mining and 
steel industries in South Africa, this amendment will align 
prices charged to domestic and export customers.
    For more information refer to the Marketplace review section   
See pages 8–10
Manganese
2015 saw significant weakness in both manganese ore  
and alloy prices, with the decline in steel output in China  
and all other major steel producing regions exacerbating 
manganese ore market volatility. Supply cuts started to 
materialise as prices continued to slide through the year, 
leaving 70% of the industry in a loss-making position. The 
index ore price (44% Mn CIF China) declined by 57%, 
ending the year at $1.86/dmtu.
Strategic report
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Production
volume
(Mt)
(1)
Sales 
volume
(Mt)
Price 
($/t)
(2)
Unit cost 
($/t)
Revenue 
($m)
Underlying 
EBITDA 
($m)
Underlying 
EBIT 
($m)
Capex 
($m) ROCE
Iron Ore and Manganese – – – – 3,390 1,026 671 1,422 5%
Prior year – – – – 5,176 2,286 1,957 2,685 12%
Kumba Iron Ore 44.9 47.8 54 31 2,876 1,011 739 523 26%
Prior year 48.2 45.3 91 34 4,388 2,162 1,911 763 60%
Iron Ore Brazil 9.2 8.5 41 60 – (20) (21) 899 (1)%
Prior year 0.7 0.2 57 – – (29) (34) 1,922 (1)%
Samancor
(3)
3.3 3.3 – – 514 104 22 – 4%
Prior year 3.6 3.7 – – 788 251 178 – 22%
Projects and corporate – – – – – (69) (69) – –
Prior year – – – – – (98) (98) – –
(1) 
Iron Ore Brazil production is Mt (wet basis).
(2) 
Prices for Kumba Iron Ore (Kumba) are the average realised export basket price (FOB Saldanha). Prices for IOB are average realised export basket price (FOB Açu) (wet basis).
(3) 
Production and sales include ore and alloy. 60 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT: IRON ORE AND MANGANESE
OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Kumba
Production was down by 7% to 44.9 Mt owing to mining 
constraints at Sishen, experienced largely in the second half. 
Production at Sishen declined by 12% to 31.4 Mt, mainly 
arising from difficulties in providing the DMS plant with  
the correct quality feedstock because of a shortage of 
sufficient exposed high grade ore required for blending.  
In order to improve exposed ore levels and increase 
operational flexibility, it was necessary to mine more waste 
material, which increased by 19% to 222.2 Mt. 
During the year the deteriorating price environment 
necessitated a further optimisation of the Sishen mine plan. 
It was decided to reconfigure the Sishen pit to a lower cost 
shell to safeguard the mine’s viability at lower prices. 
At Sishen, implementation of the Operating Model has 
already seen a 24% improvement in efficiency in internal 
waste mining activity at the North Mine, where work 
management aspects of the model were introduced in 
August 2014. The Operating Model was implemented 
across pre-strip mining and heavy equipment activities  
in July 2015 and is working well. 
At Kolomela, a revised mining plan was implemented, 
including cessation of mining at one of the pits to conserve 
cash. Efficiencies and throughput at the plant continued to 
improve, resulting in a 4% increase in production to 12.1 Mt 
for the year. To feed the plants at this rate, waste mining 
increased to 45.7 Mt from the previously guided 44-45 Mt. 
Thabazimbi mine produced 1.4 Mt. During the year,  
Kumba announced closure plans, with mining ceasing at  
the end of September 2015. Material mined previously was 
processed during the final quarter of 2015 and is expected 
to continue into the second quarter of 2016. Closure 
procedures have been implemented and all activity at the 
mine is expected to cease at the end of the first half of 2016.
Iron Ore Brazil
Minas-Rio continued to ramp up in 2015, with increases  
in quarter-on-quarter production throughout the year.  
Ramp up will continue in 2016. Full year production in 2015, 
at 9.2 Mt (wet basis), was lower than the original market 
guidance of 1 1- 14 Mt (wet basis), mostly due to filtration 
plant adjustments being required, together with water 
availability and ore quality issues. Following recent rainfall, 
water conditions are now closer to normal, while the iron ore 
variability is expected to improve as the mining footprint 
expands over time. Export sales amounted to 8.5 Mt  
(wet basis).
Samancor
Production of manganese ore declined by 6% to 3.1 Mt 
(attributable basis). Production volumes were negatively 
affected by the temporary suspension of operations at both 
Mamatwan and Wessels following a fatality at Mamatwan 
mine in November. The suspension of the operations 
remained in effect until the completion of the strategic 
review, with mining activity restarted in February 2016.  
The decrease in production in South Africa was slightly 
offset by increased output from Australia, with the GEMCO 
operations delivering record production in the second half  
of the year.
Production of manganese alloys decreased by 25% to 
213,600 tonnes (attributable basis) following the suspension 
of operations at Metalloys in South Africa.
OPERATIONAL OUTLOOK 
Kumba
Kumba will target a cash break-even price of below $40/t 
CFR for 2016. Waste movement is expected to be materially 
below previous guidance of ~230 Mt, at 135- 150 Mt for  
2016-2020, while production guidance for 2016 is  
reduced from 36 Mt to ~27 Mt. 
In the medium term, Sishen mine will also be exploring  
further opportunities to utilise spare plant capacity,  
including the use of low grade stockpiles. It is expected  
that the Reserve Life will remain stable at ~ 15 years due  
to the lower production rates and will be reviewed and 
finalised during 2016. 
At Kolomela, the mine’s annual production has been revised 
upwards to 13 million tonnes per annum (Mtpa) from 2017, 
with 12 Mt expected in 2016.
Iron Ore Brazil
Operational challenges experienced in 2015, together  
with the confinement of the mining area owing to licensing 
constraints, have resulted in production guidance for  
2016 being revised downwards to around 15- 18 Mt  
(wet basis).
Iron Ore Brazil’s FOB cash cost is expected to be  
$26-$28 per tonne
(1)
.
Samancor
A strategic review of the South African Manganese 
operations has now been completed, with mining activity  
restarted at the operations in February 2016, although at a 
substantially reduced rate and with greater flexibility. Subject 
to market conditions, the Hotazel mines will ramp up to a 
saleable production rate of 2.9 Mtpa (100% basis), taking 
approximately 900,000 tonnes (23%) of saleable 
production out of the market for the foreseeable future. 
Optimised mine plans, redundancies and other restructuring 
initiatives are expected to reduce costs, with stay-in-
business capital expenditure also expected to decline by 
approximately 80% in 2016.
IRON ORE AND MANGANESE continued
(1) 
Average over first  
22 years when friable 
itabirite is mined. 61
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Loading iron ore from Minas-Rio at the dedicated export terminal at the Port of Açu in Brazil.
LEGAL UPDATE
In December 2013, the Constitutional Court ruled that 
Sishen Iron Ore Company (Pty) Ltd (SIOC) held a 78.6% 
undivided share of the Sishen mining right and that, based 
on the provisions of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources 
Development Act (MPRDA), only SIOC can apply for, and be 
granted, the residual 21.4% share of the mining right at the 
Sishen mine. The grant of the mining right may be made 
subject to such conditions considered by the Minister of 
Mineral Resources (‘the Minister’) to be appropriate. SIOC 
applied for the residual right in early 2014. 
SIOC received notice from the Department of Mineral 
Resources (DMR) that the Director General of the DMR had 
consented to the amendment of SIOC’s mining right in 
respect of the Sishen mine to include the residual 21.4% 
undivided share of the mining right for the Sishen mine. The 
consent letter is subject to certain conditions (which are 
described by the DMR as “proposals”). 
The conditions contained in the Letter of Grant relate 
substantively to domestic supply, support for skills 
development, research and development, and procurement. 
Until the legal and practical implications of the proposed 
conditions have been clarified with the DMR, SIOC is unable 
to accept the conditions. 
Section 96 of the MPRDA allows for an internal appeal to the 
Minister. SIOC therefore submitted an internal appeal to the 
Minister, as required by the MPRDA. SIOC has not yet 
received a response to its appeal. 
In the interim, SIOC continues to engage with the DMR in 
relation to the proposed conditions in order to achieve a 
mutually acceptable solution. 62 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
COAL
Our coal portfolio is geographically diverse, with metallurgical coal assets in Australia, 
and thermal coal assets in South Africa, Colombia and Australia, which mine products 
attuned to the individual requirements of our diversified customer base. We are the 
world’s third largest exporter of metallurgical coal. 
Seamus 
French 
CEO – Coal
STRATEGIC REPORT: COAL
DRIVING CHANGE
PRODUCTION INCREASE FROM UNDERGROUND 
LONGWALL METALLURGICAL COAL OPERATIONS  
33% vs 2014
UNIT COST REDUCTIONS AT AUSTRALIAN OPERATIONS  
23% vs 2014
UNIT COST REDUCTIONS AT SOUTH AFRICAN  
EXPORT MINES 
13% vs 2014
DEFINING OUR FUTURE
MORANBAH AND GROSVENOR
Discussions under way to assess potential disposal value of the 
Moranbah and Grosvenor metallurgical coal assets in Australia
DARTBROOK AND CALLIDE
Conditional sales agreed for the Dartbrook and Callide mines  
in Australia
OTHER PROCESSES IN TRAIN 
The remaining coal assets, including the South African domestic 
thermal coal operations and the balance of coal mines in 
Australia, will be managed to improve performance and value, 
while considering appropriate options in the best long term 
interests of all stakeholders
FINANCIAL AND OPERATING OVERVIEW
Australia and Canada
Australia and Canada underlying EBIT increased by $191 million to 
$190 million. This was the result of a 6% rise in production in Australia, 
substantial cost reductions, and a weaker Australian dollar also 
benefiting the cost base. These positives were offset by a 19% 
reduction in the average quarterly hard coking coal (HCC) benchmark 
coal price. Placing Peace River Coal onto long term care and 
maintenance resulted in an underlying EBIT benefit of $81 million.
Underground productivity improvements, including an Australian 
longwall production record at Capcoal’s Grasstree operation, and 
focused cost-reduction initiatives across labour, material inputs and 
equipment hire, resulted in the lowest unit costs since 2007. Export 
FOB cash unit costs ($55/tonne) were 23% lower in US dollar terms, 
and 7% lower in local currency terms.
South Africa
South Africa’s underlying EBIT of $230 million decreased by 34%.  
This was the result of a 21% reduction in the export thermal coal price  
and the effect of industrial action in October, partly offset by a 13% 
increase in export sales volumes, with a record railing and shipping 
performance, as well as cost reductions and the benefit of the weaker 
rand. The export sales performance generated an additional 
$73 million of cash.
Export mine US dollar unit costs were 13% lower, with local currency 
costs flat year-on-year despite inflationary pressures and a 4% decline 
in production, supported by a 7% improvement in underground 
operations equipment performance and a 12% improvement in open 
cut operations.
Colombia
Underlying EBIT decreased by 45% to $90 million (2014: $163 million), 
mainly owing to weaker prices reducing underlying EBIT by $90 million 
and a weather-related decline in production. This was compensated in 
part by lower costs as a result of a comprehensive cost-control 
programme and favourable exchange rates.
MARKETS
Metallurgical coal 
2015 2014
Average market prices ($/tonne)
(1)
102 125
Average realised prices ($/tonne)
(2)
90 111
(1) 
Represents the quarterly average benchmark for premium low-volume hard coking coal.
(2)  
Average realised price of various grades of metallurgical coal, including hard and semi-soft coking 
coal and PCI coal. 
Metallurgical coal prices showed a steady decline across 2015, driven 
by lower imports into China and weaker producer currencies. Strong 
steel exports from China had a negative effect on global steel prices 
and margins, putting further pressure on raw material prices. 
Metallurgical coal spot prices averaged $90/tonne
(1)
, down 19%. 
While Australian supply was relatively stable in 2015, high-cost 
metallurgical coal supply continues to exit the market, in particular  
from the US.
(1)  
TSI Premium HCC FOB Australia East Coast Port $/tonne. 63
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
Thermal coal 
2015 2014
Average market prices ($/t, FOB Australia) 59 71
Average realised prices –  
Export Australia ($/t, FOB)
55 72
Average realised prices –  
Export South Africa ($/t, FOB)
55 70
Average realised prices –  
Domestic South Africa ($/t)
20 19
Average realised prices –  
Colombia ($/t, FOB)
55 67
Thermal coal prices declined by 17% as overall demand 
contracted. Chinese import demand in particular has 
continued to soften, while other growth markets, notably 
India, have not been able to offset this decrease in demand. 
In response, on the supply side, Indonesian volumes are 
being withdrawn from the market.
    For more information refer to the Marketplace review section   
See pages 8–10
OPERATING PERFORMANCE 
Australia and Canada
Total export metallurgical coal production increased by  
1%, despite Peace River Coal (which produced 1.5 Mt in 
2014) being placed onto long term care and maintenance 
since December 2014. 
In Australia, production increased by 6%, benefiting  
from a strong performance at the underground longwall 
operations, with a record performance from Capcoal’s 
Grasstree underground operation.
Australian export metallurgical coal production was 9% 
higher, with increases from the underground operations 
compensating for lower open cut volumes as capacity at  
the shared Capcoal Complex plant was given to the higher 
margin Grasstree underground mine. 
Production from underground operations was 33% higher, 
largely as a result of a step-change in productivity at 
Capcoal’s Grasstree underground operation following the 
implementation of bi-directional cutting. Production from 
Moranbah increased by 17%, despite equipment design 
issues, which were successfully rectified in the extended 
longwall move in the third quarter, with a stepped 
improvement in production in November and December.
Production at the Australian open cut operations decreased 
by 4%, with a robust performance from Callide and Jellinbah 
being offset by lower volumes at Capcoal, where plant and 
rail capacity was prioritised for Capcoal’s Grasstree 
underground operation’s higher margin coal.
South Africa
Export production totalled 17.4 Mt, a 4% decrease, owing  
to the planned closure of a section at Goedehoop and lower 
production at Mafube as it transitions to a new mining area. 
Productivity improvements resulted in record production at 
Goedehoop and Zibulo following the implementation of 
elements of the Anglo American Operating Model. 
Productivity improvement plans at Landau were offset by 
coal sector wage-related industrial action in October, which 
resulted in the loss of 0.6 Mt (3%) of full year production.
Export sales rose by 13% to 19.9 Mt as a result of a planned 
drawdown of stocks, facilitated by a record railing and 
shipping performance.
Production from the domestic mines decreased by 15% to 
27.7 Mt, owing to reduced offtake by Eskom at New Vaal and 
New Denmark, exacerbated by unplanned maintenance on 
the dragline at Isibonelo.
Colombia
Anglo American’s share of Cerrejón’s output of 1 1.1 Mt 
decreased by 1% as the operation was affected by adverse 
weather conditions impacting production.
OPERATIONAL OUTLOOK
Australia and Canada
Metallurgical coal production in 2016 is expected to increase 
to 21-22 Mt, with the first longwall coal from Grosvenor due 
in July and subsequent ramp-up through the second half of 
the year.
Export thermal coal
In 2016, export production from South Africa and Colombia 
is expected to be 28-30 Mt.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Production
volume
(Mt)
(1)
Sales 
volume
(Mt)
(2)
Price 
($/t)
(3)
Unit cost
($/t)
(4)
Revenue 
($m)
Underlying 
EBITDA 
($m)
Underlying 
EBIT  
($m)
Capex 
($m) ROCE
Coal 94.9 96.8 – – 4,888 1,046 457 941 9%
Prior year 100.2 100.2 – – 5,808 1,207 458 1,045 8%
Australia and Canada 33.5 34.0 90 55 2,374 586 190 837 6%
Prior year 33.2 33.8 111 71 2,970 543 (1) 952 (1)%
South Africa 50.3 51.6 55 39 1,893 345 230 104 19%
Prior year 55.8 54.8 70 45 2,083 463 350 93 30%
Colombia 11.1 11.2 55 31 621 168 90 – 11%
Prior year 11.2 11.3 67 37 755 255 163 – 15%
Projects and corporate – – – – – (53) (53) – –
Prior year – – – – – (54) (54) – –
(1) 
Production volumes are saleable tonnes.
(2) 
South African sales volumes exclude non-equity traded sales volumes of 3.4 Mt (2014: 1.3 Mt). 
(3)  
Australia and Canada is the weighted average metallurgical coal sales price achieved. South Africa is the weighted average export thermal coal price achieved. 
(4)  
FOB cost per saleable tonne, excluding royalties. Australia/Canada excludes study costs/Callide. South Africa unit cost is for the export operations. 64 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
CORPORATE AND OTHER
STRATEGIC REPORT: CORPORATE AND OTHER
FINANCIAL AND OPERATING OVERVIEW
Other Mining and Industrial
Underlying EBIT of $64 million was $2 million higher  
(2014: $62 million), mainly attributable to lower corporate 
and other costs, largely offset by the lower contribution  
from Anglo American’s interest in the Lafarge Tarmac  
joint venture, which was disposed of on 17 July 2015.
Lafarge Tarmac joint venture 
Anglo American’s share in the underlying EBIT of the  
joint venture was $60 million for the six months prior to 
transfer to Held For Sale at 30 June 2015, an $18 million 
decrease compared to the full year share in 2014. 
On 17 July 2015, Anglo American announced that it  
had completed the sale of its 50% ownership interest  
in Lafarge Tarmac Holdings Limited (Lafarge Tarmac)  
to Lafarge SA (Lafarge). Anglo American received 
provisional cash proceeds of approximately £992 million 
($1,559 million), constituting the agreed minimum 
consideration of £885 million set out in the July 2014  
binding agreement, and approximately £107 million of 
working capital and other adjustments. The final price  
has since been agreed at the same level as the provisional 
price after finalisation of the post-closing review process.
Tarmac Middle East 
The divestment of Anglo American’s interests in the  
majority of the Tarmac Middle East operations had been 
completed by January 2016. Disposal of one remaining 
interest is well advanced. 
Exploration
Anglo American exploration expenditure of $154 million 
decreased by 15%, following reductions in iron ore, thermal 
coal, diamonds and polymetallics exploration costs. The 
decreases were mainly attributable to an overall reduction  
in drilling activities.
Corporate activities and unallocated costs
Underlying EBIT was $26 million, an increase of  
$122 million (2014: $96 million loss). 
Corporate costs decreased by 8% ($46 million), of which 
$61 million represented a foreign exchange gain compared 
to 2014, partially offset by inflationary cost increases of  
$17 million. This reduction in corporate costs was mitigated 
by a 10% fall in the recharge and allocation of corporate 
costs to business units of $46 million, reflecting the lower 
corporate cost base.
A year-on-year gain of $122 million was recognised in the 
Group’s self-insurance entity, reflecting lower net claims and 
settlements during 2015.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Revenue 
($m)
Underlying 
EBITDA 
($m)
Underlying 
EBIT 
($m)
Capex 
– SIB  
($m)
Segment 925 (11) (64) 16
Prior year 1,859 (88) (215) 42
Other Mining and Industrial 921 110 64 3
Prior year 1,854 162 62 2
Exploration – (152) (154) –
Prior year – (180) (181) –
Corporate activities and unallocated costs 4 31 26 13
Prior year 5 (70) (96) 40 We continually work to maintain and develop  
the framework for good governance.
GOVERNANCE
BOARD COMPOSITION
A crucial component of good governance is ensuring 
diversity and an appropriate mix of skills, experience  
and effective challenge on the Board.
Since I became chairman in 2009, the non-executive 
membership of the Board has been entirely renewed and 
half of them were appointed within the last three years. I am 
mindful however of the importance of balancing the need 
for regular refreshment with the need for experience and 
continuity, so we have naturally slowed the pace of renewal 
over the last couple of years. 
During the year, Phuthuma Nhleko stepped down as a 
non-executive director and Tony O’Neill, technical director, 
joined the Board. Phuthuma has been a valued member of 
the Board since 201 1 and we have benefited greatly from  
his broad international business experience and insights 
and, in particular, from his knowledge of southern Africa.
In welcoming Tony to the Board, we signal our  
commitment to engineering excellence and our continuing 
drive to achieve best practice operational, safety and 
environmental performance.
I believe we have achieved a good balance of the right skills 
and domain knowledge on your Board at this time, but it is 
something we keep under constant review. More details on 
the mix of skills and experience on the Board are given on 
page 72.
BOARD VISITS TO OPERATIONS
Directors visited a number of operations during the year, 
which are described on page 74.
I strongly believe that these opportunities to get out of  
the boardroom, meet employees and ‘kick the tyres’  
at operations are vitally important in terms of properly 
understanding the business and in actively monitoring  
its values and culture in action.
I do hope the following reports convey the importance  
we attach to our governance arrangements and that you  
find them useful and interesting.
Sir John Parker 
Chairman
Sir John Parker 
Chairman
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION
The term ‘Corporate Governance’ has become 
commonplace, but I sense people often attach quite  
different meanings to it. Although there is wide  
agreement that it relates to the ‘directing and controlling’  
of an organisation, there is much less clarity on what this 
actually means in practice.
I thought it might be useful therefore to state briefly  
what we mean by corporate governance, and what it 
encompasses at Anglo American. It is perhaps helpful  
to consider this in terms of the overall aim of good 
governance – to promote quality decision-making and  
the execution of those decisions, within a disciplined 
framework of policies, procedure and authorities. 
In practice, this means ensuring decisions are made by  
the right people, with the right information, at the right time 
and that they are then executed effectively. That requires,  
for example, ensuring adequate challenge and avoiding 
groupthink, clearly defining roles and responsibilities,  
and regularly and candidly reviewing performance. This 
represents the corporate ‘infrastructure’ that is described 
over the next few pages and which provides the framework 
for good governance.
We continually work to maintain and develop this 
framework, while at the same time taking care not to  
allow the focus on means to obscure the end – the overall 
goal of making and executing good decisions in the 
commercial interests of the Group, its shareholders and 
other stakeholders. 
In these challenging times for our industry and our Group,  
I believe it is all the more important that companies maintain 
the highest standards of corporate governance. 
We will not compromise our governance principles and  
I am pleased to report that, once again, your company has 
complied in full with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the ‘Code’).
65 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Governance
GOVERNANCE CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION CHAIRMAN
Sir John Parker
GBE, FREng, DSc (Eng), ScD (Hon), 
DSc (Hon), DUniv (Hon), FRINA
73, joined the Board as a non-executive director on 9 July 
2009 and became chairman on 1 August 2009. Sir John  
is also chairman of the Nomination Committee and is  
a member of the Sustainability Committee. He is recognised 
as a highly experienced and independent chairman and 
brings a wealth of leadership experience across a range of 
industries in many countries, including in South Africa.
He is chairman of Pennon Group PLC and a non-executive 
director of Carnival Corporation and Airbus Group. Sir John 
is a Visiting Fellow of the University of Oxford and was the 
President of the Royal Academy of Engineering from 201 1 
to 2014. Sir John was previously chairman of National Grid 
plc, Deputy Chairman of DP World, senior non-executive 
director and chair of the Court of the Bank of England, joint 
chair of Mondi and chair of BVT and P&O plc.
FINANCE DIRECTOR
René Médori
Doctorate in Economics
58, was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2005, becoming 
finance director on 1 September 2005. René is a member 
of the GMC and chairman of the CorpCo and the Investment 
Committee (InvestCo). René brings significant financial and 
commercial expertise from capital-intensive businesses, 
supplying products to the oil refining, steel and mining 
industries and experience in international finance in the 
UK, Europe and the US.
He is a non-executive director of Anglo American Platinum 
Limited and Petrofac Limited. René is a former finance 
director of The BOC Group plc and was a non-executive 
director of SSE plc (formerly Scottish and Southern 
Energy plc).
DIRECTORS
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Mark Cutifani
BE (Mining Engineering)
57, was appointed as a director and chief executive with 
effect from 3 April 2013, and is chairman of the Group 
Management Committee (GMC) and a member of the 
Corporate Committee (CorpCo) and the Sustainability 
Committee. Mark has over 38 years’ experience of the 
mining industry across a wide range of geographies  
and commodities.
Mark is a non-executive director of Anglo American 
Platinum Limited and chairman of Anglo American  
South Africa and of the De Beers group of companies.  
He was previously the CEO of AngloGold Ashanti Limited. 
Before joining AngloGold Ashanti, Mark was COO at Vale 
Inco, where he was responsible for Vale’s global nickel 
business. Prior to this he held senior executive positions  
with the Normandy Group, Sons of Gwalia, Western Mining 
Corporation, Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mines and  
CRA (Rio Tinto).
TECHNICAL DIRECTOR
Tony O’Neill
MBA, BASc (Eng)
58, was appointed to the Board as technical director on 
22 July 2015, having joined the Group in 2013. He is a 
member of the Sustainability and Investment Committees. 
He is also a non-executive director of De Beers, and  
Anglo American Platinum Limited.
Tony joined AngloGold Ashanti in July 2008 as Executive 
Vice President – Business and Technical Development and 
served as Joint Acting CEO until July 2013. His 36-year 
career in the mining industry has spanned iron ore, copper, 
nickel and gold, and includes his roles as operations 
executive at Newcrest Mining and as the head of the gold 
business at Western Mining Corporation. Tony is a mining 
engineer with an MBA from the University of Melbourne.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 66
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Judy Dlamini
MBChB, DOH, MBA, DBL
56, was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2014 and is a 
member of the Audit and Remuneration committees. Judy 
is a successful businesswoman with longstanding public 
company board experience across a range of geographies 
and sectors, including mining.
She is the founder and chairman of Mbekani Group, a South 
African healthcare investment company, and a former 
chairman of Aspen Pharmacare. Judy served as a non-
executive director of Northam Platinum between 2004 and 
2013, and as a member of that company’s committees on: 
health; safety and environmental; investment; and social, 
ethics and human resources. She started her career as a 
medical practitioner and after spending two years at HSBC, 
she began to develop her entrepreneurial interests. Judy is 
also a founder and trustee of Mkhiwa Trust, a family vehicle 
for social responsibility initiatives, and has served as a 
non-executive director on the boards of Discovery Holdings 
and Woolworths Holdings.
Byron Grote
PhD Quantitative Analysis
67, was appointed to the Board on 19 April 2013. He is 
chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee. Byron contributes broad 
business, financial and board experience in numerous 
geographies.
He is a non-executive director of Standard Chartered,  
Akzo Nobel and Tesco PLC. Byron has extensive 
management experience across the oil and gas industry.  
He served on the BP plc board from 2000 until 2013 and 
was BP’s chief financial officer during much of that period. 
Ray O’Rourke
KBE, HonFREng, CEng, FIEI, FICE
69, joined the Board on 1 1 December 2009. He is  
a member of the Nomination, Remuneration and 
Sustainability committees. Ray has a proven track record  
in delivering complex and large-scale projects around the 
world, mobilising large numbers of people with great 
success and applying leading project management and 
engineering practices. As a member of the Sustainability 
Committee, he has a keen interest in safety.
Ray founded the O’Rourke Group in 1977, having begun his 
career at Kier and J Murphy & Sons. In 2001, the O’Rourke 
Group acquired John Laing to form Laing O’Rourke, now 
Europe’s largest privately owned construction company, 
of which Ray is chairman.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
Sir Philip Hampton
MA, ACA, MBA
62, joined the Board on 9 November 2009. He is chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the  
Audit and Nomination Committees. Sir Philip is chairman  
of GlaxoSmithKline and brings to Anglo American 
significant financial, strategic and boardroom experience 
across a number of industries. 
His previous appointments include chairman of The Royal 
Bank of Scotland and J Sainsbury plc, finance director of 
Lloyds TSB Group plc, BT Group plc, BG Group plc, British 
Gas plc and British Steel plc, executive director of Lazards, 
and non-executive director of RMC Group plc and 
Belgacom SA. Sir Philip became the senior independent 
director at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
67 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Governance NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS continued
Mphu Ramatlapeng
MD, MHSc
63, was appointed to the Board on 8 July 2013 and is a 
member of the Sustainability Committee. Mphu is a highly 
experienced leader who brings a broad range of South 
African and international health expertise at board level 
across both the public and private sectors. She has a clear 
vision and deep understanding of the social benefits  
of effective healthcare programmes and capacity building 
through partnership.
Mphu is the Executive Vice President of HIV/AIDS and 
Tuberculosis programmes for the Clinton Health Access 
Initiative and also the Vice Chair of the Global Fund to Fight 
AIDS, TB and Malaria. She served as Minister of Health and 
Social Welfare of Lesotho between 2007 and 2012. In this 
role, she championed Lesotho’s significant achievements 
in reducing the transmission of HIV from mother to child. 
Across her career, she has also been a leading advocate for 
women in business, including serving as founding board 
member of Women in Business in Lesotho.
Jim Rutherford
BSc (Econ), MA (Econ)
56, joined the Board on 4 November 2013. Jim is a member 
of the Sustainability and Audit Committees. He has 
extensive experience in investment management and 
investment banking, both as an institutional investor and 
analyst. He brings to the Board considerable financial  
insight from the perspective of the capital markets and  
a deep understanding of the mining industry.
Jim is also a non-executive director of Dalradian Resources 
Inc. Between 1997 and 2013, he was a Senior Vice 
President of Capital International Investors, a division of the 
Capital Group, and had responsibility for investments in the 
mining and metals industry. Prior to joining Capital Group, 
Jim was an investment analyst covering the South American 
mining and metals industry for HSBC James Capel in 
New York.
Anne Stevens
BSc, PhD
67, joined the Board on 14 May 2012 and is a member  
of the Audit and Nomination Committees. Anne brings a 
wealth of experience and wide-ranging commercial acumen 
from a number of global industries. She has experience 
gained across North, Central and South America.
Anne has served on the board of Lockheed Martin 
Corporation as a non-executive director since 2002, and is 
also the chairman of a privately held IT services business, 
SA IT. Anne’s 16-year career with the Ford Motor Company 
culminated in her appointment as COO for the Americas, 
a position she held until 2006. Prior to joining Ford in 1990, 
Anne spent 10 years in a number of engineering, product 
development, and sales and marketing roles at Exxon 
Chemical Co, and three years as chairman and CEO of 
Carpenter Technology.
Jack Thompson
BSc, PhD
65, joined the Board on 16 November 2009 and is chairman  
of the Sustainability Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee. Jack brings experience gained  
at all levels of the mining industry and has received wide 
recognition as a mining executive. He is currently a 
non-executive director of Tidewater Inc.
Jack was previously chairman and CEO of Homestake 
Mining Co., vice chairman of Barrick Gold Corp. and has 
served on the boards of Centerra Gold Inc., Century 
Aluminum Co., Molycorp Inc., Phelps Dodge Corp.,  
Rinker Group Ltd., and Stillwater Mining.
Phuthuma Nhleko stepped down from the Board in 
November 2015.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 68
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS Seamus French
B Eng (Chemical)
53, is CEO of Bulk Commodities, with responsibility for  
the Group’s coal businesses and the Minas-Rio iron ore 
business in Brazil, since January 2016. He joined WMC 
Resources in Australia in 1994, initially in a strategic  
planning and business development role, and progressed 
to various operational management roles, gaining extensive 
experience in the gold and nickel businesses before 
advancing to the position of executive general manager, 
copper-uranium division. Seamus joined BHP Billiton as 
global vice president, business excellence, following its 
takeover of WMC in 2005. He joined Anglo American in 
2007, and was CEO of Metallurgical Coal between 2009  
and 2013 and CEO Coal until 2015.
Chris Griffith
B Eng (Mining) Hons, Pr Eng
51, was appointed CEO of Anglo American Platinum Limited 
with effect from 1 September 2012. He was previously CEO 
of Kumba Iron Ore from 2008. Prior to this, he was Anglo 
American Platinum’s head of operations for joint ventures. 
Chris has been with Anglo American for 25 years.
Norman Mbazima
FCCA, FZICA
57, was appointed CEO of Kumba Iron Ore with effect from  
1 September 2012. He joined Anglo American in 2001 at 
Konkola Copper Mines plc. He was subsequently appointed 
global CFO for Anglo Coal. He became executive director of 
finance at Anglo American Platinum Limited in June 2006 
and later stepped in as joint acting CEO. Norman was CEO 
of Scaw Metals from May 2008 and later CEO of Thermal 
Coal from October 2009, a position he held until 2012.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 
GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Mark Cutifani
See page 66 for biographical details.
René Médori
See page 66 for biographical details.
Tony O’Neill
See page 66 for biographical details.
Didier Charreton
MSc
52, was appointed Group director – human resources on 
1 December 2015. He served as Chief Human Resources 
Officer for Baker Hughes for seven years until 2014, based 
in Houston, in the US, with operations across 90 countries 
and 60,000 employees. Prior to 2007, he held a number of 
senior HR roles, including with Coats plc in the UK, and 
Schlumberger for 12 years, based in the US, Argentina, 
Venezuela and France. Didier has a master’s degree in 
Business from the Clermont Management School and a 
postgraduate degree in Management Science from the 
University of Lyon.
Bruce Cleaver
BSc, LLB, LLM
50, was appointed Group director – strategy and business 
development in January 2016. He was previously executive 
head of strategy and corporate affairs for De Beers, having 
joined De Beers in 2005. Bruce continues to serve on the 
board of De Beers as a non-executive director.
69 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Governance
GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Duncan Wanblad
BSc (Eng) Mech, GDE  
(Eng Management)
49, is CEO of Base Metals and Minerals. He began his  
career at Johannesburg Consolidated Investment Company 
Limited in 1990. Between 2009 and 2013, Duncan held  
the position of Group director, Other Mining and Industrial 
businesses. He was appointed to the board of 
Anglo American Platinum Limited in 2004 and was 
appointed joint interim CEO of Anglo American Platinum  
in 2007, before taking over as CEO of Anglo American’s 
copper operations in 2008.
Peter Whitcutt
BCom (Hons), CA (SA), MBA
50, is CEO of Marketing. He joined Anglo American in 1990 
within the corporate finance division. He worked on the 
merger of Minorco with Anglo American, the listing of 
Anglo American in 1999, and the subsequent unwinding 
of the cross-holding with De Beers. Peter was appointed 
Group head of finance in 2003, CFO of Base Metals in 
August 2008 and Group director – strategy, business 
development and marketing in 2013. he was appointed to 
his present position in January 2016. 
Paulo Castellari-Porchia was a member of the GMC 
during the year, before leaving the Group with effect from 
31 December 2015.
GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE continued
Philippe Mellier
MSc (Mechanical Engineering), MBA
60, was appointed CEO of De Beers in July 201 1. He began 
his career in 1980 with the Ford Motor Company, where  
he occupied various senior management positions over  
19 years. In 1999, Philippe joined Renault as a senior vice 
president in charge of European sales, and was a member  
of the management board. In 2001 he moved to Volvo AB  
to become chairman and CEO of Renault Trucks, and a 
member of the Volvo Group executive committee. In 2003, 
Philippe became president of Alstom Transport and was 
appointed executive vice president of Alstom Group a 
year later.
Anik Michaud
LL.L (Law)
48, was appointed Group director – corporate relations  
in June 2015, having Joined the Group in 2008 as Group 
head of corporate communication. Anik’s remit includes 
corporate communication and government and social 
affairs. She was previously director of public affairs for  
Rio Tinto Alcan, after 10 years with the Alcan group. Anik 
began her career as the political attaché to the Minister of 
Finance for Quebec.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 70
GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT THE ROLE OF THE BOARD
The Board provides leadership to the Group and is 
responsible for its long term success. It seeks to achieve  
this by establishing the ‘tone from the top’, through debating 
and stress-testing Group strategy proposals, approving 
business plans, monitoring performance, overseeing risk 
management and ensuring that the right people are in place 
via board and executive succession planning.
The Board is supported by a number of committees, to 
which it has delegated certain powers. The role of these 
committees is summarised below, and their membership 
and activities during the year are detailed on pages 76–82.
Under the Group’s governance arrangements, certain  
key decisions can only be made by the Board and may not 
be delegated. The schedule of ‘Matters Reserved for the 
Anglo American plc Board’, and the committees’ terms of 
reference, detailing the specific responsibilities of the  
Board and its committees, can be found online.
For more information, visit 
www.angloamerican.com/aboutus/ourapproach
Role of the chairman 
Sir John Parker manages the Board. His main 
responsibilities include:
 • Board leadership
 • Board composition and succession planning
 • Governance
 • Advising, providing counsel and acting as  
confidant to the chief executive
 • Ambassador for the Group
 • Available for shareholders
Role of the chief executive
Mark Cutifani manages the Group. His main  
responsibilities include:
 • Executive leadership
 • Formulation of Group strategy
 • Approval and monitoring of business plans
 • Organisational structure and senior appointments
 • Acquisitions and disposals and business development
 • Shareholder relations
Role of the senior independent director (SID)
Sir Philip Hampton, as the SID, is available to discuss any 
concerns with shareholders that cannot be addressed 
through the normal chairman/chief executive channels.  
He also acts as a sounding board for the chairman and  
as an intermediary for other directors, if necessary. 
Governance structure
Board committees Executive committees
The Board
Provides leadership to the Group and  
is responsible for its long term success.
Sustainability Committee
Oversees management of sustainability 
issues, including safety, health. 
environment, social and governmental 
relations.
See page 76 for more details.
Audit Committee
Oversight of financial reporting, audit, 
internal control and risk management.
See page 78 for more details.
Nomination Committee
Responsible for board composition, 
appointment of directors and senior 
management and succession planning.
See page 77 for more details.
Remuneration Committee
Determines the remuneration of 
executive directors, the chairman and 
senior management and oversees 
remuneration policy for all employees.
See page 82 for more details.
Group Management Committee 
(GMC)
Principal executive committee. 
Responsible for formulating 
strategy, setting targets/budgets 
and managing the Group’s 
portfolio.
For more information see  
‘GMC Rules’ on the Group’s 
website.
Corporate Committee  
(CorpCo)
Reviews corporate and ethical 
policies and processes, and 
financial performance and 
budgets at BU level.
Operational Committee 
(OpCo)
Responsible for driving 
operational best practices  
across the Group and the  
setting of technical standards.
Investment Committee 
(InvestCo)
Responsible for making 
recommendations to the GMC  
on capital investment proposals.
THE BOARD IN 2015 
71 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Governance
GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2015 BOARD COMPOSITION
The Board currently comprises the chairman, three 
executive directors and eight independent non-executive 
directors. Composition is regularly refreshed, with half of 
the Board appointed within the last three years and no 
non-executive director having served more than seven 
years. In terms of diversity, the Company has achieved  
the Davies Report target of 25% women on the Board,  
with directors from Australia, France, Ireland, Lesotho, 
South Africa, the UK, and the US, with a broad range of 
professional experience as set out in the table below.
Board diversity
Nationality
  
Australia
 
South Africa
 
France
   
UK
 
Ireland
 
UK/US
 
Lesotho
  
US
Professional  
experience
Percentage of  
Board membership
Automotive
 
8%
Education/ 
government/ 
public entities 
17%
Energy
 
17%
Engineering/ 
construction
    
33%
Finance
    
33%
Medical/ 
healthcare
  
17%
Mining
   
33%
Other global  
multinational
      
58%
Social enterprises
8%
Telecoms
 
8%
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 72
GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2015 BOARD DISCUSSIONS
The chairman has developed and maintains a two-year 
rolling agenda which sets the framework for Board  
meetings and seeks to ensure that each meeting covers  
an appropriate range of topics – from routine business, 
through operational reports and project updates, to special 
items and matters of strategy and business development 
– and that, over the course of a year, the Board covers its 
whole remit.
Each meeting includes a wide-ranging report from the  
chief executive and a report from the finance director on  
the Group’s financial performance, including the impact  
of declining commodity prices. Reports from the  
committee chairmen, updates on major projects and  
certain other administrative matters are also reported  
at each Board meeting.
In addition to these regular items, the following matters  
were discussed, among others, during 2015: 
February 
 • Annual results and dividend recommendation
 • Business Report – Engineering and large projects
 • Litigation update
 • Review of 2014 Board and committee evaluation
April 
 • Business Report – Kumba Iron Ore
 • Commodity forecasts/macro-economic scenarios
 • Strategy update
 • AGM preview
June
 • Business Report – Platinum
 • Major supply contract for approval
 • Board Strategy sessions – two days
 • External presentation on the economic, social and political 
outlook for South Africa
 • External presentation on the global economy
July 
 • Interim results and interim dividend recommendation
 • Business Report – Coal South Africa
 • Litigation update
October
 • Business Report – De Beers (including a Board visit  
to the Gaborone diamond sorting office and Jwaneng 
mine, Botswana)
 • Engineering and large projects – update
 • Business Report – Exploration
 • Investor roadshows – summary of feedback
December 
 • December Investor Day presentation
 • External presentation on global mining trends
 • Decision to suspend dividends
 • Strategic re-focusing of the Group
 • Budget and Business Plans 2016-2018
 • Business Report – Base Metals
 • Mining industry – update and long term outlook
Board and Committee meetings 2015 –  
frequency and attendance of members
Independent Board Audit Sustainability Remuneration Nomination
Sir John 
Parker
n/a 6/6 – 4/4 – 3/3
Mark  
Cutifani
No 6/6 – 4/4 – –
René  
Médori
No 6/6 – – – –
Phuthuma
Nhleko
(1)
Yes 0/6 0/3 – – 0/3
Judy  
Dlamini
Yes 6/6 4/4 – 3/3 –
Byron  
Grote
Yes 6/6 4/4 – 3/3 –
Sir Philip 
Hampton
Yes 6/6 4/4 – 3/3 3/3
Tony  
O’Neill
No 3/3
(2)
– 4/4 – –
Ray  
O’Rourke
Yes 5/6
(3)
– 3/4
(3)
3/3 2/3
(3)
Mphu 
Ramatlapeng
Yes 6/6 – 4/4 – –
Jim 
Rutherford
Yes 6/6 4/4 4/4 – –
Anne  
Stevens 
Yes 5/6
(3)
2/4
(3)
– – 3/3
Jack 
Thompson
Yes 6/6 – 4/4 3/3 –
(1) 
Mr Nhleko did not attend meetings to avoid a potential conflict of interest, and stepped down from the Board  
in November 2015. 
(2) 
Meetings attended since appointment.
(3) 
Unable to attend due to illness.  
73 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Governance BOARD VISITS TO OPERATIONS
Our directors value the opportunity to get out of the 
boardroom and see the Group’s operations on the ground. 
Visiting mines, processing facilities and surrounding 
communities and talking to local employees provides  
vital operational context to the Board’s deliberations. 
During 2015, the Board visited the Minas-Rio iron ore 
project in Brazil, the De Beers diamond sorting office  
and Jwaneng mine in Botswana and Judy Dlamini and  
Mphu Ramatlapeng visited an Anglo American Platinum 
community agriculture project in South Africa.
Images 
Top: Board visit to 
Jwaneng mine. 
Middle left: Mark Cutifani 
address to De Beers 
staff. 
Middle right: Board  
visit to De Beers  
sorting office. 
Bottom left: Board visit  
to Jwaneng mine. 
Bottom right: Board  
visit to Minas Rio
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 74
GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2015 BOARD EVALUATION
In accordance with the Code, we conduct an externally 
facilitated evaluation every three years, with the 2015 
exercise undertaken by Independent Board Evaluation 
currently being finalised. Its conclusions and resulting 
actions will be reported in the 2016 annual report.
Between the externally facilitated reviews, the Board  
and committees undertake an online, questionnaire  
based, evaluation of performance. This is augmented  
by one-to-one interviews by the chairman with the 
non-executive directors.
The internal evaluation undertaken in late 2014 was 
reviewed by the Board and relevant committees in early 
2015. Overall, performance of the Board was highly rated. 
However, as one would expect from an engaged board, 
there was the opportunity for further improvements. At a 
time of increased volatility in the industry the Board needs  
to continue its focus on the management of risks. It also 
needs to strengthen its links with the Management of the 
Businesses to ensure that the expertise and experience of 
Board members is utilised in support of restructuring and 
strategic change. Suggestions to improve strategic debates, 
especially around the Strategy Day, were also addressed.
INVESTOR RELATIONS
The Company maintains an active engagement with its key 
financial audiences, including institutional shareholders and 
buy and sell-side analysts, as well as potential shareholders. 
The Investor Relations department manages the interaction 
with these audiences and regular presentations take place 
at the time of the interim and final results as well as during 
the rest of the year, including an annual capital markets day.
An active programme of communication with potential 
shareholders is also maintained.
Any significant concerns raised by a shareholder in relation 
to the Company and its affairs are communicated to the 
Board. The Board is briefed on a regular basis by the 
Investor Relations department and analysts’ reports are 
circulated to the directors. Feedback from meetings held 
between executive management, or the Investor Relations 
department, and institutional shareholders, is also 
communicated to the Board.
During the year there were regular presentations to, and 
meetings with, institutional investors in the UK, South Africa, 
continental Europe, the US and Canada to communicate the 
strategy and performance of Anglo American. Executive 
directors as well as key executives, including business unit 
heads, host such presentations, which include seminars  
for investors and analysts and one-on-one meetings.
Throughout the year, executive management also presents 
at industry conferences that are mainly organised by 
investment banks for their institutional investor base.
The chairman, the senior independent director and other 
non-executive directors are available to shareholders to 
discuss any matter they wish to raise. The Company’s 
website provides the latest news and historical financial 
information, details about forthcoming events for 
shareholders and analysts, and other information regarding 
Anglo American.
In November 2015 the Board received notice of a 
shareholder requisitioned resolution which will be proposed 
at the AGM in April 2016. The resolution, proposed by the 
‘Aiming for A’ partners, would require the Group to report  
on its response to the long-term challenge posed by climate 
change. Further details are provided in the Notice of AGM.
75 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Governance COMMITTEE DISCUSSIONS IN 2015 
At each meeting, the Committee reviews a detailed 
quarterly report covering the Group’s performance across 
a range of sustainability areas including: safety; occupational 
health; political and regulatory risk; and environmental and 
social performance. In addition to these standing agenda 
items, the following matters were discussed during 2015:
February
 • business unit sustainability report: Kumba Iron Ore
 • operational risk assurance – new approach to risk 
monitoring
 • applaud awards – employee awards for sustainability 
issues
 • review of 2014 committee evaluation.
April
 • HR performance report – key HR risks
 • business unit sustainability report: Platinum
 • ICMM benchmarking report – comparing safety 
performance and trends across the industry
 • socio-economic development – an update on the Group’s 
approach and performance.
July
 • government and social affairs – detailed update
 • business unit sustainability report: De Beers
 • water – managing the material risk of water usage/ 
conservation
 • key legislative developments in the sustainability area.
October
 • operational risk assurance – audit findings
 • business unit sustainability report: Exploration
 • mine closure planning – with a particular focus  
on Thabazimbi.
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Overseeing on behalf of the Board, material management 
policies, processes, and strategies designed to manage 
safety, health, environment, socio-political and people risks 
and achieve compliance with sustainable development 
responsibilities and commitments and strive for an industry 
leadership position on sustainability.
The Committee terms of reference are available  
to view online.
For more information, visit 
www.angloamerican.com/aboutus/ourapproach
COMPOSITION
 • Jack Thompson – Chairman 
 • Mark Cutifani
 • Tony O’Neill 
 • Ray O’Rourke
 • Sir John Parker
 • Mphu Ramatlapeng 
 • Jim Rutherford
Jack Thompson 
Chairman, Sustainability Committee
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 76
GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE Sir John Parker  
Chairman, Nomination Committee
COMPOSITION
 • Sir John Parker – Chairman 
 • Sir Philip Hampton
 • Ray O’Rourke
 • Anne Stevens
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES
 • Setting guidelines (with the approval of the Board) for the 
types of skills, experience and diversity being sought when 
making a search for new directors. With the assistance of 
external search consultants, identifying and reviewing in 
detail potential candidates available in the market and 
agreeing a ‘longlist’ of candidates for each directorship. 
Following further discussion and research, deciding  
upon a shortlist of candidates for interview. Interviewing  
of shortlisted candidates by the Committee members  
who then convene to discuss their impressions and 
conclusions, culminating in a recommendation to  
the Board.
 • Making recommendations as to the composition of  
the Board and its committees and the balance between 
executive directors and non-executive directors  
(NEDs), with the aim of cultivating a diverse board with  
the appropriate mix of skills, experience, independence 
and knowledge.
 • Ensuring succession plans for all executive Board 
members, Chairman and senior executives below the 
Board are kept under review.
 • Ensuring that the HR function of the Group regularly 
reviews and updates the succession plans of directors  
and senior managers for subsequent debate with the 
NEDs and chief executive.
The Committee’s terms of reference are available  
to view online.
For more information, visit 
www.angloamerican.com/aboutus/ourapproach
COMMITTEE DISCUSSIONS IN 2015 
The Committee met three times during 2015, discussing  
the following matters:
February
 • discussed the composition of the Board and its 
committees and, in line with the results of the recent 
evaluation, concluded it was currently appropriate and 
working well 
 • reviewed the effectiveness of senior and executive 
management succession planning
 • reviewed the results of the 2014 Board evaluation and 
discussed possible learnings.
July
 • a recommendation that Tony O’Neill be appointed to 
the Board
 • an update on the process to recruit a new HR Director
 • an update on the Group-wide review of indirect  
headcount and discussed potential changes at senior 
levels within the organisation.
October
 • noted that Mr Nhleko was likely to step down from the 
Board to focus on his South African business interests
 • the CEO reported on the structure and composition of  
the Group’s executive committees.
77 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Governance
GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE
A key requirement of our financial statements is for the 
report to be fair balanced and understandable. The Audit 
Committee and the Board are satisfied that the Annual 
Report and Accounts meet this requirement as appropriate 
weight has been given to both positive and negative 
developments in the year.
In justifying this statement, the Audit Committee has 
considered the robust process which operates in creating 
the report and accounts including:
 • clear guidance and instruction is provided to all 
contributors
 • revisions to regulatory requirements, including the Code 
are provided to contributors and monitored on an 
on-going basis
 • early-warning meetings are conducted between business 
unit management and auditors in advance of the year end 
reporting process
 • a thorough process of review, evaluation and verification  
of the inputs from business units is undertaken to ensure 
accuracy and consistency
 • external advisors provide advice to management and the 
Audit Committee on best practice with regard to creation 
of the report and accounts
 • a meeting of the Audit Committee was held in February 
2016 to review and approve the draft 2015 annual report 
and accounts in advance of the final sign-off by the Board. 
This review included the critical accounting judgements 
explained in Note 1, pages 1 18- 1 19 and the conclusions of 
the external auditors (page 1 10).
COMMITTEE DISCUSSIONS IN 2015
Throughout the course of 2015 the audit committee paid 
particular attention to the evolving commodity price risk and 
management’s actions to mitigate the effects of the risk. 
Discussion included the actions to maintain sufficient 
liquidity, the disposal programme and the dividend policy. In 
addition, the implications of the weaker price environment 
on asset values was subject to detailed review
The Audit Committee held four meetings in 2015.  
The specific items covered in each meeting included  
the following: 
February 
 • significant accounting issues, the going concern 
assessment, the 2014 final dividend proposal and 
the press release for the 2014 annual results
 • the results of the external audit work
 • the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources report
 • report on completion of the 2014 internal audit plan 
and monitoring of the completion of actions agreed 
in audit work
 • the Audit Committee’s members’ evaluation of its 
performance during 2014.
COMPOSITION
 • Byron Grote – Chairman
 • Judy Dlamini
 • Sir Philip Hampton
 • Jim Rutherford
 • Anne Stevens
Byron Grote 
Chairman, Audit Committee
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES
 • Monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim  
financial statements.
 • Making recommendations to the Board concerning the 
adoption of the annual and interim financial statements.
 • Overseeing the Group’s relations with the external 
auditors.
 • Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management and internal control mechanisms.
 • Approving the terms of reference of the internal  
audit function.
 • Approving the internal audit plan and reviewing regular 
reports from the head of internal audit on effectiveness  
of the internal control system.
 • Receiving reports from management on the Principal 
Risks of the Group. Details of the Principal Risks are 
contained on pages 41-45.
The Committee terms of reference are available  
to view online.
For more information, visit 
www.angloamerican.com/aboutus/ourapproach
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 78
GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE  • the interim internal audit report, including progress with 
the 2015 plan
 • the Principal Risks of the Group including movement in 
each risk since the prior review, potential impacts, root 
causes and mitigation actions
 • a report on renewal of the Group’s insurance 
arrangements.
December
 • the significant accounting and financial reporting matters 
for the 2015 year end, including impairments (Note 6,  
page 126) and disposals (Note 30, page 151 ). The Audit 
Committee also reviewed the enhanced disclosure of the 
Group accounting policy on depreciation of property, plant 
and equipment (Note 39, page 161 )
 • an update on tax matters 
 • the audit fee proposed for 2015
 • approved the external audit plan for 2015 and requested 
the auditors to include findings of their work in the auditors 
report (page 1 10)
 • a paper on trading and agreed to recommend to the Board 
approval for an expansion in trading activities
 • progress in developing a new code of ethical conduct for 
the Group
 • a paper providing an update on management’s response 
to the 2014 Deloitte management letter observations 
referred to in the April meeting 
 • the process concerning the Viability Statement 
preparation and the Principal Risks that form part of the 
analysis. Included a discussion of risk appetite in respect  
of each of the Principal Risks
 • reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2016
 • agreed changes to the Terms of Reference of the Audit 
Committee to include oversight responsibility of the Code 
of Conduct and preparation of the Viability Statement.
The Audit Committee report is set out below.
April
 • the Group’s accounting policies over asset valuations, 
restructuring costs, the accounting implications of  
Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates and 
developments in financial reporting. The Audit Committee 
approved changes to policies as proposed, including 
separate disclosure for Group-wide, permanent 
restructuring programmes as a special item if greater than 
$50 million in total, and noting the stricter guidelines being 
applied to use of Inferred Resources in life of mine plans
 • the 2014 management letter from Deloitte, noting that no 
points were raised that could lead to a misstatement in the 
Group’s accounts. The committee reviewed the 
observations highlighted by Deloitte
 • management’s assessment of the auditor independence 
and effectiveness in delivery of the 2014 audit
 • a report on the Group’s ethical framework and approved 
recommendations, including the development of a new 
code of conduct
 • a report on the governance, policy and approach to 
mitigating risk of bribery and corruption
 • a report on governance, risk and compliance activities 
associated with the Marketing business unit, including 
trading activities
 • a report on the management of cyber risk, including  
actions planned to enhance the maturity of information 
security measures
 • a report analysing the Group’s pension assets and liabilities 
and management’s approach to mitigating pension risk
 • executive director expenses for 2014 and the Group  
Travel policy.
July
 • the significant accounting issues for the half-year report, 
including impairments (Note 6, page 126) and disposals 
(Note 30, page 151 )
 • the going concern assessment including the underlying 
assumptions, risks and mitigating actions to support the 
assessment
 • a report on tax matters including an update on transfer 
pricing matters and developments in regulations relating 
to tax reporting
 • a report from Deloitte on their interim review which 
covered the accounting issues referred to above and 2015 
audit planning considerations
 • the interim financial statements, draft press release and 
the interim dividend proposal
 • the schedule of approved non-audit fees for the half year
 • a paper from management on an initiative to extend 
trading activity beyond thermal coal
 • a briefing on changes to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, including management’s approach to developing 
the Viability Statement
79 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Governance ENSURING INDEPENDENCE OF THE  
EXTERNAL AUDITORS
Anglo American’s policy on auditor’s independence is 
consistent with the ethical standards published by the Audit 
Practices Board.
A key factor that may impair an auditor’s independence is 
a lack of control over non-audit services provided by the 
external auditors. The external auditor’s independence is 
deemed to be impaired if the auditors provide a service that:
 • results in the auditors acting as a manager or employee  
of the Group
 • puts the auditor in the role of advocate for the Group
 • creates a mutuality of interest between the auditors  
and the Group.
Anglo American addresses this issue through three primary 
measures, namely:
 • disclosure of the extent and nature of non-audit services
 • the prohibition of selected services – this includes the 
undertaking of internal audit services
 • prior approval by the audit committee chairman of 
non-audit services where the cost of the proposed service 
is likely to exceed $50,000.
Anglo American’s policy on the provision of non-audit 
services is regularly reviewed. The definition of prohibited 
non-audit services corresponds with the European 
Commission’s recommendations on auditors’ independence 
and with the Ethical Standards issued by the Audit Practices 
Board in the UK.
Other safeguards 
 • The external auditors are required to adhere to a rotation 
policy based on best practice and professional standards  
in the United Kingdom. The standard period for rotation  
of the audit engagement partner is five years and for any 
key audit partner, seven years. The audit engagement 
partner was appointed in 2015 and will rotate off at the  
end of the 2019 audit in accordance with this requirement.
 • Any partner designated as a key audit partner of 
Anglo American shall not be employed by Anglo American 
in a key management position unless a period of at least 
two years has elapsed since the conclusion of the last 
relevant audit.
 • The external auditors are required to assess periodically 
whether in their professional judgement they are 
independent of the Group.
 • The Audit Committee ensures that the scope of the auditors’ 
work is sufficient and that the auditors are fairly remunerated.
 • The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making 
recommendations to the Board on the appointment, 
re-appointment and removal of the external auditors.
 • The Audit Committee has the authority to engage 
independent counsel and other advisers as they determine 
necessary to resolve issues on auditors’ independence.
 • An annual assessment is undertaken of the  
auditors’ effectiveness.
Audit tender
Anglo American will undertake, at the latest, a tender  
and rotation of the audit appointment at the time of the 
rotation of the lead engagement partner which is due  
after completion of the 2019 audit.
Anglo American confirms compliance during the year  
with the provisions of the Competition and Markets  
Authority Order on mandatory tendering and audit 
committee responsibilities.
Conclusions of the Audit Committee for 2015
The Audit Committee has satisfied itself that the external 
auditors’ independence was not impaired. 
The Audit Committee held meetings with the external 
auditors without the presence of management on two 
occasions and the chairman of the Audit Committee held 
regular meetings with the lead audit engagement partner 
during the year. 
Consideration given to the appointment of the 
external auditors 
The Audit Committee’s assessment of the external  
auditors’ performance and independence underpins its 
recommendation to the Board to propose to shareholders 
the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors until the 
conclusion of the AGM in 201 7. Resolutions to authorise the 
Board to re-appoint and determine the remuneration of 
Deloitte LLP will be proposed at the AGM on 21 April 2016.
Risk Management
Risk Management is the responsibility of the Board and is 
integral to the achievement of our objectives. The Board 
establishes the system of risk management, setting risk 
appetite and maintaining the system of internal control to 
manage risk within the Group. The Group’s system of risk 
management and internal control are monitored by the  
Audit Committee under delegation from the Board.
The system of risk management is designed to ensure 
awareness of risks that threaten the achievement of 
objectives. The controls that mitigate those risks are 
identified so that assurance can be provided on the 
effectiveness of those controls and a determination can be 
made as to whether the risk is operating within the Group’s 
risk appetite. We seek to embed a culture of risk awareness 
into development of our strategic and operational objectives. 
The process for identification and assessment of the 
Principal Risks combines a top down and bottom up 
approach. At the operations level, a process to identify all  
risks that prevent the achievement of objectives is being 
introduced, building on our safety risk management 
programme. Detailed analysis of the material risks at each 
location is performed to ensure management understanding 
of the risk and controls that reduce likelihood of occurrence 
and impact should the risk materialise. These operational risk 
profiles contribute to the assessment of risks at the business 
unit level. Executive management at each business unit 
assess risks that threaten achievement of the business unit 
objectives and the status of controls, or actions, that mitigate 
those risks. At the Group level, risks are identified through 
assessment of global factors affecting the industry and the 
Group specifically, as well as the risks arising from the 
business unit assessments. Materiality of risk is determined 
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 80
GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT through assessment of the various impacts that may arise 
and likelihood of occurrence. An exception relates to those 
risks deemed catastrophic in nature, where the focus of 
assessment is on impact and status of internal controls, given 
the very low likelihood of occurrence. When considering the 
impact of any risk, we assess financial, safety, environmental, 
legal or regulatory, social and reputation consequences.
The robust process of identifying and evaluating the Principal 
Risks is ongoing and was in place during 2015. Regular 
reports on the status of risks and controls are presented 
to executive management teams throughout the year. 
The Audit Committee reviews reports on the overall 
Anglo American risk profile on two occasions during the  
year and conducts in-depth reviews of specific risks during 
its meetings over the course of the year. Each Principal 
Risk is assigned to either the Board or the relevant Board 
Committees to oversee executive management actions in 
response to that risk. The Audit Committee reviews that 
oversight process on an annual basis.
Details of the Principal Risks are provided on pages 41-45.
Risk appetite
We define risk appetite as ‘the nature and extent of risk that 
Anglo American is willing to accept in relation to the pursuit of 
its objectives’. Each Principal Risk is assessed as to whether it 
is operating within the limit of appetite for the Group based on 
review of the external factors influencing that risk, the status  
of management actions to mitigate or control the risk and  
the potential impact should the risk materialise. For risks 
operating beyond the limit of appetite, a change in strategy 
may be required. For risks operating within, but approaching 
the limit of, appetite, specific management actions may be 
required to ensure the risk remains within the limit of appetite. 
Risk Management and the system of Internal Control
Controls either reduce the likelihood or impact of any risk 
once it has occurred and the identification of material 
controls – i.e. those controls that have the most influence in 
mitigating a risk – is an important input for audit planning.
The system of internal control operates on a traditional  
‘three lines of defence’ approach, with operating 
management implementing and monitoring controls on  
a day-to-day basis, and business unit or functional 
management providing a second line of defence through 
regular and frequent oversight of operating management’s 
implementation of controls. A centrally managed internal 
audit department provides the third line of defence by 
reviewing design and operating effectiveness of the internal 
control environment, which includes the work performed by 
the first and second lines of defence management teams. 
Internal audit operated in all of the Group’s managed 
businesses in 2015, reporting its work to executive 
management and the Audit Committee on a regular basis. 
The internal audit department’s mandate and annual audit 
coverage plans were approved by the Audit Committee. 
The scope of internal audit work covers the broad spectrum 
of risk that the Group is exposed to. The audit of controls 
associated with major operating/technical risks is 
undertaken in conjunction with relevant experts from the 
Technical and Sustainability function, and a programme  
was introduced during 2015 that strengthened the audit of 
controls associated with major technical risks, the results 
of which were shared with the Sustainability Committee 
and Audit Committee.
In determining its opinion on the effectiveness of the internal 
control environment, the Audit Committee considered the 
following factors:
 • the results of internal audit work, including the response  
of management to completion of actions arising from  
audit work
 • the output of risk management work
 • the output of external audit work and other  
assurance providers
 • issues identified by management or reported through 
whistleblowing arrangements, and the results of 
investigations into allegations of breaches of our values  
and business principles.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the system of risk 
management and internal control
The Board, through the Audit Committee, fulfils its 
responsibility in reviewing the effectiveness of the system  
of risk management and internal control through review of 
reports submitted over the course of the year covering the 
risk management process, adequacy of the internal control 
environment, consideration of risk appetite, in-depth reviews 
of specific risks and the results of external audit work. The 
Sustainability Committee also reviews technical and safety 
risks in detail and report its findings to the Board.
Whistleblowing programme
The Group has a whistleblowing facility operating in all its 
managed operations and a Group-wide stakeholder 
complaints and grievance procedure (see the 2015 
Sustainability Report for more details). The whistleblowing 
programme, which is monitored by the Audit Committee,  
is designed to enable employees, customers, suppliers, 
managers or other stakeholders to raise concerns on a 
confidential basis where conduct is deemed to be contrary  
to our values.
During 2015 388 (2014: 302) reports were received via the 
global ‘Speak –Up’ facility, covering a broad spectrum of 
concerns, including:
 • ethical
 • criminal
 • supplier relationships
 • health and safety
 • HR issues.
Reports received were anonymous to Anglo American. 
All received the appropriate attention and, where necessary 
action was taken to address issues. A governance process 
is in place to ensure all reports are acted upon in a timely 
manner and actions completed where necessary.
81 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES
 • Establishing and developing the Group’s general policy  
on executive and senior management remuneration.
 • Determining specific remuneration packages for the 
chairman and executive directors for review and approval 
by the Board.
 • Designing the Company’s share incentive schemes.
COMMITTEE DISCUSSIONS IN 2015 
The Committee held three meetings in 2015, discussing the 
following matters:
February
 • reviewed executive director personal key performance 
indicators for 2015 and Group financial and safety targets 
to ensure alignment with Group strategy
 • discussed the chief executive’s and finance director’s 
performance in 2014 to adjudicate on bonus outcomes 
 • reviewed executive directors’ shareholdings in the 
Company prior to 2015 share awards being made
 • reviewed the forecast vesting of 2012 Bonus Share Plan 
(BSP) and Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) awards
 • reviewed the proposed performance targets for the 2015 
LTIP award
 • reviewed the 2014 Directors’ remuneration report ahead 
of publication
 • reviewed amendments to the Bonus Share Plan rules
 • reviewed the external and internal directorship policy
 • reviewed corporate governance issues arising in the 
previous quarter
 • reviewed the remuneration policy.
April
 • confirmed the vesting of 2012 BSP and LTIP awards and 
the granting of 2015 BSP and LTIP awards
 • confirmed the performance targets for the 2015 LTIP 
award
 • discussed investor feedback on executive remuneration 
prior to the vote on the Directors’ remuneration report
 • reviewed corporate governance issues arising since the 
previous meeting.
December
 • reviewed directors’ salaries, taking into account the 
general salary review for the broader employee population
 • discussed the application of safety targets in executive 
directors’ bonuses
 • discussed the executive directors’ draft personal key 
performance indicators for 2015
 • discussed the application of LTIP metrics
 • reviewed and updated its terms of reference
 • reviewed corporate governance issues arising since the 
previous meeting.
The Directors’ remuneration report is set out opposite.
COMPOSITION
 • Sir Philip Hampton – Chairman 
 • Judy Dlamini
 • Byron Grote
 • Ray O’Rourke
 • Jack Thompson
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 82
GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 1.  INTRODUCTORY LETTER
Dear Shareholder,
The role of the Company’s Remuneration Committee 
remains to ensure that the remuneration arrangements  
for executive directors and other members of the Group 
Management Committee offer them every encouragement 
to enhance the Company’s performance and deliver our 
strategy in a responsible manner. It is also our task to  
ensure that the rewards received by the executive directors 
are proportionate to the levels of performance achieved  
and the returns received by you as shareholders. As a 
Committee, we therefore have to give full consideration  
to the Company’s strategy, its performance, your interests 
and the interests of the wider communities we affect. This  
is particularly pertinent in light of the ongoing challenges 
being faced by the Company and by the mining industry  
more generally.
As reported by the chief executive in his introduction to this 
year’s Annual Report, it has been a very challenging year for 
Anglo American. Against the strong headwinds of a 24% 
decrease in the basket price of our products, our ongoing 
intense focus on operational costs and productivity has 
generated a $1.3 billion
(1)
 underlying EBIT benefit in the year, 
providing some mitigation.
DIRECTORS’  
REMUNERATION  
REPORT
The role of the Company’s Remuneration 
Committee remains to ensure that the 
remuneration arrangements for executive 
directors offer every encouragement for them  
to enhance the Company’s performance and 
deliver our strategy in a responsible manner .
The economic challenges and business performance are 
reflected in the remuneration received in 2015. Specifically:
 • despite strong performance by individuals, the earnings  
per share performance resulted in significantly lower 
bonus outcomes than in recent years
 • the steep fall in prices and the impact on earnings over  
the last three years mean that the required three-year 
earnings growth was not achieved; therefore, of the 
Enhancement Shares initially awarded in 2013, none 
vested at the end of 2015
 • half of the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) awards  
initially granted to executive directors in 2013 will not vest 
as the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) target was not  
met. The results of the Company’s longer term efficiency 
programmes mean that the remainder of the award will 
vest. The Committee has carefully reviewed this outcome 
in the context of total variable pay, and is satisfied that the 
vesting level is appropriate, particularly in the light of 
overall variable pay delivered to executive directors in 
2015. This means, for example, that for the CEO variable 
pay represents 33% of target and 21% of maximum. 
In the light of the current challenging conditions faced by  
the Company, the Remuneration Committee has decided 
not to increase the executive directors’ salaries in 2016. 
Tony O’Neill joined the Company in 2013, and was appointed 
to the Board in July 2015. His remuneration arrangements, 
which are described on page 93, are consistent with the 
Company’s approved remuneration policy.
We have again chosen to reproduce the Company’s 
Remuneration Policy (as approved at the 2014 Annual 
General Meeting (AGM)) in full, rather than an abridged 
version, so that the Implementation Report for 2015,  
starting on page 93, will be more meaningful for you,  
and Tony O’Neill’s arrangements will be in context.
The Remuneration Policy continues to support the  
delivery of our strategic objectives as demonstrated by  
the performance measures and targets for both the  
Bonus Share Plan (BSP) and LTIP awards made in 2015, 
both of which are outlined in the Implementation Report.
I am pleased to report that the strengthening of the malus 
and clawback provisions of the BSP and LTIP , introduced  
for awards made from 2014 onwards, meet the 
requirements of the revised Corporate Governance Code 
now in force.
Sir Philip Hampton 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Sir Philip Hampton 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
(1) 
Excludes $0.8 billion 
volume downside at 
De Beers in response 
to market conditions.
83
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT Figure 1: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors
Purpose Maximum opportunity Operation
Basic salary To recruit and 
retain high calibre 
executives
Standard maximum increase 
5% of salary
(the Committee retains the discretion  
to exceed this in certain situations as 
explained under Operation)
Basic salary levels are reviewed annually by the Committee, 
taking account of Company performance, individual 
performance, levels of increase for the broader UK 
population and inflation 
Reference may also be made to median levels within 
relevant FTSE 50 and global extractive companies
The Committee also considers the impact of any basic 
salary increase on the total remuneration package
Annual increases are typically within the standard  
maximum given 
However, there may be occasions when the Committee 
needs to recognise, for example, development in role, 
change in responsibility and/or specific retention issues.  
In these circumstances, the Committee may offer a higher 
annual increase, the rationale for which will be explained  
to shareholders in the relevant remuneration report 
Maximum levels will be reviewed to take account of any 
significant rise in inflation levels 
Salary levels on recruitment and promotion to the Board  
are covered below 
Bonus Share 
Plan (BSP)
To encourage and 
reward delivery  
of the Company’s 
strategic priorities
To help ensure, 
through the 
share-based 
elements, that  
any resulting 
performance is 
sustained over the 
longer term in line 
with shareholder 
interests
Maximum (threshold) 
210% of salary (0% of salary)
Performance measures 
At least 50% – underlying earnings  
per share (EPS)
Up to 50% – individual objectives linked 
to the Company’s strategic priorities
A deduction to the above is applied if 
safety targets are not met 
Form and timing of payment 
40%: cash award at end of year 
40%: Bonus Shares vesting three  
years after end of bonus year
20%: Bonus Shares as above  
but subject to a further two-year  
deferral period 
Each year executive directors participate in the BSP ,  
which rewards EPS and individual performance targets
The EPS measure has been chosen as it is one of the 
Company’s key measures of performance. As EPS 
performance in our sector can be highly volatile owing to 
external factors, the individual objectives measure was 
chosen to provide a balance and reflect management’s 
underlying activity towards delivering the company’s 
strategy regardless of price or other volatility 
The EPS targets are set each year to ensure they are 
demanding yet realistic. They primarily reflect internal 
budgets and price expectations for the year. Consideration 
is also given to prior performance and external expectations. 
The individual objectives are based on the Company’s 
strategic priorities for the year
Dividends are payable on Bonus Shares during any  
deferral period
The Committee is able to reduce any unvested Bonus Share 
awards, vested awards subject to a deferral period or future 
awards in the event of a material misstatement in the 
Company’s results, misconduct or a material failing in risk 
management processes that has given, or is likely to give, rise 
to significant and lasting value destruction for the Company
2. POLICY ON DIRECTOR REMUNERATION
2.1 Remuneration policy
Figures 1 and 2 summarise key aspects of the Company’s 
remuneration policy for executive and non-executive 
directors. This policy and the policy on termination set out  
in Figure 4 took effect for the purposes of S226D of the 
Companies Act on approval by shareholders at the AGM 
held on 24 April 2014. The Company has been operating 
these policies since 1 January 2014 and intends that these 
policies should apply until the Company’s 2017 AGM, 
subject to any unforeseen developments. It is the 
Committee’s intention that commitments entered into 
before these policies took formal effect, and which are 
inconsistent with them, should be honoured, as explained 
further below.
Figure 1 shows the Remuneration Policy approved at the 
AGM in 2014, updated to reflect the fact that some historical 
information is no longer relevant.
84
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Figure 1: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors
Purpose Maximum opportunity Operation
Bonus Share 
Plan (BSP) 
continued
Discretions 
Given the volatility mentioned above, the Committee does 
not intend to make adjustments to BSP outcomes to reflect 
either positive or negative short term fluctuations in EPS 
performance driven by external factors such as commodity 
prices. It reserves the discretion to make adjustments to 
outcomes in very exceptional circumstances whether 
related to internal or external factors (for example, on a 
sequestration of assets during the year). Shareholders  
will be given details of any adjustments in the following 
remuneration report
Under the BSP Rules, the Company also has the standard 
discretion to take appropriate action in the event of 
unforeseen events which affect the Bonus Shares (for 
example, on a variation in share capital) and to settle the 
Bonus Shares in cash (for example, on a termination) 
Long Term 
Incentive Plan 
(LTIP)
To encourage  
and reward 
disciplined capital 
allocation and  
the generation  
of long-term 
sustainable 
shareholder 
returns
Maximum award  
350% of salary
  Performance measures 
50%: Attributable Return on Capital 
Employed (ROCE)
50%: Total shareholder returns (TSR) 
relative to sector and leading UK 
comparator companies
Performance period 
Three years
Additional holding period 
Two years 
Vesting at threshold  
ROCE: 25% of award portion
TSR: 25% of award portion
The Committee makes an annual conditional award of 
shares to each executive director 
The ROCE measure has been selected to reflect the 
strategic focus on disciplined capital allocation and the  
TSR measures to reflect the extent to which value is being 
delivered to shareholders 
Each year, the Committee reviews the performance targets 
prior to grant to ensure they remain sufficiently stretching. 
The initial ROCE targets have been informed by the 
Company’s stated 2016 attributable ROCE aspiration and 
each year will be set with reference to current budgets. 
The relative TSR targets are set so that only a quarter of the 
award is payable for median performance, while maximum 
vesting requires exceptional relative performance 
Dividend equivalents are paid on any shares that vest
The Committee is able to reduce any unvested awards, 
vested awards subject to a holding period or future grants 
in the event of a material misstatement in the Company’s 
results, misconduct or a material failing in risk management 
processes that has given, or is likely to give, rise to significant 
and lasting value destruction for the Company
Discretions 
As is the case for the BSP , the Committee does not intend  
to make adjustments to LTIP outcomes to reflect either 
positive or negative short-term fluctuations in performance 
driven by external factors such as commodity prices. It 
reserves the discretion to make adjustments to outcomes  
in very exceptional circumstances, whether related to 
internal or external factors (for example, on a sequestration 
of assets). Shareholders will be given details of any 
adjustments in the following remuneration report
Under the LTIP Rules, the Company also has the standard 
discretion to take appropriate action in the event of 
unforeseen events during an award cycle (for example,  
on a variation in share capital) 
85
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Figure 1: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors
Purpose Maximum opportunity Operation
Outstanding 
BSP and LTIP 
awards
To allow vesting  
of awards made 
under a previously 
approved policy
2013 BSP Enhancement  
Share awards
Maximum award:  
65.6% of salary 
Performance measure:  
Real EPS growth
Performance period:  
Three years
2013 LTIP awards 
Maximum award and  
performance terms  
As detailed in the 2013  
Annual Report
Any outstanding awards will be paid out according to the 
terms on grant
The BSP and LTIP awards from 2013 were the only such 
outstanding awards at the end of 2015, and the vesting 
outcomes are described in the Implementation Report on 
pages 96 and 97
Pension To offer market-
competitive levels 
of benefit
30% of basic salary Executive directors participate in defined contribution 
pension arrangements
Prior to 6 April 201 1, executive directors had the option of  
all or part of their employer-funded defined contribution 
arrangements being paid into an unregistered retirement 
benefits scheme (an EFRBS). Since 6 April 201 1, executive 
directors have the option for contributions which may not be 
paid to a UK registered pension scheme as a result of HMRC 
limits (either annual allowance or lifetime allowance) to be 
treated as if paid to an unregistered unfunded retirement 
benefit scheme (an UURBS)
The Committee is prepared to consider requests from 
executive directors for a pension allowance to be paid in 
place of defined contribution arrangements
Other benefits To provide 
market-
competitive 
benefits 
Maximum level of ongoing benefits 
Capped at 10% of salary
Exceptional situations 
The Committee reserves the discretion 
to exceed the ongoing maximum level 
for certain situation-specific benefits, 
such as relocation. Full details of the 
exercise of any such discretion will be 
provided to shareholders in the 
following remuneration report
The Company provides the following ongoing benefits:
 • 28 days’ leave and encashment of any accumulated leave 
in excess of 20 days
 • car-related benefits
 • medical insurance
 • death and disability insurance
 • limited personal taxation and financial advice
 • club membership
 • other ancillary benefits, including attendance at relevant 
public events.
In addition, the Company pays additional benefits when 
specific business circumstances require it, including costs 
and allowances related to relocation and international 
assignments
UK-based executive directors, as UK employees, are eligible 
to participate in the Company’s Save As You Earn (SAYE) 
scheme and Share Incentive Plan (SIP). In terms of HMRC 
rules, these plans do not have performance conditions
The Company reimburses all necessary and reasonable 
business expenses 
86
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Figure 1: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors
Purpose Maximum opportunity Operation
Recruitment  
and promotion 
arrangements
To secure the 
appointment  
and promotion  
of high calibre 
executives 
Maximum annual award
(for ongoing arrangements)
BSP: 210% of salary
LTIP: 350% of salary
The ongoing remuneration arrangements for a newly 
recruited or promoted executive director will reflect the 
remuneration policy in place for executive directors at the 
time of the appointment. The ongoing components will 
therefore comprise basic salary, BSP awards, LTIP awards, 
benefits, pension and SAYE/SIP on the bases set out above 
The initial basic salary level for a newly recruited or 
promoted executive director will be set to reflect the 
individual’s experience, salary levels within the Company 
and market levels. Where basic salary is set below the level 
that might be expected, given the executive’s relative 
inexperience, and the executive then develops successfully 
into the role, the Committee has the discretion to give a 
salary increase in the year(s) after appointment above the 
standard maximum level of 5% 
For external appointments, the Committee may also offer 
additional cash and/or share-based elements to replace 
any remuneration forfeited, when it considers this to be in 
the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. 
The terms of any share-based elements offered will reflect 
the nature, time horizons and performance requirements 
of remuneration forfeited and will have performance 
conditions attached. Shareholders will be informed of any 
such payments at the time of appointment. The Company 
has retained its Discretionary Option Plan to use in such 
circumstances, if appropriate. If necessary, the Company 
can go outside of existing plans as currently permitted under 
the Listing Rules
As previously reported, the restricted awards granted  
to Mark Cutifani on appointment have been released in 
accordance with the terms on grant, with the final tranche  
due to be released before publication of this report. These 
awards were made under the approved policy at the time,  
as disclosed in the 2012 Report 
For internal appointments, any commitments made before 
appointment and not relating to appointment are allowed  
to pay out according to their terms. This applies to the 
restricted awards made to Tony O’Neill when he joined the 
Company in 2013
For external and internal appointments, the Committee  
may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation 
expenses as appropriate
87
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Figure 2: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for non-executive directors
Purpose Maximum opportunity Operation
Chairman –  
Fees
To attract and retain a 
high calibre chairman  
by offering a market-
competitive fee level
Maximum increase  
Equivalent to annual increase of 5% 
of fee level 
The chairman is paid a single fee for all his responsibilities
The level of this fee is reviewed every two to three years by 
the Committee and chief executive, with reference to UK 
market levels (FTSE 30 companies), and a recommendation 
is then made to the Board (in the absence of the chairman) 
Fees are paid in cash, with the flexibility to forgo all or part of 
the net fees to acquire shares in the Company 
Chairman –  
Benefits
To provide market-
competitive benefits
Maximum benefits 
£30,000 
Reasonable use of a car and driver
Medical insurance
Reimbursement of reasonable and necessary expenses
Non-executive 
directors –  
Fees
To attract and retain  
high calibre non-
executive directors  
by offering market-
competitive fees
Maximum increase  
for each type of fee  
Equivalent to annual increase  
of 5% of fee level 
The non-executives are paid a basic fee. The chairmen of 
the main board committees and the senior independent 
director are paid an additional fee to reflect their extra 
responsibilities
These fee levels are reviewed every few years by the 
chairman and executive directors, with reference to UK 
market levels, and a recommendation is then made to  
the Board
Fees are paid in cash with the flexibility to forgo all or part  
of the net fees to acquire shares in the Company
Reimbursement of necessary and reasonable expenses
Other fees/
payments
To have the flexibility to 
provide additional fees/
benefits if required
Maximum additional fee 
£30,000
The Company has the discretion to pay an additional fee,  
up to the equivalent of the committee chairmanship fee 
(currently £30,000), to a non-executive director should the 
Company require significant additional time commitment 
from the non-executive director in exceptional or 
unforeseen circumstances
The Company has no current intention to use this discretion
2.2  Supplementary information
Shareholding targets
Within five years of appointment, executive directors are 
expected to hold Company shares with a value of three 
times basic salary in respect of the chief executive and two 
times basic salary in respect of other executive directors. 
The Committee takes into consideration achievement 
against these targets when making grants under the 
Company’s various long term incentive plans.
External directorships
Executive directors are not permitted to hold external 
directorships or offices without the prior approval of the 
Board. If approved, they may each retain the fees payable 
from only one such appointment.
Executive director contractual commitments
The remuneration provisions within the service contracts  
for Mark Cutifani, René Médori and Tony O’Neill are 
consistent with the policies outlined in Figure 1 and in  
Figure 4 (termination provisions). 
Policy in rest of company
The remuneration arrangements for the executive directors 
outlined in Figure 1 are consistent with those for other 
executives serving on the Group Management Committee, 
although opportunity levels vary. The majority of our 
employees are located in South Africa and South America, 
and the remuneration arrangements of these employees 
are aligned to local market practices and levels. 
Past directors
In addition to retirement benefits, the Company continues  
to provide seven former executive directors with private 
medical insurance arrangements. The annual cost to the 
Company is minimal. The Committee continues to meet 
these longstanding commitments but no new commitments 
have been made recently or will be made in future.
88
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 2.3 Indicative total remuneration levels
The Company’s policy for executive directors results  
in a significant portion of the remuneration received  
by executive directors being dependent on Company 
performance. Figure 3 illustrates how the total pay 
opportunities for the chief executive, the finance  
director and the technical director vary under three  
different performance scenarios: 
 • Above – representing 100% of maximum for variable  
pay opportunity
 • Target – representing a notional 65% of maximum  
for variable pay opportunity
 • Below – representing 0% of maximum for variable  
pay opportunity.
These charts are indicative as share price movement  
and dividend accrual have been excluded. All assumptions 
made are noted below the charts.
Figure 3: Executive director total remuneration at 
different levels of performance
Chief Executive
Above Above Above Below T arget
Performance Level
£8.8 m
£6.3 m
£1.7 m
Below T arget
Performance Level
Finance Director
£5.2 m
£3.7 m
£1.1m
0
10.0
8.0
6.0
4.0
2.0
Above  The Company’s three-year TSR would need to outperform sector 
peers by 6% pa and be ranked 20th or higher in the FTSE 100.
Target  The Company’s three-year TSR would need to outperform sector 
peers by 3.2% pa and be ranked 35th in the FTSE 100.
Below  T otal pay for below threshold performance comprises basic salary, 
beneﬁts  and pension only.        
Indicative total pay (£m)
Below T arget
Performance Level
T echnical Director
£5.1 m
£3.7 m
£1.1m
L TIP
2016 basic salary, beneﬁts and pension
BSP (cash and deferred)
(1) 
Estimates of £76,000, £36,000 and £36,000 have been used for ongoing non-pension benefits for the chief executive, finance director, and technical director, respectively.
(2) 
Share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded from all figures.
(3) 
Participation in the SAYE and SIP has been excluded, given the relative size of the opportunity levels.
(4) 
Total pay for Above target performance comprises 2016 basic salary, benefits, pension, 100% of maximum bonus opportunity (60% of which is deferred into Bonus Shares) 
and 100% of maximum LTIP opportunity. For this level of pay, the Company’s attributable ROCE would need to be 15% and the Company’s three-year TSR would need to 
outperform sector peers by 6% pa and be ranked 20th or higher against the FTSE 100.
(5) 
Total pay for Target performance comprises 2016 basic salary, benefits, pension, a notional 65% of maximum bonus opportunity (60% of which is deferred into Bonus Shares) 
and a notional 65% of maximum LTIP opportunity. For this level of pay, the Company’s attributable ROCE would need to be 10.3% and the Company’s three-year TSR would 
need to outperform sector peers by 3.2% pa and be ranked 35th against the FTSE 100.
(6) 
Total pay for Below threshold performance comprises 2016 basic salary, benefits and pension only.
(7) 
Charts have not been included for the non-executive directors as their fees are fixed and do not vary with performance.
89
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Figure 4: Principles of determining payments for loss of office
Notice periods Notice periods do not exceed 12 months
Upon appointment the Committee can agree an extended Company notice period for the first year following appointment
‘Good Leaver’ Voluntary resignation ‘Bad Leaver’
Circumstances 
of departure of 
executive 
directors
Typical reasons include retirement, redundancy, death, 
ill health, injury, disability or as defined by the Committee
Where departure is on mutually agreed terms, the 
Committee may treat the departing executive as a  
‘Good Leaver’ in terms of one or more elements of 
remuneration. The Committee uses this discretion 
judiciously and shareholders will be notified of any  
exercise as soon as reasonable 
Typically 
termination  
for cause
Salary and 
benefits for 
notice period
Salary and benefits continue to be paid to the date of 
termination of employment, including any notice period  
and/or garden leave period
The Company may terminate employment with immediate 
effect and, in lieu of the unexpired portion of any 12-month 
notice period, make a series of monthly payments based on 
salary and benefits (or make a lump sum payment based on 
salary only). Any monthly payments will be reduced to take 
account of any salary received from alternative employment
Salary and benefits continue to be  
paid to the date of termination of 
employment, including any notice 
period and/or garden leave period
The Company may terminate 
employment with immediate effect  
and, in lieu of the unexpired portion of 
any 12-month notice period, make a 
series of monthly payments based on 
salary and benefits (or make a lump 
sum payment based on salary only). 
Any monthly payments will be reduced 
to take account of any amounts 
received from alternative employment
Immediate 
termination with 
no notice period
Bonus accrued 
prior to 
termination
A time prorated bonus award may be made by the  
Company, with the Committee’s approval, and can be  
paid wholly in cash
No accrued bonus is payable No accrued 
bonus is payable
2.4 Policy on termination and change in control
2.4.1 Executive directors
Figure 4 sets out the Company’s policy on termination. This 
policy is consistent with provisions relating to termination of 
employment in the executive directors’ service agreements 
and with provisions in the incentive plan rules, with one 
exception. René Médori’s service agreement contains a 
longstanding provision under which the Company may pay  
a lump sum in lieu of any notice period, comprising salary, 
bonus and pension contributions in respect of the unexpired 
notice period, with the bonus element calculated based on 
the average bonus percentage paid over the last three years 
and pro-rated based on the time employed during the bonus 
year. The Committee intends, if required, to meet this 
obligation, but does not intend to include such a clause in 
any future service agreements.
Figure 5 sets out key provisions relating to change of control,  
where there is no termination. There are no provisions for 
enhanced payments in the event of a change of control of 
the Company. 
2.4.2 Non-executive directors
All non-executive directors have letters of appointment  
with the Company for an initial period of three years, subject 
to annual re-appointment at the AGM. The chairman’s 
appointment may be terminated by the Company with six 
months’ notice. The appointment letters for the chairman 
and non-executive directors provide that no compensation 
is payable on termination, other than any accrued fees  
and expenses.
90
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Figure 4: Principles of determining payments for loss of office
‘Good Leaver’ Voluntary resignation ‘Bad Leaver’
Unvested Bonus 
Shares
Normal circumstances
Bonus Shares are released in full on the normal  
release date (ie awards will not be released early) 
Exceptional circumstances  
(e.g. death or other compassionate grounds)
Bonus Shares are released in full, and eligible for  
immediate release
Forfeit Forfeit
Vested Bonus 
Shares subject 
to holding period
Normal circumstances
Released in full to the employee at the end of the  
holding period
Exceptional circumstances  
(e.g. death or other compassionate grounds)
Bonus Shares are released in full, and eligible for  
immediate release
If an employee resigns to join a 
competitor (as defined by the 
Committee) then even those vested 
Bonus Shares that remain subject only 
to the holding period will be forfeit
Outside of these circumstances, such 
awards are released to the employee  
at the end of the holding period
Forfeit
Unvested LTIP 
awards
Normal circumstances
LTIP awards will vest subject to the performance condition  
at the end of the normal performance period and, if 
applicable, released at the end of the holding period
All awards are time prorated
Exceptional circumstances  
(e.g. death or other compassionate grounds)
LTIP awards may be released on departure, subject to 
assessment of the performance conditions at that time
All awards are time pro-rated
Forfeit Forfeit
Vested LTIP 
awards subject 
to a holding 
period
Normal circumstances
Vested LTIP awards that are subject only to a holding  
period are released in full to the employee at the end  
of the holding period
Exceptional circumstances  
(e.g. death or other compassionate grounds)
Vested LTIP awards subject to a holding period may be 
released on departure
If an employee resigns to join a 
competitor (as defined by the 
Committee) then even those vested 
LTIP awards that remain subject only to 
the holding period will be forfeit
Outside of these circumstances, such 
awards are released to the employee  
at the end of the holding period
Forfeit
Unvested 
Restricted 
Shares
There is no standard policy in respect of the treatment of  
any restricted share awards to executive directors. Terms  
are set on a case-by-case basis
For the restricted shares currently held by the chief executive 
if he leaves as a ‘Good Leaver’ before the remaining 
designated release dates, any unvested shares would be 
released on the earlier of the remaining release dates or one 
year from the date of the chief executive ceasing to be the 
Company’s chief executive
Generally forfeit Forfeit
Other Limited disbursements (for example, legal costs, relocation 
costs, untaken holiday)
None None
91
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 2.5 Development of director remuneration policy
In developing and reviewing the Company’s remuneration 
policy for executive directors and other senior executives, 
the Committee is receptive to the views of shareholders and 
sensitive to the relationship between the arrangements for 
executive directors and those for other employee groups. 
Specifically:
 • whenever any significant changes are made to 
remuneration, the Committee seeks feedback from 
investors. The Committee also listens to and takes into 
consideration investor views and comments throughout 
the year. 
 • the Committee considers any general basic salary  
increase for the broader UK employee population when 
determining any annual salary increases for the executive 
directors. No basic salary increase has been awarded  
for 2016 to the executive directors or to the general UK 
employee population. The rate of basic salary increase for 
the chief executive and the finance director, at 2% of salary 
for 2015, was the same as the general increase for the UK 
employee population. 
 • each year the Committee also reviews in detail how  
the arrangements for the executive directors compare  
to those for other members of the Group Management 
Committee to ensure an appropriate relationship and to 
support career development and succession.
Figure 5: Policy on change in control 
Incentive plan 
provisions relating 
to change of 
control (without 
termination)
Bonus Shares 
The Bonus Shares awarded under the BSP will be released
LTIP awards 
The number of shares that vest under the LTIP will be calculated by reference to the extent to which the applicable 
performance conditions have been met at the time of the change of control
Vested Bonus Shares and LTIP awards subject to holding period 
The Bonus Shares and LTIP awards will be released
Given the geographic spread of the Company’s workforce, 
the Committee does not consider that consulting with 
employees on the remuneration policy for directors  
is a sensible use of resources. Many of the Company’s 
UK-based employees are shareholders, through the  
SAYE and SIP schemes, and they, like other shareholders, 
are able to express their views on director remuneration at 
each general meeting.
2.6 Payments under previous policies
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration 
payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding 
that they are not in line with the policy set out above, where  
the terms of the payment were agreed (i) before the policy or 
the relevant legislation came into effect or (ii) at a time when 
the relevant individual was not a director of the Company  
and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not  
in consideration for the individual becoming a director of  
the Company. For these purposes, ‘payments’ includes the 
satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration and, in relation 
to awards of shares, the terms of the payment which are 
agreed at the time the award is granted.
92
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 3.  DIRECTOR REMUNERATION IN 2015
The information set out in this section (which constitutes the 
Implementation Report) has been subject to external audit.
Figures 6 to 1 1 show the outcomes for 2015 of the main 
components of executive director remuneration, including 
the expected vesting of share awards with a performance 
period ending in 2015, and Figure 12 sets out the total 
remuneration outcomes.
Conditional share awards made in 2015 are set out in  
Figure 15 in Section 4.1.
Figure 7: BSP outcomes for 2015  
(cash bonus and Bonus Shares)
(all amounts in ’000)
MARK CUTIFANI
(2014: £1,557)
£966
RENE MEDORI
(2014: £960)
£583
TONY O’NEILL 
(2014: Not applicable)
£284
(1)
3.1 Tony O’Neill’s remuneration arrangements
Tony O’Neill was appointed as technical director during the 
year, having initially joined the Company in September 2013. 
His remuneration package is consistent with the Company’s 
approved remuneration policy, and comprises basic salary of 
£787,950, pension contribution rate of 30% of basic salary, 
eligibility for BSP and LTIP awards, all-employee share plan 
participation, and benefits including a car allowance, medical 
cover and life assurance. On joining the Company in 2013, 
Tony O’Neill was granted awards of cash and shares to reflect 
the value and vesting periods of incentives forfeit as a result 
of his leaving his previous employment. The cash award, and 
the first two tranches of the share award, were released prior 
to Tony’s appointment to the Board. The remaining 39,872 
shares are due to be released before publication of this report. 
3.2 Basic salaries for 2015
Figure 6 sets out the basic salaries for 2015. Mark Cutifani 
and René Médori each received a salary increase of 2% 
in 2015. In Tony O’Neill’s case, figure 6 shows the outcome 
in relation to the period between his appointment and 
31 December 2015. 
3.3 Annual BSP outcomes for 2015
Figure 7 shows the BSP outcomes for 2015 (in Tony 
O’Neill’s case, the figure reflects the outcome in relation  
to the period between his appointment to the Board on 
23 July 2015 and 31 December 2015). Figures 8a to 8c 
summarise the annual financial and personal strategic 
measures for the 2015 BSP for Mark Cutifani, René Médori 
and Tony O’Neill, along with the performance targets, where 
relevant, the level of performance achieved and the resulting 
award levels. Key details of the performance delivered over 
2015 are set out under BSP Key Performance Aspects.
The Committee reviewed the annual targets set at the 
beginning of 2015 and, in light of the speed and severity of 
the falls in commodity prices and the environment faced  
by the Company, decided to set threshold performance 
expectations at $0.85. Payout at threshold performance 
would be 25% on this measure, with no payment for 
performance below threshold. 
The executives’ individual objectives were set at the start  
of the year and reflect the Company’s strategic priorities for 
the year. Each category contained between one and five 
specific objectives. Some of these are reflected under BSP 
Key Performance Aspects. Given the non-financial nature of 
these, specific quantitative targets were not set but, at the 
end of the year, the Committee made a detailed assessment 
of performance against each, leading to the evaluations 
shown in Figures 8a to 8c. The overall outcome for each 
executive director was then adjusted by the safety deductor 
(based on loss of life, recordable case frequency rates, 
lost-time injury frequency rates, and an operational risk 
management rating). Safety targets are based on fixed 
percentage improvements from the prior year result with 
20% reduction on the prior year resulting in no bonus 
adjustment and any lesser improvement resulting in a 
reduction up to a maximum of 20%. The exception was 
safety improvement in the platinum division where strike 
action in 2014 led to an unrepresentative baseline. In this 
case the improvement target of 20% was measured relative 
to the stretch target set at the start of 2014 (itself a 20% 
improvement on 2013).
Figure 6: Basic salaries for 2015 
(all amounts in ’000)
MARK CUTIFANI
(2014: £1,236)
£1,261
RENE MEDORI
(2014: £788)
£804
TONY O’NEILL  
(2014: Not applicable)
£352
(1)
(1) 
For the period between appointment and year-end.
93
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Figure 8a: BSP performance assessment for 2015 – Chief executive
Mark Cutifani
Corporate financial (50% of award) Below
Threshold
$0.85 = 12.5%  
of award
Target  
$0.98 = 20%  
of award Above
Maximum
$1.50 = 50%  
of award
Achieved  
(% of award)
Earnings per share   0%
Personal/Strategic (50% of award) Below Threshold Target Above Maximum
Strategic development (15%)  
Talent management (10%)
Business improvement (15%)   
Endowment (5%)
Stewardship (5%)
Overall personal performance   43%
Group safety performance Static/declining Improving
Strongly 
improving
Best practice/
world class
Deductor (6.5%)
Below Threshold Target Above Maximum
Overall performance   36.5%
Resulting BSP award 
36.5% of maximum bonus award (77% of salary) 
(40% payable in cash, 60% as Bonus Shares, with deferred receipt. Two-thirds of the Bonus Shares will vest after a further three years, subject to 
continued employment; for the remaining third, there is a further two-year holding period in addition to the three-year vesting period)
Figure 8b: BSP performance assessment for 2015 – Finance director
René Médori
Corporate financial (50% of award) Below
Threshold
$0.85 = 12.5%  
of award
Target  
$0.98 = 20%  
of award Above
Maximum
$1.50 = 50%  
of award
Achieved  
(% of award)
Earnings per share   0%
Personal/Strategic (50% of award) Below Threshold Target Above Maximum
Organisation/Driving Value targets (10%)  
Treasury (10%)
Tax (10%)   
Capital allocation (5%)
Information Management (5%)
Finance Function operational targets (10%)
Overall personal performance   41%
Group safety performance Static/declining Improving
Strongly 
improving
Best practice/
world class
Deductor (6.5%)
Below Threshold Target Above Maximum
Overall performance   34.5%
Resulting BSP award 
34.5% of maximum bonus award (72% of salary) 
(40% payable in cash, 60% as Bonus Shares, with deferred receipt. Two-thirds of the Bonus Shares will vest after a further three years, subject to 
continued employment; for the remaining third, there is a further two-year holding period in addition to the three-year vesting period)
94
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Figure 8c: BSP performance assessment for 2015 – Technical director
Tony O’Neill 
Corporate financial (50% of award) Below
Threshold
$0.85 = 12.5%  
of award
Target  
$0.98 = 20%  
of award Above
Maximum
$1.50 = 50%  
of award
Achieved  
(% of award)
Earnings per share   0%
Personal/Strategic (50% of award)
Below Threshold Target Above Maximum
Strategic development (15%)  
Talent management (10%)
Business improvement (15%)   
Endowment (5%)
Stewardship (5%)
Overall personal performance   45%
Group safety performance Static/declining Improving
Strongly 
improving
Best practice/ 
world class
Deductor (6.5%)
Below Threshold Target Above Maximum
Overall performance    38.5%
Resulting BSP award 
38.5% of maximum bonus award (81% of salary) 
(40% payable in cash, 60% as Bonus Shares, with deferred receipt. Two-thirds of the Bonus Shares will vest after a further three years, subject to 
continued employment; for the remaining third, there is a further two-year holding period in addition to the three-year vesting period)
BSP KEY PERFORMANCE ASPECTS
All
 • Copper equivalent (Cu Eq) volumes
(1)
 up 5% vs prior year, 
driven by recovery from the strike at Platinum (+25%) 
and good performance at Coal Australia (+ 1%) as well  
as ramp up of new projects. A management-driven 
reduction at De Beers (- 12%) in response to a challenging 
market, and at Kumba (- 7%) with the implementation of a 
new mine plan in response to low prices reduced volume
 • Nominal unit costs down across the Group (16% on  
a Cu Eq basis). Cost savings implemented throughout  
the portfolio, whilst the Group has also benefited from 
weakening FX rates, partially offset by inflation
 • Project Marathon, a restructuring of indirect costs  
across the Group, was completed for Group functions 
during 2015. BU restructuring is also ongoing, with  
many BUs completed. A wider portfolio review of the 
Group is underway
 • Three major projects progressed their ramp up in 2015. 
Minas-Rio and the Boa Vista Fresh Rock plant have 
continued to increase production, whilst Barro Alto 
completed its furnace rebuild early and is now operating 
at full capacity. Grosvenor project is also progressing in 
line with project schedule
 • Lafarge Tarmac and AA Norte disposed in 2015, with 
Dartbrook and Kimberly also announced. Discussions 
regarding the divestment of a number of Copper, Niobium 
and Phosphates, and Coal assets commenced during the 
year, whilst the sale of Rustenburg to Sibanye was agreed
 • Safety performance across the Group remains a key 
focus. The Group achieved a fatality-free quarter in Q4 
2015, and the Platinum business, in 2015, achieved its 
longest period without a fatality in its history
Mark Cutifani
 • The Anglo Operating Model, critical to the continued 
operational improvement at major assets, is being 
implemented at key assets including Los Bronces  
and Mogalakwena
 • Continued, effective engagement with host governments 
and other stakeholders in principal geographies
René Médori
 • Liquidity at $14.8 bn with $2.2 bn of bonds successfully 
issued during the year
 • Net debt of $12.9 bn delivered below guidance of 
$13-$13.5 bn despite weakening operational cash flows. 
This is a result of aggressive capital discipline and the 
successful implementation of the disposal program
Tony O’Neill
 • Delivery of FutureSmart strategy milestones
 • Executive principles of Quellaveco project development 
strategy aligned
 • Development strategy potential of Barro Alto, Platinum, 
and Niobium and Phosphate
 • Continued development of strategic supply relationships
(1)
 AA Norte volumes excluded from both periods.
95
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 3.3 BSP Enhancement Share outcomes for 2015 
In 2013, René Médori was awarded 8,808 Enhancement 
Shares under the BSP . Vesting was subject to the 
Company’s real EPS growth over the three-year period  
to 31 December 2015. The growth targets set on award 
were the UK Retail Price Index (RPI) +9% for threshold 
performance (resulting in 44% of the award vesting) and 
RPI + 15% for maximum performance (resulting in 100%  
of award vesting). Threshold performance was not  
achieved over the three-year period, resulting in no  
vesting of the shares.
Figure 9: Enhancement Share vesting  
outcomes for 2015
(all amounts in ’000)
RENE MEDORI
(2014: £0)
£0
Figure 10: LTIP assessment for 2015
SECTOR INDEX COMPARISON  
(25% OF TOTAL AWARD)
 • The Sector Index measure compares the Company’s 
three-year TSR performance with the weighted  
median of six international mining companies. 
 • Vesting required the Company’s TSR performance  
to be at least equal to the weighted median. 
 • As at 31 December 2015, the Company’s TSR 
performance was below the weighted median; 
therefore no shares will vest for  
this part of the award.
FTSE 100 COMPARISON  
(25% OF TOTAL AWARD)
 • The FTSE 100 measure compares the Company’s 
three-year TSR performance with the constituents  
of the FTSE 100.
 • Vesting required the Company’s TSR performance  
to be at least equal to the median TSR of the FTSE 100. 
 • As at 31 December 2015, the Company’s TSR 
performance was ranked below the 50th percentile  
of the FTSE 100; therefore no shares for this part of 
the award will vest.
AOSC  
(50% OF TOTAL AWARD)
 • The AOSC measure rewards the delivery of  
additional operating profit and capital expenditure 
savings delivered through the Company’s Asset 
Optimisation and Supply Chain programmes.
 • Minimum vesting required cumulative savings 
to 31 December 2015 of $5.9 bn and maximum  
vesting required cumulative savings of $7.2 bn.
 • Actual performance was $8.6 bn, leading to  
100% vesting of this part of the award (50%  
of the overall award).
3.4 Long Term Incentive  
Plan outcomes for 2015
In 2013, Mark Cutifani and René Médori received LTIP 
grants of 244,328 and 1 17,218 conditional shares 
respectively, with vesting subject to (a) the Company’s  
TSR performance relative to (i) a weighted group of 
international mining companies and (ii) FTSE 100 
companies over the three-year period to 31 December 
2015, and (b) the level of savings delivered by the Asset 
Optimisation and Supply Chain programmes to 
31 December 2015.
Figure 10 sets out further details of the measures and  
the Company’s performance against each. Figure 1 1  
sets out the assumed value of the vesting outcomes for 
Mark Cutifani and René Médori, including accrued  
dividend equivalents. 
96
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Figure 10: LTIP assessment for 2015
SECTOR INDEX COMPARISON  
(25% OF TOTAL AWARD)
 • The Sector Index measure compares the Company’s 
three-year TSR performance with the weighted  
median of six international mining companies. 
 • Vesting required the Company’s TSR performance  
to be at least equal to the weighted median. 
 • As at 31 December 2015, the Company’s TSR 
performance was below the weighted median; 
therefore no shares will vest for  
this part of the award.
3-year TSR performance against Sector Index   
% pa
Vesting (% of total LTIP award) 
25%
7.5%
0%
Threshold: 0% pa Max: 5% pa
Vesting schedule and actual performance to 31 December 2015
Arrow represents actual vesting
FTSE 100 COMPARISON  
(25% OF TOTAL AWARD)
 • The FTSE 100 measure compares the Company’s 
three-year TSR performance with the constituents  
of the FTSE 100.
 • Vesting required the Company’s TSR performance  
to be at least equal to the median TSR of the FTSE 100. 
 • As at 31 December 2015, the Company’s TSR 
performance was ranked below the 50th percentile  
of the FTSE 100; therefore no shares for this part of 
the award will vest.
3-year TSR ranking vs FTSE 100 index   
Vesting (% of total LTIP award) 
25%
7.5%
0%
Threshold: 50th
Arrow represents actual vesting
Max: 80th
Vesting schedule and actual performance to 31 December 2015
AOSC  
(50% OF TOTAL AWARD)
 • The AOSC measure rewards the delivery of  
additional operating profit and capital expenditure 
savings delivered through the Company’s Asset 
Optimisation and Supply Chain programmes.
 • Minimum vesting required cumulative savings 
to 31 December 2015 of $5.9 bn and maximum  
vesting required cumulative savings of $7.2 bn.
 • Actual performance was $8.6 bn, leading to  
100% vesting of this part of the award (50%  
of the overall award).
Anglo American’s AOSC efﬁciency
   
Vesting (% of total LTIP award) 
50%
0%
Min: $5.85 bn
Arrow represents actual vesting
Actual: $8.6 bn Max: $7.15 bn
Vesting schedule and actual performance
Figure 11: LTIP vesting outcomes for 2015
(all amounts in ‘000)
MARK CUTIFANI
(2014: not applicable)
£778
RENE MEDORI
(2014: £523)
£373
LTIP KEY PERFORMANCE ASPECTS
 • Actions taken on the back of the 2013 Asset Review 
process and implementation of the Anglo Operating 
Model continued to assist in delivering AOSC benefits 
across all businesses during 2015
 • Specific AO highlights include improvements in 
Longwall cutting hours at Moranbah and Grasstree 
(Coal in Australia), increased average throughput at 
Los Bronces SAG Mill (Copper) and improved blasting 
efficiency at Tumela and Union (Platinum)
 • Specific SC highlights include Global Inventory 
Optimisation resulting in reduced stocking levels  
at Platinum; introduction of dry-drilling at Kumba 
increasing drill bit life and penetration rates and 
reduced rates per tonne for Mining Waste Services  
at Kumba
 • The 2013 LTIP awards will vest at 50% in 2016; 
consequently, 122,164 shares are receivable by  
Mark Cutifani and 58,609 by René Médori. At a share 
price of £4.73 (the average for the last quarter of 2015), 
this results in values of £577,836 and £277,221, 
respectively. Dividend equivalents over the vesting 
period will also be payable at vesting, to be £199,691 
and £95,803 respectively
97
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Figure 12: Total remuneration outcomes for 2015
Total basic
salary
(1)
£’000
Benefits
in kind
(2)
£’000
Pension
(3)
£’000
Annual 
performance 
bonus – cash 
and Bonus
Shares
(4)
 
£’000
2013  
Enhancement
Share Award
(5)
£’000
2013  
LTIP
Award
(6)
£’000
Total
2015
£’000
Total
2014 
£’000
Executive Directors Section 3.1 Section 3.2 Section 3.3 Section 3.4
Mark Cutifani 1,261 32 378 966 – 778 3,415 
Mark Cutifani (2014) 1,236 561 371 1,557 – – 3,725
René Médori 804 65 241 583 0 373 2,066 
René Médori (2014) 788 62 237 960 0 523 2,570
Tony O’Neill
(7)
352 14 106 284 – – 756
Tony O’Neill (2014) – – – – – – –
Total fees 
2015 
£’000
Benefits in
 kind 2015
£’000
Total
2015
 
£’000
Total fees 
2014
£’000
Benefits in
 kind 2014
£’000
Total
2014 
£’000
Non-executive Directors
Sir John Parker
(8)
700 24 724 700 22 722
Judy Dlamini 80 – 80 80 – 80
Byron Grote
(8)
110 – 110 101 – 101
Sir Philip Hampton
(8)
140 – 140 131 – 131
Phuthuma Nhleko
(9)
73 – 73 80 – 80
Ray O’Rourke
(10)
80 – 80 80 – 80
Mphu Ramatlapeng 80 – 80 80 – 80
Jim Rutherford 80 – 80 80 – 80
Anne Stevens 80 – 80 80 – 80
Jack Thompson 110 – 110 110 – 110
98
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 (1) 
In addition to his basic salary, René Médori retained fees amounting to £82,000 in respect of one external directorship (see Section 2.2).
(2) 
Benefits for executive directors with a value over £5,000 are set out below. The executive directors also receive a limited amount of financial advice, club subscriptions, death  
and disability benefits, medical insurance and other ancillary benefits. As reported in the 2014 Annual Report, the Company reimbursed Mark Cutifani for the tax paid on  
his relocation benefits (except the relocation allowance) on a ‘grossed up’ basis in 2014.  
Car-related 
benefits
Untaken holiday 
reimbursement
Mark Cutifani 29,420 –
René Médori 28,700 27,837
Tony O’Neill 12,669 –
(3) 
The pension contribution amounts should be read in conjunction with the following information:
(a) The amounts stated for Mark Cutifani and Tony O’Neill for 2015 include a cash allowance of £297,000 (2014: £288,000) and £93,000 (2014: n/a), respectively.
(b) The total amount of pension contributions treated as having been paid into the UURBS for 2015 were £241,000 for René Médori (2014: £237,000).
(c)  Contributions treated as being paid into the UURBS earn a return equivalent to the Company’s pre-tax sterling nominal cost of debt, capped at a rate determined by the 
Remuneration Committee. The total return earned in 2015 was £73,000 for René Médori (2014: £59,000).
(d) As at 31 December 2015, the total balances due to the executive directors in relation to the UURBS were £1,644,000 for René Médori (2014: £1,330,000). Retirement 
benefits can only be drawn from the UURBS if a member has attained age 55 and has left Group service.
(4) 
60% of the amount shown for annual bonus will be paid in Bonus Shares with deferred receipt. For 40%, vesting will occur after a further three years, subject to continued 
employment; for 20%, there is a further two-year holding period in addition to the three-year vesting period. 
(5) 
The performance condition attached to the 2013 Enhancement Share award was not met and none of these shares will vest.
(6) 
As vesting of the LTIP awards granted in 2013 is due to take place after publication of this report, vesting values are on an ‘expected’ basis and a share price of £4.73 has been 
used to calculate the values shown. The values shown include dividend equivalent amounts of £199,691 for Mark Cutifani and £95,803 for René Médori. The LTIP amounts 
shown in last year’s report in respect of the LTIPs awarded in 2012 were also calculated on an ‘expected’ vesting levels basis with an assumed share price of £12.98. The actual 
vesting levels were as expected but the actual share price at vesting was £10.75, leading to the following decrease in value: René Médori – estimated value £618,000; actual 
value £523,000 (decrease of £95,000).
 
The LTIP amounts shown in last year’s report for Cynthia Carroll were also calculated on an ‘expected’ vesting levels basis with an assumed share price of £12.98 the actual 
vesting levels were as expected but the actual share price at vesting was £10.75, leading to the following decrease in value: Cynthia Carroll – estimated value £509,000; actual 
value £431,000 (decrease of £78,000).
(7)  
Amounts relate to the period between appointment and 31 December 2015.
(8)  
Sir John Parker has elected to waive his Nomination Committee chairman fees. Benefits with a value over £5,000 comprise car-related benefits and medical insurance in line 
with the Remuneration policy set out in Figure 2.
 
Byron Grote and Sir Philip Hampton became chairman of the Audit Committee and senior independent non-executive director respectively, with effect from 24 April 2014.
(9) 
Phuthuma Nhleko retired from the Board with effect from 27 November 2015.
(10) 
Ray O’Rourke has instructed the Company that his net fees be donated to charity.
99
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Figure 14: Distribution statement for 2015
Distribution statement 2015 2014 
Underlying earnings
(1)
 
(Total Group)
$m 827 2,217
% change (62.7) (17.1)
Dividends payable for year (Total) $m 398 1,081
% change (63.2) (0.3)
Payroll costs for all employees $m 4,474 5,072
% change (11.8) (3.5)
Employee numbers ’000 91 95
% change (4.2) (3.1)
(1) 
Please see note 5 of the consolidated financial statements for details on how underlying earnings are calculated.
Figure 13: Change in chief executive’s remuneration compared to UK employees
Salary Benefits Bonus
Chief Executive £’000 1,261 32 966
% change 2.0 (94.3) (38.0)
London employees
(1) 
Average  
% change  
(per capita)
2.0 2.0 (15.6)
(1)  
Benefits for London employees comprise pension and car allowances (where applicable), these being the most material.
3.5 Change in the chief executive’s remuneration  
in 2015 relative to London employees 
Figure 13 sets out the chief executive’s basic salary, benefits 
and BSP amounts for 2015 and the year-on-year change.  
We show the average change in each element for London 
employees, which is considered to be the most relevant 
employee comparator group given the Group-wide nature 
of roles performed at Head Office.
3.6 Distribution statement for 2015
Figure 14 sets out the total expenditure on employee reward  
over 2015, compared to profit generated by the Company 
and the dividends received by investors. Underlying 
earnings are shown, as these are one of the Company’s key 
measures of performance, while employee numbers help 
put the payroll costs of employees into context.
100
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 4.  OUTSTANDING SHARE INTERESTS
The information in this section has been subject to  
external audit.
4.1 Conditional share awards granted in 2015
Figure 15 summarises the longer-term, conditional share 
awards granted to directors during 2015. Receipt of these 
awards is dependent on the Company’s performance over 
2015- 17, as detailed below. Also included in Figure 15  
are the options granted to directors in 2015 under the 
Company’s SAYE scheme.
The value of Bonus Shares awarded to directors in 2015  
is included in the annual performance bonus figures  
for 2014, set out in Figure 12.
Figure 15: Summary of conditional share awards and options granted in 2015
Type of award
Performance 
measure Vesting schedule
Performance
period end Director 
(1)
Basis of award
Number of 
shares awarded
Face value 
at grant
(2)
LTIP share 
awards
TSR vs.  
the Index 
(25%)
Section 4.2.1
25% for TSR
equal to the Index
100% for the Index
+6% pa or above
31/12/2017 Mark Cutifani 350% of salary 362,275 £4,412,510
TSR vs. 
FTSE 100 
Index (25%)
Section 4.2.2
25% for TSR  
equal to median  
100% for 80th 
percentile or above
René Médori 300% of salary 198,072 £2,412,517
ROCE (50%)
Section 4.2.3
25% for 10%
100% for 14%
(3)
(1) 
Tony O’Neill was granted an award of 195,000 shares under the LTIP in 2015, prior to his appointment to the Board. Vesting of this award will be reported in the 2017 remuneration report. 
(2) 
The face value of each award has been calculated using the share price at time of grant (£12.18 for the LTIP awards). As receipt of these awards is conditional on performance, the actual value of these awards 
may be nil. Vesting outcomes will be disclosed in the 2017 remuneration report.
(3) 
In the 2014 Annual Report, the ROCE target range for the 2015 L TIP was stated as 9-13%. This was to be calculated using Driving Value ROCE (which excludes the impact of impairments taken post 
December 2013 on both attributable EBIT and Capital Employed – see page 182 for the definition). Subsequently, the Committee agreed to amend the assessment metric to Attributable ROCE (which takes 
into account the impact of all impairments), in order to facilitate easy calculation of assessment metrics by users of the accounts). The ROCE target range was restated to 10-14%, which recognises the lower 
capital base on which returns would be generated whilst retaining the original stretch.
Type of award Date of Award Options granted
Face value  
at grant
(4)
Exercise period
SAYE share 
options
Mark Cutifani 18/09/2015 5,110 £36,792 01/11/2020 to 30/04/2021
René Médori 18/09/2015 5,110 £36,792 01/11/2020 to 30/04/2021
T ony O’Neill 18/09/2015 3,066 £22,075 01/11/2018 to 30/04/2019
(4) 
Directors, like all eligible UK employees, are able to make monthly savings over a set period. At the end of the period the funds can be used to purchase shares under option. The exercise price of the 2015 SAYE 
option was set at a 20% discount to the share price at the date of invitation, which is the same for any employee who participates in the scheme.
101
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 4.2 Further details of LTIP awards granted in 2015
4.2.1 TSR – Euromoney Global Mining Index 
comparison
 • One quarter of the LTIP awards granted in 2015 vests 
according to the Company’s three-year TSR performance 
relative to the Euromoney Global Mining Index (the Index)
 • The threshold for vesting is the Company’s three-year TSR 
being equal to the Index
 • Maximum vesting occurs when the Company’s TSR 
outperforms the Index by 6% pa
 • Between threshold and maximum, vesting is based on 
a straight line.
4.2.2 TSR – FTSE 100 comparison
 • One quarter of the LTIP awards granted in 2015 vests 
according to the Company’s three-year TSR performance 
compared with the TSR performance of the constituents 
of the FTSE 100 Index
 • Threshold vesting occurs when the Company’s three-year 
TSR is equal to the median TSR of the FTSE 100 
constituents
 • Maximum vesting occurs when the Company’s TSR is 
equal to or exceeds the TSR of the FTSE 100 company 
whose TSR performance is ranked at the 80th percentile 
 • Between threshold and maximum, vesting is based on 
a straight line.
The performance targets for both TSR measures were set 
to ensure that an appropriate level of performance would be 
required for each level of vesting. PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP (PwC), using a Monte Carlo model, have assessed the 
probability of achieving full vesting as approximately 20% 
and chance of achieving threshold vesting as 50%.
Total shareholder return for both the TSR measures is 
calculated based on average returns over the three months 
prior to the end of the financial year. It is assumed that all 
dividends are reinvested on the ex-dividend date.
4.2.3 Return on capital employed (ROCE)
 • Vesting of one half of LTIP awards granted in 2015 
depends on the performance of the Company’s 
attributable ROCE over the three-year period to  
31 December 2017
 • The measure, tied to underlying achieved business return, 
aligns management reward with the performance of the 
Group. It is not adjusted for price or foreign exchange 
movements and refers to the externally reported 
attributable ROCE in the year of assessment, 2017
 • By design, attributable ROCE covers the financial 
outcomes of all management actions, both on balance 
sheet and income statement. The Company’s ongoing 
improvement programmes support delivery of EBIT in the 
measure, through its focus on operational improvement, 
efficiencies and also improved marketing performance. 
Balance sheet efficiency is being progressed through 
Anglo American’s greater focus on capital efficiency and 
debt reduction.
4.3 Total interests in shares
Figure 17 summarises the total interests of the directors  
in shares of Anglo American plc as at 15 February 2016  
(and at the end of the 2015 financial year). These include 
beneficial and conditional interests, and shareholdings of 
their connected persons. 
As already disclosed, Mark Cutifani is required to hold 
interests in shares to a value of three times basic salary  
(built up over five years) and René Médori and Tony O’Neill 
to a value of two times salary. Mark Cutifani, Rene Medori, 
and Tony O’Neill are expected to have net shareholdings  
of beneficial shares equal to 40%, 80%, and 30% of basic 
salary respectively, by the 2016 AGM. The Committee is 
mindful that ongoing share price volatility has materially 
impacted the extent to which the shareholding  
requirements have been achieved, and will continue to 
monitor the position. 
102
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Figure 16: Shares in Anglo American plc 
Beneficial
Conditional 
(no performance 
conditions)
Conditional 
(with performance conditions)
Conditional 
(no performance conditions) Total
Directors
BSP 
Bonus Shares 
BSP  
Enhancement
Shares LTIP SAYE/SIP Other
Mark Cutifani
(1)
at 15 February 2016 68,441 123,646 – 892,336 6,310 3,070 1,093,803
(at 31 December 2015) 68,441 123,646 – 892,336 6,184 3,070 1,093,677
René Médori
(2)
at 15 February 2016 173,213 96,790 8,808 471,512 8,335 – 758,658
(at 31 December 2015) 173,213 96,790 8,808 471,512 8,207 – 758,530
Tony O’Neill
(3)
at 15 February 2016 25,576 59,778 – 348,071 3,540 39,872 476,837
(at 31 December 2015) 25,576 59,778 – 348,071 3,540 39,872 476,837
Sir John Parker
at 15 February 2016 62,696 – – – – – 62,696
(at 31 December 2015) 62,696 – – – – – 62,696
Judy Dlamini
at 15 February 2016 4,443 – – – – – 4,443
(at 31 December 2015) 1,790 – – – – – 1,790
Byron Grote
(4) 
at 15 February 2016 26,000 – – – – – 26,000
(at 31 December 2015) 26,000 – – – – – 26,000
Sir Philip Hampton
at 15 February 2016 14,634 – – – – – 14,634
(at 31 December 2015) 11,104 – – – – – 11,104
Ray O’Rourke
(4)
at 15 February 2016 76,965 – – – – – 76,965
(at 31 December 2015) 76,965 – – – – – 76,965
Mphu Ramatlapeng
at 15 February 2016 3,282 – – – – – 3,282
(at 31 December 2015) 2,204 – – – – – 2,204
Jim Rutherford
at 15 February 2016 14,552 – – – – – 14,552
(at 31 December 2015) 9,506 – – – – – 9,506
Anne Stevens
at 15 February 2016 2,122 – – – – – 2,122
(at 31 December 2015) 2,122 – – – – – 2,122
Jack Thompson
(4)
at 15 February 2016 14,950 – – – – – 14,950
(at 31 December 2015) 14,950 – – – – – 14,950
Former directors
(5)
Phuthuma Nhleko
(at 27 November 2015) 15,707 – – – – – 15,707
(1) 
‘Other’ interests above comprise 3,070 shares in the Company which are due to vest before publication of this report.
(2) 
René Médori’s beneficial interests in 138,990 shares held at the date of this report arise as a result of his wife’s interests in shares.
(3) 
Tony O’Neill was appointed to the Board as technical director with effect from 23 July 2015. ‘Other’ interests above comprise 39,872 shares in the Company which are due to vest before the publication  
of this report.
(4) 
Included in the interests of Messrs Grote, O’Rourke and Thompson are unsponsored ADRs representing 0.5 ordinary shares of $0.54945 each.
(5) 
Interests are shown as at date of resignation.
103
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 5. REMUNERATION IN 2016
The Company’s policy on executive director remuneration 
for 2016 is summarised in the policy statements in Figure 1. 
Figure 17 summarises how that policy will be implemented 
in 2016. It is the Company’s intention that the fees for 
non-executive directors will remain at their 2015 levels 
during 2016, although this will be kept under review. 
The EPS performance range for 2016 is considered to be 
commercially sensitive, although it will be disclosed in  
the 2016 Remuneration Report.
Figure 17: Summary of key remuneration aspects in 2016
Element
Performance measure 1,  
weighting and vesting schedule
Performance measure 2,  
weighting and vesting schedule Director Level
Basic salary – – Mark Cutifani £1,260,720 (no increase)
René Médori £804,173 (no increase)
T ony O’Neill £787,950 (no increase)
BSP EPS (50%) Personal strategic measures (50%)
Personal and strategic objectives 
supporting the Company’s delivery  
on projects, business improvement, 
capital allocation, commercial  
activities, employee development  
and stakeholder engagement.
Mark Cutifani 210% of salary
René Médori 210% of salary
T ony O’Neill 210% of salary
LTIP share  
awards
ROCE (50%)
25% for 5%
100% for 15%
TSR vs Euromoney Global Mining 
Index (25%)
25% for TSR equal to Index 
100% for Index +6% pa or above
TSR vs FTSE 100 (25%)
25% for TSR equal to median 
100% for 80th percentile or above
Mark Cutifani 350% of salary
René Médori 300% of salary
T ony O’Neill 300% of salary
The Committee determined the ROCE target range of 
5– 15% for the LTIP in 2016 based on the following factors:
 • in light of the significant volatility in returns in the recent 
past, the Committee decided to broaden the target range 
from 4 to 10 percentage points. This was to reflect better 
the uncertainty around macro-economic projections and 
volatility in returns during the performance period, while 
also retaining a meaningful incentive for management to 
deliver value to shareholders throughout the cycle 
 • the threshold ROCE of 5% is the same as that achieved 
in 2015.
104
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 6.  REMUNERATION COMMITTEE IN 2015
Membership
The Committee comprised the non-executive directors 
shown on the right during the year ended 31 December 
2015.
External advisers to the Committee
Figure 18 details the external advisers to the Committee and 
the fees paid for services provided during 2015. The fees are 
charged in accordance with the terms and conditions set out 
in each relevant engagement letter.
PwC is a signatory to, and adheres to, the Code of Conduct 
for Remuneration Consultants (which can be found at  
(www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com). In addition, 
the Committee chairman has regular direct dialogue with 
advisers. For these reasons, the Committee considers that 
the advice it receives is independent. 
Remuneration report voting results
The Committee considered the results of the shareholders’ 
vote on the 2014 remuneration report. Feedback from 
investors at the time of the 2015 AGM, and more generally, 
has helped shape clarifications to the remuneration policy 
for 2015 onwards.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS  
DURING 2015
Judy Dlamini
Byron Grote
Ray O’Rourke
Sir Philip Hampton
Jack Thompson
Figure 18: External advisers and fees
Advisers
Other services provided  
to the Company
Fees for Committee 
assistance
Pricewaterhouse 
Coopers  
LLP (PwC)
Appointed by the Company, 
with the agreement of the 
Committee, to support and 
advise on the Company’s 
incentive arrangements,  
in addition to the provision  
of specialist valuation 
services and market 
remuneration data
Investment advice,  
actuarial and audit work  
for various pension 
schemes; advice  
on internal audit  
projects; taxation,  
payroll and executive 
compensation advice
£25,000
Perelamon Appointed by the Company, 
with the agreement of the 
Committee, to support and 
advise on the Company’s 
incentive arrangements
Executive compensation 
and reward advice
£12,000
Deloitte LLP 
(Deloitte)
In its capacity as Group 
auditor, Deloitte undertakes 
an audit of sections 3 and 4  
of the remuneration report 
annually. However, it provides 
no advice to the Committee
n/a
Note: Certain overseas operations within the Group are also provided with audit-related services from Deloitte’s and PwC’s worldwide  
member firms.
105
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Figure 19: Response to 2015 AGM shareholder voting
Number of votes
Vote For Against Abstain Company response to issues raised
Advisory vote  
on 2014 
implementation 
report
762,065,523
(94%)
45,666,841
(6%)
21,099,176 During 2015, the Committee continued its approach 
to understand and address investors’ concerns, which 
has led to the provision of greater clarity in parts of the 
remuneration policy and the contents of the 
Implementation Report.
7. SEVEN-YEAR REMUNERATION AND RETURNS
Figure 20a shows the Company’s TSR performance  
against the performance of the FTSE 100 Index from 
1 January 2009 to 31 December 2015. The FTSE 100 Index 
was chosen as being a broad equity market index which 
includes companies of a comparable size and complexity  
to Anglo American. 
TSR is calculated in US dollars, and assumes all dividends 
are reinvested. The TSR level shown as at 31 December 
each year is the average of the closing daily TSR levels for 
the five-day period up to and including that date.
Figure 20b shows the total remuneration earned by the 
incumbent chief executive over the same seven-year period, 
along with the proportion of maximum opportunity earned 
in relation to each type of incentive. The total amounts  
are based on the same methodology as for Figure 12  
(Total remuneration outcomes for 2015). 
For the period 2009 to 201 1, the TSR performance of the 
Company, and the remuneration received by Cynthia Carroll 
as chief executive, demonstrates that this was a period of 
strong operational performance and high commodity 
prices. These led to a doubling of profits and almost a 
doubling of underlying EPS in 2010. 
Cynthia Carroll’s remuneration levels in 201 1 also reflect 
record profits and strong EPS performance for the year 
in addition to the increase in value of the LTIP awards that 
vested at the end of 201 1 – when granted, the Company’s 
share price was £12.61; the share price at vesting 
was £26.00. 
The vesting levels of long term incentives from 2012 have 
been much lower, reflecting, in part, the impact of the severe 
decline in commodity prices on earnings and the returns 
delivered to shareholders. 
Mark Cutifani’s remuneration levels in 2013 and 2014  
are not reflective of his underlying remuneration, given  
that he received a compensatory share award in 2013  
and a compensation for tax on relocation benefits in  
2014. The impact of longer-term incentives was only 
realised in 2015 as a consequence of the vesting of the  
2013 LTIP award. 
Source: Datastream Return Index
100
50
0
150
200
250
300
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Value of a hypothetical $100 investment
Figure 20a: Seven-year TSR performance
106
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 APPROVAL
This directors’ remuneration report has been approved by 
the Board of directors of Anglo American plc.
Signed on behalf of the Board of directors.
Sir Philip Hampton 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
15 February 2016
Figure 20b: Chief executive’s remuneration
Financial year ending
31 December 
2009
31 December 
2010
31 December 
2011
31 December 
2012
31 December 
2013
31 December 
2014
31 December 
2015
Cynthia Carroll
Total remuneration (single figure, £’000) 4,379 4,235 8,113 3,203 1,462 – –
BSP (% of maximum) 99% 88% 94% 35% 67% – –
LTIP (% of maximum) 61% 50% 96% 50% 28% – –
BSP Enhancement Shares (% of maximum) 0% 0% 100% 0% 0% – –
Mark Cutifani
Total remuneration (single figure, £’000) – – – – 5,305 3,725 3,415
BSP (% of maximum) – – – – 65% 60% 36.5%
LTIP (% of maximum) – – – – – – 50%
107
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
(a)  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and loss of Anglo American plc and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole 
(b)  the strategic report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of Anglo American plc and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face
(c)  the annual report and financial statements, taken as  
a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and 
provide the information necessary for shareholders  
to assess the Company’s performance, business model 
and strategy.
By order of the Board
Mark Cutifani René Médori
Chief Executive Finance Director
15 February 2016
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. The directors are 
required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the European Union and 
Article 4 of the IAS regulation, and have elected to prepare 
the parent company financial statements in accordance with 
Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure 
Framework’. The directors must not approve the accounts 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of  
the Company for that period. 
In preparing the parent company financial statements,  
the directors are required to:
 • select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently
 • make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent
 • state whether Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced 
Disclosure Framework’ has been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the 
financial statements
 • prepare the financial statements on the going concern  
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, IAS 1  
requires that directors:
 • properly select and apply accounting policies
 • present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information
 • provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable 
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the entity’s financial 
position and financial performance
 • make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue  
as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions, disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company  
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ 
RESPONSIBILITIES
The directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 December 201 5
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 108
GOVERNANCE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES Financial statements
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Anglo American plc 110
Principal statements
Consolidated income statement 114
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 114
Consolidated balance sheet 115
Consolidated cash flow statement 116
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 117
Notes to the financial statements
1 Critical accounting judgements and key sources  
of estimation uncertainty
118
2 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures 120
Notes to the Consolidated income statement
3 Segmental information 121
4 Operating (loss)/profit from subsidiaries and joint operations 124
5 Underlying EBIT and underlying earnings by segment 125
6 Special items and remeasurements 126
7 Net finance income/(costs) 129
8 Income tax expense 129
9 Loss per share 131
10 Dividends 132
Notes to the Consolidated balance sheet
11 Intangible assets 132
12 Property, plant and equipment 133
13 Investments in associates and joint ventures 133
14 Financial asset investments 134
15 Inventories 135
16 Trade and other receivables 135
17 Trade and other payables 135
18 Financial instruments 136
19 Derivatives 138
20 Provisions for liabilities and charges 139
21 Deferred tax 140
Cash flow statement, net debt and related notes
22 Capital expenditure 141
23 Net debt 142
24 Borrowings 143
25 Commitments 145
Employee remuneration
26 Employee numbers and costs 146
27 Retirement benefits 147
28 Share-based payments 150
Group structure and transactions
29 Assets and liabilities held for sale 151
30 Disposals of subsidiaries and joint ventures 151
31 Non-controlling interests 152
Additional disclosures
32 Called-up share capital and consolidated equity analysis 153
33 Auditor’s remuneration 154
34 Contingent liabilities 155
35 Related party transactions 155
36 Events occurring after end of year 156
37 Group companies 156
38 Financial risk management 157
39 Accounting policies 160
40 Related undertakings of the Group 165
Financial statements of the parent company 169
Summary by business operation 172
Key financial data 173
Exchange rates and commodity prices 174
CONTENTS 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 109 110 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF ANGLO AMERICAN PLC
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the 
audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team:
The Audit Committee has requested that while not required under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we include in our report any significant 
key observations in respect of these assessed risks of material misstatement.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Findings
Impairments (notes 1 and 6)
As a consequence of the current volatility in current 
commodity prices and foreign exchange rates, the 
assessment of the recoverable amount of operating 
assets and development projects in particular is a 
key judgement. 
This includes specifically the platinum operations 
(where a post-tax impairment of $0.6 billion has 
been recorded), the coal operations (where a 
post-tax impairment of $1.0 billion has been 
recorded), the Sishen mine (where a post-tax 
impairment of $0.4 billion has been recorded) and 
at the Minas-Rio project within the Iron Ore Brazil 
business unit (where a post-tax impairment of 
$2.9 billion has been recorded).
We challenged management’s assessment as to whether 
indicators of impairment exist for specific assets specifically in 
relation to the platinum, coal and Sishen Mine operations and the 
Minas-Rio project. On the basis that such indicators were 
identified we obtained copies of the valuation models used to 
determine the value in use or fair value less costs of disposal of 
the relevant asset. 
We challenged the assumptions made by management in 
relation to these models, including the discount rate used, the 
short-term and long-term commodity prices, capital expenditure 
and operating cost forecasts and the expected production 
profiles, by comparison to recent analyst forecast commodity 
price data, reference to third party documentation where 
available, utilisation of Deloitte valuation specialists, review of 
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources reports, consultation with 
operational management and consideration of sensitivity 
analyses. 
We assessed whether the assumptions had been determined 
and applied on a consistent basis across the Group.
We concluded that the 
assumptions had been 
determined and applied on 
a consistent basis across the 
Group and no additional 
impairments were identified 
from the work performed.
We found that the impairments 
recorded at the platinum, coal 
and Sishen mine operations and 
the Minas-Rio project were 
primarily due to reduced 
commodity prices, but this effect 
was partially offset by forecast 
exchange rate movements and 
targeted reductions in forecast 
operating costs.
Opinion on financial statements of Anglo American plc
In our opinion:
 • the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s 
and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the 
Group’s loss for the year then ended;
 • the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union;
 • the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, 
including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’; and
 • the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income statement, the 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance 
sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity, the accounting policies, the related notes 1 to 40 and the 
balance sheet of the Parent Company and related information. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group 
financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’.
Going concern
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ statement 
regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting 
contained within note 39 to the financial statements and the directors’ 
statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the 
strategic report on page 40. 
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
 • the directors’ confirmation on page 40 that they have carried out 
a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including 
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity;
 • the disclosures on pages 41 to 45 that describe those risks and explain how 
they are being managed or mitigated;
 • the directors’ statement in note 39 to the financial statements about 
whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis 
of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material 
uncertainties to the Group’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at 
least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements;
 • the director’s explanation on page 40 as to how they have assessed the 
prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they 
consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether 
they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue 
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their 
assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any 
necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of 
accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties. However, 
because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement 
is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group 
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
those standards. We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited 
non-audit services referred to in those standards.  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 111
Financial statements
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Findings
Taxation (notes 1, 8 and 21)
The assessment of the Group’s taxation exposures 
in all jurisdictions is a key area of judgement 
particularly with respect to transfer pricing 
arrangements and the appropriateness of the 
recognition of tax provisions and deferred 
taxation assets.
We reviewed all potential taxation exposures within the Group 
and, through discussions with the Group’s taxation department, 
the tax specialists within the audit team and review of relevant 
documentation, we assessed the appropriateness of the 
provisions raised. 
We considered, in the context of our tax specialists’ prior 
experience of similar issues and the legal advice received by the 
Group, the Group‘s transfer pricing arrangements to confirm that 
they are reasonable and the Group’s deferred taxation assets 
and liabilities to confirm they are appropriate. 
We are satisfied that the 
provisions raised in respect of 
the Group’s potential taxation 
exposures are appropriate.
Corporate asset transactions (notes 29 and 30)
In light of announced developments in the strategy 
of the Group it is anticipated that the volume and 
materiality of asset disposals will continue to 
increase in significance.
The appropriate accounting treatment of corporate 
asset disposals which have either completed during 
the year or which are on-going at 31 December 2015 
is a key area of judgment specifically in respect of 
assessing the point at which control is transferred 
from the seller to the buyer and the calculation of any 
profit or loss on disposal. 
In 2015 this includes specifically the sale of Anglo 
American Norte (pre-tax loss on disposal of 
$287 million) and the Tarmac businesses (pre-tax 
loss on disposal of $172 million) which completed 
in 2015, as well as the status of the announced sale 
of Rustenburg.
For the sales of Anglo American Norte and the Tarmac 
businesses completed in the year, we reviewed the sales and 
purchase agreements to confirm that control had passed to the 
buyer prior to 31 December 2015 and to recalculate any profit 
or loss on disposal.
For those asset sales where agreements had been signed, for 
example at Rustenburg, but not completed or where the sales 
process was ongoing, we considered whether the criteria of 
IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued 
Operations’ had been met and in particular whether the sale 
could be considered as highly probable to complete within the 
next twelve months. 
Our work included particular focus on whether the conditions 
precedent for a sale to complete included conditions outside of 
management’s control such as government approvals.
We are satisfied that the asset 
disposals that completed in 
2015 have been accounted for 
correctly, with appropriate 
disclosures properly made.
For all other planned asset sales 
we are satisfied that only where 
the criteria have been met have 
the disposals been accounted for, 
and disclosed as, held for sale 
in accordance with IFRS 5.
Special items and remeasurements (note 6)
The assessment of the appropriateness of items 
disclosed within ‘special items and remeasurements’ 
is a key judgement because of their impact upon the 
underlying financial performance achieved by 
the Group.
In the context of our review of the overall income statement we 
considered and challenged each item disclosed within ‘special 
items and remeasurements’ as defined in note 6 to the financial 
statements. 
We determined whether such categorisation is appropriate and 
consistent with the Group’s stated policy and past practice for 
recognition of such items, and whether, taken as a whole, the 
income statement is fair and balanced in its presentation.
We are satisfied that all items 
included within ‘special items and 
remeasurements’ display no 
indication of management bias in 
the categorisation and that where 
relevant the categorisation was 
consistent with prior practice. 
We consider that the related 
disclosures are also appropriate.
The only change to the assessed risks of material misstatement that we report in 2015 has been the addition of ‘corporate asset transactions’. This risk has 
been included in our audit report for 2015 as a consequence of the increased scale of ongoing and planned divestment activity across the group consequent 
to developments in the group’s strategy in 2015. 
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 40.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion 
on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not 
express an opinion on these individual matters. 112 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION  
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANGLO AMERICAN PLC
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial 
statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a 
reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use 
materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the 
results of our work.
We determined planning materiality for the Group to be $200 million 
(2014: $225 million), which is below 5% (2014: 5%) of the normalised three 
year pre-tax profit before special items and remeasurements, and below 1% 
(2014: 1%) of equity. 
The use of a normalised three year average pre-tax profit is a change to our 
approach last year, when materiality was based on the normalised 2014 
pre-tax profit only. This change of approach was determined to be appropriate 
given the current volatility in commodity prices and their impact on current 
year performance and the cyclical nature of the mining industry. Consistent 
with the prior year, normalised pre-tax profit excludes special items (including 
impairments), remeasurements and other one off items that are audited 
separately and would, if included, significantly distort the materiality 
calculation year on year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee 
all known audit differences in excess of $10 million (2014: $10 million), as well 
as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on 
qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure 
judgements in the financial statement that we identified when assessing the 
overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its 
environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material 
misstatement.
All business units were subject to a full scope audit with the exception of 
Manganese where specific audit procedures were performed. The work 
performed by the component audit teams at each business unit is guided by 
the Group audit team and is executed at levels of materiality applicable to 
each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged 
from $80 million to $110 million. 
The Senior Statutory Auditor and/or a senior member of the Group audit team 
visits the principal location of each significant business unit at least once 
every year and key operational assets on a rotating basis.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
 • the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
 • the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for 
the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
 • we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our 
audit; or
 • adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not 
visited by us; or
 • the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion 
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have not been made or the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns. We have nothing to report arising from 
these matters. 
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with 
certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to 
report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required 
to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is:
 • materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
 • apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our 
knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 • otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any 
inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the 
directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those 
matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider 
should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any such 
inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the 
directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to 
audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). We 
also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). 
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control 
procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and 
systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and 
independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members 
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 113
Financial statements
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in 
the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, 
we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to 
identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of 
performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Kari Hale (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
15 February 2016 114 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION PRINCIPAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 December 201 5
2015 2014
US$ million Note
Before special 
items and 
remeasurements
Special items and 
remeasurements 
(note 6) Total
Before special 
items and 
remeasurements
Special items and 
remeasurements 
(note 6) Total
Group revenue 3 20,455 – 20,455  27,073 – 27,073 
Operating costs (18,417) (6,150) (24,567) (22,560) (4,375) (26,935) 
Operating (loss)/profit 3, 4 2,038 (6,150) (4,112)  4,513 (4,375)  138 
Non-operating special items 6 – (1,278) (1,278) – (385) (385) 
Share of net (loss)/income from associates and  
joint ventures 3, 13 48 (269) (221)  254 (46)  208 
Loss before net finance income/(costs) and tax 2,086 (7,697) (5,611)  4,767 (4,806) (39) 
Investment income 172 – 172  242 – 242 
Interest expense (489) (54) (543) (497) (65) (562) 
Other financing gains (141)  669  528 (1)  101  100 
Net finance income/(costs) 7 (458)  615  157 (256)  36 (220) 
Loss before tax 1,628 (7,082) (5,454)  4,511 (4,770) (259) 
Income tax expense 8 (435) 47 (388) (1,267)  2 (1,265) 
Loss for the financial year  1,193 (7,035) (5,842)  3,244 (4,768) (1,524) 
Attributable to:   
Non-controlling interests 31 366 (584) (218)  1,027 (38)  989 
Equity shareholders of the Company 827 (6,451) (5,624)  2,217 (4,730) (2,513) 
Loss per share (US$)
Basic 9 0.64 (5.00) (4.36)  1.73 (3.69) (1.96) 
Diluted 9 0.64 (5.00) (4.36)  1.72 (3.68) (1.96) 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the year ended 31 December 201 5
US$ million 2015 2014
Loss for the financial year (5,842) (1,524) 
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement (net of tax)
(1)
 
Remeasurement of net retirement benefit obligation 260 (6) 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ other comprehensive income – 1
Net items that will not be reclassified to the income statement 260 (5) 
Items that have been or may subsequently be reclassified to the income statement (net of tax)
(1)
 
Net exchange differences: 
Net loss (including associates and joint ventures) (4,185) (1,943) 
Cumulative loss transferred to the income statement on disposal of foreign operations  101  5 
Revaluation of available for sale investments:  
Net revaluation loss (203) (124) 
Impairment losses transferred to the income statement 52  3 
Revaluation of cash flow hedges:  
Net gain/(loss)  9 (7) 
Net items that have been or may subsequently be reclassified to the income statement (4,226) (2,066) 
Total comprehensive expense for the financial year (9,808) (3,595) 
Attributable to: 
Non-controlling interests (877)  736 
Equity shareholders of the Company (8,931) (4,331) 
(1) 
Tax amounts are shown in note 8c.
PRINCIPAL STATEMENTS  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 115
Financial statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION PRINCIPAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
as at 31 December 201 5
US$ million Note 2015 2014
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 11 3,394 3,912 
Property, plant and equipment 12 29,621 38,475 
Environmental rehabilitation trusts 20 290 358 
Investments in associates and joint ventures 13 1,817 4,376 
Financial asset investments 14 846 1,266 
Trade and other receivables 16 539 745 
Deferred tax assets 21 914 1,351 
Derivative financial assets 19 460 986 
Other non-current assets 335 233 
Total non-current assets 38,216 51,702 
Current assets 
Inventories 15 4,051 4,720 
Trade and other receivables 16 1,983 2,568 
Current tax assets 152 125 
Derivative financial assets 19 689 147 
Cash and cash equivalents 23a 6,895 6,748 
Total current assets 13,770 14,308 
Assets classified as held for sale 29 27 –
Total assets 52,013 66,010 
LIABILITIES 
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 17 (2,753) (3,515) 
Short term borrowings 23a, 24 (1,649) (1,618) 
Provisions for liabilities and charges 20 (620) (680) 
Current tax liabilities (340) (375) 
Derivative financial liabilities 19 (477) (539) 
Total current liabilities (5,839) (6,727) 
Non-current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 17 (26) (25) 
Medium and long term borrowings 23a, 24 (16,318) (16,917) 
Retirement benefit obligations 27 (667) (1,073) 
Deferred tax liabilities 21 (3,253) (4,498) 
Derivative financial liabilities 19 (1,986) (1,785) 
Provisions for liabilities and charges 20 (2,565) (2,808) 
Total non-current liabilities (24,815) (27,106) 
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 29 (17) –
Total liabilities (30,671) (33,833) 
Net assets 21,342 32,177 
 
EQUITY
Called-up share capital 32 772 772 
Share premium account 4,358 4,358 
Own shares (6,051) (6,359) 
Other reserves (10,811) (7,205) 
Retained earnings 28,301 34,851
Equity attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 16,569 26,417 
Non-controlling interests 31 4,773 5,760 
Total equity 21,342 32,177 
The financial statements of Anglo American plc, registered number 03564138, were approved by the Board of directors on 15 February 2016 and signed on its 
behalf by:
Mark Cutifani René Médori
Chief Executive Finance Director 116 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 December 201 5
US$ million Note 2015 2014
Cash flows from operating activities
Loss before tax (5,454) (259) 
Net finance (income)/costs including financing special items and remeasurements (157)  220 
Share of net loss/(income) from associates and joint ventures 221 (208) 
Non-operating special items 6 1,278  385 
Operating (loss)/profit 4 (4,112)  138 
Operating special items and remeasurements 6 6,150  4,375 
Cash element of operating and non-operating special items (118) (100) 
Depreciation and amortisation 3 2,381  2,591 
Share-based payment charges 151  170 
Decrease in provisions (239) (200) 
Increase in inventories (84) (129) 
Decrease in operating receivables 187  576 
Decrease in operating payables (78) (438) 
Other adjustments 2 (34) 
Cash flows from operations 4,240  6,949 
Dividends from associates and joint ventures 13 324  435 
Dividends from financial asset investments 9  25 
Income tax paid (596) (1,298) 
Net cash inflows from operating activities 3,977  6,111 
Cash flows from investing activities
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment 22 (4,053) (5,974) 
Cash flows from derivatives related to capital expenditure 22 (200) (157) 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 22 30  71 
Investments in associates and joint ventures 13 (80) (81) 
Purchase of financial asset investments 14 (1) (12) 
Net loans advanced 14 (216) (80) 
Interest received and other investment income 101  157 
Net proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries and joint ventures 30 1,745  44 
Repayments of capitalised loans by associates 13 67 –
Other investing activities (7) (93) 
Net cash used in investing activities (2,614) (6,125) 
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (810) (833) 
Cash flows from derivatives related to financing activities 23b (170)  203 
Dividends paid to Company shareholders 10 (1,078) (1,099) 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (242) (823) 
Proceeds from issuance of bonds 24 2,159  3,165 
Proceeds from other borrowings 1,160  1,419 
Repayment of borrowings (1,987) (2,801) 
Issue of shares to non-controlling interests 22 46  42 
Proceeds from sale of shares under employee share schemes 11  14 
Purchase of shares by subsidiaries for employee share schemes
(1)
(42) (111) 
Other financing activities 6 (3) 
Net cash used in financing activities (947) (827) 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 416 (841) 
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 23b 6,747 7,702 
Cash movements in the year 416 (841) 
Effects of changes in foreign exchange rates (274) (114) 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 23b 6,889 6,747 
(1) 
Includes purchase of Anglo American Platinum Limited shares (2014: Kumba Iron Ore Limited and Anglo American Platinum Limited) for their respective employee share schemes. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION PRINCIPAL STATEMENTS  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 117
Financial statements
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 31 December 201 5
US$ million
Total share
capital
(1)
Own
shares
(2)
Retained 
earnings
Cumulative 
translation 
adjustment 
reserve
Fair value and 
other reserves 
(note 32)
Total equity 
attributable  
to equity 
shareholders 
of the 
Company
Non-
controlling 
interests Total equity
At 1 January 2014 5,130 (6,463) 38,376 (6,640) 1,268 31,671 5,693 37,364
Total comprehensive expense – – (2,506) (1,703) (122) (4,331)  736 (3,595) 
Dividends payable – – (1,099) – – (1,099) (749) (1,848) 
Issue of shares to non-controlling interests – – – – – – 42  42 
Equity settled share-based payment schemes – 104  31 – (8)  127  29  156 
Other – – 49 – – 49  9  58 
At 31 December 2014 5,130 (6,359)  34,851 (8,343)  1,138  26,417  5,760  32,177 
Total comprehensive expense – – (5,383) (3,404) (144) (8,931) (877) (9,808) 
Dividends payable  – – (1,078)  – – (1,078) (189) (1,267) 
Issue of shares to non-controlling interests – – – – – – 46  46 
Equity settled share-based payment schemes – 308 (112)  – (41)  155  33  188 
Other – – 23  – (17)  6  – 6 
At 31 December 2015 5,130 (6,051)  28,301 (11,747)  936  16,569  4,773  21,342 
(1) 
Includes share capital and share premium.
(2) 
Own shares comprise shares of Anglo American plc held by the Company (treasury shares), its subsidiaries and employee benefit trusts. 
Dividends
Note 2015 2014
Proposed ordinary dividend per share (US cents) 10 – 53
Proposed ordinary dividend (US$ million) 10 – 678
Ordinary dividends payable during the year per share (US cents) 10 85 85 
Ordinary dividends payable during the year (US$ million) 10 1,078 1,099 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION PRINCIPAL STATEMENTS 118 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
1. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES 
OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
In the course of preparing financial statements, management necessarily 
makes judgements and estimates that can have a significant impact on 
the financial statements. The most critical of these relate to impairment of 
assets, taxation, retirement benefits, contingent liabilities, joint arrangements, 
estimation of Ore Reserves, assessment of fair value, restoration, 
rehabilitation and environmental costs and deferred stripping. The use of 
inaccurate assumptions in assessments made for any of these judgements 
and estimates could result in a significant impact on financial results. 
Critical accounting judgements
Impairment of assets 
Mining operations are large, scarce assets requiring significant technical 
and financial resources to operate. Their value may be sensitive to a range 
of characteristics unique to each asset and key sources of estimation 
uncertainty include ore reserve estimates and cash flow projections. 
In performing impairment reviews, the Group assesses the recoverable 
amount of its operating assets principally with reference to fair value less 
costs of disposal, assessed using discounted cash flow models. There is 
judgement in determining the assumptions that are considered to be 
reasonable and consistent with those that would be applied by market 
participants as outlined above.
In addition, in making assessments for impairment, management necessarily 
applies its judgement in allocating assets, including goodwill, that do not 
generate independent cash flows to appropriate cash generating units (CGUs).
Subsequent changes to the CGU allocation, to the timing of cash flows or to 
the assumptions used to determine the cash flows could impact the carrying 
value of the respective assets. 
Taxation 
The Group’s tax affairs are governed by complex domestic tax legislations 
interlaced with the override of international tax treaties between countries 
and the interpretation of both by tax authorities and courts. Given the many 
uncertainties that could arise from these factors, judgement is often required 
in determining the tax that is due. Where management is aware of potential 
uncertainties that are more likely than not to result in a liability for additional 
tax, a provision is made for management’s best estimate of the liability, 
determined with reference to similar transactions and, in some cases, reports 
from independent experts. 
In addition, the recognition and measurement of deferred tax requires the 
application of judgement in assessing the amount, timing and probability  
of future taxable profits and repatriation of retained earnings. These factors 
affect the determination of the appropriate rates of tax to apply and the 
recoverability of deferred tax assets. These judgements are influenced, 
inter alia, by factors such as estimates of future production, commodity  
lines, operating costs, future capital expenditure, and dividend policies. 
Contingent liabilities 
On an ongoing basis the Group is a party to various legal disputes, the 
outcomes of which cannot be assessed with a high degree of certainty. 
A provision is recognised where, based on the Group’s legal views and advice, 
it is considered probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle 
a present obligation that can be measured reliably. Disclosure of contingent 
liabilities is made in note 34 unless the possibility of a loss arising is 
considered remote. Management applies its judgement in determining 
whether or not a provision or contingent liability should be recorded.
Joint arrangements 
Joint arrangements are classified as joint operations or joint ventures 
according to the rights and obligations of the parties, as described in 
note 39k. Judgement is required in determining this classification through 
an evaluation of the facts and circumstances arising from each individual 
arrangement. When a joint arrangement has been structured through 
a separate vehicle, consideration has been given to the legal form of the 
separate vehicle, the terms of the contractual arrangement and, when 
relevant, other facts and circumstances. When the activities of an 
arrangement are primarily designed for the provision of output to the parties 
and, the parties are substantially the only source of cash flows contributing to 
the continuity of the operations of the arrangement, this indicates that the 
parties to the arrangement have rights to the assets and obligations for the 
liabilities. Certain joint arrangements that are structured through separate 
vehicles including Collahuasi, Debswana and Namdeb are accounted for as 
joint operations. These arrangements are primarily designed for the provision 
of output to the parties sharing joint control, indicating that the parties have 
rights to substantially all the economic benefits of the assets. The liabilities of 
the arrangements are in substance satisfied by cash flows received from the 
parties; this dependence indicates that the parties effectively have obligations 
for the liabilities. It is primarily these facts and circumstances that give rise to 
the classification as joint operations.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Ore Reserves 
When determining Ore Reserves, which may be used to calculate useful 
economic lives of assets and depreciation on the Group’s mining properties, 
assumptions that were valid at the time of estimation may change when new 
information becomes available. In addition, the calculation of the unit of 
production rate of amortisation could be impacted to the extent that actual 
production in the future is different from current forecast production. 
Any changes in estimate could affect prospective depreciation rates and 
asset carrying values and, as a result, the determination of Ore Reserves is 
considered a key source of estimation uncertainty.
Factors which could impact useful economic lives of assets and Ore Reserve 
estimates include: 
 • the grade of Ore Reserves varying significantly from time to time 
 • differences between actual commodity prices and commodity price 
assumptions used in the estimation of Ore Reserves 
 • renewal of mining licences 
 • unforeseen operational issues at mine sites 
 • adverse changes in capital, operating, mining, processing and reclamation 
costs, discount rates and foreign exchange rates used to determine 
Ore Reserves. 
For further information refer to the unaudited Ore Reserves and Mineral 
Resources Report 2015.
Assessment of fair value 
The assessment of fair value is principally used in accounting for business 
combinations, impairment testing and the valuation of certain financial assets 
and liabilities.
The fair value of an asset or liability is the price that would be received to 
sell the asset, or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants. Fair value is determined based on observable market 
data including market share price at 31 December of the respective entity, 
discounted cash flow models (and other valuation techniques), where relevant 
signed sales agreements and assumptions considered to be reasonable and 
consistent with those that would be applied by a market participant. Where 
discounted cash flow models based on management’s assumptions are used, 
the resulting fair value measurements are considered to be at level 3 in the 
fair value hierarchy, as defined in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, as they 
depend to a significant extent on unobservable valuation inputs. 
The determination of assumptions used in assessing the fair value of 
identifiable assets and liabilities is subjective and the use of different  
valuation assumptions could have a significant impact on financial results. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 119
Financial statements
1. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES 
OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY continued
Fair value of financial instruments
Certain of the Group’s financial instruments, principally derivatives, are 
required to be measured on the balance sheet at fair value. Where a quoted 
market price for an identical instrument is not available, a valuation model is 
used to calculate the fair value based on the net present value of the expected 
cash flows under the contract. Valuation assumptions are usually based on 
observable market data (for example forward foreign exchange rate, interest 
rate or commodity price curves) where available.
The valuations of financial instruments are adjusted for the risk that 
contractual cash flows will not be paid because of the risk of default by one 
of the parties. A credit valuation adjustment (CVA) is applied to the valuation 
of financial assets, reflecting the possibility of default by the counterparty. 
A debit valuation adjustment (DVA) is applied to the valuation of financial 
liabilities, reflecting the possibility that the Group may default on its 
obligations. These adjustments are calculated based on the expected net 
positive or negative exposure to the counterparty, and with reference to the 
counterparty’s and the Group’s credit default swap spread at the balance 
sheet date.
Cash flow projections 
Expected future cash flows used in discounted cash flow models are 
inherently uncertain and could materially change over time. They are 
significantly affected by a number of factors including Ore Reserves and 
Mineral Resources, together with economic factors such as commodity 
prices, exchange rates, discount rates and estimates of production costs 
and future capital expenditure. 
Cash flow projections are based on financial budgets and Life of Mine Plans 
or, for non-mine assets, an equivalent appropriate long term forecasts, 
incorporating key assumptions as detailed below: 
 • Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources  
Ore Reserves and, where considered appropriate, Mineral Resources are 
incorporated in projected cash flows, based on Ore Reserves and Mineral 
Resource statements and exploration and evaluation work undertaken by 
appropriately qualified persons. Mineral Resources are included where 
management has a high degree of confidence in their economic extraction, 
despite additional evaluation still being required prior to meeting the 
required confidence to convert to Ore Reserves.
 • Commodity and product prices  
Commodity and product prices are based on latest internal forecasts, 
benchmarked with external sources of information, to ensure they are within 
the range of available analyst forecasts. Where existing sales contracts are 
in place, the effects of such contracts are taken into account in determining 
future cash flows. 
 • Foreign exchange rates 
Foreign exchange rates are based on latest internal forecasts, benchmarked 
with external sources of information for relevant countries of operation. 
Foreign exchange rates are kept constant (on a real basis) from 2020 onwards. 
 • Discount rates  
Cash flow projections used in fair value less costs of disposal impairment 
models are discounted based on a real post-tax discount rate, assessed 
annually, of 6.5% (2014: 6.5%). Adjustments to the rate are made for any 
risks that are not reflected in the underlying cash flows, including the risk 
profile of the individual asset and country risk. 
 • Operating costs, capital expenditure and other operating factors  
Operating costs and capital expenditure are based on financial budgets 
covering a five year period. Cash flow projections beyond five years are 
based on Life of Mine Plans or non-mine production plans, as applicable, 
and internal management forecasts. Cost assumptions incorporate 
management experience and expectations, as well as the nature and 
location of the operation and the risks associated therewith. Underlying 
input cost assumptions are consistent with related output price 
assumptions. Other operating factors, such as the timelines of granting 
licences and permits are based on management’s best estimate of the 
outcome of uncertain future events at the balance sheet date. 
Where an asset has potential for future development through capital 
investment, to which a market participant would attribute value, and the 
costs and economic benefits can be estimated reliably, this development 
is included in the cash flows (with appropriate risk adjustments). 
Restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs 
Costs for restoration of site damage, rehabilitation and environmental costs 
are estimated using either the work of external consultants or internal 
experts. The amount recognised as a provision represents management’s 
best estimate of the consideration required to complete the restoration and 
rehabilitation activity, the application of the relevant regulatory framework 
and timing of expenditure. These estimates are inherently uncertain and 
could materially change over time. To the extent that the actual future costs 
differ from these estimates, adjustments will be recorded and the amount 
provided could be impacted.
Retirement benefits 
The expected costs of providing pensions and post employment benefits 
under defined benefit arrangements relating to employee service during the 
period are determined based on financial and actuarial assumptions. 
Assumptions in respect of the expected costs are set after consultation with 
qualified actuaries. While management believes the assumptions used are 
appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would affect the amounts 
recognised in the financial statements. 
Deferred stripping 
In certain mining operations, rock or soil overlying a mineral deposit, known 
as overburden, and other waste materials must be removed to access ore 
from which minerals can be extracted economically. The process of removing 
overburden and other mine waste materials is referred to as stripping. 
The Group defers stripping costs onto the balance sheet where they are 
considered to improve access to ore in future periods. Where the amount to 
be capitalised cannot be specifically identified it is determined based on the 
volume of waste extracted compared with expected volume for the identified 
component of the orebody. This determination is dependent on an individual 
mine’s design and Life of Mine Plan and therefore changes to the design or 
Life of Mine Plan will result in changes to these estimates. Identification of 
the components of a mine’s orebody is made by reference to the Life of Mine 
Plan. The assessment depends on a range of factors including each mine’s 
specific operational features and materiality. 
Changes in estimates
Due to the nature of Platinum in-process inventories being contained in weirs, 
pipes and other vessels, physical counts only take place annually, except in 
the Precious Metal Refinery which take place once every five years (the latest 
being in 2015). Consequently, the Platinum business runs a theoretical metal 
inventory system based on inputs, the results of previous physical counts and 
outputs. Once the results of the physical count are finalised, the variance 
between the theoretical count and actual count is investigated and recorded 
as a change in estimate. During 2015, the change in estimate following the 
annual physical count has had the effect of increasing the value of inventory 
by $181 million (2014: decrease of $11 million), resulting in the recognition of 
a post tax gain of $130 million (2014: loss of $8 million).
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 120 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND DISCLOSURES
The accounting policies applied are consistent with those adopted and disclosed 
in the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014, 
except for changes arising from the adoption of the following new accounting 
pronouncements which became effective in the current reporting period:
 • Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: Defined Benefit Plans – 
Employee Contributions.
 • Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 cycle.
 • Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 cycle.
The adoption of these new accounting pronouncements has not had a 
significant impact on the accounting policies, methods of computation or 
presentation applied by the Group. 
The Group has not early adopted any other amendment, standard or 
interpretation that has been issued but is not yet effective. It is expected that 
where applicable, these standards and amendments will be adopted on each 
respective effective date.
New IFRS accounting standards, amendments and 
interpretations not yet adopted
The following new IFRS accounting standards in issue but not yet effective 
are expected to have a significant impact on the Group:
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
IFRS 15 will replace IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts and 
establishes a unified framework for determining the timing, measurement and 
recognition of revenue. The principle of the new standard is to recognise 
revenue as performance obligations are met rather than based on the transfer 
of risks and rewards. 
The effective date of the standard has been deferred to 1 January 2018 to 
allow companies more time to deal with transitional issues of application.
The Group is currently reviewing the potential impact of adopting IFRS 15 
with the primary focus being understanding those sales contracts where 
the timing and amount of revenue recognised could differ under IFRS 15, 
which may occur for example if contracts with customers incorporate 
performance obligations not currently recognised separately, or where such 
contracts incorporate variable consideration. As the Group’s revenue is 
predominantly derived from arrangements in which the transfer of risks and 
rewards coincides with the fulfilment of performance obligations, the timing 
and amount of revenue recognised is unlikely to be materially affected for the 
majority of sales. 
IFRS 15 also includes disclosure requirements including qualitative and 
quantitative information about contracts with customers to help users of the 
financial statements understand the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty 
of revenue. 
In addition to the potential accounting implications outlined above, the 
implementation of IFRS 15 is expected to impact the Group’s systems, 
processes and controls. The Group will start developing a transition plan 
to identify and implement the required changes during 2016.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
IFRS 9 will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement and addresses the following three key areas:
 • Classification and measurement establishes a single, principles-based 
approach for the classification of financial assets, which is driven by cash 
flow characteristics and the business model in which an asset is held. This is 
expected to have a number of presentational impacts on the Group financial 
statements including changes in the presentation of gains and losses on 
financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
 • Impairment introduces a new ‘expected credit loss’ impairment model, 
requiring expected credit losses to be recognised from when financial 
instruments are first recognised. The transition to this model is expected 
to result in changes in the systems and computational methods used by the 
Group to assess receivables and similar assets for impairment. However, 
given the profile of the Group’s counterparty exposures, this is not expected 
to have a material impact on the amounts recorded in the financial 
statements.
 • Hedge Accounting aligns the accounting treatment with risk management 
practices of an entity, including making a broader range of exposures 
eligible for hedge accounting and introducing a more principles-based 
approach to assessing hedge effectiveness. The adoption of IFRS 9 will not 
require changes to existing hedging arrangements but may provide scope 
to apply hedge accounting to a broader range of transactions in the future.
IFRS 9 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2018.
The Group’s implementation activities to date have principally focused on 
gaining a high level understanding of the likely effects of IFRS 9 given the 
nature of financial instruments held by the Group. A more detailed impact 
analysis and transition activities will be undertaken during 2016.
IFRS 16 Leases 
IFRS 16 replaces the following standards and interpretations: IAS 17 Leases 
and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease. The new 
standard provides a single lessee accounting model for the recognition, 
measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases. IFRS 16 applies to all 
leases including subleases and requires lessees to recognise assets and 
liabilities for all leases, unless the lease term is 12 months or less, or the 
underlying asset has a low value. Lessors continue to classify leases as 
operating or finance. 
IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016 and applies to annual reporting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The Group will evaluate the potential 
impact of IFRS 16 on the financial statements and performance measures. 
This will include an assessment of whether any arrangements the Group 
enters into will be considered a lease under IFRS 16.
The following new amendments and interpretations in issue but not yet 
effective are not expected to have a significant impact on the Group:
 • Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Disclosure 
Initiative provides guidance on the use of judgement in presenting financial 
statement information, including: the application of materiality; order of 
notes; use of subtotals; accounting policy referencing and disaggregation of 
financial and non-financial information.
 • Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements will 
allow entities to use the equity method in their separate financial statements 
to measure investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. 
 • Amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 
Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation clarify that a revenue-
based method of depreciation or amortisation is generally not appropriate. 
 • Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and  
IAS 28 Joint Ventures: Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor  
and its Associate or Joint Venture remove an inconsistency between the two 
standards on the accounting treatment for gains and losses arising on the  
sale or contribution of assets by an investor to its associate or joint venture. 
Following the amendment, such gains and losses may only be recognised to 
the extent of the unrelated investor’s interest, except where the transaction 
involves assets that constitute a business.
 • Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint 
Operations and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures clarify 
the accounting for the acquisition of an interest in a joint operation where 
the activities of the operation constitute a business. 
Other issued standards and amendments that are not yet effective are not 
expected to have an impact on the financial statements.  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 121
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION
The Group’s segments are aligned to the structure of the existing business units based around commodities, as at 31 December 2015. Each business unit has 
a management team that is accountable to the Chief Executive, and in the instance of Copper, Nickel, Niobium and Phosphates, the same management team is 
responsible for the management of all four business units, collectively referred to as Base Metals and Minerals. Niobium and Phosphates are not considered to 
be individually significant to the Group and are therefore aggregated, having previously been presented separately. To align with the management structure of 
the Group’s coal businesses and the way their results are internally reported, Coal South Africa, Coal Colombia and Coal Australia and Canada are reported 
together as the Coal segment. 
The Kumba Iron Ore, Iron Ore Brazil and Samancor business units have been aggregated as the ‘Iron Ore and Manganese’ segment on the basis of the ultimate 
product produced (ferrous metals).
The ‘Corporate and other’ segment comprises the Other Mining and Industrial business unit, which is not considered to be individually significant to the Group, 
together with unallocated corporate costs and exploration costs. Exploration costs represent the cost of the Group’s exploration activities across all segments. 
The Group Management Committee evaluates the financial performance of the Group and its segments principally with reference to underlying earnings 
before interest and tax (underlying EBIT). Underlying EBIT is operating profit presented before special items and remeasurements and includes the Group’s 
attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ underlying EBIT. Underlying EBIT of associates and joint ventures is the Group’s attributable share of 
revenue less operating costs before special items and remeasurements of associates and joint ventures. 
Underlying EBITDA is underlying EBIT before depreciation and amortisation in subsidiaries and joint operations and includes the Group’s attributable share 
of associates’ and joint ventures’ underlying EBIT before depreciation and amortisation.
Segment revenue includes the Group’s attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ revenue. Segments predominantly derive revenue as follows – 
Platinum: platinum group metals; De Beers: rough and polished diamonds; Copper: copper; Nickel: nickel; Niobium and Phosphates: niobium and phosphates; 
Iron Ore and Manganese: iron ore, manganese ore and alloys; Coal: metallurgical coal and thermal coal.
The segment results are stated after elimination of inter-segment transactions and include an allocation of corporate costs.
Segment results
See note 39a for the Group’s accounting policy on revenue recognition.
Revenue Underlying EBIT
US$ million 2015 2014 2015 2014
Platinum 4,900 5,396 263 32 
De Beers 4,671 7,114 571 1,363 
Copper 3,539 4,827 228 1,193 
Nickel 146 142 (22) 21 
Niobium and Phosphates 544 666 119 124 
Iron Ore and Manganese 3,390 5,176 671 1,957 
Coal 4,888 5,808 457 458 
Corporate and other 925 1,859 (64) (215) 
Segment measure 23,003 30,988 2,223 4,933 
Reconciliation:  
Less: associates and joint ventures (2,548) (3,915) (185) (420) 
Include: operating special items and remeasurements – – (6,150) (4,375) 
Statutory measure 20,455 27,073 (4,112) 138 
Depreciation and amortisation
(1)
Underlying EBITDA
US$ million 2015 2014 2015 2014
Platinum 455 495 718 527 
De Beers 419 455 990 1,818 
Copper 714 709 942 1,902 
Nickel 19 7 (3) 28 
Niobium and Phosphates 27 28 146 152 
Iron Ore and Manganese 355 329 1,026 2,286 
Coal 589 749 1,046 1,207 
Corporate and other 53 127 (11) (88) 
2,631 2,899
 
4,854 7,832 
Less: associates and joint ventures (250) (308) (435) (728) 
2,381 2,591 4,419 7,104 
(1) 
In addition $99 million (2014: $129 million) of depreciation and amortisation charges arising due to the fair value uplift of the Group’s pre-existing 45% shareholding in De Beers has been 
included within operating remeasurements (see note 6), and $73 million (2014: $105 million) of pre-commercial production depreciation and $3 million (2014: nil) of pre-commercial production 
amortisation have been capitalised.  122 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION continued
Underlying EBITDA is reconciled to underlying EBIT and to ‘Loss before net finance income/(costs) and tax’:
US$ million 2015 2014 
Underlying EBITDA 4,854 7,832 
Depreciation and amortisation: subsidiaries and joint operations (2,381) (2,591) 
Depreciation and amortisation: associates and joint ventures (250) (308) 
Underlying EBIT 2,223 4,933 
Operating special items and remeasurements (6,150) (4,375) 
Non-operating special items (1,278) (385) 
Associates’ and joint ventures’ net special items and remeasurements (269) (46) 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ net finance costs, tax and non-controlling interests (137) (166) 
Loss before net finance income/(costs) and tax (5,611) (39) 
Associates’ and joint ventures’ results by segment
Revenue Underlying EBIT Share of net (loss)/income
US$ million 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Platinum 187 263 (33) (19) (42) (26) 
De Beers 89 79 (9) (9) (6) (6) 
Iron Ore and Manganese 514 788 22 178 (264) 104 
Coal 877 1,050 142 189 40 73 
Corporate and other 881 1,735 63 81 51 63 
2,548 3,915 185 420 (221) 208 
Depreciation and amortisation Underlying EBITDA
US$ million 2015 2014 2015 2014
Platinum 28 28 (5) 9 
De Beers 3 3 (6) (6) 
Iron Ore and Manganese 82 73 104 251 
Coal 91 106 233 295 
Corporate and other 46 98 109 179 
250 308 435 728 
The reconciliation of associates’ and joint ventures’ underlying EBIT to ‘Share of net (loss)/income from associates and joint ventures’ is as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
Associates’ and joint ventures’ underlying EBIT 185 420 
Net finance costs (40) (46) 
Income tax expense (100) (113) 
Non-controlling interests 3 (7) 
Share of net income from associates and joint ventures (before special items and remeasurements) 48 254 
Special items (226) –
Special items and remeasurements tax (43) (46) 
Share of net (loss)/income from associates and joint ventures (221) 208 
Other non-cash expenses/(income)
In addition to depreciation and amortisation, other non-cash expenses/(income) include equity settled share-based payment charges and amounts in respect 
of provisions, excluding amounts recorded within special items. Significant other non-cash expenses/(income) included within underlying EBIT are as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
Platinum 30 37 
De Beers (1) 94 
Copper 69 87 
Nickel (10) 7 
Niobium and Phosphates 24 5 
Iron Ore and Manganese 62 36 
Coal 125 160 
Corporate and other 72 54 
371 480 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 123
Financial statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION continued
Capital employed by segment
Segment assets and liabilities have been replaced by closing capital employed by segment, now being the principal measure of assets and liabilities reported 
to the Group Management Committee. Capital employed is defined as net assets excluding net debt (including related hedges and net debt in disposal groups) 
and financial asset investments.
Capital employed Attributable capital employed
(1)
US$ million 2015 2014 2015 2014 
Platinum 4,392 7,010 3,726 5,943 
De Beers 8,642 10,058 7,402 8,654 
Copper 6,332 7,062 4,176 4,739 
Nickel 1,968 1,931 1,968 1,934 
Niobium and Phosphates 834 896 834 896 
Iron Ore and Manganese 6,666 9,837 5,756 8,361
Coal 4,079 5,575 3,978 5,455 
Corporate and other (71) 1,413 (71) 1,413 
Capital employed 32,842 43,782 27,769 37,395 
Include:
Net debt (12,901) (12,871)
Debit valuation adjustment attributable to derivatives hedging net debt
(2)
555 –
Financial asset investments 846 1,266
Net assets 21,342 32,177
(1) 
Attributable capital employed is capital employed attributable to equity shareholders of the Company, and therefore excludes the portion of capital employed attributable to non-controlling 
interests in operations where the Group has control but does not hold 100% of the equity. Joint operations, associates and joint ventures are included in their proportionate interest and in line 
with appropriate accounting treatment.
(2) 
See note 18 for details of the debit valuation adjustment.
Product analysis
Revenue by product
US$ million 2015 2014
Platinum 2,720 3,097 
Palladium 1,159 1,058 
Rhodium 309 280 
Diamonds 4,660 7,104 
Copper 3,495 4,688 
Nickel 450 638 
Niobium 111 180 
Phosphates 433 486 
Iron ore 2,610 4,029 
Manganese ore and alloys 514 788 
Metallurgical coal 1,832 2,290 
Thermal coal 3,068 3,529 
Heavy building materials 921 1,854 
Other 721 967 
23,003 30,988 
Geographical analysis
Revenue by destination
The Group’s geographical analysis of segment revenue, allocated based on the country in which the customer is located, is as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
South Africa 1,764 2,464 
Other Africa 982 1,663 
Brazil 745 939 
Chile 500 1,033 
Other South America 12 23 
North America 855 1,218 
Australia 214 275 
China 4,662 5,109 
India 2,421 3,079 
Japan 2,325 3,496 
Other Asia 3,199 3,580 
United Kingdom (Anglo American plc’s country of domicile) 2,220 3,090 
Other Europe 3,104 5,019 
23,003 30,988 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 124 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION continued
Non-current assets by location
Intangible assets and  
property, plant and equipment Total non-current assets 
US$ million 2015 2014 2015 2014
South Africa 8,714 12,998 9,449 14,450 
Botswana 4,247 5,138 4,247 5,138
Other Africa 938 1,138 943 1,145
Brazil 6,361 8,001 6,455 8,097 
Chile 6,481 7,347 6,481 7,347 
Other South America 955 740 1,846 1,750 
North America 688 1,483 690 1,488 
Australia and Asia 3,237 4,136 3,568 4,764 
United Kingdom (Anglo American plc's country of domicile) 1,278 1,277 1,320 2,838 
Other Europe 116 129 137 131 
Non-current assets by location 33,015 42,387 35,136 47,148 
Unallocated assets 3,080 4,554 
Total non-current assets 38,216 51,702 
(1)  
Total non-current assets by location primarily comprise Intangible assets, Property, plant and equipment, Environmental rehabilitation trusts and Investments in associates and joint ventures.
4. OPERATING (LOSS)/PROFIT FROM SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT OPERATIONS
US$ million 2015 2014
Group revenue 20,455  27,073 
Cost of sales (15,507) (18,931) 
Operating special items (note 6) (5,972) (4,374) 
Gross (loss)/profit (1,024)  3,768 
Selling and distribution costs (1,464) (1,661) 
Administrative expenses (1,422) (1,937) 
Other losses and gains (see below) (48)  149 
Exploration expenditure (see below) (154) (181) 
Operating (loss)/profit (4,112)  138 
US$ million 2015 2014
Operating (loss)/profit is stated after charging:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 12)
(1)
(2,337) (2,545) 
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 11)
(2)
(44) (46) 
Rentals under operating leases (123) (134) 
Exploration expenditure (see below) (154) (181) 
Evaluation expenditure (see below) (145) (218) 
Research and development expenditure (83) (101) 
Operating special items (note 6) (5,972) (4,374) 
Employee costs (note 26) (3,955) (4,514) 
Provisional pricing adjustment
(3)
(578) (219) 
Royalties
(4)
(264) (405) 
Other losses and gains comprise:
Operating remeasurements (note 6) (178) (1) 
Other fair value losses on derivatives – realised (19) (20) 
Foreign exchange gains on other monetary items 149  172 
Other – (2) 
Total other losses and gains (48)  149 
(1) 
In addition $82 million (2014: $110 million) of depreciation arising due to the fair value uplift of the Group’s pre-existing 45% shareholding in De Beers has been included within operating 
remeasurements (see note 6) and $73 million (2014: $105 million) of pre-commercial production depreciation has been capitalised.
(2) 
In addition $17 million (2014: $19 million) of amortisation arising due to the fair value uplift of the Group’s pre-existing 45% shareholding in De Beers has been included within operating 
remeasurements (see note 6) and $3 million (2014: nil) of pre-commercial amortisation has been capitalised.
(3) 
Provisionally priced sales contracts resulted in a total (realised and unrealised) loss in revenue of $610 million (2014: $226 million). Of this, $79 million relates to realised losses  
(2014: $49 million) for sales outstanding at 31 December 2014 that were settled in 2015, $390 million relates to realised losses (2014: $73 million) for sales entered into and settled  
in 2015, and $141 million relates to unrealised losses (2014: $104 million) for sales outstanding at 31 December 2015. In addition, provisionally priced purchase contracts resulted in  
operating gains of $32 million (2014: $7 million).
(4) 
Excludes those royalties which meet the definition of income tax on profit and accordingly have been accounted for as taxes.
(1)
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 125
Financial statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4. OPERATING (LOSS)/PROFIT FROM SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT OPERATIONS continued
Exploration and evaluation expenditure
See note 39j for the Group’s accounting policy on exploration and evaluation expenditure.
The Group’s analysis of exploration and evaluation expenditure recognised in the Consolidated income statement is as follows:
Exploration expenditure
(1)
Evaluation expenditure
(2)
US$ million 2015 2014 2015 2014
By commodity/product
Platinum group metals 7  8  6  9 
Diamonds 34  37  29  26 
Copper 41  37  69  84 
Nickel 9  16  4  4 
Niobium – – 1 1
Phosphates 4 4 1 8
Iron ore 13  25  11  56 
Metallurgical coal 7  8  14  19 
Thermal coal 4  9  10  11 
Central exploration activities 35  37 – –
 154  181  145  218 
(1) 
Exploration for Mineral Resources other than that occurring at existing operations and projects.
(2) 
Evaluation of Mineral Resources relating to projects in the conceptual or pre-feasibility stage or further evaluation of Mineral Resources at existing operations.
5. UNDERLYING EBIT AND UNDERLYING EARNINGS BY SEGMENT 
The following table analyses underlying EBIT (including the Group’s attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ underlying EBIT) by segment and 
reconciles it to underlying earnings by segment. Refer to note 3 for the definition of underlying EBIT.
Underlying earnings is an alternative earnings measure, which the directors consider to be a useful additional measure of the Group’s performance. 
Underlying earnings is profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company before special items and remeasurements and is 
therefore presented after net finance costs, income tax expense and non-controlling interests. For a reconciliation from ‘Loss for the financial year attributable 
to equity shareholders of the Company’ to ‘Underlying earnings for the financial year’, see note 9. 
2015
US$ million
Underlying 
EBIT
Operating 
special items and 
remeasurements
EBIT after 
special items and 
remeasurements
Net finance costs 
and income tax 
expense
Non-controlling 
interests
Underlying
earnings
Platinum 263  788 (525) (56) (39)  168 
De Beers 571  709 (138) (274) (39)  258 
Copper 228  282 (54) (120) (41)  67 
Nickel (22)  2 (24)  3  – (19) 
Niobium and Phosphates
(1)
 119 (1)  120 (71)  – 48 
Iron Ore and Manganese 671  3,314 (2,643) (323) (250)  98 
Coal 457  1,235 (778) (158) (7)  292 
Corporate and other (64)  47 (111) (34)  13 (85) 
 2,223  6,376 (4,153) (1,033) (363)  827 
2014
US$ million
Underlying
EBIT
Operating 
special items and 
remeasurements
EBIT after 
special items and 
remeasurements
Net finance costs 
and income tax 
expense
Non-controlling 
interests
Underlying
earnings
Platinum 32  52 (20) (14)  7  25 
De Beers 1,363  155  1,208 (264) (176)  923 
Copper 1,193 – 1,193 (482) (218)  493 
Nickel 21  21 – (15) – 6 
Niobium and Phosphates
(1)
 124 13 111 (59) – 65
Iron Ore and Manganese 1,957  3,670 (1,713) (583) (657)  717 
Coal 458  372  86 (154) (8)  296 
Corporate and other (215)  92 (307) (111)  18 (308) 
 4,933  4,375  558 (1,682) (1,034)  2,217 
(1) 
Niobium and Phosphates are now aggregated, having previously been presented separately (see note 3).
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 126 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
6. SPECIAL ITEMS AND REMEASUREMENTS
Special items and remeasurements are those items of financial performance that, due to their size and nature, the Group believes should be separately 
disclosed on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group. 
Special items that relate to the operating performance of the Group are classified as operating special items and principally include impairment charges 
and restructuring costs. Non-operating special items include costs in relation to closure of operations, profits and losses on disposal of investments and 
businesses as well as certain adjustments relating to business combinations. 
Remeasurements include:
 • Unrealised gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities that represent economic hedges, including accounting hedges related to financing 
arrangements. Where the underlying transaction is recorded in the income statement, the realised gains or losses are reversed from remeasurements and 
are recorded in underlying earnings in the same year as the underlying transaction for which the instruments provide the economic hedge. If the underlying 
transaction is recorded in the balance sheet, for example capital expenditure, the realised amount remains in remeasurements on settlement of the 
derivative. Such amounts are classified in the income statement as operating when the underlying exposure is in respect of the operating performance of the 
Group and otherwise as financing.
 • The remeasurement and subsequent depreciation and amortisation of a previously held equity interest as a result of a business combination. 
 • Foreign exchange impacts arising in US dollar functional currency entities where tax calculations are generated based on local currency financial information 
and hence deferred tax is susceptible to currency fluctuations. Such amounts are reported as tax remeasurements within income tax expense.
US$ million 2015 2014
Subsidiaries and joint operations
Minas-Rio impairment (2,503) (3,800) 
Coal impairments (1,218) (363) 
Platinum impairments (720) (44) 
De Beers Snap Lake care and maintenance (595) –
Sishen impairment (514) –
El Soldado impairment (274) –
Other impairments and related charges – (39) 
Restructuring costs (148) (128) 
Operating special items (5,972) (4,374) 
Operating remeasurements (178) (1) 
Operating special items and remeasurements (6,150) (4,375) 
Write-down to fair value of Rustenburg mine (728) –
Disposal of Anglo American Norte (287) –
Disposal of Tarmac businesses (172) – 
Disposal of Amapá (35) (46) 
Closure of Drayton – (222)
Ponahalo refinancing – (58) 
Atlatsa refinancing (note 35) – 22 
Kumba Envision Trust (40) (44) 
Other (16) (37) 
Non-operating special items (1,278) (385) 
Financing special items and remeasurements 615  36 
Special items and remeasurements before tax and non-controlling interests (6,813) (4,724) 
Special items and remeasurements tax 47 2 
Non-controlling interests on special items and remeasurements 584  38 
Share of associates' and joint ventures' special items and remeasurements
(1)
(269) (46) 
Total special items and remeasurements (6,451) (4,730) 
(1) 
Relates to the Iron Ore and Manganese, Coal and Platinum segments (2014: Coal segment).
Operating special items 
Impairments: Iron ore and coal operations
During 2015 a number of factors, including slowing of the expected rate of economic growth in China, together with a rebalancing of the Chinese economy, 
have driven a fundamental shift in the commodity demand outlook. At the same time, excess supply of a number of commodities, notably steel-making 
materials including iron ore and hard coking coal, is likely to persist in the short to medium term, further weighing on the prices of these commodities. 
Consequently, the valuations of the Group’s iron ore and hard coking coal operations have been reviewed based on the latest operating assumptions and 
management’s current estimates of future commodity prices and foreign exchange rates. This has resulted in a number of asset impairments which are 
detailed below.
The valuations prepared as at 31 December 2015 assume that prices and foreign exchange rates will remain close to those that prevailed in the final quarter of 
2015 for a three- to five-year period with a gradual recovery thereafter as supply tightens and producer country economies recover. The long- and short-term 
price assumptions used in the valuations are within the range of published analyst forecasts.
Minas-Rio
The Minas-Rio iron ore project (Minas-Rio) (Iron Ore and Manganese) in Brazil was acquired in two separate transactions in 2007 and 2008. Production 
commenced in 2014 and First Ore On Ship (FOOS) was delivered in October 2014. 
In 2012, an impairment charge of $4,960 million (before tax) was recorded against the carrying value of Minas-Rio. This was based on the value in use of the 
CGU and reflected an increase in estimate of attributable project capital expenditure to $8.8 billion, including a $0.6 billion contingency, as well as the impact 
of high inflation on operational costs. In 2014, a further impairment charge of $3,800 million (before tax) was recorded due to a continued decline in the pricing 
environment for iron ore based on a value in use of $5.6 billion. At the time it was highlighted that the valuation remained sensitive to price and further 
deterioration in prices might result in additional impairment. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 127
Financial statements
6. SPECIAL ITEMS AND REMEASUREMENTS continued
In June 2015 the Group recorded an additional impairment charge of $2,503 million (before tax) against the carrying value of the CGU, driven by a further 
deterioration in iron ore pricing. The valuation of Minas-Rio, based on the value in use of the CGU, determined on a pre-tax discounted cash flow basis 
(see note 1) (real pre-tax discount rate of 8.5% (2014: 8.5%)) was $3.6 billion as at 30 June 2015. This charge was recorded against capital works in progress. 
A related deferred tax asset of $404 million was also written down to reflect a reduced likelihood of recovering the associated tax deductions. 
The valuation of Minas-Rio was re-assessed as at 31 December 2015 in light of the continued decline in iron ore prices. No further impairment has been 
recorded as the impact of lower pricing in the short term has been offset by a number of factors, notably a significant weakening of the Brazilian real. However, 
the valuation remains sensitive to price, and to assumptions regarding the permit and licence issuance schedule. Adverse changes to these assumptions could 
result in further impairments. 
Sishen 
The Sishen iron ore mine (Iron Ore and Manganese) is located in the Northern Cape Province in South Africa. As a result of the deterioration in the iron ore 
market, management has undertaken a strategic review to reconfigure the Sishen pit in order to optimise margins. The new pit shell configuration will enable 
a more flexible mining approach and lower unit costs and capital expenditure over the Life of Mine. 
Whilst these measures have been undertaken to respond to the impact of the weaker iron ore price environment, a pre-tax impairment charge of $514 million 
($372 million after tax) has been recorded against the carrying value of the CGU, based on a valuation of $1.3 billion. The valuation has been assessed based 
on the asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and measured using discounted cash flow projections (see note 1). Of the impairment charge, $184 million has 
been recorded against mining properties and leases, $55 million against land and buildings, $61 million against capital works in progress and $214 million 
against plant and equipment, with an associated tax credit of $142 million. The valuation remains sensitive to price and execution of the new pit design, and 
adverse changes to these assumptions could result in further impairments.
Coal 
In June 2015, a pre-tax impairment of $624 million ($437 million after tax) was recorded in relation to the Coal Australia assets, principally comprising an 
impairment of $539 million at Capcoal. At the time it was highlighted that the valuation remained sensitive to price and further deterioration in prices might 
result in additional impairment. 
In the second half of the year, further pre-tax impairments totalling $429 million have been recorded against the Group’s metallurgical coal operations in 
central Queensland, driven by the impact of weak coal prices on margins, particularly for the open cut operations. The post-tax impairment charge is also 
$429 million. This comprises an additional impairment of $100 million at Capcoal, based on a valuation of $0.2 billion, $234 million at Dawson, based on 
a valuation of $0.2 billion, and $95 million at Foxleigh, which has been fully impaired. Of this charge, $201 million has been recorded against plant and 
equipment, $155 million against mining properties and leases, $41 million against land and buildings and $32 million against capital works in progress. 
The remaining impairment charge of $165 million relates to Peace River Coal in Canada which was fully impaired at 30 June 2015. The post-tax impairment 
charge is also $165 million.
The valuations have been assessed based on the respective operations’ fair value less costs of disposal and measured using discounted cash flow projections 
(see note 1). The valuation of the Group’s Coal Australia assets remains sensitive to price and further deterioration in pricing could result in additional impairments.
Other impairments
Platinum
During 2015 there has been a significant deterioration in platinum group metals (PGM) market conditions. Although, in the near term, the growth outlook 
for PGMs is unclear due to potentially reduced platinum jewellery demand in China and uncertainty surrounding the auto-catalyst market, longer term 
demand is forecast to be robust given the expected demand for new and cleaner vehicles in maturing economies, coupled with increasingly stringent global 
emissions legislation.  
The Group has taken a number of steps to respond to these conditions. These include restructuring the business to reduce overheads, cutting cash negative 
production, and suspending capital expenditure on growth projects other than those that are already near completion. 
In the second half of 2015, development of the Twickenham project has been suspended. Existing operations at Twickenham will be placed on care and 
maintenance during 2016 and the project is being reconfigured for the longer term as a largely mechanised underground operation. As a result, some of the 
previously capitalised costs associated with the development of Twickenham as a conventional mine, along with related assets and infrastructure, are no 
longer expected to provide future economic benefits, resulting in an impairment charge of $236 million. In addition, as a result of the review of capital projects 
across the Platinum business, further capitalised development costs and assets of $42 million have been written off. 
The Group, along with Atlatsa Resources Corporation (Atlatsa), the controlling shareholder of Bokoni, has conducted a technical review of the Bokoni 
operation to optimise the mine plan and allow it to operate on a cash-positive basis. The revised plan is currently being implemented but Bokoni is likely to 
remain cash negative for some time. Consequently, the Group has fully impaired its equity interests in Bokoni, which comprise a 49% interest in the underlying 
operation, and a 23% interest in Atlatsa. In addition, the Group has fully impaired the loans it has extended to Atlatsa and Atlatsa Holdings (the controlling Black 
Economic Empowerment shareholder of Atlatsa). The total impairment charge relating to Bokoni is $212 million, of which $93 million has been recorded 
against Investments in associates and $119 million against Financial asset investments. 
The Group holds a 33% interest in the Bafokeng-Rasimone Platinum Mine (BRPM) and a 12% shareholding in Royal Bafokeng Platinum Limited (RBPlat), 
the Johannesburg Stock Exchange listed controlling shareholder of the operation. Given the reduction in the market capitalisation of RBPlat, the carrying 
value of the investment in BRPM has been assessed for impairment. This has resulted in an impairment of $178 million which has been recorded against 
Investments in associates.
In addition, cumulative fair value losses of $52 million on the Group’s 12% investment in RBPlat, which have previously been recorded in the statement of 
comprehensive income, have been recycled to the income statement as an impairment loss, as the decline in RBPlat’s market value is considered to have been 
significant and prolonged.
The aggregate pre-tax impairment charge is $720 million and the aggregate post-tax impairment charge is $642 million.
Snap Lake (De Beers)
Following a review of the operation, and in light of current market conditions, management has decided to place the Snap Lake operation, located in the North 
West Territory in Canada, on long term care and maintenance. A pre-tax impairment of $595 million has been recorded. The carrying value associated with the 
operation, comprising $502 million of mining properties and leases, is considered unlikely to provide future economic benefit and has been reduced to nil. The 
remainder of the impairment charge relates to the write-off of associated goodwill, redundant consumables and provisions for severance costs and similar 
items. The aggregate post-tax impairment charge is also $595 million.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 128 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
6. SPECIAL ITEMS AND REMEASUREMENTS continued
El Soldado (Copper)
The Group holds a 50.1% interest in the El Soldado copper mine, which is part of Anglo American Sur. To mitigate the impact of the recent deterioration in 
copper prices, management has made changes to the mine sequencing, in order to optimise cash flows in the near term. Despite these modifications, an 
impairment of $274 million (before tax) has been recorded against the carrying value of the asset. The valuation of the asset, based on the operation’s fair 
value less costs of disposal and measured using discounted cash flow projections (see note 1), is $0.2 billion. Of this charge, $202 million has been recorded 
against mining properties and leases and $72 million against plant and equipment with an associated tax credit of $82 million. The post-tax impairment charge 
is $192 million. The valuation is sensitive to price and further deterioration might result in additional impairment.
Restructuring costs
Restructuring costs of $148 million (2014: $128 million) relate to organisational changes as part of the Driving Value programme. The post-tax charge is 
$119 million (2014: $107 million).
2014
Operating special items in 2014 principally comprise impairments and related charges in respect of Minas-Rio and Peace River Coal.
Operating remeasurements
Operating remeasurements reflect a net loss of $178 million (2014: $1 million) which principally comprises losses of $78 million (2014: gains of $136 million) in 
respect of derivatives related to capital expenditure in Iron Ore Brazil and a $99 million depreciation and amortisation charge (2014: $129 million) arising due 
to the fair value uplift on the Group’s pre-existing 45% shareholding in De Beers, which was required on acquisition of a controlling stake. The post-tax loss is 
$123 million (2014: $27 million).
Derivatives in relation to Iron Ore Brazil which have been realised during the period had a cumulative net operating remeasurement loss of $162 million 
(2014: $140 million).
Non-operating special items
Rustenburg
On 9 September, Anglo American Platinum announced that it had entered into a binding agreement to sell the Rustenburg mine to Sibanye Gold Limited, 
subject to certain conditions. 
The value of the Rustenburg mine and its associated mineral rights is expected to be recovered principally through sale. A pre-tax impairment charge of $728 
million ($537 million after tax) has been recorded against the carrying value of the Rustenburg assets in order to bring their carrying value into line with fair 
value less costs of disposal, based upon the estimated value of the agreed sale consideration, of $0.2 billion. This excludes any economic value generated from 
the future purchase of concentrate and toll treatment arrangements which will be recognised for accounting purposes at the time when the benefit is received. 
The impairment charge has been recorded principally against property, plant and equipment, of which $452 million is against mining properties and leases, 
and includes an allocation of goodwill of $41 million.
Anglo American Norte
On 11 September 2015, the Group completed the sale of its interest in Anglo American Norte S.A. (AA Norte) (Copper). The company consists of the 
Mantoverde and Mantos Blancos copper mines located in northern Chile. The consideration comprises $300 million in cash plus deferred consideration up 
to a maximum of $200 million, contingent upon certain conditions (see note 30). At 31 December 2015 the remaining deferred contingent consideration, of up 
to $150 million, has been valued at nil. A pre-tax loss on disposal of $287 million (post-tax $350 million) has been recorded.
Tarmac 
On 17 July 2015, the Group completed the sale of its 50% ownership interest in Lafarge Tarmac (Corporate and other) to Lafarge for cash proceeds of 
approximately £992 million ($1,559 million), constituting the agreed minimum consideration of £885 million and approximately £107 million of working capital 
and other adjustments. In addition, during the year the Group has disposed of the majority of its interests in Tarmac Middle East (TME) (Corporate and other) 
which supplies aggregates, asphalt and road base contracting services to the Middle East construction industry. The sale of a further interest in TME was 
completed in January 2016. Disposal of the one remaining TME interest is well advanced. A loss of $172 million (also $172 million after tax) has been 
recognised on disposal of the Tarmac businesses.
2014
Non-operating special items in 2014 principally relate to closure provisions and asset write downs in relation to Drayton and Drayton South (Coal), charges 
arising on the revaluation of deferred contingent consideration for the disposal of Amapá (Corporate and other), the refinancing of Ponahalo Investments (RF) 
Proprietary Limited, a Black Economic Empowerment partner (De Beers), and a net gain on the refinancing transaction for Atlatsa (Platinum). 
Financing special items and remeasurements
Financing special items and remeasurements reflect a net gain of $615 million (2014: $36 million). The associated tax is a credit of $54 million (2014: charge of 
$36 million). This principally relates to a debit valuation adjustment on derivative liabilities hedging net debt of $555 million. This adjustment is incorporated 
into the valuation of these derivatives to reflect the impact on the fair value of Anglo American’s own credit quality. The net gain reflects an increase in 
observed credit spreads for Anglo American, see note 18 for further detail.
Tax associated with special items and remeasurements 
Total tax relating to subsidiaries and joint operations amounts to a credit of $47 million (2014: $2 million).
This includes one-off tax charges of $829 million (2014: $105 million), tax credits on special items and remeasurements of $769 million (2014: $412 million) 
and tax remeasurement credits of $107 million (2014: charges of $305 million).
One-off tax charges of $829 million primarily comprise the write down of deferred tax assets at Minas-Rio of $404 million, Kumba Iron Ore of $65 million, 
Coal of $175 million, De Beers Canada of $61 million and Corporate of $83 million, where it is no longer considered probable that these assets can be 
recovered against future taxable profits.
Of the total tax credit of $47 million, $55 million relates to a current tax charge (2014: credit of $31 million) and $102 million relates to a deferred tax credit 
(2014: charge of $29 million).
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 129
Financial statements
7. NET FINANCE INCOME/(COSTS)
See note 39b for the Group’s accounting policy on borrowing costs.
Net finance income/(costs) are presented net of hedges for respective interest bearing and foreign currency borrowings. The weighted average capitalisation 
rate applied to qualifying capital expenditure was 2.90% (2014: 3.83%).
US$ million 2015 2014
Investment income
Interest income from cash and cash equivalents 92 128 
Other interest income 69 88 
Net interest income on defined benefit arrangements 12 14 
Dividend income from financial asset investments 9 25 
182 255 
Less: interest income capitalised (10) (13) 
Total investment income
(1)
172 242 
Interest expense
Interest and other finance expense (706) (709) 
Net interest cost on defined benefit arrangements (54) (69) 
Unwinding of discount relating to provisions (96) (101) 
(856) (879) 
Less: interest expense capitalised 367 382 
Total interest expense
(1)
(489) (497) 
Other net financing losses
Net foreign exchange losses (180) (37) 
Other net fair value gains 39 36 
Total other net financing losses (141) (1) 
Net finance costs before special items and remeasurements (458) (256) 
Special items and remeasurements (note 6) 615 36 
Net finance income/(costs) after special items and remeasurements 157 (220) 
(1) 
Interest income recognised at amortised cost is $115 million (2014: $152 million) and interest expense recognised at amortised cost is $307 million (2014: $286 million).
8. INCOME TAX EXPENSE
See note 39c for the Group’s accounting policy on tax.
a) Analysis of charge for the year
US$ million 2015 2014
United Kingdom corporation tax (11) (14) 
South Africa tax 214 479 
Other overseas tax 338 712 
Prior year adjustments (58) (68) 
Current tax
(1)
 483 1,109 
Deferred tax (48) 158 
Income tax expense before special items and remeasurements 435 1,267 
Special items and remeasurements tax (note 6) (47) (2) 
Income tax expense 388 1,265 
(1) 
Includes royalties which meet the definition of income tax and are in addition to royalties recorded in operating costs.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 130 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
8. INCOME TAX EXPENSE continued
b) Factors affecting tax charge for the year
The effective tax rate for the year of (7.1)% (2014: (488.4%)) is lower (2014: lower) than the applicable weighted average statutory rate of corporation tax in 
the United Kingdom of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%). The reconciling items, excluding the impact of associates and joint ventures, are:
US$ million 2015 2014
Loss before tax (5,454) (259) 
Less: share of net loss/(income) from associates and joint ventures 221 (208) 
Loss before tax (excluding associates and joint ventures) (5,233) (467) 
Tax on loss (excluding associates and joint ventures) calculated at United Kingdom corporation tax rate of 20.25%  
(2014: 21.5%)
(1,060) (100) 
Tax effects of:
Items non-taxable/deductible for tax purposes
Exploration expenditure 15 18 
Non-deductible/(taxable) net foreign exchange losses/(gains) 15 (12) 
Non-taxable net interest income (29) (8) 
Other non-deductible expenses 144 72 
Other non-taxable income (92) (138) 
Temporary difference adjustments
Current year losses not recognised 12 79 
Recognition of losses not previously recognised (18) (143) 
Utilisation of losses not previously recognised (13) (13) 
Write-off of losses previously recognised 29 65 
Adjustment in deferred tax due to change in tax rate (2) 106 
Other temporary differences 13 95 
Special items and remeasurements
(1)
1,333 1,014 
Other adjustments
Secondary tax on companies and dividend withholding taxes 52 193 
Effect of differences between local and United Kingdom tax rates 46 106
Prior year adjustments to current tax (58) (68) 
Other adjustments 1 (1) 
Income tax expense 388 1,265 
(1) 
The special items and remeasurements reconciling item of $1,333 million (2014: $1,014 million) relates to the net tax impact of total special items and remeasurements before tax calculated 
at the United Kingdom corporation tax rate less the associated tax recorded against these items, one-off tax charges and tax remeasurements. See note 6 for further details of the tax amounts 
included within special items and remeasurements.
IAS 1 requires income from associates and joint ventures to be presented net of tax on the face of the income statement. Associates’ and joint ventures’ tax  
is therefore excluded from the Group’s income tax expense. Associates’ and joint ventures’ tax included within ‘Share of net (loss)/income from associates  
and joint ventures’ for the year ended 31 December 2015 is $143 million (2014: $159 million). Excluding special items and remeasurements this becomes 
$100 million (2014: $113 million).
The effective tax rate before special items and remeasurements including attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ tax for the year ended 
31 December 2015 was 31.0%. This is higher than the equivalent effective tax rate of 29.8% for the year ended 31 December 2014 due to the net impact of 
certain prior year adjustments, the remeasurement of withholding tax provisions across the Group, and the relative levels of profits arising in the Group’s 
operating jurisdictions. In future periods it is expected that the effective tax rate will remain above the United Kingdom statutory tax rate.
c) Tax amounts included in other comprehensive income
An analysis of tax by individual item presented in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income is presented below:
US$ million 2015 2014
Tax (charge)/credit on items recognised directly in equity that will not be reclassified to the income statement
Remeasurement of net retirement benefit obligation (30) 9
Tax credit/(charge) on items recognised directly in equity that may subsequently be reclassified to the income statement
Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 35 (15) 
Net loss on revaluation of available for sale investments 33 26 
Net (gain)/loss on cash flow hedges (5) 4 
33 24
Tax credit on items transferred from equity
Transferred to initial carrying amount of hedged items: cash flow hedges – 1
– 1
d) Tax amounts recognised directly in equity
No significant amounts of tax have been charged directly to equity in 2015 or 2014. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 131
Financial statements
9. LOSS PER SHARE
US$ 2015 2014
Loss per share
Basic (4.36) (1.96) 
Diluted (4.36) (1.96) 
Headline earnings per share
Basic  0.29  1.20 
Diluted  0.29  1.19
Underlying earnings per share
Basic  0.64  1.73 
Diluted  0.64  1.72 
Basic and diluted earnings per share are shown based on headline earnings, a Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) defined performance measure, and 
underlying earnings (explained in note 5) which the directors consider to be a useful additional measure of the Group’s performance. 
Basic and diluted number of ordinary shares outstanding represent the weighted average for the year. The average number of ordinary shares in issue 
excludes shares held by employee benefit trusts and Anglo American plc shares held by Group companies.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
Loss attributable to equity 
shareholders of the Company Headline earnings Underlying earnings
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
(Loss)/earnings (US$ million)
Basic and diluted (loss)/earnings (5,624) (2,513) 369 1,535  827  2,217 
Number of shares (million)
Basic number of ordinary shares outstanding 1,289  1,284  1,289  1,284  1,289  1,284 
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Share options and awards – – 3  5 3  5 
Diluted number of ordinary shares outstanding 1,289  1,284  1,292  1,289  1,292  1,289 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially 
dilutive ordinary shares. Potential ordinary shares shall be treated as dilutive when, and only when, their conversion to ordinary shares would decrease 
earnings per share or increase loss per share from continuing operations.
Basic loss per share is equal to diluted loss per share as all 12,855,264 (2014: 18,431,061) potential ordinary shares are anti-dilutive. 8,996,586 (2014: 178,808) 
shares have been excluded from the calculation of diluted headline earnings per share and diluted underlying earnings per share as they are anti-dilutive. 
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share, based on headline and underlying earnings, uses the following earnings data:
US$ million 2015 2014
Loss for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company (5,624) (2,513) 
Operating special items 5,899  4,268
Operating special items – tax (489) (362) 
Operating special items – non-controlling interests (413) (16) 
Non-operating special items 1,181  218
Non-operating special items – tax (127) (51) 
Non-operating special items – non-controlling interests (58) (9) 
Headline earnings for the financial year  369 1,535
Operating special items
(1)
 299  106
Operating remeasurements 178  1 
Non-operating special items
(2)
 97  167
Financing special items and remeasurements (615) (36) 
Tax special items 829  105 
Special items and remeasurements tax (217)  352 
Non-controlling interests on special items and remeasurements (113) (13) 
Underlying earnings for the financial year  827  2,217 
(1) 
Includes restructuring costs (2014: restructuring costs).
(2) 
Principally relates to the Kumba Envision Trust (2014: Kumba Envision Trust and Ponahalo refinancing).
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 132 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
10. DIVIDENDS
Dividends payable during the year are as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
Final ordinary dividend for 2014 – 53 US cents per ordinary share (2013: 53 US cents per ordinary share) 680 696 
Interim ordinary dividend for 2015 – 32 US cents per ordinary share (2014: 32 US cents per ordinary share) 398 403 
1,078 1,099
Total dividends paid during the year were $1,078 million (2014: $1,099 million). 
No final dividend is proposed in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: 53 US cents per share).
The employee benefit trust has waived the right to receive dividends on the shares it holds (see note 32).
11. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
See notes 39d, 39e and 39i for the Group’s accounting policies on intangible assets.
2015 2014
US$ million
Brands, 
contracts  
and other
intangibles
(1)
Goodwill Total
Brands,
contracts  
and other
intangibles
(1)
Goodwill Total
Net book value
At 1 January 1,359  2,553  3,912  1,415  2,668  4,083 
Additions 10 – 10  22  – 22
Amortisation charge for the year
(2)
(64) – (64) (65) – (65) 
Impairments
(3)
– (93) (93) – – –
Remeasurements – – – – 46 46
Currency movements (81) (290) (371) (13) (161) (174) 
At 31 December 1,224  2,170  3,394  1,359  2,553  3,912 
Cost 1,481  2,170  3,651  1,592  2,553  4,145 
Accumulated amortisation (257) – (257) (233) – (233) 
(1) 
Includes brands, contracts and other intangibles of $1,185 million (2014: $1,308 million) relating to De Beers, principally comprising assets that were recognised at fair value on acquisition  
of a controlling interest in De Beers in August 2012. Of these, $517 million (2014: $517 million) have indefinite useful lives.
(2) 
Includes $17 million (2014: $19 million) of amortisation arising due to the fair value uplift of the Group’s pre-existing 45% shareholding in De Beers, which has been included within operating 
remeasurements (see note 6) and $3 million (2014: nil) of pre-commercial production amortisation which has been capitalised.
(3) 
Includes goodwill of $52 million allocated to Snap Lake (De Beers) which has been written off as the operation has been placed on care and maintenance, and goodwill of $41 million allocated 
to Rustenburg (Platinum) which has been written down to fair value. See note 6 for further details.
Impairment tests for goodwill
See note 39f for the Group’s accounting policy on impairment of goodwill.
Goodwill is allocated for impairment testing purposes to cash generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs which reflect how it is monitored for internal 
management purposes. This allocation largely represents the Group’s segments. The allocation of goodwill to CGUs or groups of CGUs is as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
Platinum 189  230 
De Beers 1,553  1,895 
Copper 124  124 
Coal South Africa 88  88 
Other 216 216
 2,170  2,553 
For the purposes of goodwill impairment testing, the recoverable amount of each of the CGUs or group of CGUs has been determined based on a fair value 
less costs of disposal basis. The key assumptions used in determining fair value less costs of disposal are set out in note 1. Management believes that any 
reasonably possible change in a key assumption on which the recoverable amounts are based would not cause the carrying amounts to exceed their 
recoverable amounts. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 133
Financial statements
12. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
See notes 39g to 39j for the Group’s accounting policies on property, plant and equipment.
2015 2014
US$ million
Mining 
properties
and leases
Land and 
buildings
(1)
Plant and 
equipment
Capital works
in progress Total
Mining 
properties
and leases
Land and 
buildings
(1)
Plant and 
equipment
Capital works
in progress Total
Net book value
At 1 January 13,018  3,067  11,115  11,275  38,475  14,996  3,030  11,530  11,949  41,505 
Additions 568  25  160  3,846  4,599  596  46  311  5,452  6,405 
Depreciation charge 
for the year
(2)
(921) (150) (1,421) – (2,492) (1,065) (161) (1,534) – (2,760) 
Impairments and 
losses on assets 
transferred to held 
for sale (2,104) (166) (1,018) (2,699) (5,987)
(3)
 (1,242) (26) (213) (2,935) (4,416) 
Disposal of assets – (5) (18) (5) (28) (3) (20) (30) (3) (56) 
Disposal of business 
and transferred to held 
for sale (63) (9) (294) (60) (426)
(4)
 – – – – –
Reclassifications 714  380  1,602 (2,696) – 859  345  1,573 (2,777) –
Currency movements (2,239) (371) (1,196) (714) (4,520) (1,123) (147) (522) (411) (2,203) 
At 31 December 8,973  2,771  8,930  8,947  29,621  13,018  3,067  11,115  11,275  38,475 
Cost 21,859  4,199  19,321  14,520  59,899  24,206  4,307  21,525  14,497  64,535 
Accumulated 
depreciation (12,886) (1,428) (10,391) (5,573) (30,278) (11,188) (1,240) (10,410) (3,222) (26,060) 
(1) 
Net book value principally comprises freehold land and buildings.
(2) 
Includes $2,337 million (2014: $2,545 million) of depreciation within operating loss, $82 million (2014: $110 million) of depreciation arising due to the fair value uplift on the pre-existing 45% 
shareholding in De Beers which has been included within operating remeasurements (see note 6), and $73 million (2014: $105 million) of pre-commercial production depreciation which has 
been capitalised.
(3) 
Includes $684 million for the write-down of Rustenburg (see note 6).
(4) 
Includes $412 million for the transfer and subsequent disposal of Anglo American Norte (see note 30).
For information on the impairments recorded in the year see note 6. 
Included in the additions is $357 million (2014: $369 million) of net interest expense incurred on borrowings funding the construction of qualifying assets 
which has been capitalised during the year.
Assets held under finance leases relate to plant and equipment with a net book value of $56 million (2014: $70 million), of which depreciation charges in the 
year amounted to $6 million (2014: $13 million).
13. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES
See note 39k for the Group’s accounting policy on associates and joint arrangements, which includes joint ventures. 
Details of principal associates and joint ventures are set out in note 37. 
2015 2014
US$ million Associates
Joint  
ventures Total Associates
Joint  
ventures Total
At 1 January 2,681  1,695  4,376  2,936  1,676  4,612 
Share of net (loss)/income from associates and joint ventures 14 (235) (221) 140  68  208 
Dividends received (81) (243) (324) (432) (3) (435) 
Investment in equity and capitalised loans 77  3 80 125  25  150 
Repayments of capitalised loans (67) – (67) – – –
Reclassification
(2)
(812)  812 – – – –
Impairments and losses on assets transferred to held for sale (271)
(3)
 (71) (342) – – –
Transferred to assets held for sale – (1,547) (1,547) – – –
Other movements – 45 45 1  28  29 
Currency movements (167)  (16) (183) (89) (99) (188) 
At 31 December 1,374  443 1,817 2,681  1,695  4,376 
(1) 
Includes non-cash investment of $69 million relating to the refinancing of Atlatsa Resources Corporation (see note 35).
(2) 
The reclassification relates to the Group's interest in Samancor (Iron Ore and Manganese). Samancor has been accounted for as a joint venture since March 2015, following amendments to the 
agreement that governs the Group's interests in Samancor which resulted in the Group acquiring joint control over the business (previously accounted for as an associate).
(3) 
Includes $93 million relating to the impairment of the Group’s interest in Bokoni and $178 million for the Group’s interest in Bafokeng Rasimone Platinum Mine (see note 6). 
The Group’s total investments in associates and joint ventures comprise:
2015 2014
US$ million Associates
Joint  
ventures Total Associates
Joint  
ventures Total
Equity 1,233  294  1,527  2,294  1,695  3,989 
Loans
(1)
 141  149  290  387 – 387 
 1,374  443  1,817  2,681  1,695  4,376 
(1) 
The Group’s total investments in associates and joint ventures include long term loans which in substance form part of the Group’s net investment. These loans are not repayable in the 
foreseeable future.
(1)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 134 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
13. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES continued
None of the Group’s associates or joint ventures are considered to be individually material to the Group, and therefore the Group’s share of the financial 
information of associates and joint ventures is disclosed on an aggregated basis.
2015 2014
US$ million Associates
Joint  
ventures Total Associates
Joint  
ventures Total
Non-current assets 1,314  640 1,954 2,742  2,035  4,777 
Current assets 458  50  508  924  626  1,550 
Current liabilities (184) (172) (356) (363) (557) (920) 
Non-current liabilities (214) (75) (289) (622) (409) (1,031) 
Net assets 1,374  443 1,817 2,681  1,695  4,376 
Revenue 1,208  1,340  2,548  2,101  1,814  3,915 
Share of net (loss)/income from associates and joint ventures 14 (235) (221)  140  68  208 
Total comprehensive (expense)/income 14 (235) (221)  141  68  209 
Segmental information is provided in aggregate for associates and joint ventures in the table below. 
Aggregate investment
US$ million 2015 2014
Platinum 251  659 
De Beers 44  33 
Iron Ore and Manganese 391  867 
Coal 1,096  1,225 
Corporate and other 35  1,592 
 1,817 4,376 
14. FINANCIAL ASSET INVESTMENTS
See notes 39l and 39m for the Group’s accounting policies on financial asset investments.
2015 2014
US$ million
Loans and 
receivables
Available  
for sale 
investments Total
Loans and 
receivables
Available  
for sale 
investments Total
At 1 January 761  505  1,266  759  706  1,465 
Additions – 1  1  –  12  12 
Interest receivable 43 – 43  52 – 52 
Net loans granted 216 – 216  33
(1)
 – 33 
Impairments (130)
(2)
– (130) – – –
Movements in fair value (7) (236) (243) (1) (150) (151) 
Currency movements (221) (86) (307) (82) (63) (145) 
At 31 December 662  184  846  761  505  1,266 
(1) 
Includes net non-cash settlements of $47 million relating to the refinancing of Atlatsa Resources Corporation (see note 35).
(2) 
Includes $119 million relating to the impairment of loans to Atlatsa and Atlatsa Holdings (see note 6).
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 135
Financial statements
15. INVENTORIES
See note 39q for the Group’s accounting policy on inventories.
US$ million 2015 2014
Raw materials and consumables 952 1,087 
Work in progress 1,076 1,445 
Finished products 2,023 2,188 
4,051 4,720 
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to $13,945 million (2014: $17,779 million). 
Inventories held at net realisable value amounted to $1,048 million (2014: $1,014 million).
The write-down of inventories (net of revaluation of provisionally priced purchases) amounted to $121 million (2014: $153 million).
16. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Trade receivables do not incur any interest, are principally short term in nature and are measured at their nominal value (with the exception of receivables 
relating to provisionally priced sales, as set out in the revenue recognition accounting policy, see note 39a), net of appropriate provision for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts. Such provisions are raised based on an assessment of debtor ageing, past experience or known customer circumstances.
2015 2014
US$ million
Due within 
one year
Due after  
one year Total
Due within 
one year
Due after  
one year Total
Trade receivables 1,355  135  1,490  1,807  161  1,968 
Tax receivables 271  238  509 383 253 636
Prepayments 105  23  128  157  58  215 
Other receivables 252  143  395  221  273 494
 1,983  539  2,522  2,568  745  3,313 
Of the year end trade receivables balance, $55 million (2014: $61 million) were past due at 31 December, stated after an associated impairment provision 
of $18 million (2014: $30 million). The overdue debtor ageing profile is typical of the industry in which certain of the Group’s businesses operate. Given this, 
the use of payment security instruments (including letters of credit from acceptable financial institutions), and the nature of the related counterparties, these 
amounts are considered recoverable. The historical level of customer default is minimal and as a result the credit quality of year end trade receivables is 
considered to be high.
17. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are measured at their nominal value (with the exception of payables relating to purchases of provisionally priced 
concentrate which are marked to market using the appropriate forward price) until settled.
US$ million 2015 2014
Trade payables 1,610 1,931 
Accruals 741 975 
Deferred income
(1)
46 57
Tax and social security 71 99 
Other payables 311 478 
2,779 3,540 
(1) 
Includes $26 million (2014: $25 million) of deferred income recorded within non-current liabilities.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 136 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
18. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
See notes 39l, 39m and 39n for the Group’s accounting policies on impairment of financial assets, derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting.
The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities are as shown below. Where the carrying amount of a financial asset or liability does not 
approximate its fair value, this is also disclosed. 
For financial assets and liabilities which are traded on an active market, such as listed investments or listed debt instruments, fair value is determined by 
reference to market value. For non-traded financial assets and liabilities, fair value is calculated using discounted cash flows, considered to be reasonable and 
consistent with those that would be used by a market participant, and based on observable market data where available, unless carrying value is considered to 
approximate fair value.
All derivatives that have been designated into hedge relationships have been separately disclosed.
2015
US$ million
At fair value 
through profit  
and loss
Loans and 
receivables
Available 
for sale
Designated  
into hedges
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised cost Total
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables
(1)
 632  1,253 – – – 1,885 
Derivative financial assets
(2)
 672 – – 477 – 1,149 
Cash and cash equivalents – 6,895 – – – 6,895 
Financial asset investments – 662  184 – – 846 
 1,304  8,810  184  477 – 10,775 
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
(1)
(225) – – – (2,437) (2,662) 
Derivative financial liabilities
(2)
(2,439) – – (24) – (2,463) 
Borrowings
(3)
– – – (14,800) (3,167) (17,967) 
(2,664) – – (14,824) (5,604) (23,092) 
Net financial (liabilities)/assets (1,360)  8,810  184 (14,347) (5,604) (12,317) 
2014
US$ million
At fair value  
through profit  
and loss
Loans and 
receivables
Available 
for sale
Designated  
into hedges
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised cost Total
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables
(1)
 912  1,553 – – – 2,465 
Derivative financial assets
(2)
 153 – – 980 – 1,133 
Cash and cash equivalents – 6,748 – – – 6,748 
Financial asset investments – 761  505 – – 1,266 
 1,065  9,062  505  980 – 11,612 
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
(1)
(314) – – – (3,073) (3,387) 
Derivative financial liabilities
(2)
(2,277) – – (47) – (2,324) 
Borrowings
(3)
– – – (15,048) (3,487) (18,535) 
(2,591) – – (15,095) (6,560) (24,246) 
Net financial (liabilities)/assets (1,526)  9,062  505 (14,115) (6,560) (12,634) 
(1) 
Trade and other receivables exclude prepayments and tax receivables. Trade and other payables exclude tax and social security and deferred income.
(2) 
Derivative instruments are analysed between those which are ‘Held for trading’ and those designated into hedge relationships in note 19.
(3) 
Borrowings designated in fair value hedges represent listed debt which is held at amortised cost, adjusted for the fair value of the hedged risk (for example interest rate risk). The fair value of 
these borrowings is $10,898 million (2014: $15,339 million), which is based on the quoted market price and consequently categorised as level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. The fair value of the 
remaining borrowings at amortised cost of $3,167 million, principally comprising bank borrowings, is $2,463 million as at 31 December 2015, with the difference between the carrying value 
and the fair value reflecting primarily the debit valuation adjustment to reflect the effect of Anglo American’s own credit quality based on observed credit spreads at the balance sheet date. 
At 31 December 2014 the carrying value of borrowings at amortised cost of $3,487 million was considered to approximate the fair value.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 137
Financial statements
18. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 
Fair value hierarchy
An analysis of financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value is set out below:
2015 2014
US$ million Level 1
(1)
Level 2
(2)
Level 3
(3)
Total Level 1
(1)
Level 2
(2)
Level 3
(3)
Total
Financial assets
At fair value through profit and loss
Provisionally priced trade receivables – 562 – 562 – 812 – 812 
Other receivables – – 70  70 – – 100  100 
Derivatives hedging net debt – 628  17  645 – 51  59  110 
Other derivatives 9  18 – 27  1  42 – 43 
Designated into hedges
Derivatives hedging net debt – 477 – 477 – 979 – 979 
Other derivatives – – – – 1 – – 1 
Available for sale investments
Financial asset investments 162 – 22  184  457 – 48  505 
 171  1,685 109 1,965 459  1,884  207  2,550 
Financial liabilities
At fair value through profit and loss
Provisionally priced trade payables – (225) – (225) – (314) – (314) 
Derivatives hedging net debt – (2,207) (736) (2,943) – (1,647) (499) (2,146) 
Other derivatives – (63) – (63) (2) (129) – (131) 
Designated into hedges
Derivatives hedging net debt – (17) – (17) – (27) – (27) 
Other derivatives – (7) – (7) – (20) – (20) 
Debit valuation adjustment to derivative 
liabilities
(4)
– 386  181  567 – – – –
– (2,133) (555) (2,688) (2) (2,137) (499) (2,638) 
Net assets/(liabilities) carried at fair value 171 (448) (446) (723)  457 (253) (292) (88) 
(1) 
Valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments. This category includes listed equity shares.
(2) 
Valued using techniques based significantly on observable market data. Instruments in this category are valued using valuation techniques where all of the inputs that have a significant effect 
on the valuation are directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
(3) 
Instruments in this category have been valued using a valuation technique where at least one input (which could have a significant effect on the instrument’s valuation) is not based on 
observable market data. Where inputs can be observed from market data without undue cost and effort, the observed input is used. Otherwise, management determines a reasonable estimate 
for the input. 
(4) 
The debit valuation adjustment is recorded to reflect in the fair value of financial liabilities the effect of Anglo American’s own credit quality based on observed credit spreads. This adjustment 
is calculated in total for each counterparty based on the net expected exposure. In many cases this includes exposures on a number of different types of derivative instruments. Consequently 
the impact of this adjustment has been presented as a separate item within the analysis of derivatives above. Based on an allocation weighted by exposure to each category of instrument, 
$555 million is attributable to derivatives hedging net debt and $12 million relates to other derivatives. The impact of this adjustment at 31 December 2014 was insignificant and consequently 
no adjustment has been made to the prior year presentation.
Financial assets and liabilities included within level 3 primarily consist of certain cross currency swaps of Brazilian real denominated borrowings (whose 
valuation depends upon regulated interest rates), contingent proceeds and related receivables relating to disposals and unlisted equity investments.
The movements in the fair value of the level 3 financial assets and liabilities are shown as follows:
Assets Liabilities
US$ million 2015 2014 2015 2014
At 1 January 207  225 (499) (456) 
Net loss recorded in the income statement
(1)
(75)  (7) (90) (43) 
Net loss recorded in the statement of comprehensive income (15) (6) – –
Settlement – – 34 –
Currency movements (8) (5) – –
At 31 December 109 207 (555) (499) 
(1) 
This is principally recorded in special items and remeasurements.
For the level 3 financial assets and liabilities, changing certain estimated inputs to reasonably possible alternative assumptions does not change the fair value 
significantly. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 138 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
19. DERIVATIVES
See note 39n for the Group’s accounting policy on derivatives.
The fair values of derivatives are separately recorded on the Consolidated balance sheet within ‘Derivative financial assets’ and ‘Derivative financial liabilities’. 
Derivatives are classified as current or non-current depending on the contracted maturity of the derivative. 
The Group utilises derivative instruments to manage certain market risk exposures. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative 
purposes, however it may choose not to designate certain derivatives as hedges for accounting purposes. Such derivatives are classified as ‘Held for trading’ 
and fair value movements are recorded in the Consolidated income statement.
The use of derivative instruments is subject to limits and the positions are regularly monitored and reported to senior management.
Cash flow hedges
In certain cases the Group classifies its forward foreign currency contracts, which hedge highly probable forecast transactions, as cash flow hedges. Where 
this designation is documented, changes in fair value are recognised in equity until the hedged transactions occur, at which time the respective gains or losses 
are transferred to the Consolidated income statement (or hedged balance sheet item).
Fair value hedges
The majority of interest rate swaps (taken out to swap the Group’s fixed rate borrowings to floating rate, in accordance with the Group’s policy) have been 
designated as fair value hedges. The carrying value of the hedged debt is adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect the impact on its fair value of changes 
in market interest rates. Changes in the fair value of the hedged debt are offset against fair value changes in the interest rate swap and recognised in the 
Consolidated income statement as financing remeasurements.
Net investment hedges
In certain instances, the Group uses derivative instruments to hedge exposures in non-US dollar functional subsidiaries to exchange rate fluctuations on  
US dollar denominated borrowings. Such derivatives may be designated as net investment hedges and at 31 December 2014 principally related to the Group’s 
Australian coal operations. Fair value changes in these derivatives are recognised within the ‘Cumulative translation adjustment reserve’ and recycled upon disposal 
of the related subsidiary. 
Held for trading
The Group may choose not to designate certain derivatives as hedges. This may occur where the Group is economically hedged but IAS 39 hedge accounting 
cannot be achieved or where gains and losses on both the derivative and hedged item naturally offset in the Consolidated income statement, as is the case for 
certain cross currency swaps of non-US dollar debt. Fair value changes on these derivatives are recognised in the Consolidated income statement as 
remeasurements and are classified as financing or operating depending on the nature of the associated hedged risk.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not 
closely related to those of their host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value. 
The fair value of the Group’s open derivative positions at 31 December (excluding normal purchase and sale contracts held off balance sheet), recorded within 
‘Derivative financial assets’ and ‘Derivative financial liabilities’, is as follows:
Current Non-current
2015 2014 2015 2014
US$ million Asset Liability Asset Liability Asset Liability Asset Liability
Derivatives hedging net debt
Fair value hedge
(1)
Interest rate swaps 23 –  15 – 454 (18)  617 (27) 
Net investment hedge
Forward foreign currency contracts – – – – – –  347 –
Held for trading
Forward foreign currency contracts 628 (10)  51 (10) – – – –
Cross currency swaps 14 (430)  38 (386)  3 (2,502)  21 (1,750) 
Other – – – – – – – –
Debit valuation adjustment to derivative 
liabilities
(2)
– 19 – – – 536 – –
 665 (421)  104 (396)  457 (1,984)  985 (1,777) 
Other derivatives
(3)
 24 (56)  43 (143)  3 (2)  1 (8) 
Total derivatives 689 (477)  147 (539)  460 (1,986)  986 (1,785) 
(1) 
Recognised in the Consolidated income statement is a loss on fair value hedged items of $143 million (2014: $440 million), offset by a gain on fair value hedging instruments of $146 million 
(2014: $381 million).
(2) 
Relates to cross currency swaps. Refer to note 18.
(3) 
Other derivatives primarily relate to forward foreign currency contracts hedging capital expenditure that are accounted for as ‘Held for trading’.
These marked to market valuations are not predictive of the future value of the hedged position, nor of the future impact on the profit of the Group.  
The valuations represent the cost of closing all hedge contracts at 31 December, at market prices and rates available at the time.
The Group is exposed in varying degrees to a variety of financial instrument related risks. For more information about these risks and the ways in which the 
Group manages them see notes 24 and 38. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 139
Financial statements
20. PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES
See note 39r for the Group’s accounting policy on environmental restoration and decommissioning obligations.
US$ million
Environmental
restoration Decommissioning
Employee 
benefits
Onerous 
contracts Other Total
At 1 January 2015 1,090  595  437  644  722  3,488 
Charged to the income statement 136 – 114  17  229  496 
Capitalised 70  44 – – 28  142 
Unwinding of discount 49  36  2  55  10  152 
Amounts applied (25) (1) (156) (64) (182) (428) 
Unused amounts reversed (24) (6) (43) (11) (34) (118) 
Disposal of business and transferred to held for sale (53) (27) (10) – – (90) 
Currency movements (194) (98) (19) (69) (77) (457) 
At 31 December 2015 1,049  543  325  572  696  3,185 
Current 72  5  295  67  181  620 
Non-current 977  538  30  505  515  2,565 
Environmental restoration
The Group has an obligation to undertake restoration, rehabilitation and environmental work when environmental disturbance is caused by the development 
or ongoing production of a mining property. A provision is recognised for the present value of such costs, based on management’s best estimate of the legal 
and constructive obligations incurred. These estimates reflect industry best practice and currently applicable legislation. Significant changes in legislation 
could result in changes in provisions recognised. It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred over a period in excess of 20 years.
Decommissioning
Provision is made for the present value of costs relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site restoration work. It is anticipated that these costs will be 
incurred over a period in excess of 20 years.
Employee benefits
Provision is made for statutory or contractual employee entitlements including long service leave, annual leave, sickness pay and similar obligations. It is 
anticipated that these costs will be incurred when employees choose to take their benefits.
Onerous contracts
Provision is made for the present value of certain long term contracts where the unavoidable cost of meeting the Group’s obligations is expected to exceed the 
benefits to be received. It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred over a period of up to 15 years.
Other
Other provisions primarily relate to restructuring costs, indemnities, legal and other claims. It is anticipated that the majority of these costs will be incurred over 
a five year period.
Environmental rehabilitation trusts
The Group makes contributions to controlled funds that were established to meet the cost of some of its restoration and environmental rehabilitation liabilities, 
primarily in South Africa. The funds comprise the following investments:
US$ million 2015 2014
Equity 115  139 
Bonds 121  155 
Cash 54  64 
 290  358 
These assets are primarily denominated in South African rand. Cash is held in short term fixed deposits or earns interest at floating inter-bank rates. Bonds 
earn interest at a weighted average fixed rate of 8.1% (2014: 8.2%) for an average period of four years (2014: four years). Equity investments are recorded at 
fair value through profit and loss and bonds are recorded at amortised cost.
These funds are not available for the general purposes of the Group. All income from these assets is reinvested to meet specific environmental obligations. 
These obligations are included in provisions stated above.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 140 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
21. DEFERRED TAX
See note 39c for the Group’s accounting policy on tax.
The movement in net deferred tax liabilities during the year is as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
At 1 January (3,147) (3,293) 
Credited/(charged) to the income statement
(1)
150 (187) 
Credited to the statement of comprehensive income 33 25 
Disposal of business (72) –
Currency movements 697 308 
At 31 December (2,339) (3,147) 
Comprising:
Deferred tax assets 914 1,351 
Deferred tax liabilities (3,253) (4,498) 
(1) 
This includes a charge to tax special items of $788 million (2014: $104 million) relating to the write-off of deferred tax, a credit of $107 million (2014: charge of $306 million) relating to deferred 
tax remeasurements and a credit of $783 million (2014: $381 million) relating to deferred tax on special items.
The amount of deferred tax recognised in the Consolidated balance sheet is as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
Deferred tax assets
Tax losses 534 573 
Post employment benefits 31 66 
Share-based payments 10 13 
Enhanced tax depreciation 121 653 
Other temporary differences 218 46 
914 1,351 
Deferred tax liabilities
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation (2,080) (2,845) 
Fair value adjustments (689) (1,068) 
Tax losses 24 53 
Derivatives 2 3 
Provisions 278 255 
Withholding tax (510) (568) 
Other temporary differences (278) (328) 
(3,253) (4,498) 
The amount of deferred tax credited/(charged) to the Consolidated income statement is as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 123 (523) 
Fair value adjustments (243) 12 
Tax losses (54) 20 
Derivatives 87 (39) 
Provisions (163) (14) 
Withholding tax 58 2 
Other temporary differences 342 355 
150 (187) 
The Group has the following balances in respect of which no deferred tax asset has been recognised:
2015 2014
US$ million
Tax  
losses – 
revenue
Tax  
losses – 
capital
Other 
temporary 
differences Total
Tax  
losses – 
revenue
Tax  
losses – 
capital
Other 
temporary 
differences Total
Expiry date
Within one year – – – – 3 – – 3 
Greater than one year, less than five years 334 – – 334 420 – – 420 
Greater than five years 239 – 3,398 3,637 297 – 3,117  3,414 
No expiry date 5,580 806 1,547 7,933 4,463  1,058  3,775  9,296 
6,153 806 4,945 11,904 5,183  1,058  6,892  13,133 
The Group has no unused tax credits (2014: $11 million) for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the Consolidated balance sheet.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interests in 
joint arrangements where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments in subsidiaries, branches, 
associates and interests in joint arrangements is represented by the contribution of those investments to the Group’s retained earnings and amounted to 
$15,103 million (2014: $17,488 million).
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 141
Financial statements
22. CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 
Capital expenditure is defined as cash expenditure on property, plant and equipment including related derivatives, proceeds from disposal of property, plant 
and equipment and direct funding for capital expenditure from non-controlling interests. 
Capital expenditure by segment
US$ million 2015 2014 
Platinum 366  576 
De Beers 697  689 
Copper 659  728 
Nickel 26  14 
Niobium and Phosphates
(1)
 50  239 
Iron Ore and Manganese 1,422  2,685 
Coal 941  1,045 
Corporate and other 16  42 
Capital expenditure
(2)
4,177 6,018 
Exclude:
Cash outflows from derivatives related to capital expenditure (200) (157) 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 30  71 
Direct funding for capital expenditure received from non-controlling interests 46  42 
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment 4,053  5,974 
(1) 
Niobium and Phosphates are now aggregated, having previously been presented separately (see note 3).
(2) 
Cash capital expenditure includes capitalised operating cash outflows of $147 million (2014: $9 million cash inflows) generated by operations that have not yet reached commercial production, 
principally in relation to Minas-Rio (Iron Ore and Manganese) and Barro Alto (Nickel).
Capital expenditure by category
US$ million 2015 2014
Expansionary
(1)
2,083 3,248 
Stay-in-business 1,384 1,973 
Stripping and development 740 868 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment (30) (71) 
4,177 6,018 
(1) 
The expansionary category includes the cash flows from derivatives related to capital expenditure and is net of direct funding for capital expenditure received from non-controlling interests.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CASH FLOW STATEMENT, NET DEBT AND RELATED NOTES 142 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
23. NET DEBT
See note 39o for the Group’s accounting policy on cash and debt.
Net debt is a measure of the Group’s financial position. The Group uses net debt to monitor the sources and uses of financial resources, the availability of 
capital to invest or return to shareholders, and the resilience of the balance sheet. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents 
(including derivatives which provide an economic hedge of net debt, see note 19).
a) Reconciliation to the balance sheet
Cash and cash equivalents Short term borrowings
Medium and  
long term borrowings
US$ million 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Balance sheet 6,895  6,748 (1,649) (1,618) (16,318) (16,917)
Balance sheet – disposal groups 9 – – – – –
Bank overdrafts (15) (1)  15 1 – –
Net cash/(debt) classifications 6,889  6,747 (1,634) (1,617) (16,318) (16,917)
b) Movement in net debt
US$ million
Cash 
and cash
equivalents
Short term 
borrowings
Medium and 
long term 
borrowings
Net debt 
excluding 
derivatives
Derivatives 
hedging
net debt
(1)
Net debt  
including 
derivatives
At 1 January 2014 7,702 (2,106) (15,740) (10,144) (508) (10,652)
Cash flow (841)  1,785 (3,568) (2,624) (203) (2,827) 
Reclassifications – (1,487)  1,487 – – –
Movement in fair value – (7) (434) (441) (373) (814) 
Other non-cash movements – (2) (72) (74) – (74) 
Currency movements (114)  200  1,410  1,496 – 1,496 
At 31 December 2014 6,747 (1,617) (16,917) (11,787) (1,084) (12,871) 
Cash flow 416  1,404 (2,736) (916)  170 (746) 
Reclassifications – (1,616)  1,616 – – – 
Movement in fair value – (9)  151  142 (924) (782) 
Other non-cash movements – (2) (45) (47) – (47) 
Currency movements (274)  206  1,613  1,545 –  1,545 
At 31 December 2015 6,889 (1,634) (16,318) (11,063) (1,838) (12,901) 
(1) 
Derivatives hedging net debt represents the mark to market valuation of such derivatives before taking into account the effect of debit valuation adjustments which reduce the valuation of 
derivative liabilities hedging net debt by $555 million (2014: nil). Further details on this adjustment are provided in note 18.
c) Net debt by segment
The Group’s policy is to hold the majority of its cash and borrowings at the corporate centre. Business units may from time to time raise borrowings in 
connection with specific capital projects, and subsidiaries with non-controlling interests have borrowings which are without recourse to the Group. Other than 
the impact of South African exchange controls (see 23d below), there are no significant restrictions over the Group’s ability to access these cash balances or 
repay these borrowings. Net cash/(debt) by segment is stated after elimination of inter-segment balances. 
US$ million 2015 2014 
Platinum (176)  24 
De Beers (109) (126) 
Copper 820  738 
Nickel (138) (262) 
Niobium and Phosphates
(1)
 123 76
Iron Ore and Manganese (2,370) (2,294) 
Coal 260  201 
Corporate and other (11,311) (11,228) 
(12,901) (12,871) 
(1) 
Niobium and Phosphates are now aggregated, having previously been presented separately (see note 3).
d) South Africa net debt
The Group operates in South Africa where the existence of exchange controls may restrict the use of certain cash balances. The Group therefore monitors  
the cash and debt associated with these operations separately. These restrictions are not expected to have a material effect on the Group’s ability to meet its 
ongoing obligations. Below is a breakdown of net debt in South Africa.
US$ million 2015 2014
Cash and cash equivalents 1,419  1,298 
Short term borrowings (49) (118) 
Medium and long term borrowings (1,471) (1,252) 
Net debt excluding derivatives (101) (72) 
Derivatives hedging net debt (4)  1 
Net debt including derivatives (105) (71) 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CASH FLOW STATEMENT, NET DEBT AND RELATED NOTES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 143
Financial statements
24. BORROWINGS
See note 39o for the Group’s accounting policy on bank borrowings.
The Group accesses borrowings mostly in capital markets through bonds issued under the Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme, the South African 
Domestic Medium Term Note (DMTN) programme, the Australian Medium Term Note (AMTN) programme and through accessing the United States (US) 
bond markets. The Group uses interest rate and cross currency swaps to ensure that the majority of the Group’s borrowings are floating rate US dollar 
denominated.
During 2015, the Group issued corporate bonds with a US dollar equivalent value of $2.2 billion. These included the following bonds:
 • €600 million 1.5% guaranteed loan notes due 2020 issued under the EMTN programme.
 • $850 million 3.625% senior notes due 2020 and $650 million 4.875% senior notes due 2025 through accessing the US bond markets.
An analysis of borrowings, as presented on the Consolidated balance sheet, is set out below: 
2015 2014
US$ million
Short term 
borrowings
Medium and 
long term 
borrowings
Total 
borrowings
Contractual 
repayment at 
hedged rates
Short term 
borrowings
Medium and 
long term 
borrowings
Total 
borrowings
Contractual 
repayment at 
hedged rates
Secured
Bank loans and overdrafts
(1)
 9  10  19  19  9  21  30  30 
Obligations under finance leases
(2)
 7  53  60  60  25  52  77  77 
 16  63  79  79  34  73  107  107 
Unsecured
Bank loans and overdrafts 270  1,961  2,231  2,979  211  2,198  2,409  2,805 
Bonds issued under EMTN programme
5.875% €1,000m bond due April 2015 – – – – 1,228 – 1,228  1,577 
4.375% €750m bond due December 2016 839 – 839  1,122 – 959  959  1,122 
1.75% €900m bond due November 2017 – 995  995  1,211 – 1,107  1,107  1,211 
1.75% €750m bond due April 2018 – 829  829  1,033 – 922  922  1,033 
6.875% £400m bond due May 2018 – 644  644  793 – 701  701  793 
2.5% €750m bond due September 2018 – 841  841  959 – 938  938  959 
1.028% JPY10,000m bond due December 2018 – 83  83  97 – 84  84  97 
2.75% €750m bond due June 2019 – 854  854  941 – 956  956  941 
1.5% €600m bond due April 2020 – 651  651  659 – – – –
2.875% €600m bond due November 2020 – 688  688  807 – 769  769  807 
2.5% €750m bond due April 2021 – 849  849  977 – 947  947  977 
3.5% €750m bond due March 2022 – 908  908  992 – 1,025  1,025  992 
3.25% €750m bond due April 2023 – 868  868  1,033 – 976  976  1,033 
US bonds
LIBOR+0.95% $500m bond due April 2016 500 – 500  500 – 499  499  500 
2.625% $600m bond due April 2017 – 602  602  600 – 604  604  600 
2.625% $750m bond due September 2017 – 744  744  750 – 738  738  750 
9.375% $750m bond due April 2019 – 795  795  750 – 804  804  750 
3.625% $850m bond due May 2020 – 842  842  850 – – – –
4.45% $500m bond due September 2020 – 522  522  500 – 521  521  500 
4.125% $500m bond due April 2021 – 508  508  500 – 505  505  500 
4.125% $600m bond due September 2022 – 588  588  600 – 578  578  600 
4.875% $650m bond due May 2025 – 644  644  650 – – – –
Bonds issued under AMTN programme
5.75% AUD500m bond due November 2018 – 379  379  470 – 423  423  470 
Bonds issued under DMTN programme
9.77% R1,000m bond due May 2015 – – – – 86 – 86  86 
JIBAR+0.5% R200m bond due March 2016 13 – 13  13 – 17  17  17 
JIBAR+1.38% R600m bond due March 2017 – 39  39  39 – 52  52  52 
9.27% R1,400m bond due March 2019 – 87 87 91 – 121  121  121 
9.49% R650m bond due April 2021 – 40  40  42 – 56  56  56 
JIBAR+1.47% R400m bond due April 2021 – 26  26  26 – 35  35  35 
Other loans 11  268  279  279  59  309  368  368 
 1,633  16,255  17,888  20,263  1,584  16,844  18,428  19,752 
Total borrowings 1,649  16,318  17,967  20,342 1,618  16,917  18,535  19,859 
(1) 
Assets with a book value of $91 million (2014: $73 million) have been pledged as security, of which $40 million (2014: $47 million) are property, plant and equipment, $49 million  
(2014: $24 million) are financial assets and $2 million (2014: $2 million) are inventories. Related to these assets are borrowings of $19 million (2014: $30 million).
(2) 
Details of assets held under finance leases are provided in note 12.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CASH FLOW STATEMENT, NET DEBT AND RELATED NOTES 144 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
24. BORROWINGS continued
Liquidity risk
The Group ensures that there are sufficient committed loan facilities (including refinancing, where necessary) in order to meet short term business 
requirements, after taking into account cash flows from operations and its holding of cash and cash equivalents, as well as any Group distribution restrictions 
that exist. In addition, certain projects may be financed by means of limited recourse project finance, if appropriate.
The expected undiscounted cash flows of the Group’s net debt related and other financial liabilities, by remaining contractual maturity, based on conditions 
existing at the balance sheet date are as follows:
2015
Net debt related financial liabilities
US$ million Borrowings
Expected  
future interest 
payments
Derivatives  
hedging  
net debt
Other 
financial 
liabilities Total
Amount due for repayment within one year (1,631) (702) (232) (2,662) (5,227) 
Greater than one year, less than two years (2,617) (657) (113) – (3,387) 
Greater than two years, less than three years (3,067) (587) (544) – (4,198) 
Greater than three years, less than four years (1,871) (424) (43) – (2,338) 
Greater than four years, less than five years (3,508) (286) (101) – (3,895) 
Greater than five years (4,853) (459) (420) – (5,732) 
Total due for repayment after more than one year (15,916) (2,413) (1,221) – (19,550) 
Total (17,547) (3,115) (1,453) (2,662) (24,777) 
2014
Net debt related financial liabilities
US$ million Borrowings
Expected  
future interest 
payments
Derivatives  
hedging  
net debt
Other  
financial 
liabilities Total
Amount due for repayment within one year (1,602) (752) (175) (3,387) (5,916) 
Greater than one year, less than two years (1,866) (670) (101) – (2,637) 
Greater than two years, less than three years (2,806) (581) (47) – (3,434) 
Greater than three years, less than four years (3,555) (489) (277) – (4,321) 
Greater than four years, less than five years (2,053) (320)  44 – (2,329) 
Greater than five years (6,094) (556) (201) – (6,851) 
Total due for repayment after more than one year (16,374) (2,616) (582) – (19,572) 
Total (17,976) (3,368) (757) (3,387) (25,488) 
The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 December:
US$ million 2015 2014
Expiry date
Within one year
(1)
 683  1,073 
Greater than one year, less than two years 32  525 
Greater than two years, less than three years 1,110  1,172 
Greater than three years, less than four years 192  597 
Greater than four years, less than five years 5,862  5,000 
 7,879  8,367 
(1)  
Includes undrawn South African rand facilities equivalent to $0.5 billion (2014: $0.9 billion) in respect of facilities with 364 day maturity which roll automatically on a daily basis, unless notice 
is served.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders 
and benefits for other stakeholders and, with cognisance of forecast future market conditions and structuring, to maintain an optimal capital structure to 
enable the business to operate effectively.
In order to manage the short and long term capital structure, the Group has a number of options including raising and refinancing debt, adjusting returns to 
equity shareholders, managing the allocation of capital and divesting non-core assets to reduce debt.
The Group monitors capital using various financial metrics including the ratio of net debt to total capital (gearing). Net debt is calculated as total borrowings 
less cash and cash equivalents (including derivatives which provide an economic hedge of net debt). Total capital is calculated as ‘Net assets’ (as shown in the 
Consolidated balance sheet) excluding net debt. Total capital and gearing are as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
Net assets 21,342  32,177 
Net debt including related derivatives (note 23) 12,901  12,871 
Total capital 34,243  45,048 
Gearing 37.7% 28.6%
Gearing has increased from 28.6% to 37.7% as total capital has decreased. Net debt remained consistent at $12.9 billion at 31 December 2015 as cash inflows 
from operating activities were offset by outflows primarily relating to capital expenditure and dividends to Anglo American plc shareholders as well as to 
non-controlling interests. Total capital decreased from $45.0 billion to $34.2 billion primarily due to the impact of impairments and the effect of a stronger 
US dollar on assets denominated in other currencies.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CASH FLOW STATEMENT, NET DEBT AND RELATED NOTES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 145
Financial statements
24. BORROWINGS continued 
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that financial instrument fair values and related cash flows will fluctuate due to changes in market prices. The Group manages interest 
rate risks and foreign exchange risks on borrowings and cash with the use of cross currency swaps and interest rate swaps in order to ensure that the majority 
of borrowings are floating rate US dollar denominated. The Group does not hedge foreign exchange exposures on rand denominated borrowings in South 
Africa. For more information regarding the Group’s financial risk management see note 38.
The table below reflects the exposure of the Group’s net debt to currency and interest rate risk.
2015
US$ million
Cash  
and cash 
equivalents
Floating  
rate 
borrowings
Fixed  
rate 
borrowings
Derivatives 
hedging  
net debt
Impact of 
currency 
derivatives Total
US dollar 6,239 (1,197) (5,400) (1,835) (10,221) (12,414) 
Euro 6 – (8,322) – 8,322  6 
South African rand 116 (966) (136) (3) – (989) 
Brazilian real 238 (793) – – 793  238 
Australian dollar 148 – (379) – 379  148 
Sterling 18 – (644) – 644  18 
Other 124 (17) (98) – 83  92 
Impact of interest derivatives – (14,800)  14,800 – – –
Total 6,889 (17,773) (179) (1,838) – (12,901) 
2014
US$ million
Cash  
and cash 
equivalents
Floating  
rate 
borrowings
Fixed  
rate 
borrowings
Derivatives 
hedging 
net debt
Impact of 
currency 
derivatives Total
US dollar 6,151 (1,291) (3,896) (1,087) (12,336) (12,459) 
Euro 24 – (9,827) – 9,827  24 
South African rand 134 (703) (266)  3 – (832) 
Brazilian real 211 (1,303) – – 1,301  209 
Australian dollar 61 – (423) – 423  61 
Sterling 29 – (701) – 701  29 
Other 137 (7) (117) – 84  97 
Impact of interest derivatives – (15,050)  15,050 – – –
Total 6,747 (18,354) (180) (1,084) – (12,871) 
25. COMMITMENTS
See note 39x for the Group’s accounting policy on leases.
A commitment is a contractual obligation to make a payment in the future which is not provided for in the balance sheet. The Group also has purchase 
obligations relating to take or pay agreements which are legally binding and enforceable.
Capital commitments for subsidiaries and joint operations relating to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment is $1,168 million (2014: $1,936 million), 
of which 82% (2014: 80%) relates to expenditure to be incurred within the next year.
The Group’s share of joint ventures’ outstanding capital commitments, including its share of commitments made jointly with other investors, relating to the 
acquisition of property, plant and equipment is $5 million (2014: $63 million), of which 100% (2014: 98%) relates to expenditure to be incurred within the 
next year.
The Group’s outstanding commitments relating to take or pay agreements is $9,552 million (2014: $10,197 million), of which 10% (2014: 9%) relates to 
expenditure to be incurred within the next year.
At 31 December the Group had the following commitments under non-cancellable operating leases:
US$ million 2015 2014
Expiry date
Within one year 92  94 
Greater than one year, less than two years 75  65 
Greater than two years, less than five years 72  115 
Greater than five years 24  80 
 263  354 
Operating leases relate principally to land and buildings, vehicles and mining equipment.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CASH FLOW STATEMENT, NET DEBT AND RELATED NOTES 146 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
26. EMPLOYEE NUMBERS AND COSTS
The average number of employees, excluding contractors and associates’ and joint ventures’ employees, and including a proportionate share of employees 
within joint operations, was:
Thousand 2015 2014
By segment
Platinum 48 51 
De Beers 11 10 
Copper 5 6 
Nickel 2 2 
Niobium and Phosphates
(1)
2 2 
Iron Ore and Manganese 10 9 
Coal 11 12 
Corporate and other 2 3 
91 95 
(1) 
Niobium and Phosphates are now aggregated, having previously been presented separately (see note 3).
The average number of employees by principal location of employment was:
Thousand 2015 2014
South Africa 69 72 
Other Africa 4 4 
South America 10 11 
North America 2 2 
Australia and Asia 4 4 
Europe 2 2 
91 95 
Payroll costs in respect of the employees included in the tables above were:
US$ million 2015 2014
Wages and salaries 3,798  4,244 
Social security costs 135  166 
Post employment benefits
(1)
 332  404 
Share-based payments (note 28) 209  258 
Total payroll costs 4,474  5,072
Reconciliation:
Less: employee costs capitalised (319) (367) 
Less: employee costs included within special items (200) (191) 
Employee costs included in operating costs 3,955  4,514 
(1) 
Includes contributions to defined contribution pension and medical plans, current and past service costs related to defined benefit pension and medical plans and other benefits provided  
to certain employees during retirement (see note 27).
Key management
Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly 
or indirectly, including any director (executive and non-executive) of the Group. Key management comprises members of the Board and the Group 
Management Committee.
Compensation for key management was as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
Salaries and short term employee benefits 22 31
Social security costs 4 5
Termination benefits 2 3
Post employment benefits 3 3
Share-based payments 13 18
 44 60
Disclosure of directors’ emoluments, pension entitlements, share options and long term incentive plan awards required by the Companies Act 2006 and those 
specified for audit by Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 are 
included in the Remuneration report.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 147
Financial statements
27. RETIREMENT BENEFITS
See note 39t for the Group’s accounting policy on retirement benefits.
The Group operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans. It also operates post employment medical plans, principally 
in South Africa. 
Defined contribution plans
The defined contribution pension and medical cost represents the actual contributions payable by the Group to the various plans.
The assets of the defined contribution plans are held separately in independently administered funds. The charge in respect of these plans is calculated on the 
basis of the contribution payable by the Group in the financial year. The charge for the year for defined contribution pension plans (net of amounts capitalised) 
was $221 million (2014: $244 million) and for defined contribution medical plans (net of amounts capitalised) was $73 million (2014: $81 million).
Defined benefit pension plans and post employment medical plans
The Group operates defined benefit pension and medical plans across a number of regions. The most significant plans are in South Africa and the 
United Kingdom.
A summary of the movements in the net pension plan assets and retirement benefit obligations on the Consolidated balance sheet is as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
Net liability recognised at 1 January (889) (1,013) 
Net income statement charge (60) (113) 
Remeasurement of net defined benefit obligation 290 (15) 
Employer contributions to funded pension plans 118  132 
Benefits paid to unfunded plans 24 15
Disposal of business 41  – 
Other 12 16
Currency movements 103  89 
Net liability recognised at 31 December (361) (889) 
Amounts recognised as:
Defined benefit pension plans in surplus
(1)
 306  184 
Retirement benefit obligation – pension plans (330) (615) 
Retirement benefit obligation – medical plans (337) (458) 
(361) (889) 
(1) 
Included in Other non-current assets on the Consolidated balance sheet.
The majority of the defined benefit pension plans are funded. The assets of these plans are held separately from those of the Group, in independently 
administered funds, in accordance with statutory requirements or local practice in the relevant jurisdiction. The unfunded liabilities are principally in relation 
to termination indemnity plans in Chile. 
The post employment medical plans provide health benefits to retired employees and certain dependants. Eligibility for cover is dependent upon certain 
criteria. The majority of these plans are unfunded and are principally in South Africa. 
Independent qualified actuaries carry out full valuations at least every three years using the projected unit credit method. The actuaries have updated the 
valuations to 31 December 2015. Assumptions are set after consultation with the qualified actuaries. While management believes the assumptions used are 
appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would impact the Group’s other comprehensive income.
Characteristics and risks of plans
The defined benefit plans are exposed to risks such as longevity, investment risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk. 
The weighted average duration of the South African plans is 11 years (2014: 12 years), United Kingdom plans is 18 years (2014: 18 years) and plans in other 
regions is 14 years (2014: 14 years). This represents the average period over which future benefit payments are expected to be made. 
Employer contributions are made in accordance with the terms of each plan and may vary from year to year. Employer contributions made to funded plans 
in the year ended 31 December 2015 were $118 million. In addition $24 million of benefits were paid to unfunded plans and $23 million of benefits were paid in 
relation to post employment medical plans. The Group expects to contribute $118 million to its pension plans and $20 million to its post employment medical 
plans in 2016.
The responsibility for the governance of the funded retirement benefit plans, including investment and funding decisions, lies with the Trustees of each scheme.
South Africa
The pension plans in South Africa are in surplus, with the asset recognised on the Consolidated balance sheet restricted to the amount in the Employer Surplus 
Account, being plan assets less plan liabilities less any contingency reserves as recommended by the funds’ actuaries.
The Employer Surplus Account is the amount that the Group is entitled to by way of refund. All pension plans in South Africa are closed to new members and 
the majority of plans are closed to future benefit accrual. As the plans are in surplus no employer contributions are currently being made.
The Group’s provision of anti-retroviral therapy to HIV positive staff does not significantly impact the post employment medical plan liability. 
United Kingdom
The Group operates funded pension plans in the United Kingdom. These plans are closed to new members and to the future accrual of benefits. 
Certain assets held by the main plans in the United Kingdom are structured to closely match the characteristics of the liabilities through a variety of 
investment strategies, including the use of interest rate hedging and inflation hedging to manage interest rate risk and inflation rate risk, respectively.
The Group is committed to make payments to certain United Kingdom pension plans under deficit funding plans agreed with the respective Trustees. Where 
the present value of the agreed funding payments exceeds the liability in respect of the plans as measured under IFRS, and would therefore, when paid, give 
rise to a surplus as measured under IFRS, a provision is recognised for any part of that surplus that would not be recoverable. Any resulting surplus has been 
assessed to be fully recoverable and as such no provision has been recognised.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION 148 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
27. RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued
Other
Other pension and post employment medical plans primarily comprise obligations in Chile where legislation requires employers to provide for a termination 
indemnity, entitling employees to a cash payment made on the termination of an employment contract. The features of this provision meet the definition of a 
post employment benefit obligation and consequently an unfunded liability is recognised on the Consolidated balance sheet. Other plans are in Brazil, Canada 
and mainland Europe and consist of funded and unfunded pension plans and unfunded medical aid plans. These plans are not considered to be significant 
to the Group.
Actuarial assumptions
The principal assumptions used to determine the actuarial present value of benefit obligations and pension charges and credits are detailed below (shown as 
weighted averages):
2015 2014
South 
 Africa
United 
Kingdom Other
South 
 Africa
United 
Kingdom Other
Defined benefit pension plans
Average discount rate for plan liabilities 10.3% 3.9% 6.8% 8.3% 3.6% 6.4%
Average rate of inflation 7.9% 3.1% 3.6% 6.2% 3.1% 3.5%
Average rate of increase of pensions in payment 7.9% 3.1% 3.2% 6.2% 3.2% 3.2%
Post employment medical plans
Average discount rate for plan liabilities 10.3% 3.9% 9.1% 8.3% 3.9% 7.0%
Average rate of inflation 7.9% 3.1% 6.9% 6.2% 3.3% 5.2%
Expected average increase in healthcare costs 9.6% 7.8% 9.1% 7.9% 8.0% 7.7%
Mortality assumptions are determined based on standard mortality tables with adjustments, as appropriate, to reflect experience of conditions locally. In  
South Africa, the PA90 tables are used. The main plans in the United Kingdom use either SAPS tables or Club Vita models with plan specific adjustments 
based on mortality investigations. The mortality tables used imply that a male or female aged 60 at the balance sheet date has the following future life 
expectancy (shown as weighted averages):
Male Female
Years 2015 2014 2015 2014
South Africa 19.8  19.9  24.5  24.6 
United Kingdom 28.2  28.7  30.0  30.2 
Other 22.8  22.8  27.2  27.1 
The table below summarises the expected life expectancy from the age of 60 for a male or female aged 45 at the balance sheet date. When viewed together 
with the respective life expectancy at age 60 in the table above this indicates the anticipated improvement in life expectancy (shown as weighted averages):
Male Female
Years 2015 2014 2015 2014
South Africa 19.8  19.9  24.5  24.6 
United Kingdom 29.6  29.7  32.0  31.9 
Other 25.1  23.3  29.3  27.5 
Sensitivity analysis
Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of pension and medical plan liabilities are the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality. The sensitivity 
analysis below has been provided by local actuaries on an approximate basis based on changes in the assumptions occurring at the end of the year, assuming 
that all other assumptions are held constant and the effect of interrelationships is excluded. The effect on plan liabilities is as follows:
2015
US$ million
South  
Africa
United 
Kingdom Other Total
Discount rate – 0.5% decrease (57) (360) (14) (431) 
Inflation rate – pension plans – 0.5% increase (39) (169) (10) (218) 
Inflation rate – medical plans – 0.5% increase (17) – (3) (20) 
Life expectancy – increase by 1 year (48) (126) (4) (178) 
Income statement
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated income statement are as follows:
2015 2014
US$ million
Pension  
plans
Post 
employment 
medical  
plans Total 
Pension 
plans
Post 
employment 
medical  
plans Total 
Amount charged within operating costs 14  4  18  54  4  58 
Net charge to net finance costs 9
(1)
  33  42  18  37  55 
Total charge to the income statement 23  37  60  72  41  113 
(1) 
Includes interest expense on surplus restriction of $13 million.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 149
Financial statements
27. RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued
Comprehensive income
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows:
2015 2014
US$ million
Pension  
plans
Post 
employment 
medical  
plans Total 
Pension 
plans
Post 
employment 
medical  
plans Total 
Return on plan assets, excluding interest income (125) – (125)  542 (1)  541 
Actuarial gains/(losses) on plan liabilities
(1)
 401  23  424 (527) (8) (535) 
Movement in surplus restriction (9) – (9) (21) – (21) 
Remeasurement of net defined benefit obligation 267  23  290 (6) (9) (15) 
(1) 
Comprises gains/(losses) from changes in financial and demographic assumptions as well as experience on plan liabilities.
Pension plan assets and liabilities by geography
The split of the present value of funded and unfunded obligations in defined benefit pension plans and the fair value of pension assets at 31 December is 
as follows:
2015 2014
US$ million
South 
 Africa
United  
Kingdom Other Total
South 
 Africa
United 
Kingdom Other Total
Equity 354  857  9  1,220  454  885  11  1,350 
Corporate bonds 247  1,356  33  1,636  275  1,368  66  1,709 
Government bonds 459  1,378  35  1,872  687  1,513  37  2,237 
Cash 66  51  1  118  69  48  1  118 
Other – 199  6  205 – 203  10  213 
Fair value of pension plan assets
(1)
 1,126  3,841  84  5,051  1,485  4,017  125  5,627 
Active members (7) (179) (17) (203) (9) (307) (35) (351) 
Deferred members (12) (1,401) (5) (1,418) (24) (1,672) (9) (1,705) 
Pensioners (827) (2,242) (67) (3,136) (1,136) (2,372) (93) (3,601) 
Present value of funded obligations (846) (3,822) (89) (4,757) (1,169) (4,351) (137) (5,657) 
Present value of unfunded obligations
(2)
– – (161) (161) – – (219) (219) 
Net surplus/(deficit) in pension plans 280  19 (166)  133  316 (334) (231) (249) 
Surplus restriction (156) – (1) (157) (182) – – (182) 
Recognised retirement benefit  
assets/(liabilities) 124  19 (167) (24)  134 (334) (231) (431) 
Amounts in the Consolidated balance sheet
Defined benefit pension plans in surplus 124  182 – 306  134  50 – 184 
Retirement benefit obligation – pension plans – (163) (167) (330) – (384) (231) (615) 
 124  19 (167) (24)  134 (334) (231) (431) 
(1) 
The fair value of assets is used to determine the funding level of the plans. The fair value of the assets of the funded plans was sufficient to cover 106% (2014: 99%) of the benefits that  
had accrued to members after allowing for expected increases in future earnings and pensions.
(2) 
Includes $151 million (2014: $214 million) relating to active members.
All investments have been fair valued based on quoted market prices.
Movement analysis
The changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
2015 2014 
US$ million
Pension  
plans
Post 
employment 
medical  
plans Total 
Pension  
plans
Post 
employment 
medical  
plans Total 
At 1 January 5,627  14  5,641  5,315  17  5,332 
Effects of settlements (6) – (6) (4) – (4) 
Interest income
 
260
(1)
 1  261  284  1  285 
Return on plan assets, excluding interest income (125)
(1)
 – (125)  542 (1)  541 
Contributions paid by employer to funded pension plans 118 – 118  132 – 132 
Benefits paid
(2)
(243) (1) (244) (236) (1) (237) 
Other 5 – 5 6 – 6 
Currency movements (585) (1) (586) (412) (2) (414) 
At 31 December 5,051  13  5,064  5,627  14  5,641 
(1) 
The actual return on assets in respect of pension plans was $135 million (2014: $826 million).
(2)  
Includes $10 million (2014: $10 million) of benefits paid to defined contribution plans.
(1)
(1)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION 150 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
27. RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued
The changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows:
2015 2014 
US$ million
Pension  
plans
Post 
employment 
medical  
plans Total 
Pension  
plans
Post 
employment 
medical  
plans Total 
At 1 January (5,876) (472) (6,348) (5,674) (494) (6,168) 
Current service costs (21) (4) (25) (25) (4) (29) 
Effects of curtailments/settlements 6 – 6 (17) – (17) 
Interest cost (256) (34) (290) (302) (38) (340) 
Actuarial gain/(loss) arising from changing financial assumptions 221  18  239 (548) (9) (557) 
Actuarial gain arising from changing demographic assumptions 40 –  40  19  1  20 
Actuarial gain arising from experience adjustment 140  5  145  2 – 2 
Benefits paid 257  23  280  241  27  268 
Disposal of business 41 –  41 – – –
Other (5) – (5) (6) – (6) 
Currency movements 535  114  649  434  45  479 
At 31 December (4,918) (350) (5,268) (5,876) (472) (6,348) 
28. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
See note 39u for the Group’s accounting policy on share-based payments.
During the year ended 31 December 2015 the Group had share-based payment arrangements with employees relating to shares of the Company, the details 
of which are described in the Remuneration report. All of these Company schemes are equity settled, either by award of ordinary shares (BSP, LTIP and SIP) 
or award of options to acquire ordinary shares (ESOS, DOP and SAYE). The ESOS is now closed to new participants, having been replaced with the BSP, and 
there have been no outstanding awards since 31 December 2014. No options have been granted under the DOP.
The total share-based payment charge relating to Anglo American plc shares for the year is split as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
BSP 88 94 
LTIP 42 60 
Other schemes 5 3
Share-based payment charge relating to Anglo American plc shares
(1)
135 157 
(1) 
In addition, there are equity settled share-based payment charges of $47 million (2014: $58 million) relating to Kumba Iron Ore Limited shares and $26 million (2014: $35 million) relating 
to Anglo American Platinum Limited shares. Certain business units also operate cash settled employee share-based payment schemes. These schemes had a charge of $1 million  
(2014: $8 million). 
Schemes settled by award of ordinary shares
The fair value of ordinary shares under the BSP, LTIP and LTIP-ROCE, being the more material schemes, was calculated using a Black Scholes model. The fair 
value of shares awarded under the LTIP-TSR scheme was calculated using a Monte Carlo model. 
The awards were granted on 03/03/15 (2014: 07/03/14) with a share price of £12.05 (2014: £14.63). These awards have a contractual life of three years and 
are conditional on three years continuous employment. The LTIP-ROCE and LTIP-TSR awards are conditional on a Group ROCE target and market based 
performance conditions, respectively, being achieved. The following assumptions were used in the valuation of the awards: expected volatility of 35% 
(2014: 35%) based on historic volatility over the last five years; risk free interest rate of 0.9% (2014: 1.1%) based on the yield on zero-coupon UK government 
bonds with a term similar to the expected life of the award; expected departures rate of 5% pa (2014: 5% pa); and a dividend yield of 2.1% (2014: 2.1%).
The awards granted during the year under these assumptions are summarised below: 
2015 2014
Number of 
instruments⁽¹⁾
Fair value at 
date of grant 
(weighted 
average)(£)
Number of 
instruments⁽¹⁾
Fair value at 
date of grant 
(weighted 
average)(£)
BSP 5,560,276 12.05 5,128,574 14.63
LTIP 2,792,470 12.05 1,934,900 14.63
LTIP-ROCE 827,674 12.05 613,682 14.63
LTIP-TSR 827,674 5.30 613,682 7.87
(1) 
The number of instruments used in the fair value models may differ from the total number of instruments awarded in the year due to awards made subsequent to the fair value calculations. 
The fair value calculated per the assumptions above has been applied to the total number of awards. The difference in income statement charge is not considered significant.
The charges arising in respect of the other Anglo American plc employee share schemes that the Group operated during the year are not considered material. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 151
Financial statements
28. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
The movements in the number of shares for the more significant share-based payment arrangements are as follows:
Bonus Share Plan
(1)
Ordinary shares of 54
86
/ 91 US cents may be awarded under the terms of this scheme for no consideration. 
Number of awards 2015 2014
Outstanding at 1 January 12,104,010 10,871,470
Conditionally awarded in year 5,560,276 5,128,574 
Vested in year (2,937,812) (2,144,872) 
Forfeited or expired in year (2,102,712) (1,751,162) 
Outstanding at 31 December 12,623,762 12,104,010 
(1) 
The BSP was approved by shareholders in 2004 as a replacement for the ESOS. Further information in respect of the BSP, including performance conditions, is shown in the Remuneration report. 
Long Term Incentive Plan
(1)
Ordinary shares of 54
86
/ 91 US cents may be awarded under the terms of this scheme for no consideration. 
Number of awards 2015 2014
Outstanding at 1 January 6,131,998 4,762,211 
Conditionally awarded in year 4,447,817 3,162,264 
Vested in year (1,313,835) (986,324) 
Forfeited or expired in year (707,091) (806,153) 
Outstanding at 31 December 8,558,889 6,131,998 
(1) 
The early vesting of share awards is permitted at the discretion of the Company upon, inter alia, termination of employment, ill health or death. The LTIP awards are contingent on  
pre-established performance criteria being met. Further information in respect of this scheme is shown in the Remuneration report.
29. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE
Assets classified as held for sale as at 31 December 2015 of $27 million and associated liabilities of $17 million principally relate to the Kimberley Mines 
(De Beers) in South Africa. The sale transaction was announced on 1 December 2015 and completion was subsequently announced on 21 January 2016.
The Group’s investment in the Lafarge Tarmac joint venture (Corporate and other) was classified as held for sale at 30 June 2015, and the disposal 
subsequently completed on 17 July 2015, see note 30.
30. DISPOSALS OF SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES
2015
US$ million
Tarmac 
businesses
Anglo 
American 
Norte Total
Property, plant and equipment – 412 412
Investments in joint ventures 1,539 – 1,539 
Other non-current assets – 73 73
Current assets – 316 316
Current liabilities – (119) (119)
Non-current liabilities – (114) (114)
Net assets disposed 1,539 568 2,107
Consideration net of transaction costs 1,543 281 1,824
Cash and cash equivalents disposed – (82) (82)
Cash inflow from hedging of proceeds 13 – 13
Net cash inflow 1,556 199 1,755
Loss on transfer to held for sale (100) – (100)
Cumulative translation loss recycled from reserves (101) – (101)
Other credits 12 – 12
Net loss on disposal (172) (287) (459)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GROUP STRUCTURE AND TRANSACTIONS 152 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
30. DISPOSALS OF SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES continued
2015
Tarmac businesses
On 17 July 2015, the Group completed the sale of its 50% ownership interest in Lafarge Tarmac (Corporate and other) to Lafarge for cash proceeds of 
approximately £992 million ($1,559 million, which includes $13 million of proceeds on a related hedge). 
In addition, during the year the Group disposed of the majority of its interests in Tarmac Middle East (Corporate and other), which supplies aggregates, asphalt 
and road base contracting services to the Middle East construction industry. 
The net loss on disposal of Tarmac businesses of $172 million comprises a net cash inflow of $1,556 million less net assets disposed of $1,539 million, a loss 
on transfer to held for sale of $100 million (recognised in the six months ended 30 June 2015), a cumulative translation loss recycled from reserves of 
$101 million, and other credits of $12 million. The net loss is recorded in non-operating special items (see note 6). The post-tax loss is also $172 million.
Anglo American Norte
On 11 September 2015, the Group completed the sale of its interest in Anglo American Norte S.A. (AA Norte) (Copper). The company consists of the 
Mantoverde and Mantos Blancos copper mines located in northern Chile. 
The consideration comprised $300 million in cash plus deferred consideration up to a maximum of $200 million, contingent upon factors including the average 
London Metals Exchange copper price and any future decision to pursue the sulphide life extension of the Mantoverde mine. At 31 December 2015 the 
remaining deferred contingent consideration, of up to $150 million, has been valued at nil. A pre-tax loss of $287 million (post-tax $350 million) on disposal 
has been recorded in non-operating special items (see note 6) which comprises net consideration of $281 million less net assets disposed of $568 million.
Other
In addition to the above, the Group incurred a net cash outflow of $10 million relating, inter alia, to payments in respect of provisions recognised on completion 
of disposals in prior years.
2014
There were no significant disposals in 2014.
Disposal proceeds of $44 million received in 2014 primarily related to deferred consideration from the sale of certain Tarmac Quarry Materials’ operations 
prior to the formation of the Lafarge Tarmac joint venture in 2013. 
31. NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS
Non-controlling interests that are material to the Group relate to the following subsidiaries:
 • Kumba Iron Ore Limited (Kumba Iron Ore), which is a company incorporated in South Africa and listed on the JSE. Its principal mining operations are the 
Sishen, Kolomela and Thabazimbi iron ore mines which are located in South Africa. Non-controlling interests hold an effective 46.3% interest in the 
operations of Kumba Iron Ore, comprising the 30.3% interest held by other shareholders in Kumba Iron Ore and the 23% of Kumba Iron Ore’s principal 
operating subsidiary, Sishen Iron Ore Company (Proprietary) Limited, that is held by shareholders outside the Group.
 • Anglo American Sur SA (Anglo American Sur), which is a company incorporated in Chile. Its principal operations are the Los Bronces and El Soldado copper 
mines and the Chagres smelting plant, which are located in Chile. Non-controlling interests hold a 49.9% interest in Anglo American Sur.
2015 2014
US$ million
Kumba  
Iron Ore
Anglo 
American Sur Other
(1)
Total
Kumba  
Iron Ore
Anglo 
American Sur Other
(1)
Total
(Loss)/profit attributable to non-controlling 
interests 52  (55) (215) (218)  614  218  157  989 
Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 731  2,130  1,912  4,773  1,060  2,212  2,488  5,760 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (131) (62) (49) (242) (674) (116) (33) (823) 
(1) 
Other consists of individually immaterial non-controlling interests. 
Summarised financial information on a 100% basis and before inter-company eliminations for Kumba Iron Ore and Anglo American Sur is as follows: 
2015 2014
US$ million
Kumba  
Iron Ore
Anglo 
American Sur
Kumba  
Iron Ore
Anglo 
American Sur
Non-current assets 2,205  4,419  3,405  4,746 
Current assets 931  751  1,161  958 
Current liabilities (320) (271) (841) (616) 
Non-current liabilities (1,189) (627) (1,271) (653) 
Net assets 1,627  4,272  2,454  4,435 
Revenue 2,876  2,080  4,388  2,792 
Profit/(loss) for the financial year
(1)
 43 (102)  1,339  441 
Total comprehensive (expense)/income (566) (108)  1,124  424 
Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,119  599  1,657  1,136 
(1) 
Stated after special items. See note 6.
There were no significant changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries in 2015 or 2014.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GROUP STRUCTURE AND TRANSACTIONS  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 153
Financial statements
32. CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL AND CONSOLIDATED EQUITY ANALYSIS
Called-up share capital
2015 2014
Number of shares US$ million Number of shares US$ million
Called-up, allotted and fully paid:
5% cumulative preference shares of £1 each 50,000 – 50,000 –
Ordinary shares of 54
86
/ 91 US cents each:
At 1 January and 31 December 1,405,465,332  772  1,405,465,332  772 
During 2015, no ordinary shares were allotted to non-executive directors (2014: no ordinary shares were allotted to non-executive directors). 
Excluding shares held in treasury (but including the shares held by the Group in other structures, as outlined in the Tenon and Employee benefit trust sections  
below) the number and carrying value of called-up, allotted and fully paid ordinary shares as at 31 December 2015 was 1,401,861,508 and $770 million 
(2014: 1,396,671,247 and $767 million).
At general meetings, every member who is present in person has one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or by 
proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held.
In the event of winding up, the holders of the cumulative preference shares will be entitled to the repayment of a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up, or 
credited as paid up, on the cumulative preference shares held by them and any accrued dividend, whether such dividend has been earned or declared or not, 
calculated up to the date of the winding up.
Own shares
2015 2014
Number of shares US$ million Number of shares US$ million
Own shares
Treasury shares 3,603,824  173  8,794,085  481 
Own shares held by subsidiaries and employee benefit trusts 117,334,305  5,878  116,665,530  5,878 
Total 120,938,129  6,051  125,459,615  6,359 
The movement in treasury shares during the year is as follows:
2015 2014
Number of shares US$ million Number of shares US$ million
Treasury shares
At 1 January 8,794,085  481  11,315,992  599 
Transferred to employees in settlement of share awards (5,190,261) (308) (2,521,907) (118) 
At 31 December 3,603,824  173  8,794,085  481 
Tenon
Tenon Investment Holdings Proprietary Limited (Tenon), a wholly owned subsidiary of Anglo American South Africa Limited (AASA), has entered into 
agreements with Epoch Investment Holdings Proprietary Limited (Epoch), Epoch Two Investment Holdings Proprietary Limited (Epoch Two) and Tarl 
Investment Holdings Proprietary Limited (Tarl) (collectively the Investment Companies), each owned by independent charitable trusts whose trustees are 
independent of the Group. Under the terms of these agreements, the Investment Companies have purchased Anglo American plc shares on the market and 
have granted to Tenon the right to nominate a third party (which may include Anglo American plc but not any of its subsidiaries) to take transfer of the Anglo 
American plc shares each has purchased on the market. Tenon paid the Investment Companies 80% of the cost of the Anglo American plc shares including 
associated costs for this right to nominate, which together with subscriptions by Tenon for non-voting participating redeemable preference shares in the 
Investment Companies, provided all the funding required to acquire the Anglo American plc shares through the market. These payments by Tenon were 
sourced from the cash resources of AASA. Tenon is able to exercise its right of nomination at any time up to 31 December 2025 against payment of an average 
amount of $3.51 per share to Epoch, $5.46 per share to Epoch Two and $4.53 per share to Tarl which will be equal to 20% of the total costs respectively 
incurred by Epoch, Epoch Two and Tarl in purchasing shares nominated for transfer to the third party. These funds will then become available for redemption of 
the preference shares issued by the Investment Companies. The amount payable by the third party on receipt of the Anglo American plc shares will accrue to 
Tenon and, as these are own shares of the Company, any resulting gain or loss recorded by Tenon will not be recognised in the Consolidated income statement 
of Anglo American plc.
Under the agreements, the Investment Companies will receive dividends on the shares they hold and have agreed to waive the right to vote on those shares. 
The preference shares issued to the charitable trusts are entitled to a participating right of up to 10% of the profit after tax of Epoch and 5% of the profit after 
tax of Epoch Two and Tarl. The preference shares issued to Tenon will carry a fixed coupon of 3% plus a participating right of up to 80% of the profit after tax 
of Epoch and 85% of the profit after tax of Epoch Two and Tarl. Any remaining distributable earnings in the Investment Companies, after the above dividends, 
are then available for distribution as ordinary dividends to the charitable trusts.
The structure effectively provides Tenon with a beneficial interest in the price risk on these shares together with participation in future dividend receipts. 
The Investment Companies will retain legal title to the shares until Tenon exercises its right to nominate a transferee.
At 31 December 2015 the Investment Companies together held 112,300,129 (2014: 112,300,129) Anglo American plc shares, which represented 8.0% 
(2014: 8.0%) of the ordinary shares in issue (excluding treasury shares) with a market value of $498 million (2014: $2,100 million). The Investment Companies 
are not permitted to hold more than an aggregate of 10% of the issued share capital of Anglo American plc at any one time.
The Investment Companies are considered to be structured entities. Although the Group has no voting rights in the Investment Companies and cannot appoint 
or remove trustees of the charitable trusts, the Group considers that the agreement outlined above, including Tenon’s right to nominate the transferee of the 
Anglo American plc shares held by the Investment Companies, result in the Group having control over the Investment Companies as defined under IFRS 10. 
Accordingly, the Investment Companies are required to be consolidated by the Group.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES 154 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
32. CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL AND CONSOLIDATED EQUITY ANALYSIS continued
Employee benefit trust
The provision of shares to certain of the Company’s share option and share incentive schemes may be facilitated by an employee benefit trust or settled  
by the issue of treasury shares. Shares held by the trust are recorded as own shares, and the carrying value is shown as a reduction within shareholders’  
equity. The employee benefit trust has waived the right to receive dividends on these shares. The costs of operating the trust are borne by the Group but  
are not material.
The market value of the 1 share (2014: 1 share) held by the trust at 31 December 2015 was $4 (2014: $19).
Consolidated equity analysis
Fair value and other reserves comprise:
US$ million
Share-based 
payment 
reserve
Available  
for sale 
reserve
Cash  
flow hedge 
reserve
Other
reserves
(1)
Total  
fair value  
and other 
reserves
At 1 January 2014 548  571  9  140  1,268 
Total comprehensive expense – (115) (7) – (122) 
Equity settled share-based payment schemes (8) – – – (8) 
At 1 January 2015 540 456 2 140 1,138
Total comprehensive expense – (153)  9 – (144) 
Equity settled share-based payment schemes (41) – – – (41) 
Other – – – (17) (17) 
At 31 December 2015 499  303  11  123  936 
(1) 
Other reserves comprise a capital redemption reserve of $115 million (2014: $115 million), a revaluation reserve of nil (2014: $17 million) and a legal reserve of $8 million (2014: $8 million).
33. AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION
2015 2014
Paid/payable to Deloitte
Paid/payable 
to auditor (if 
not Deloitte) Paid/payable to Deloitte
Paid/payable 
to auditor (if 
not Deloitte)
US$ million
United 
Kingdom Overseas Total Overseas
United 
Kingdom Overseas Total Overseas
Paid to the Company’s auditor for audit 
of the Anglo American plc Annual Report 1.5  2.1  3.6 – 1.6 2.5  4.1 –
Paid to the Company’s auditor for other 
services to the Group
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 0.5  5.9  6.4  0.2 0.7 6.4  7.1  0.1 
Total audit fees 2.0  8.0  10.0  0.2 2.3 8.9  11.2  0.1 
Audit related assurance services
(1)
 0.6  1.3  1.9 – 0.7  1.7  2.4 –
Taxation compliance services –  0.2  0.2  0.1 – 0.3  0.3  – 
Taxation advisory services 0.1  0.4  0.5  0.1  0.2  1.0  1.2 –
Other assurance services
(2)
 0.3  0.4  0.7 – 0.4  0.4  0.8 –
Other non-audit services 0.4  0.7  1.1  0.1  0.3  0.3  0.6 –
Total non-audit fees 1.4  3.0  4.4  0.3  1.6  3.7  5.3 –
(1) 
Includes $1.5 million (2014: $1.4 million) for the interim review.
(2) 
Includes nil (2014: $0.1 million) for the audit of Group pension plans.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 155
Financial statements
34. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary course of business. Additionally, the Group has provided indemnities against certain liabilities 
as part of agreements for the sale or other disposal of business operations. Having taken appropriate legal advice, the Group believes that a material liability 
arising from the indemnities provided is remote.
The Group is required to provide guarantees in several jurisdictions in respect of environmental restoration and decommissioning obligations. The Group has 
provided for the estimated cost of these activities.
No contingent liabilities were secured on the assets of the Group at 31 December 2015 or 31 December 2014.
Anglo American South Africa Limited (AASA)
AASA, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a defendant in a number of lawsuits filed in South Africa on behalf of former mineworkers (or their 
dependants or survivors) who allegedly contracted silicosis working for gold mining companies in which AASA was a shareholder and to which AASA provided 
various technical and administrative services.
The law suits in South Africa against AASA are: (i) Approximately 4,400 separate lawsuits filed in the North Gauteng High Court (Pretoria) which have been 
referred to arbitration; and (ii) A consolidated class certification application filed in the South Gauteng High Court (Johannesburg) in which AASA is named 
as one of 32 defendants. 
AASA is defending the separate lawsuits and is opposing the application for consolidated class certification. 
AASA, AngloGold Ashanti, Gold Fields, Harmony Gold and Sibanye Gold announced in November 2014 that they had formed an industry working group to 
address issues relating to compensation and medical care for occupational lung disease in the gold mining industry in South Africa. The companies are in 
the process of engaging all stakeholders on these matters, including government, organised labour, other mining companies and legal representatives of 
claimants who have filed legal suits against the companies. These legal proceedings are being defended. The industry working group is seeking a 
comprehensive solution to address legacy compensation issues and future legal frameworks that is fair to past and current employees and enables companies 
to continue to be competitive over the long term.
Kumba Iron Ore
21.4% undivided share of the Sishen mine mineral rights
In December 2013 the Constitutional Court ruled that Sishen Iron Ore Company (SIOC) held a 78.6% undivided share of the Sishen mining right and that, 
based on the provisions of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA), only SIOC can apply for, and be granted, the residual 21.4% 
share of the mining right at the Sishen mine. The grant of the mining right may be made subject to such conditions considered by the Minister of Mineral 
Resources (‘the Minister’) to be appropriate. SIOC applied for the residual right in early 2014.
SIOC received notice from the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) that the Director General of the DMR had consented to the amendment of SIOC’s 
mining right in respect of the Sishen mine to include the residual 21.4% undivided share of the mining right for the Sishen mine. The consent letter is subject to 
certain conditions (which are described by the DMR as ‘proposals’). The conditions contained in the Letter of Grant relate substantively to domestic supply, 
support for skills development, research and development, and procurement.
Until the legal and practical implications of the proposed conditions have been clarified with the DMR, SIOC is unable to accept the conditions.
Section 96 of the MPRDA allows for an internal appeal to the Minister. SIOC therefore submitted an internal appeal to the Minister, as required by the MPRDA. 
SIOC has not yet received a response to its appeal.
In the interim, SIOC continues to engage with the DMR in relation to the proposed conditions in order to achieve a mutually beneficial solution.
Kumba Iron Ore tax
At 31 December 2015, Kumba Iron Ore has certain unresolved tax matters that are currently under review with the South African Revenue Service (SARS). 
Kumba Iron Ore management has consulted with external tax and legal advisers, who support the positions taken. Nonetheless, Kumba Iron Ore management 
is actively discussing the issue with SARS with a view to seeking resolution and believes that the accounting for these matters is appropriate in the results for 
the year ended 31 December 2015.
35. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, joint operations, associates and joint ventures (see note 37 and 40). Members of the Board and 
the Group Management Committee are considered to be related parties.
The Company and its subsidiaries, in the ordinary course of business, enter into various sale, purchase and service transactions with joint operations, 
associates, joint ventures and others in which the Group has a material interest. These transactions are under terms that are no less favourable to the Group 
than those arranged with third parties. 
Associates Joint ventures Joint operations
(1)
US$ million 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Transactions with related parties
Sale of goods and services 28 31 3 – 123 141
Purchase of goods and services (425) (587) (183) (31) (2,606) (3,949)
Balances with related parties
Trade and other receivables from related parties 7 23 – 37 15 28
Trade and other payables to related parties (135) (140) (15) (17) (68) (97)
Loans receivable from related parties
(2)
–
(3)
98 431
(4)
329 21 23
(1) 
Represents the portion of balances and transactions with joint operations or joint operation partners that the Group does not have the right to offset against the corresponding  
amount recorded by the respective joint operations. These amounts primarily relate to purchases by De Beers and Platinum from their joint operations in excess of the Group’s attributable 
share of their production.
(2) 
Included in Financial asset investments on the Consolidated balance sheet.
(3) 
An impairment charge of $98 million has been recorded against loans receivable from associates during the year. This relates to loans to Atlatsa Resources Corporation (Platinum) and its 
subsidiaries, which have been fully impaired. The impairment charge is included within operating special items. See note 6 for further details.
(4) 
Includes $200 million receivable from Samancor (Iron Ore and Manganese). Samancor has been accounted for as a joint venture since March 2015, following amendments to the  
agreement that governs the Group’s interests in Samancor which resulted in the Group acquiring joint control over the business (previously accounted for as an associate).
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES 156 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
35. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS continued
At 31 December 2015 the directors of the Company and their immediate relatives controlled 0.2% (2014: 0.1%) of the voting shares of the Company.
Remuneration and benefits received by directors are disclosed in the Remuneration report. Remuneration and benefits of key management personnel, 
including directors, are disclosed in note 26.
Information relating to pension fund arrangements is disclosed in note 27.
Refinancing of Atlatsa
In January 2014, Platinum completed the final phase of the refinancing transaction for Atlatsa Resources Corporation, which resulted in an increase  
in Investments in associates of $69 million, a net decrease in Financial asset investments of $47 million and a net gain of $22 million recorded within  
Non-operating special items.
36. EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER END OF YEAR
There have been no reportable events since 31 December 2015.
37. GROUP COMPANIES
The Group consists of the parent company, Anglo American plc, incorporated in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures and 
associates. For information on the Group’s policies and the nature of any significant judgements in relation to the basis of accounting for interests in other 
entities, see note 1. Further information on interests in associates and joint ventures is provided in note 13.
The Group holds certain interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities. Further details on consolidated structured entities can be found 
in note 32. Unconsolidated structured entities consist of employee benefit trusts and community investment vehicles, principally in South Africa. Financial 
support provided to these entities by the Group is not material.
The principal subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures and associates of the Group and the Group percentage of equity capital are set out below. All these 
interests are held indirectly by the parent company and are consolidated within these financial statements. A complete list of the Group’s related undertakings 
can be found in note 40.
Percentage of equity owned
(2)
Subsidiary undertakings Country of incorporation
(1)
Business 2015 2014
Platinum
Anglo American Platinum Limited
(3)
South Africa Platinum 78% 78%
De Beers
De Beers Consolidated Mines Proprietary Limited
(4) 
South Africa Diamonds 74% 74%
De Beers Société Anonyme Luxembourg Diamonds 85% 85%
Copper
Anglo American Sur SA Chile Copper 50.1% 50.1%
Anglo American Quellaveco SA Peru Copper project 81.9% 81.9%
Anglo American Norte SA
(5)
Chile Copper – 100%
Nickel
Anglo American Níquel Brasil Limitada (Barro Alto) Brazil Nickel project 100% 100%
Anglo American Níquel Brasil Limitada (Codemin) Brazil Nickel 100% 100%
Niobium and Phosphates
(6)
Anglo American Nióbio Brasil Limitada Brazil Niobium 100% 100%
Anglo American Fosfatos Brasil Limitada Brazil Phosphates 100% 100%
Iron Ore and Manganese
Anglo American Minério de Ferro Brasil S.A. Brazil Iron ore project 100% 100%
Anglo Ferrous Brazil SA Brazil Iron ore 100% 100%
Kumba Iron Ore Limited South Africa Iron ore 69.7% 69.7%
Sishen Iron Ore Company (Proprietary) Limited
(7)
South Africa Iron ore 73.9% 73.9%
Coal
Anglo American Metallurgical Coal Holdings Limited Australia Coal 100% 100%
Anglo Coal
(8)
South Africa Coal 100% 100%
Peace River Coal Inc. Canada Coal 100% 100%
Percentage of equity owned
(9)
Proportionately consolidated joint operations Country of incorporation
(1)
Business 2015 2014
Debswana Diamond Company (Proprietary) Limited
(10)
Botswana Diamonds 50% 50%
Namdeb Holdings (Proprietary) Limited
(11)
Namibia Diamonds 50% 50%
Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi SCM Chile Copper 44% 44%
Capcoal
(12)
Australia Coal 70% 70%
Dawson
(12)
Australia Coal 51% 51%
Drayton
(12)
Australia Coal 88.2% 88.2%
Foxleigh
(12)
Australia Coal 70% 70%
Moranbah North
(12)
Australia Coal 88% 88%
See page 157 for footnotes.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 157
Financial statements
37. GROUP COMPANIES continued
Percentage of equity owned
(9)
Joint ventures Country of incorporation
(1)
Business 2015 2014
Ferroport Logistica Comercial Exportadora S.A.
(13)
Brazil Port 50% 50%
Samancor Holdings Proprietary Limited
(14)(15)(16)
South Africa Manganese 40% 40%
Groote Eylandt Mining Company Pty Limited (GEMCO)
(14)(15)
Australia Manganese 40% 40%
Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Company Pty Limited (TEMCO)
(14)(15)
Australia Manganese 40% 40%
Lafarge Tarmac Holdings Limited
(17)
United Kingdom Heavy building materials – 50%
AI Futtain Tarmac Quarry Products Limited 
(18)
Dubai Heavy building materials – 49%
Tarmac Oman Limited 
(18)
Hong Kong Heavy building materials – 50%
Midmac Tarmac Qatar LLC 
(18)
Qatar Heavy building materials – 50%
Percentage of equity owned
(9)
Associates Country of incorporation
(1)
Business 2015 2014
Carbones del Cerrejón LLC Anguilla Coal 33.3% 33.3%
Cerrejón Zona Norte SA Colombia Coal 33.3% 33.3%
Jellinbah Group Pty Limited
(19)
Australia Coal 33.3% 33.3%
(1) 
The principal country of operation is the same as the country of incorporation for all entities with the exception of De Beers Société Anonyme, which has worldwide operations.
(2) 
The proportion of voting rights of subsidiaries held by the Group is the same as the proportion of equity owned.
(3) 
The Group’s effective interest in Anglo American Platinum Limited is 79.6% (2014: 79.8%), which includes shares issued as part of a community empowerment deal.
(4) 
The 74% interest in De Beers Consolidated Mines Proprietary Limited (DBCM) is held indirectly through De Beers. The 74% interest represents De Beers’ legal ownership share in DBCM. For 
accounting purposes De Beers consolidates 100% of DBCM as it is deemed to control the BEE entity, Ponahalo, which holds the remaining 26%. The Group’s effective interest in DBCM is 85%.
(5) 
Non-controlling interest of 0.018%. On 24 August 2015, Anglo American announced that it had reached an agreement to sell its interest in Anglo American Norte SA to an investor consortium. 
On 11 September 2015 this transaction was completed. See note 30.
(6) 
Niobium and Phosphates are now aggregated, having previously been presented separately (see note 3).
(7) 
The 73.9% interest in Sishen Iron Ore Company (Proprietary) Limited (SIOC) is held indirectly through Kumba Iron Ore Limited, in which the Group has a 69.7% interest. A further 3.1% interest 
in SIOC is held by the Kumba Envision Trust for the benefit of participants in Kumba’s broad based employee share scheme for non-managerial Historically Disadvantaged South African 
employees. The Trust meets the definition of a subsidiary under IFRS, and is therefore consolidated by Kumba Iron Ore Limited. Consequently the effective interest in SIOC included in the 
Group’s results is 53.7%.
(8) 
A division of Anglo Operations Proprietary Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary.
(9) 
All equity interests shown are ordinary shares.
(10) 
The 50% interest in Debswana Diamond Company (Proprietary) Limited is held indirectly through De Beers and is consolidated on a 19.2% proportionate basis, reflecting economic interest. 
The Group’s effective interest in Debswana Diamond Company (Proprietary) Limited is 16.3%.
(11) 
The 50% interest in Namdeb Holdings (Proprietary) Limited is held indirectly through De Beers. The Group’s effective interest in Namdeb Holdings (Proprietary) Limited is 42.5%.
(12) 
The wholly owned subsidiary Anglo American Metallurgical Coal Holdings Limited holds the proportionately consolidated joint operations. These operations are unincorporated and 
jointly controlled.
(13) 
Previously LLX Minas-Rio Logistica Comercial Exportadora S.A.
(14) 
Samancor has been accounted for as a joint venture since March 2015, following amendments to the agreement that governs the Group’s interests in Samancor which resulted in the Group 
acquiring joint control over the business (previously accounted for as an associate).
(15) 
These entities have a 30 June year end.
(16) 
Samancor Holdings Proprietary Limited is the parent company of Hotazel Manganese Mines (HMM) and the Metalloys Smelter. BEE shareholders hold a 27% interest in HMM and therefore the 
Group’s effective ownership interest in HMM is 29%.
(17) 
On 17 July 2015 the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Lafarge Tarmac Holdings Limited to Lafarge SA. See note 30.
(18) 
The Group disposed of its interest in these joint ventures during December 2015.
(19) 
The Group’s effective interest in the Jellinbah operation is 23.3%. The entity has a 30 June year end.
38. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board approves and monitors the risk management processes, including documented treasury policies, counterparty limits and controlling and reporting 
structures. The risk management processes of the Group’s independently listed subsidiaries are in line with the Group’s own policy.
The types of risk exposure, the way in which such exposure is managed and quantification of the level of exposure in the Consolidated balance sheet at 
31 December is as follows (subcategorised into credit risk, commodity price risk, foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk). See note 24 for liquidity risk.
Market risks
a) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty to a financial instrument will cause a loss to the Group by failing to pay for its obligation. The Group’s principal financial 
assets are cash, trade and other receivables, investments and derivative financial instruments. The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk primarily arises 
from these financial assets and is as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
Cash and cash equivalents 6,895 6,748
Trade and other receivables
(1)
 1,885  2,465 
Financial asset investments
(2)
 662  761 
Derivative financial assets 1,149  1,133 
 10,591  11,107 
(1) 
Trade and other receivables exclude prepayments and tax receivables.
(2) 
Financial asset investments exclude available for sale investments.
The Group limits credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments through diversification of exposures with a range of financial institutions 
approved by the Board. Counterparty limits are set for each financial institution with reference to credit ratings assigned by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and 
Fitch Ratings, shareholder equity (in case of relationship banks) and fund size (in case of asset managers).
Given the diverse nature of the Group’s operations (both in relation to commodity markets and geographically), and the use of payment security instruments 
(including letters of credit from financial institutions), it does not have significant concentration of credit risk in respect of trade receivables, with exposure 
spread over a large number of customers.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction 
in the recoverability of the cash flows. Details of the credit quality of trade receivables and the associated provision for impairment are disclosed in note 16.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES 158 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
38. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued
b) Commodity price risk
The Group’s earnings are exposed to movements in the prices of the commodities it produces.
The Group’s policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices and is generally not to hedge commodity price risk, although some hedging may be 
undertaken for strategic reasons. In such cases, the Group generally uses forward contracts to hedge the price risk.
Certain of the Group’s sales and purchases are provisionally priced, meaning that the selling price is determined normally 30 to 180 days after delivery  
to the customer, based on quoted market prices stipulated in the contract, and as a result are susceptible to future price movements. The exposure of the 
Group’s financial assets and liabilities to commodity price risk is as follows:
2015 2014
Commodity price linked
Not  
linked to 
commodity 
price Total
Commodity price linked
US$ million
Subject to 
price
movements
(1)
Fixed
price
(2)
Subject to 
price
movements
(1)
Fixed
price
(2)
Not  
linked to 
commodity 
price Total
Total net financial instruments  
(excluding derivatives) 337  334 (11,674) (11,003)  498  649 (12,590) (11,443) 
Derivatives 16 – (1,330) (1,314)  3 – (1,194) (1,191) 
 353  334 (13,004) (12,317)  501  649 (13,784) (12,634) 
(1) 
Includes provisionally priced trade receivables and trade payables.
(2) 
Includes receivables and payables for commodity sales and purchases not subject to price adjustment at the balance sheet date.
Commodity based contracts that are settled through physical delivery of the Group’s production or are used within the production process are classified as 
normal purchase or sale contracts and are not marked to market.
c) Foreign exchange risk
As a global business, the Group is exposed to many currencies principally as a result of non-US dollar operating costs and, to a lesser extent, from non-US 
dollar revenue. The Brazilian real, South African rand and Australian dollar are the most significant non-US dollar currencies influencing costs. A strengthening 
of the US dollar against the currencies to which the Group is exposed has a positive effect on the Group’s underlying earnings. The Group’s policy is generally 
not to hedge such exposures given the correlation, over the longer term, with commodity prices and the diversified nature of the Group, though exceptions can 
be approved by the Group Management Committee.
In addition, currency exposures exist in respect of non-US dollar approved capital expenditure projects and non-US dollar borrowings in US dollar functional 
currency entities. The Group’s policy is that such exposures should be hedged subject to a review of the specific circumstances of the exposure.
Analysis of foreign exchange risk associated with net debt balances and the impact of derivatives to hedge against this risk is included within note 24. Net 
other financial assets (excluding net debt related balances and cash in disposal groups, but including the debit valuation adjustment attributable to derivatives 
hedging net debt) are $593 million. This includes net assets of $920 million denominated in US dollars and $92 million denominated in Brazilian real, and net 
liabilities of $231 million denominated in Australian dollars, $217 million denominated in Chilean pesos and $191 million denominated in South African rand. 
d) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk arises due to fluctuations in interest rates which impact on the value of short term investments and financing activities. The Group is principally 
exposed to US and South African interest rates.
The Group’s policy is to borrow funds at floating rates of interest given the link with economic output and therefore the correlation, over the longer term, with 
commodity prices. The Group uses interest rate swap contracts to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on its debt. Strategic hedging using fixed 
rate debt may also be undertaken from time to time if approved by the Group Management Committee.
In respect of financial assets, the Group’s policy is to invest cash at floating rates of interest and to maintain cash reserves in short term investments (less than 
one year) in order to maintain liquidity, while achieving a satisfactory return for shareholders.
Analysis of interest rate risk associated with net debt balances and the impact of derivatives to hedge against this risk is included within note 24. Net other 
financial assets (excluding net debt related balances and cash in disposal groups, but including the debit valuation adjustment attributable to derivatives 
hedging net debt) of $593 million, are primarily non-interest bearing. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 159
Financial statements
38. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued
e) Financial instrument sensitivities
Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits, derivative financial instruments, trade receivables and trade payables. The 
following analysis is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Group’s financial instruments at 31 December to changes in foreign currencies, commodity 
prices and interest rates.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the components of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of the debt and derivatives 
portfolio and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the hedge designations in place at 31 December. 
In addition, the commodity price impact for provisionally priced contracts is based on the related trade receivables and trade payables at 31 December. As a 
consequence, this sensitivity analysis relates to the position at 31 December.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis:
 • all income statement sensitivities also impact equity
 • for debt and other deposits carried at amortised cost, carrying value does not change as interest rates move
 • no sensitivity is provided for interest accruals as these are based on pre-agreed interest rates and therefore are not susceptible to further rate changes
 • no sensitivity has been calculated on derivatives and related underlying instruments designated into fair value hedge relationships as these are assumed 
materially to offset one another
 • all hedge relationships are assumed to be fully effective
 • debt with a maturity of less than one year is floating rate, unless it is a long term fixed rate debt in its final year
 • translation of foreign subsidiaries and operations into the Group’s presentation currency has been excluded from the sensitivity.
Using the above assumptions, the following table shows the illustrative effect on the income statement and equity that would result from reasonably possible 
changes in the relevant commodity price.
2015 2014
US$ million Income Equity Income Equity
Foreign currency sensitivities
(1)
+10% US dollar to rand (19) (19)  (13) (13)
–10% US dollar to rand 19  19 13 13
+10% US dollar to Brazilian real
(2)
(46) (46) (154) (154) 
–10% US dollar to Brazilian real
(2)
 46  46  154  154 
+10% US dollar to Australian dollar 9  9  30  30 
–10% US dollar to Australian dollar (9) (9) (30) (30) 
+10% US dollar to Chilean peso 21  21  36  36 
–10% US dollar to Chilean peso (24) (24) (40) (40) 
Commodity price sensitivities
10% increase in the copper price 117  117  103  103 
10% decrease in the copper price (117) (117) (103) (103) 
10% increase in the platinum group metals price (13) (13) (21) (21) 
10% decrease in the platinum group metals price 13  13  21  21 
Interest rate sensitivity
50bps increase in LIBOR
(3)
(32) (32) (33) (33) 
50bps decrease in LIBOR
(3)
 32  32  33  33 
(1) 
+ represents strengthening of US dollar against the respective currency.
(2) 
Includes sensitivities for derivatives related to capital expenditure. 
(3) 
Without the impact of capitalised interest, the Group’s sensitivity to a 50bps increase and decrease in LIBOR would be $61 million (2014: $49 million) loss and gain respectively.
The above sensitivities are calculated with reference to a single moment in time and are subject to change due to a number of factors including:
 • fluctuating trade receivable and trade payable balances
 • derivative instruments and borrowings settled throughout the year
 • fluctuating cash balances
 • changes in currency mix.
As the sensitivities are limited to year end financial instrument balances, they do not take account of the Group’s sales and operating costs, which are highly 
sensitive to changes in commodity prices and exchange rates. In addition, each of the sensitivities is calculated in isolation whilst, in reality, commodity prices, 
interest rates and foreign currencies do not move independently.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES 160 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
39. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRS Interpretations Committee 
(IFRIC) interpretations as adopted for use by the European Union, with those 
parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under 
IFRS and with the requirements of the Disclosure and Transparency rules of 
the Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom as applicable to 
periodic financial reporting. The financial statements have been prepared 
under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of pension 
assets and liabilities and certain financial instruments. A summary of the 
principal Group accounting policies is set out below. 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial 
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the 
reporting period. Although these estimates are based on management’s best 
knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ 
from those estimates. 
As permitted by UK company law, the Group’s results are presented in 
US dollars, the currency in which its business is primarily conducted. 
Going concern 
The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a 
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Thus the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial 
statements continues to be adopted. Further details are contained in the 
Directors’ report on page 190. 
Basis of consolidation 
The financial statements incorporate a consolidation of the financial 
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its 
subsidiaries). Control is achieved where the Company is exposed, or has 
rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has 
the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are 
included in the income statement from the effective date of acquisition 
or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. 
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries, joint 
arrangements and associates to bring their accounting policies into line with 
those used by the Group. Intra-group transactions, balances, income and 
expenses are eliminated on consolidation, where appropriate. 
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, non-controlling interests are presented 
in equity separately from the equity attributable to shareholders of the 
Company. Profit or loss and other comprehensive income are attributed to 
the shareholders of the Company and to non-controlling interests even if this 
results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. 
Changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries that do not result in a change 
in control are accounted for in equity. The carrying amounts of the controlling 
and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their 
relative interests in the subsidiary. Any difference between the amount by 
which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair value of the 
consideration paid or received is recorded directly in equity and attributed 
to the shareholders of the Company. 
39a. Revenue recognition 
Revenue is derived principally from the sale of goods and is measured at the 
fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, 
volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes. A sale is recognised 
when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed. This is 
usually when title and insurance risk have passed to the customer and the 
goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location. 
Sales of metal concentrate are stated at their invoiced amount which is 
net of treatment and refining charges. Sales of certain commodities are 
provisionally priced such that the price is not settled until a predetermined 
future date and is based on the market price at that time. Revenue on these 
sales is initially recognised (when the above criteria are met) at the current 
market price. Provisionally priced sales are marked to market at each 
reporting date using the forward price for the period equivalent to that 
outlined in the contract. This mark to market adjustment is recognised in 
revenue, see note 4 for more information on provisional price adjustments. 
Revenues from the sale of material by-products are included within revenue. 
Where a by-product is not regarded as significant, revenue may be credited 
against the cost of sales. 
Revenue from services is recognised as services are rendered and accepted 
by the customer. Amounts billed to customers in respect of shipping and 
handling activities are classified as revenue where the Group is responsible 
for freight. In situations where the Group is acting as an agent, amounts billed 
to customers are offset against the relevant costs. 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal 
outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. 
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ 
rights to receive payment have been established. 
39b. Borrowing costs 
Interest on borrowings directly relating to the financing of qualifying assets 
in the course of construction is added to the capitalised cost of those projects 
under ‘Capital works in progress’, until such time as the assets are 
substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Where funds have been 
borrowed specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents 
the actual borrowing costs incurred. Where the funds used to finance a 
project form part of general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated 
using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings 
of the Group during the period. All other borrowing costs are recognised in 
the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. 
39c. Tax 
The tax expense includes the current tax and deferred tax charge recognised 
in the income statement. 
Current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit 
differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it 
excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other 
years and it further excludes items that are not taxable or deductible. The 
Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and 
the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are generally 
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available 
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets 
and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the 
initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction (other 
than in a business combination) that affects neither taxable profit nor 
accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences 
arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates 
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary 
difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date 
and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable 
profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the 
period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on the laws 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when 
it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the 
deferred tax is also taken directly to equity. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 161
Financial statements
39. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income 
taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle 
its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis in that taxation authority. 
39d. Business combinations and goodwill arising thereon 
The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, 
a joint arrangement or an associate, which can be measured reliably, are 
recorded at their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition. Goodwill 
is the fair value of the consideration transferred (including contingent 
consideration and previously held non-controlling interests) less the fair 
value of the Group’s share of identifiable net assets on acquisition. 
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group’s previously 
held interests in the acquiree are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition 
date and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement. 
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date 
that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are 
reclassified to the income statement, where such treatment would be 
appropriate if that interest were disposed of. 
Transaction costs incurred in connection with the business combination 
are expensed. Provisional fair values are finalised within 12 months of the 
acquisition date. 
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint operations is included within 
intangible assets. Goodwill relating to associates and joint ventures is 
included within the carrying value of the investment. 
Where the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired exceeds the cost of 
the acquisition, the surplus, which represents the discount on the acquisition, 
is recognised directly in the income statement in the period of acquisition. 
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, non-controlling interests are initially 
recorded at the non-controlling interests’ proportion of the fair values of net 
assets recognised at acquisition. 
39e. Non-mining licences and other intangibles 
Non-mining licences and other intangibles are measured at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Intangible 
assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised 
separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or 
legal rights and the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition. 
Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, usually 
between 3 and 20 years, except goodwill and those intangible assets that are 
considered to have indefinite lives. For intangible assets with a finite life, the 
amortisation period is determined as the period over which the Group expects 
to obtain benefits from the asset, taking account of all relevant facts and 
circumstances including contractual lives and expectations about the 
renewal of contractual arrangements without significant incremental costs. 
An intangible asset is deemed to have an indefinite life when, based on an 
analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the period 
over which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for the Group. 
Amortisation methods, residual values and estimated useful lives are 
reviewed at least annually. 
39f. Impairment of goodwill 
Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the group of cash 
generating units (CGUs) that is expected to benefit from synergies of the 
combination, and represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored 
by the Group’s board of directors for internal management purposes. The 
recoverable amount of the CGU, or group of CGUs, to which goodwill has 
been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or when events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired. 
Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
Impairment of goodwill is not subsequently reversed. 
39g. Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost is the fair value of 
consideration required to acquire and develop the asset and includes the 
purchase price, acquisition of mineral rights, costs directly attributable to 
bring the asset to its location and condition necessary for it to be capable of 
operating in the manner intended by management, the initial estimate of any 
decommissioning obligation and, for assets that take a substantial period of 
time to get ready for their intended use, borrowing costs.
Gains or losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined 
by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount. The gain 
or loss is recognised in the income statement. 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
Mining properties are depreciated to their residual values using the unit of 
production method based on Proved and Probable Ore Reserves and, in 
certain limited circumstances, other Mineral Resources included in the Life 
of Mine Plan. These other Mineral Resources are included in depreciation 
calculations where, taking into account historic rates of conversion to Ore 
Reserves, there is a high degree of confidence that they will be extracted 
in an economic manner. This is the case principally for diamond operations, 
where depreciation calculations are based on Diamond Reserves and 
Diamond Resources included in the Life of Mine Plan. This reflects the unique 
nature of diamond deposits where, due to the difficulty in estimating grade, 
Life of Mine Plans frequently include significant amounts of Indicated or 
Inferred Resources.
Buildings and items of plant and equipment for which the consumption of 
economic benefit is linked primarily to utilisation or to throughput rather 
than production, are depreciated to their residual values at varying rates 
on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, or the Reserve Life, 
whichever is shorter. Estimated useful lives normally vary from up to 20 years 
for items of plant and equipment to a maximum of 50 years for buildings. 
Under limited circumstances, items of plant and equipment may be 
depreciated over a period that exceeds the Reserve Life by taking into 
account additional Mineral Resources other than Proved and Probable 
Reserves included in the Life of Mine Plan, after making allowance for 
expected production losses based on historic rates of resource conversion. 
‘Capital works in progress’ are measured at cost less any recognised 
impairment. Depreciation commences when the assets are capable of 
operating in the manner intended by management, at which point they are 
transferred to the appropriate asset class. 
Land is not depreciated. 
When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful 
lives, they are accounted for as separate items (major components). 
Depreciation methods, residual values and estimated useful lives are 
reviewed at least annually. 
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease 
term and the estimated useful lives of the assets. 
39h. Deferred stripping 
The removal of rock or soil overlying a mineral deposit, overburden, and other 
waste materials is often necessary during the initial development of an open 
pit mine site, in order to access the mineral ore deposit. The process of 
removing overburden and other mine waste materials is referred to as 
stripping. The directly attributable cost of this activity is capitalised in full 
within ‘Mining properties and leases’, until the point at which the mine is 
considered to be capable of operating in the manner intended by 
management. This is classified as expansionary capital expenditure, within 
investing cash flows.
The removal of waste material after the point at which depreciation 
commences is referred to as production stripping. When the waste removal 
activity improves access to ore extracted in the current period, the costs of 
production stripping are charged to the income statement as operating costs 
in accordance with the principles of IAS 2 Inventories. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES 162 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
39. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Where production stripping activity both produces inventory and improves 
access to ore in future periods the associated costs of waste removal are 
allocated between the two elements. The portion which benefits future ore 
extraction is capitalised within ‘Mining properties and leases’. This is classified 
as stripping and development capital expenditure, within investing cash 
flows. If the amount to be capitalised cannot be specifically identified it is 
determined based on the volume of waste extracted compared with expected 
volume for the identified component of the orebody. Components are specific 
volumes of a mine’s orebody that are determined by reference to the Life of 
Mine Plan. 
In certain instances significant levels of waste removal may occur during the 
production phase with little or no associated production. This may occur at 
both open pit and underground mines, for example longwall development. 
The cost of this waste removal is capitalised in full to ‘Mining properties 
and leases’. 
All amounts capitalised in respect of waste removal are depreciated using the 
unit of production method based on Proved and Probable Ore Reserves of 
the component of the orebody to which they relate. 
The effects of changes to the Life of Mine Plan on the expected cost of waste 
removal or remaining Ore Reserves for a component are accounted for 
prospectively as a change in estimate.
39i. Impairment of property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets excluding goodwill 
At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its 
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether 
there is any indication that those assets are impaired. If such an indication 
exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine 
the extent of any impairment. Where the asset does not generate cash flows 
that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable 
amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an 
indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is 
an indication that the asset may be impaired. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value 
in use (VIU). In assessing VIU, the estimated future cash flows are discounted 
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the 
asset for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. 
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than 
its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced 
to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the income 
statement. 
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the 
asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, 
but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined had no impairment been 
recognised for the asset or CGU. A reversal of an impairment loss is 
recognised in the income statement. 
39j. Exploration and evaluation expenditure 
Exploration and evaluation expenditure is expensed in the year in which it 
is incurred. 
Exploration expenditure is the cost of exploring for Mineral Resources other 
than that occurring at existing operations and projects and comprises 
geological and geophysical studies, exploratory drilling and sampling and 
resource development. 
Evaluation expenditure includes the cost of conceptual and pre-feasibility 
studies and evaluation of Mineral Resources at existing operations. 
When a decision is taken that a mining project is technically feasible and 
commercially viable, usually after a pre-feasibility study has been completed, 
subsequent directly attributable expenditure, including feasibility study costs, 
are considered development expenditure and are capitalised within property, 
plant and equipment.
Exploration properties acquired are recognised in the balance sheet when 
management considers that their value is recoverable. These properties are 
measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
39k. Associates and joint arrangements 
Associates are investments over which the Group has significant influence, 
which is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy 
decisions of the investee, but without the ability to exercise control or joint 
control. Typically the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the voting equity 
of its associates. 
Joint arrangements are arrangements in which the Group shares joint control 
with one or more parties. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of 
control of an arrangement, and exists only when decisions about the activities 
that significantly affect the arrangement’s returns require the unanimous 
consent of the parties sharing control. 
Joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures 
based on the rights and obligations of the parties to the arrangement. In joint 
operations, the parties have rights to the assets and obligations for the 
liabilities relating to the arrangement, whereas in joint ventures, the parties 
have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. 
Joint arrangements that are not structured through a separate vehicle are 
always joint operations. Joint arrangements that are structured through a 
separate vehicle may be either joint operations or joint ventures depending 
on the substance of the arrangement. In these cases, consideration is given 
to the legal form of the separate vehicle, the terms of the contractual 
arrangement and, when relevant, other facts and circumstances. When the 
activities of an arrangement are primarily designed for the provision of output 
to the parties, and the parties are substantially the only source of cash flows 
contributing to the continuity of the operations of the arrangement, this 
indicates the parties to the arrangements have rights to the assets and 
obligations for the liabilities. 
The Group accounts for joint operations by recognising the assets, liabilities, 
revenue and expenses for which it has rights or obligations, including its share 
of such items held or incurred jointly. 
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the 
equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale. The 
Group’s share of associates’ and joint ventures’ net income is based on their 
most recent audited financial statements or unaudited interim statements 
drawn up to the Group’s balance sheet date. 
The total carrying values of investments in associates and joint ventures 
represent the cost of each investment including the carrying value of 
goodwill, the share of post acquisition retained earnings, any other 
movements in reserves and any long term debt interests which in substance 
form part of the Group’s net investment. The carrying values of associates 
and joint ventures are reviewed on a regular basis and if there is objective 
evidence that an impairment in value has occurred as a result of one or more 
events during the period, the investment is impaired. 
The Group’s share of an associate’s or joint venture’s losses in excess of its 
interest in that associate or joint venture is not recognised unless the Group 
has an obligation to fund such losses. Unrealised gains arising from 
transactions with associates and joint ventures are eliminated against the 
investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised 
losses are eliminated in the same way, but only to the extent that there is no 
evidence of impairment. 
39l. Financial asset investments 
Investments, other than investments in subsidiaries, joint arrangements  
and associates, are financial asset investments and are initially recognised  
at fair value. At subsequent reporting dates, financial assets classified as 
held-to-maturity or as loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost, 
less any impairment losses. Other investments are classified as either at fair 
value through profit or loss (which includes investments held for trading) or 
available for sale financial assets. Both categories are subsequently 
measured at fair value. Where investments are held for trading purposes, 
unrealised gains and losses for the period are included in the income 
statement within other gains and losses. For available for sale investments, 
unrealised gains and losses are recognised in equity until the investment is 
disposed of or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously 
recognised in equity is recycled to the income statement. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 163
Financial statements
39. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
39m. Impairment of financial assets (including receivables) 
A financial asset not measured at fair value through profit or loss is assessed 
at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence 
that it is impaired. A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates 
that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset. 
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost 
is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present 
value of the estimated cash flows discounted at the asset’s original effective 
interest rate. Losses are recognised in the income statement. When a 
subsequent event causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the 
decrease in impairment loss is reversed through the income statement. 
Impairment losses relating to available for sale investments are recognised 
when a decline in fair value is considered significant or prolonged. These 
impairment losses are recognised by transferring the cumulative loss that has 
been recognised in the statement of comprehensive income to the income 
statement. The loss recognised in the income statement is the difference 
between the acquisition cost and the current fair value. 
39n. Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
In order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and 
commodity price risk, the Group enters into forward, option and swap 
contracts. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for 
speculative purposes. Commodity based (own use) contracts that meet 
the scope exemption in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement are recognised in earnings when they are settled by 
physical delivery. 
All derivatives are held at fair value in the balance sheet within ‘Derivative 
financial assets’ or ‘Derivative financial liabilities’ except if they are linked 
to settlement and delivery of an unquoted equity instrument and the fair 
value cannot be measured reliably, in which case they are carried at cost. 
A derivative cannot be measured reliably where the range of reasonable fair 
value estimates is significant and the probabilities of various estimates cannot 
be reasonably assessed. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are 
designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows (cash flow hedges) 
are recognised directly in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective 
portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. If the cash flow 
hedge of a firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition 
of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is 
recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had 
previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement 
of the asset or liability. For hedges that do not result in the recognition of a 
non-financial asset or liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in 
the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects 
profit or loss. 
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged 
item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged. 
The corresponding entry, along with gains or losses from remeasuring the 
associated derivative, are recognised in the income statement. 
The gain or loss on hedging instruments relating to the effective portion 
of a net investment hedge is recognised in equity (within the cumulative 
translation adjustment reserve). The ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. Gains or losses accumulated in the 
cumulative translation adjustment reserve are recycled to the income 
statement on disposal of the foreign operations to which they relate. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires 
or is sold, terminated, exercised, revoked, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument recognised in equity is retained until the forecast transaction 
occurs. If a hedge transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net 
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recycled to the 
income statement for the period. 
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that are not designated 
in a hedge relationship are recognised immediately in the income statement 
and are classified within other gains and losses (operating costs) or net 
finance costs depending on the type of risk to which the derivative relates. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or non-financial 
host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of their host contracts and 
the host contracts themselves are not carried at fair value with unrealised 
gains or losses reported in the income statement. 
39o. Cash and debt 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and on demand deposits, 
together with short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible 
to a known amount of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value. Bank overdrafts are shown within short term borrowings in 
current liabilities on the balance sheet. Cash and cash equivalents in the cash 
flow statement are shown net of overdrafts. Cash and cash equivalents are 
measured at amortised cost. 
Financial liabilities and equity instruments 
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified and accounted for 
as debt or equity according to the substance of the contractual arrangements 
entered into. 
Bank borrowings 
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair 
value, net of directly attributable transaction costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue 
costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest 
method. They are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the 
extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise. 
39p. Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities 
Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from 
the asset has expired, the right to receive cash flows has been retained but 
an obligation to on-pay them in full without material delay has been assumed 
or the right to receive cash flows has been transferred together with 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. 
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the associated obligation has been 
discharged, cancelled or has expired. 
39q. Inventories 
Inventory and work in progress are measured at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value. The production cost of inventory includes an appropriate 
proportion of depreciation and production overheads. Cost is determined 
on the following basis: 
 • Raw materials and consumables are measured at cost on a first in, first out 
(FIFO) basis or a weighted average cost basis. 
 • Work in progress and finished products are measured at raw material cost, 
labour cost and a proportion of manufacturing overhead expenses. 
 • Metal and coal stocks are included within finished products and are 
measured at average cost. 
At precious metals operations that produce ‘joint products’, cost is allocated 
amongst products according to the ratio of contribution of these metals to 
gross sales revenues. 
39r. Environmental restoration and decommissioning 
obligations 
An obligation to incur environmental restoration, rehabilitation and 
decommissioning costs arises when disturbance is caused by the 
development or ongoing production of a mining asset. Such costs arising 
from the decommissioning of plant and other site preparation work, 
discounted to their net present value, are provided for and capitalised at the 
start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises. 
These costs are recognised in the income statement over the life of the 
operation, through the depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the 
discount on the provision. Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage 
which is created on an ongoing basis during production are provided for at 
their net present values and recognised in the income statement as 
extraction progresses.  164 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
39. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of 
plant or other site preparation work (that result from changes in the estimated 
timing or amount of the cash flow or a change in the discount rate), are added 
to or deducted from the cost of the related asset in the current period. If a 
decrease in the liability exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess 
is recognised immediately in the income statement. If the asset value is 
increased and there is an indication that the revised carrying value is not 
recoverable, an impairment test is performed in accordance with the 
accounting policy set out above. 
For some South African operations annual contributions are made to 
dedicated environmental rehabilitation trusts to fund the estimated cost of 
rehabilitation during and at the end of the life of the relevant mine. The Group 
exercises full control of these trusts and therefore the trusts are consolidated. 
The trusts’ assets are disclosed separately on the balance sheet as  
non-current assets. 
The trusts’ assets are measured based on the nature of the underlying assets 
in accordance with accounting policies for similar assets. 
39s. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their 
carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than 
through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when a sale 
is highly probable within one year from the date of classification, management 
is committed to the sale and the asset or disposal group is available for 
immediate sale in its present condition. 
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale from 
the date these conditions are met and are measured at the lower of carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell. Any resulting impairment loss is 
recognised in the income statement. 
On classification as held for sale the assets are no longer depreciated. 
Comparative amounts are not adjusted.
39t. Retirement benefits 
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension 
plans for its employees as well as post employment medical plans. For 
defined contribution plans the amount recognised in the income statement 
is the contributions paid or payable during the year. 
For defined benefit pension and post employment medical plans, full actuarial 
valuations are carried out at least every three years using the projected unit 
credit method and updates are performed for each financial year end. The 
average discount rate for the plans’ liabilities is based on AA rated corporate 
bonds of a suitable duration and currency or, where there is no deep market 
for such bonds, is based on government bonds. Pension plan assets are 
measured using year end market values. 
Remeasurements comprising actuarial gains and losses, movements in asset 
surplus restrictions and the return on scheme assets (excluding interest 
income) are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive 
income and are not recycled to the income statement. Any increase in the 
present value of plan liabilities expected to arise from employee service 
during the year is charged to operating profit. The net interest income or cost 
on the net defined benefit asset or liability is included in investment income 
and interest expense respectively. 
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits 
are already vested and otherwise amortised on a straight line basis over the 
average period until the benefits vest. 
The retirement benefit obligation recognised on the balance sheet represents 
the present value of the deficit or surplus of the defined benefit plans. Any 
recognised surplus is limited to the present value of available refunds or 
reductions in future contributions to the plan. 
39u. Share-based payments 
The Group makes equity settled share-based payments to certain employees, 
which are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on a 
straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of 
shares that will eventually vest. For those share schemes with market related 
vesting conditions, the fair value is determined using the Monte Carlo method 
at the grant date. The fair value of share options issued with non-market 
vesting conditions has been calculated using the Black Scholes model. 
For all other share awards, the fair value is determined by reference to the 
market value of the shares at the grant date. For all share schemes with 
non-market vesting conditions, the likelihood of vesting has been taken 
into account when determining the relevant charge. Vesting assumptions 
are reviewed during each reporting period to ensure they reflect 
current expectations. 
39v. Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) transactions 
Where the Group disposes of a portion of a South African based subsidiary 
or operation to a BEE company at a discount to fair value, the transaction is 
considered to be a share-based payment (in line with the principle contained 
in South Africa interpretation AC 503 Accounting for Black Economic 
Empowerment (BEE) Transactions). 
The discount provided or value given is calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 
and the cost, representing the fair value of the BEE credentials obtained by 
the subsidiary, is recorded in the income statement. 
39w. Foreign currency transactions and translation 
Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are recognised in the 
functional currencies of the companies at the exchange rate ruling on the date 
of the transaction. At each reporting date, monetary assets and liabilities that 
are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing 
on the reporting date. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in 
the income statement for the period and are classified as either operating or 
financing depending on the nature of the monetary item giving rise to them. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical 
cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date 
of the transaction. 
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations 
are translated into the presentation currency of the Group at exchange rates 
prevailing on the reporting date. Income and expense items are translated at 
the average exchange rates for the period where these approximate the rates 
at the dates of the transactions. Any exchange differences arising are 
classified within the statement of comprehensive income and transferred to 
the Group’s cumulative translation adjustment reserve. Exchange differences 
on foreign currency balances with foreign operations for which settlement is 
neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, and therefore 
form part of the Group’s net investment in these foreign operations, are offset 
in the cumulative translation adjustment reserve. 
Cumulative translation differences are recycled from equity and recognised 
as income or expense on disposal of the operation to which they relate. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of foreign 
entities are treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated at the closing 
rate. 
39x. Leases 
In addition to lease contracts, other significant contracts are assessed to 
determine whether, in substance, they are or contain a lease. This includes 
assessment of whether the arrangement is dependent on use of a specific 
asset and the right to use that asset is conveyed through the contract. 
Rental costs under operating leases are recognised in the income statement 
in equal annual amounts over the lease term.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 165
Financial statements
40. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS OF THE GROUP
The Group consists of the parent company, Anglo American plc, incorporated 
in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures and 
associates. In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full 
list of related undertakings, the country of incorporation and the effective 
percentage of equity owned as at 31 December 2015 is disclosed below. See 
note 37 for the Group’s principal subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures 
and associates.
Wholly owned subsidiaries
(1)(2)
0912055 BC Ltd (Canada)
A.C.N 127 881 510 Pty Ltd (Australia)
A.R.H. Investments (Luxembourg)
A.R.H. Limited (Luxembourg)
AA Holdings Argentina B.V. (Netherlands)
AA Sakatti Mining Oy (Finland)
Acro (Hanise) (South Africa)
Addon Investments (Private) Limited (Zimbabwe)
Alluvium Limited (Ireland)
Almenta 127 (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Amaprop Townships Limited (South Africa)
Ambase Exploration (Botswana) (Pty) Ltd (Botswana)
Ambase Exploration Africa (RDC) SPRL (Democratic Republic of Congo)
Ambase Exploration (Zambia) (Pty) Ltd (Zambia)
Ambase Exploration Mocambique Limitada (Mozambique)
Ambase Investment Africa (Botswana) (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Ambase Investment Africa (DRC) (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Ambase Investment Africa (Mozambique) (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Ambase Investment Africa (Namibia) (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Ambase Investment Africa (Tanzania) (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Ambase Investment Africa (Zambia) (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Ambase Prospecting (Botswana) (Pty) Ltd (Botswana)
Ambase Prospecting (Namibia) (Pty) Ltd (Namibia)
Ambase Prospecting (Tanzania) (Pty) Ltd (Tanzania)
Ambras Holdings (Luxembourg)
(3)
Amcoal Collieries Recruiting Organisation (Hanise) (Proprietary) Limited 
(South Africa)
Amcoal Collieries Recruiting Organisation (Lesotho) (Pty) Ltd (Lesotho)
Amcoal Collieries Recruiting Organisation (Pty) Limited (South Africa)
Ammin Coal Holdings (Luxembourg)
Ampros (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Amzim Holdings Limited (Zimbabwe)
Anglo (Operation) Netherlands BV (Netherlands)
Anglo African Exploration Holdings (Luxembourg)
Anglo American (London) (United Kingdom)
Anglo American (London) 2 (United Kingdom)
Anglo American (NA) 1 BV (Netherlands)
Anglo American (NA) 3 BV (Netherlands)
Anglo American 2005 Limited (United Kingdom)
(4)
Anglo American Amcoll (UK) Limited (Cyprus)
Anglo American Australia Finance Limited (Australia)
Anglo American Australia Holdings Ltd (Australia)
Anglo American Australia Investments Limited (United Kingdom)
(5)
Anglo American Australia Limited (Australia)
Anglo American Bokamoso Limited (Botswana)
Anglo American Capital Australia Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Capital International Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Capital Luxembourg (Luxembourg)
Anglo American Capital plc (United Kingdom)
(5)
Anglo American Chile Inversiones S.A. (Chile)
Anglo American Chile Investments (UK) Limited (Cyprus)
Anglo American Chile Ltda (Chile)
Anglo American Clarent (UK) Limited (Cyprus)
Anglo American CMC Holdings Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Colombia Exploration S.A. (Colombia)
Anglo American Consultoria em Minério de Ferro Ltda. (Brazil)
Anglo American Corporation Botswana (Services) Limited (Botswana)
Anglo American Corporation de Chile Holdings Limited (Liberia)
Anglo American Corporation de Chile Holdings Limited (Isle of Man)
Anglo American Corporation Mocambique Servicos Limitada (Mozambique)
Anglo American Corporation Mozambique Ltd (Mozambique)
Anglo American Corporation of South Africa (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Anglo American Corporation Zimbabwe Limited (Zimbabwe)
Anglo American Development LLC (Mongolia)
Anglo American Diamond Holdings Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American EMEA Shared Services (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Anglo American Exploration B.V. (Netherlands)
Anglo American Exploration (Australia) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo American Exploration (Canada) Ltd. (Canada)
Anglo American Exploration (India) B.V. (Netherlands)
Anglo American Exploration (India) Pvt. Ltd (India)
Anglo American Exploration (Philippines) B.V. (Netherlands)
Anglo American Exploration (Philippines) Inc. (Philippines)
Anglo American Exploration (Singapore) Pte. Ltd (Singapore)
Anglo American Exploration (USA), Inc. (USA)
Anglo American Exploration Colombia (Luxembourg)
Anglo American Exploration Luxembourg (Luxembourg)
Anglo American Farms (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Anglo American Farms (UK) Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Farms Investment Holdings (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Anglo American Farms Limited A (South Africa)
Anglo American Ferrous 2 (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Ferrous Investments (Luxembourg)
Anglo American Ferrous Investments Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Finance (UK) Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Finance Luxembourg (Luxembourg)
(6)
Anglo American Finland Holdings 1 (Luxembourg)
Anglo American Finland Holdings 2 (Luxembourg)
Anglo American Fosfatos Brasil Ltda (Brazil)
Anglo American Global Finance Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Group Employee Shareholder Nominees (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Anglo American Group Foundation (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Holdings Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American India Holdings B.V. (Netherlands)
Anglo American International (Luxembourg)
Anglo American International BV (Netherlands)
Anglo American International Holdings Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Investimentos – Minério de Ferro Ltda. (Brazil)
Anglo American Investments (Australia) Limited (Australia)
Anglo American Investments (NA) Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Investments (UK) Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Italy Sarl (Italy)
Anglo American Kumba Exploration Liberia Ltd (Liberia)
Anglo American Liberia Holdings (Luxembourg)
Anglo American Luxembourg (Luxembourg)
Anglo American Marketing Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Medical Plan Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Metallurgical Coal Assets Eastern Australia Ltd (Australia)
Anglo American Metallurgical Coal Assets Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo American Metallurgical Coal Finance Ltd (Australia)
Anglo American Metallurgical Coal Holdings Ltd (Australia)
Anglo American Metallurgical Coal Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo American Mexico S.A. de C.V. (Mexico)
Anglo American Michiquillay Peru (Luxembourg)
Anglo American Michiquillay S.A. (Peru)
Anglo American Minerio de Ferro Brasil S.A (Brazil)
Anglo American Mongolia Holdings Pte. Ltd (Singapore)
Anglo American Netherlands B.V. (Netherlands)
Anglo American Nickel Marketing Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Niobio Brasil Ltda. (Brazil)
Anglo American Niquel Brasil Ltda (Brazil)
Anglo American Participacoes Minerio de Ferro Ltda. (Brazil)
Anglo American Peru S.A. (Peru)
Anglo American PNG Holdings Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Prefco Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Properties Limited (South Africa)
Anglo American Prospecting Services (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Anglo American REACH Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Representative Offices Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American SA Finance Limited (South Africa)
Anglo American Sebenza Fund (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Anglo American Services (International) Limited (British Virgin Islands)
Anglo American Services (UK) Ltd (United Kingdom)
(5)
Anglo American Services India Private Limited (India)
Anglo American Services Overseas Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo American Servicios Perú S.A. (Peru)
Anglo American South Africa Limited (South Africa)
Anglo American Thermal Coal (Australia) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo American US (Pebble) LLC (USA)
Anglo American US (Utah) Inc (USA)
Anglo American US Holdings Inc (USA)
Anglo American Venezuela Holdings (Luxembourg)
Anglo American Venezuela C.A. (Venezuela)
Anglo American Zimele (Pty) Limited (South Africa)
Anglo American Zimele Community Fund (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Anglo American Zimele Green Fund (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Anglo Australia Investments (Luxembourg)
Anglo Base Metals Marketing Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo Coal (Archveyor Management) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Callide Management) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Callide) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Callide) No 2 Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Capcoal Management) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Contracting) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Dartbrook Management) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Dartbrook) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Dawson Management) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Dawson Services) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Dawson South Management) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Dawson South) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Dawson) Holdings Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Dawson) Limited (Australia)
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
See page 168 for footnotes. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
166 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
40. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS OF THE GROUP continued
Anglo Coal (Drayton Management) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Drayton South Management) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Drayton South) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Drayton) No.2 Pty Limited (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Drayton) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Foxleigh Management) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Foxleigh Services) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Foxleigh) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (German Creek) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Grasstree Management) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Grosvenor Management) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Grosvenor) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Jellinbah) Holdings Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Monash Energy) Holdings Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Moranbah North Management) Pty Limited (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Roper Creek) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal (Theodore South) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Coal Botswana (Pty) Ltd (Botswana)
Anglo Coal CMC 1 S.à r.l. (Luxembourg)
Anglo Coal Holdings Limited (United Kingdom)
(5)
Anglo Coal International (Luxembourg)
Anglo Coal Investment Africa (Botswana) (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Anglo Coal Investment Africa (Botswana) (Pty) Ltd (Botswana)
Anglo Coal Overseas Services Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo Corporate Enterprises (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Anglo Diamond Investments (Luxembourg)
Anglo Exploration (Zambia) Limited (Zambia)
Anglo Exploration GmbH (Germany)
Anglo Exploration Mocambique Ltda (Mozambique)
Anglo Ferrous Brazil Participações S.A. (Brazil)
Anglo Ferrous Metals Marketing Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo Inyosi Coal Securityco Ltd (South Africa)
Anglo Iron Ore Investments (Luxembourg)
Anglo Loma Investments (Luxembourg)
Anglo Operations (Australia) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Anglo Operations (International) Limited (Luxembourg)
Anglo Operations (Netherlands) B.V. (Netherlands)
Anglo Operations Proprietary Limited (South Africa)
Anglo Peru Investments (Luxembourg)
Anglo Quellaveco (Luxembourg)
Anglo South Africa (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Anglo South Africa Capital (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Anglo South American Investments Limited (Mauritius)
Anglo UK Pension Trustee Limited (United Kingdom)
Anglo Venezuela Investments (Luxembourg)
Anglo Ventures (SA) (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Anglo Zimele Small Business Support Services (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Anmercosa Finance Limited (United Kingdom)
Anmercosa Pension Trustees Limited (United Kingdom)
Anmercosa Sales Limited (United Kingdom)
Anseld Holdings Proprietary Limited (South Africa)
Asociación Anglo American Perú (Peru)
Asociación Michiquillay (Peru)
Asociación Quellaveco (Peru)
Aval Holdings Sarl (Luxembourg)
Balgo Nominees (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Blue Lounge Trading 129 (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Broadlands Park Limited (Zimbabwe)
Buttercup Company (Luxembourg)
Callide Coalfields (Sales) (Pty) Ltd (Australia)
Camara de Comercio Repolublica Sul Africa (Brazil)
Chamfron Limited (South Africa)
Coromin Insurance (Ireland) Limited (Ireland)
Coromin Limited (Bermuda)
Coruripe Participações Ltda. (Brazil)
Cytobex (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Cytoblox (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Cytobuzz (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Dawson Coal Processing Pty Ltd (Australia)
Dawson Highwall Mining Pty Ltd (Australia)
De Beers Small Business Start Up Fund (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Dido Nominees Proprietary Limited (South Africa)
Drayton Coal (Sales) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Enanticept (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Fermain Nominees (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Ferro Nickel Marketing Limited (United Kingdom)
Firecrest Investments Limited (United Kingdom)
Gespa Gesso Paulista Ltda. (Brazil)
Golden Pond Trading 248 (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Grosvenor Sales Pty Ltd (Australia)
Hermitage (Luxembourg)
High Ground Investments Limited (South Africa)
Highbirch Ltd (British Virgin Islands)
Hoddle Investment Holdings 6 (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Holdac Limited (Bermuda)
Ingagane Colliery (Proprietary) Limited (South Africa)
Inglewood Holdings Limited (Mauritius)
Inglewood Minerals Pvt Limited (India)
Instituto Anglo American Brasil (Brazil)
Inversiones Anglo American Limitada (Chile)
Inversiones Anglo American Norte S.A (Chile)
Inversiones Anglo American Sur S.A (Chile)
Inversiones Minorco Chile S.A. (Chile)
Jena Pty Ltd (Australia)
Jena Unit Trust (Australia)
Joint Coal (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Lansan Investment Holdings (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Loma de Niquel Holdings BV (Netherlands)
Longboat (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Longboat Trading (Pty) Ltd (Namibia)
Longmeadow Home Farm (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Mallord Properties Limited (United Kingdom)
Maotsi Stone Crushers (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Marikana Ferrochrome Ltd (South Africa)
Marikana Minerals (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Midway Investment (Luxembourg)
Minera Anglo American Argentina S.A. (Argentina)
Mineração Barro Alto Ltda. (Brazil)
Mineração Itamaracá Ltda. (Brazil)
Mineral Venture Company (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Minorco (Luxembourg)
Minorco Exploration (Indonesia) B.V. (Netherlands)
Minorco Peru Holdings (Luxembourg)
Minpress Investment Holdings (Pty) Limited (Luxembourg)
Minpress Investments (Luxembourg)
Monash Energy Coal Ltd (Australia)
Moranbah North Coal (No2) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Moranbah North Coal Pty Ltd (Australia)
Morro do Níquel Ltda. (Brazil)
Neville Street Limited (United Kingdom)
Peace River Coal Inc (Canada)
Phakamisa Civil and Mining Contracting (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
PT Anglo American Indonesia (Indonesia)
PT Minorco Services Indonesia (Indonesia)
Ravenswood House (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Refitlhile Drilling (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Resident Nominees (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Reunion Group Limited (United Kingdom)
Reunion Mining Limited (United Kingdom)
Rhoanglo Trustees Limited (United Kingdom)
Rietpoort Mining (Proprietary) Limited (South Africa)
Security Nominees Limited (United Kingdom)
Security Nominees Limited (Zimbabwe)
Sedgford Limited (British Virgin Islands)
Servicios Anglo American Mexico S.A. de C.V. (Mexico)
Silver Lake Trading 619 (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Southridge Limited (Zimbabwe)
Springfield Collieries Limited (South Africa)
Steppe Eagle (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Stockade Investments (Luxembourg)
Sunbali Flowers (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Tarmac International Holdings BV (Netherlands)
Tarmac Investments (International) Limited (United Kingdom)
Tenon Investment Holdings (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Tshipi Kwena Steel (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Vencorp Limited (Luxembourg)
Vergelegen Wine Estate (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Vergelegen Wines (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Viaduct Portfolio Management Limited (United Kingdom)
Zamanglo Prospecting Limited (Zambia)
Majority owned subsidiaries
(1)(2)
4259785 Canada Inc (Canada, 85%)
Anglo American (India) Private Limited (India, 99%)
Anglo American Corporation De Portugal Limitada PTA (Portugal, 95%)
Anglo American Inyosi Coal (Pty) Limited (South Africa, 73%)
Anglo American Mocambique Limitada (Mozambique, 90%)
Anglo American Platinum Limited (South Africa, 78%)
(7)
Anglo American Quellaveco S.A. (Peru, 82%)
Anglo Platinum Development Limited (South Africa, 78%)
Anglo Platinum International (Luxembourg, 78%)
Anglo Platinum International Brazil (Luxembourg, 78%)
Anglo Platinum Management Services (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 78%)
Anglo Platinum Marketing Limited (United Kingdom, 78%)
Aurumar Alaska Holdings Ltd (UK) (United Kingdom, 85%)
Big Hill, LLC (USA, 55%)
Blinkwater Farms 244KR Proprietary Limited (South Africa, 78%)
Butsanani Energy Investment Holdings (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 67%)
CAML Resources Pty Ltd (Australia, 67%)
Cencan S.A. (Luxembourg, 85%)
Charterhouse CAP Ltd (United Kingdom, 85%)
Cheviot Holdings Ltd (Cayman Islands, 85%)
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES
See page 168 for footnotes.  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 167
Financial statements
40. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS OF THE GROUP continued
Colliery Training College (Pty) Limited (South Africa, 56%)
D.B.L.H. Limited (Liberia, 85%)
Dartbrook Coal (Sales) Pty Ltd (Australia, 83%)
Dawson Sales Pty Ltd (Australia, 51%)
Dawson South Sales Pty Ltd (Australia, 51%)
DB Investments (Netherlands) NV (Netherlands, 85%)
DB Investments S.A. (Luxembourg, 85%)
DBCM Holdings (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 63%)
De Beers Angola Holdings S.A. (Angola, 85%)
De Beers Angola Investments Limited (British Virgin Islands, 68%)
De Beers Angola Prospecting Pty Ltd (British Virgin Islands, 68%)
De Beers Auction Sales Belgium NV (Belgium, 85%)
De Beers Auction Sales Holdings Ltd (Hong Kong, 85%)
De Beers Auction Sales Hong Kong Ltd (Hong Kong, 85%)
De Beers Auction Sales Israel Ltd (Israel, 85%)
De Beers Auction Sales Singapore Pte Ltd (Singapore, 85%)
De Beers Australia Exploration Limited (Australia, 85%)
De Beers BC Ltd (British Virgin Islands, 85%)
De Beers Botswana (Pty) Ltd (Botswana, 85%)
De Beers Canada Holdings Inc. (Canada, 85%)
De Beers Canada Inc. (Canada, 85%)
De Beers Centenary AG (Switzerland, 85%)
De Beers Centenary Angola Properties Ltd (British Virgin Islands, 85%)
De Beers Centenary Mauritius Limited (Mauritius, 85%)
De Beers Consolidated Mines (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 63%)
(8)
De Beers DRC Exploration sprl (Democratic Republic of Congo, 85%)
De Beers Exploration Holdings (Luxembourg, 85%)
De Beers Global Sightholder Sales (Pty) Ltd (Botswana, 85%)
De Beers Group Services (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 85%)
De Beers Holdings Botswana (Pty) Ltd (Botswana, 85%)
De Beers Holdings Luxembourg (Luxembourg, 85%)
De Beers India Private Ltd (India, 85%)
De Beers Intangibles Ltd (United Kingdom, 85%)
De Beers Marine (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 85%)
De Beers Matlafalang Business Development (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 63%)
De Beers Mauritius Holdings Private Ltd (Mauritius, 85%)
De Beers Mauritius Private Ltd (Mauritius, 85%)
De Beers Namibia Holdings (Pty) Ltd (Namibia, 85%)
De Beers Namibia (Pty) Ltd (Namibia, 85%)
De Beers Sightholder Sales South Africa (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 63%)
De Beers Société Anonyme (Luxembourg, 85%)
De Beers Trademarks Ltd (United Kingdom, 85%)
De Beers UK Ltd (United Kingdom, 85%)
De Beers Zimbabwe Prospecting Limited (Zimbabwe, 85%)
Delibes Holdings Limited (British Virgin Islands, 85%)
Diamdel (Hong Kong) Limited (Hong Kong, 85%)
Diamdel Diamonds Ltd (Israel, 85%)
Diamdel Holdings Limited (Hong Kong, 85%)
Diamond Trading Company Proprietary Ltd NV (Belgium, 85%)
Diapros Canada Inc. (Canada, 85%)
Drayton Coal Shipping Pty Ltd (Australia, 88%)
DTC Marketing India Private Limited (India, 85%)
DTC Valuations Namibia (Pty) Ltd (Namibia, 85%)
EL Ramsden Bleskop (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 67%)
Element Six (Holdings) Limited (Ireland, 51%)
Element Six (Isle of Man) Corporate Trustee Limited (Isle of Man, 85%)
Element Six (Production) (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 51%)
Element Six (Production) Ltd (United Kingdom, 51%)
Element Six (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 51%)
Element Six (Trade Marks) (Ireland, 51%)
Element Six (UK) Ltd (United Kingdom, 51%)
Element Six AB (Sweden, 51%)
Element Six Abrasives SA (Luxembourg, 51%)
Element Six Abrasives Treasury Ltd (ESATL2) (Ireland, 51%)
Element Six BV (New NLTEC) (Netherlands, 85%)
Element Six GmbH (DECAR) (Germany, 51%)
Element Six GmbH (DEDOF) (Germany, 51%)
Element Six Hard Materials (Wuxi) Co. Ltd (China, 51%)
Element Six Industrial Diamonds (Suzhou) Ltd (China, 51%)
Element Six Ltd (United Kingdom, 85%)
Element Six Ltd (Hong Kong, 51%)
Element Six Ltd (Ireland, 51%)
Element Six Ltd (Isle of Man, 85%)
Element Six Ltd (Japan, 51%)
Element Six Ltda (Brazil, 51%)
Element Six NV (Netherlands, 85%)
Element Six S.A. (Lux) (Luxembourg, 85%)
Element Six SA (Switz) (Switzerland, 51%)
Element Six South Africa (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 51%)
Element Six Technologies (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 85%)
Element Six Technologies Holding Ltd (Malta, 85%)
Element Six Technologies Ltd (Malta, 85%)
Element Six Technologies Ltd (United Kingdom, 85%)
Element Six Technologies sarl (Luxembourg, 85%)
Element Six Technologies U.S. Corporation (USA, 85%)
Element Six Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd (SHDOF) (China, 51%)
Element Six Trading (Suzhou) Co. Ltd (China, 51%)
Element Six Treasury Limited (ESTL2-IRE) (Ireland, 85%)
Element Six US Corporation (USA, 51%)
Element Six Ventures Sarl (Luxembourg, 85%)
Erabas B.V (Netherlands, 78%)
Forevermark Diamonds Private Limited (India, 85%)
Forevermark Italy S.R.L (Italy, 85%)
Forevermark KK (Japan, 85%)
Forevermark Limited (United Kingdom, 85%)
Forevermark Limited (Hong Kong, 85%)
Forevermark Marketing Shanghai Co. Ltd (China, 85%)
Forevermark US Inc. (USA, 85%)
Foxleigh Land Pty Ltd (Australia, 70%)
Foxleigh Sales & Marketing Pty Ltd (Australia, 70%)
German Creek Coal Pty Ltd (Australia, 70%)
IIDGR (UK) Limited (United Kingdom, 85%)
Indiapro BV (Netherlands, 51%)
Ingagane Colliery (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 98%)
International Institute of Diamond Grading & Research Holdings 
(Luxembourg, 85%)
International Institute of Diamond Grading & Research India Private Limited 
(India, 85%)
International Institute of Diamond Grading and Research (Belgium) 
(Belgium, 85%)
International Institute of Diamond Valuation (USA, 85%)
Intersea Pension Services Ltd (Guernsey, 85%)
Kaymin Resources Limited (Canada, 78%)
KIO Exploration Liberia (Luxembourg, 70%)
KIO Investments Holdings (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 70%)
Kumba BSP Trust (South Africa, 52%)
Kumba International BV (Netherlands, 70%)
Kumba International Trading Sarl (Luxembourg, 51%)
Kumba Iron Ore Holdings (Luxembourg, 52%)
Kumba Iron Ore Limited (South Africa, 70%)
Kumba Singapore (Pte) Ltd (Singapore, 51%)
Lexshell 688 Investments (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 66%)
Loma de Niquel Holdings Limited (British Virgin Islands, 94%)
Mafube Coal Mining (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 50%)
Main Street 1252 (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 63%)
Main Street 576 (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 70%)
Manganore Iron Mining (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 52%)
Masa Chrome Company (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 50%)
Matthey Rustenburg Refiners (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 78%)
Micawber 146 (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 78%)
Minera Loma de Níquel (Venezuela, 98%)
Mineração Tariana Ltda. (Brazil, 77%)
Mogalakwena Platinum Limited (South Africa, 78%)
Moranbah North Coal (Sales) Pty Ltd (Australia, 88%)
MR Iron Ore Marketing Services Pte Ltd (Singapore, 50.1%)
Ndowana Exploration (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 42%)
Newshelf 480 (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 55%)
Norsand Holdings (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 78%)
Peruke (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 51%)
PGI (Hong Kong) (Hong Kong, 78%)
PGI (Shanghai) Co. Limited (China, 78%)
PGI (United Kingdom) Limited (United Kingdom, 78%)
PGI (United States of America) Jewelry Inc. (USA, 78%)
PGI India (India, 78%)
PGI KK (Japan, 78%)
PGI SA (Switzerland, 78%)
PGM Investment Company (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 78%)
Platinum Guild India OVT Limited (India, 78%)
Platmed Properties (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 78%)
Platmed (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 78%)
Ponahalo Investments (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 0%)
(9)
Prime Trading (Proprietary) Limited (Namibia, 85%)
RA Gilbert (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 78%)
Rainbow Gas and Coal Exploration (Pty) Ltd (Botswana, 51%)
Rietvlei Mining Company (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 40%)
(10)
Riverbank Investments Ltd (United Kingdom, 85%)
Rustenburg Platinum Mines Ltd (South Africa, 78%)
SASA Gold Exploration (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 63%)
Satijnduiker Holdings BV (Netherlands, 51%)
Scallion (British Virgin Islands, 85%)
Sibelo Resource Development (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 26%)
Sishen Iron Ore Company (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 54%)
(11)
Spectrem Air Ltd (South Africa, 75%)
Tarmac Oman Minerals LLC (Oman, 99%)
The Diamond Trading Company Ltd England (United Kingdom, 85%)
The Village of Cullinan (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 63%)
Unki Mines (Private) Limited (Zimbabwe, 78%)
Whiskey Creek Management Services (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 78%)
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
See page 168 for footnotes. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
168 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
40. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS OF THE GROUP continued
Joint operations
(1)(2)
Anglo American SEFA Mining Fund (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 50%)
Anglo American Sur S.A. (Chile, 50%)
Belcourt Saxon Coal Limited (Canada, 50%)
Belcourt Saxon Coal Limited Partnership (Canada, 50%)
Compania Minera Dona Ines De Collahuasi SCM (Chile, 44%)
Compañía Minera Westwall S.C.M (Chile, 50%)
De Beers Marine Namibia (Pty) Ltd (Namibia, 43%)
Debmarine Namdeb Foundation (Namibia, 43%)
Debswana ART Fund Trust (Botswana, 43%)
Debswana Diamond Company (Pty) Ltd (Botswana, 43%)
(12)
Diamond Trading Company Botswana (Pty) Ltd (Botswana, 43%)
Exclusive Properties (Pty) Ltd (Namibia, 43%)
Godisa Supplier Development Fund (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 50%)
HL & H Timber Processors (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 50%)
Kroondal Unincorporated Joint Venture (South Africa, 50%)
Mafube Coal Mining (Proprietary) Limited (South Africa, 50%)
Marmora Mines and Estates Limited (Namibia, 28%)
Modikwa Mining Personnel Services (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 50%)
Modikwa Platinum Mine (Pty) Limited (South Africa, 50%)
Modikwa Unincorporated Joint Venture (South Africa, 50%)
Monash Energy Pty Ltd (Australia, 50%)
Morupule Coal Mine Ltd (Botswana, 43%)
Mototolo Holdings (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 50%)
Mototolo Unincorporated Joint Venture (South Africa, 50%)
Namdeb Diamond Corporation (Pty) Ltd (Namibia, 43%)
Namdeb Holdings (Pty) Ltd (Namibia, 43%)
Namdeb Hospital Pharmacy (Pty) Ltd (Namibia, 43%)
Namdeb Properties (Pty) Ltd (Namibia, 43%)
Namibia Diamond Trading Company (Pty) Ltd (Namibia, 43%)
Oranjemund Private Hospital (Pty) Limited (Namibia, 43%)
Oranjemund Town Management Company (Pty) Ltd (Namibia, 43%)
Phola Coal Processing Plant (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 37%)
Sesiro Insurance Company (Proprietary) Limited (Botswana, 43%)
Tarmac Zawawi LLC (Oman, 49%)
The Diamond Trust (Botswana, 21%)
Associates
(1)(2)
AEF Mining Services (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 25%)
Atlatsa Resources Corporation (Canada, 23%)
AuruMar (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 43%)
AuruMar SASA Holdings (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 43%)
Bafokeng-Rasimone Platinum Mine (South Africa, 33%)
Blue Steam Investments (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 37%)
Boikgantsho Platinum Mine (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 49%)
Bokoni Platinum Holdings (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 49%)
Bokoni Platinum Mines (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 49%)
Bowen Basin Coal (Pty) Ltd (Australia, 23%)
Carbones Del Cerrejón LLC (Anguilla, 33%)
Cerrejon Zona Norte SA (Colombia, 33%)
CMC-Coal Marketing Company Ltd Ireland (Ireland, 33%)
Coal Marketing Company (USA) Inc. (USA, 33%)
Curtis Fitch Limited (United Kingdom, 21%)
Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal Pty Ltd (Australia, 25%)
DMS Powders (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 21%)
Elipsis Blue Trading 43 (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 30%)
Ga-Phasha Platinum Mine (Proprietary) Limited (South Africa, 49%)
GD Empreendimentos Imobiliários S.A. (Brazil, 33%)
Hindustan Diamond Company Pvt Ltd (India, 43%)
Hydrogenious Technologies GmbH (Germany, 27%)
Ikhwezi Fleet Services (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 30%)
Jellinbah Group Pty Ltd (Australia, 23%)
(13)
Jellinbah Mining Pty Ltd (Australia, 23%)
(13)
Jellinbah Resources Pty Ltd (Australia, 23%)
(13)
JG Land Company Pty Ltd (Australia, 23%)
Kwanda Platinum Mine (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 49%)
Lake Vermont Marketing Pty Ltd (Australia, 33%)
Lake Vermont Resources Pty Ltd (Australia, 33%)
Lebowa Platinum Mines Ltd (South Africa, 49%)
Lexshell 49 General Trading (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 35%)
Main Place Holdings (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 39%)
Pandora Unincorporated Associate (South Africa, 43%)
Peglerae Hospital (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 40%)
QCMM (Lake Vermont Holdings) Pty Ltd (Australia, 33%)
QCMM Finance Pty Ltd (Australia, 33%)
Richards Bay Coal Terminal (Proprietary) Limited (South Africa, 23%)
Roodepoortjie Resources (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 25%)
Sheba’s Ridge Platinum (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 35%)
Societe Civille De Prospection De Nickel A Madagascar (Madagascar, 32%)
Spectrem Air (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 21%)
Synova S.A. (Switzerland, 28%)
Tremell Pty Ltd (Australia, 33%)
Zimshelf Seven Investment Holdings (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 50%)
Joint ventures
(1)(2)
Birchall Gardens LLP (United Kingdom, 50%)
Copper Creek Project LLC (USA, 50%)
De Beers Diamond Jewellers (Hong Kong) Limited (Hong Kong, 43%)
De Beers Diamond Jewellers (Macau) Company Limited (Macau, 43%)
De Beers Diamond Jewellers Ltd (United Kingdom, 43%)
De Beers Diamond Jewellers Ltd (Japan) (Japan, 43%)
De Beers Diamond Jewellers Trade Mark Limited (United Kingdom, 43%)
De Beers Diamond Jewellers UK Ltd (United Kingdom, 43%)
De Beers Diamond Jewellers US, Inc (USA, 43%)
De Beers Jewellers Commercial (Shanghai) Co., LTD (China, 43%)
Ebbsfleet Property Limited (United Kingdom, 50%)
Electrolytical Metal Corporation (Pty) Limited (South Africa, 40%)
(13)
Ferroport Logística Comercial Exportadora S.A. (Brazil, 50%)
Groote Eylandt Mining Company Pty Limited (GEMCO) (Australia, 40%)
(13)
Guaporé Mineração Ltda. (Brazil, 49%)
Hotazel Manganese Mines (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 40%)
(13)
Middelplaats Manganese Limited (South Africa, 40%)
(13)
Mineração Tanagra Ltda. (Brazil, 49%)
Minphil Exploration Co Inc (Philippines, 40%)
Northern Luzon Exploration & Mining Co Inc (Philippines, 40%)
Northfleet Property LLP (United Kingdom, 50%)
Peo Venture Capital (Pty) Ltd (Botswana, 21%)
Polokwane Iron Ore (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 52%)
Samancor AG (Switzerland, 40%)
(13)
Samancor Gabon (Gabon, 40%)
(13)
Samancor Holdings (Pty) Ltd (South Africa, 40%)
(13)
Samancor Holdings Proprietary Limited (South Africa, 40%)
(13)
Samancor Manganese Pty Limited (South Africa, 40%)
(13)
Swanscombe Developments LLP (United Kingdom, 50%)
Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Company Pty Limited (TEMCO)  
(Australia, 40%)
(13)
Terra Nominees (Pty) Limited (South Africa, 40%)
(13)
(1) 
All equity interests shown are ordinary shares.
(2) 
All entities are indirectly held, unless otherwise stated.
(3) 
2% direct holding by Anglo American plc.
(4) 
4% direct holding by Anglo American plc.
(5) 
100% direct holding by Anglo American plc.
(6) 
5% direct holding by Anglo American plc.
(7) 
The Group’s effective interest in Anglo American Platinum Limited is 79.6% (2014: 79.8%), 
which includes shares issued as part of a community empowerment deal.
(8) 
A 74% interest in De Beers Consolidated Mines Proprietary Limited (DBCM) is held 
indirectly through De Beers. The 74% interest represents De Beers’ legal ownership share 
in DBCM. For accounting purposes De Beers consolidates 100% of DBCM as it is deemed 
to control the BEE entity, Ponahalo, which holds the remaining 26%. The Group’s effective 
interest in DBCM is 85%.
(9) 
Ponahalo Investments (Pty) Ltd is deemed to be controlled due to the financing structure in 
place and is therefore included as a majority owned subsidiary.
(10) 
60% of Rietvlei Mining Company (Pty) Ltd is held by Butsanani Energy Investment Holdings 
Ltd, in which the Group has an effective interest of 67%. The Group’s effective interest in 
Rietvlei Mining Company Ltd is therefore 40%.
(11) 
The 73.9% interest in Sishen Iron Ore Company (Proprietary) Limited (SIOC) is held 
indirectly through Kumba Iron Ore Limited, in which the Group has a 69.7% interest. A further 
3.1% interest in SIOC is held by the Kumba Envision Trust for the benefit of participants in 
Kumba’s broad based employee share scheme for non-managerial Historically 
Disadvantaged South African employees. The Trust meets the definition of a subsidiary 
under IFRS, and is therefore consolidated by Kumba Iron Ore Limited. Consequently the 
effective interest in SIOC included in the Group’s results is 53.7%.
(12) 
The 50% interest in Debswana Diamond Company (Proprietary) Limited is held indirectly 
through De Beers and is consolidated on a 19.2% proportionate basis, reflecting economic 
interest. The Group’s effective interest in Debswana Diamond Company (Proprietary) 
Limited is 16.3%.
(13) 
These entities have a 30 June year end.
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 169
Financial statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE PARENT COMPANY
Balance sheet of the Company, Anglo American plc, as at 31 December 2015
US$ million Note 2015 2014
Fixed assets
Investment in subsidiaries 1 15,125  15,071 
Current assets
Amounts due from subsidiaries 15,067  13,908 
Cash at bank and in hand 15  3 
 15,082  13,911 
Creditors due within one year
Amounts owed to group undertakings (231) (309) 
Other creditors – (1) 
(231) (310) 
Net current assets 14,851  13,601 
Total assets less current liabilities 29,976  28,672 
Net assets 29,976 28,672
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 2 772  772 
Share premium account 2 4,358  4,358 
Capital redemption reserve 2 115  115 
Other reserves 2 1,955  1,955 
Profit and loss account 2 22,776  21,472 
Total shareholders’ funds (equity) 29,976  28,672 
The financial statements of Anglo American plc, registered number 03564138, were approved by the Board of directors on 15 February 2016 and signed on its 
behalf by:
Mark Cutifani René Médori
Chief Executive Finance Director 170 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE PARENT COMPANY
1) Investment in subsidiaries
US$ million 2015 2014
Cost
At 1 January 15,088 13,295 
Capital contributions
(1)
54 142 
Additions – 1,651 
At 31 December 15,142 15,088 
Provisions for impairment at 1 January and 31 December (17) (17)
Net book value 15,125 15,071 
(1) 
This amount is net of $78 million (2014: $6 million) of intra-group recharges.
Further information about subsidiaries is provided in note 40 to the Consolidated financial statements.
2) Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
US$ million
Called-up 
share capital
Share 
premium 
account
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Other
reserves
(1)
Share-based 
payment 
reserve
Profit  
and loss
account
(2)
Total
Balance at 1 January 2014 772 4,358 115 1,955 1 19,941 27,142
Profit for the financial year – – – – – 2,019  2,019 
Dividends payable to Company shareholders
(3)
– – – – – (620) (620) 
Net purchase of treasury shares under employee share schemes – – – – – (17) (17) 
Capital contribution to Group undertakings – – – – – 148  148 
Transfer between share-based payment reserve and profit and 
loss account – – – – (1)  1 –
Balance at 1 January 2015 772 4,358 115 1,955 – 21,472 28,672
Profit for the financial year – – – – – 1,850 1,850 
Dividends payable to Company shareholders
(3)
– – – – – (684) (684) 
Capital contribution to Group undertakings – – – – – 132  132 
Other – – – – – 6  6 
Balance at 31 December 2015 772  4,358  115  1,955 – 22,776  29,976 
(1) 
At 31 December 2015 other reserves of $1,955 million (2014: $1,955 million) were not distributable under the Companies Act 2006.
(2) 
At 31 December 2015 $2,685 million (2014: $2,685 million) of the Company profit and loss account of $22,776 million (2014: $21,472 million) was not distributable under the  
Companies Act 2006.
(3) 
Dividends payable relate only to shareholders on the United Kingdom principal register excluding dividends waived by Greenwood Nominees Limited as nominees for Butterfield Trust 
(Guernsey) Limited, the trustee for the Anglo American employee share scheme. Dividends paid to shareholders on the Johannesburg branch register are distributed by a South African 
subsidiary in accordance with the terms of the Dividend Access Share Provisions of Anglo American plc’s Articles of Association. The directors are proposing no final dividend in respect  
of the year ended 31 December 2015 (see note 10 of the Consolidated financial statements).
The audit fee in respect of the Company was $10,613 (2014: $7,807). Fees payable to Deloitte for non-audit services to the Company are not required  
to be disclosed because they are included within the consolidated disclosure in note 33.  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 171
Financial statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE PARENT COMPANY
3) Accounting policies: Anglo American plc (the Company)
The Company balance sheet and related notes have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standards 
100 Application of Financial Reporting Requirements (FRS 100) and 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (FRS 101).
A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below.
The preparation of financial statements in compliance with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to 
exercise judgment in applying the Company's accounting policies.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the statement of comprehensive income of the Company is not presented as part of these financial 
statements. The profit after tax for the year of the Company amounted to $1,850 million (2014: $2,019 million).
First time application of FRS 100 and FRS 101
In the current year the Company has adopted FRS 100 and FRS 101. In previous years the financial statements were prepared in accordance with applicable 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP)).
The change in the basis of preparation has not materially altered the recognition and measurement requirements previously applied in accordance with UK 
GAAP. Consequently the principal accounting policies are unchanged from the prior year. The change in basis of preparation has enabled the Company to take 
advantage of all the available disclosure exemptions permitted by FRS 101 in the financial statements. There have been no other material amendments to the 
disclosure requirements previously applied in accordance with UK GAAP.
Significant accounting policies
Investments
Investments represent equity holdings in subsidiaries and are measured at cost less accumulated impairment.
Financial Instruments
The Company recognises financial instruments when it becomes a party to the contractual arrangements of the instrument. Financial instruments are 
de-recognised when they are discharged or when the contractual terms expire.
Dividends
Interim equity dividends are recognised when paid. Final equity dividends are recognised when approved by the shareholders at an annual general meeting.
Share-based payments
The Company has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payment.
The Company makes equity settled share-based payments to the directors, which are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on a straight 
line basis over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. For those share schemes with market vesting 
conditions, the fair value is determined using a Monte Carlo model at the grant date. The fair value of share options issued with non-market vesting conditions 
has been calculated using a Black Scholes model. For all other share awards, the fair value is determined by reference to the market value of the share at the 
grant date. For all share schemes with non-market vesting conditions, the likelihood of vesting has been taken into account when determining the associated 
charge. Vesting assumptions are reviewed during each reporting period to ensure they reflect current expectations.
The Company also makes equity settled share-based payments to certain employees of certain subsidiary undertakings. Equity settled share-based 
payments that are made to employees of the Company’s subsidiaries are treated as increases in equity over the vesting period of the award, with a 
corresponding increase in the Company’s investments in subsidiaries, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Any payments received from subsidiaries are applied to reduce the related increases in investments in subsidiaries.
Details on the schemes and option pricing models relevant to the charge included in the Company financial statements are set out in note 28 to the 
Consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015. 172 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Marketing activities are allocated to the underlying operation to which they relate.
Revenue
(1)
Underlying EBITDA
(2)
Underlying EBIT
(3)
Underlying earnings
US$ million 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Platinum 4,900  5,396  718  527  263  32  168  25 
Mogalakwena 1,092  1,271  496 504 368 371 n/a n/a 
Amandelbult 712  593  97 (37) 36 (96) n/a n/a 
Other operations 3,096  3,532  177  118 (89)  (185) n/a n/a 
Projects and corporate – – (52) (58) (52) (58) n/a n/a 
De Beers 4,671  7,114  990  1,818  571  1,363  258  923 
Mining
   Debswana n/a  n/a  379  604  352  579  n/a  n/a 
   Namdeb Holdings n/a n/a 147  207  120  177 n/a n/a
   South Africa n/a n/a 282  344  174  243 n/a n/a
   Canada n/a n/a 154  178  65  77 n/a n/a
Trading n/a n/a 107  579  100  572 n/a n/a
Other
(4)
n/a n/a (30) (50) (191) (241) n/a n/a
Projects and corporate – – (49) (44) (49) (44) n/a n/a
Copper 3,539  4,827  942  1,902  228  1,193  67 493 
Los Bronces 1,852  2,497  622  1,173  240  822 n/a n/a
Collahuasi 971  1,311  381  707  167  495  77  207 
Other operations 716  1,019  55  138 (63) (8) n/a n/a
Projects and corporate – – (116) (116) (116) (116) (89) (84) 
Nickel 146  142 (3)  28 (22)  21 (19)  6 
Codemin 100  142 20 43 12 37  10  23 
Loma de Níquel – – 3  22  3  22  3  22 
Barro Alto 46 – (14) (25) (25) (26)  (21) (25) 
Projects and corporate – – (12) (12) (12) (12) (11) (14) 
Niobium and Phosphates
(5)
 544  666  146  152  119 124  48  65 
Niobium 111  180  40  75  33  69  7  31 
Phosphates 433  486  111  88  91  66  45  39 
Projects and corporate – – (5) (11) (5) (11) (4) (5) 
 
Iron Ore and Manganese 3,390  5,176  1,026  2,286  671  1,957  98  717 
Kumba Iron Ore 2,876  4,388  1,011  2,162  739  1,911  280
(6)
  747
(6)
Iron Ore Brazil – – (20) (29) (21) (34) (61) (32) 
Samancor 514  788  104  251  22  178 (54)  78 
Projects and corporate – – (69) (98) (69) (98) (67)
(6)
 (76)
(6)
 
Coal 4,888  5,808  1,046  1,207  457  458  292  296 
Australia and Canada 2,374  2,970  586  543  190 (1)  123 (30) 
South Africa 1,893  2,083  345 463  230  350  174  271 
Colombia 621  755  168  255  90  163  44  105 
Projects and corporate – – (53) (54) (53) (54) (49) (50) 
Corporate and other 925  1,859 (11) (88) (64) (215) (85) (308) 
Other Mining and Industrial 921  1,854  110  162  64  62  52  44 
Exploration – – (152) (180) (154) (181) (142) (163) 
Corporate activities and unallocated costs 4  5  31 (70)  26 (96)  5 (189) 
 23,003  30,988  4,854  7,832  2,223  4,933  827  2,217 
(1) 
Revenue includes the Group’s attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ revenue. Revenue for copper is shown after deduction of treatment and refining charges (TC/RCs).
(2) 
Underlying EBITDA is underlying EBIT before depreciation and amortisation in subsidiaries and joint operations and includes the Group’s attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ 
underlying EBITDA.
(3) 
Underlying EBIT is operating profit before special items and remeasurements and includes the Group’s attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ underlying EBIT. 
(4) 
Other includes Element Six, downstream activities and the purchase price allocation (PPA) adjustment.
(5) 
Niobium and Phosphates are now aggregated, having previously been presented separately. Refer to note 3 of the Consolidated financial statements. 
(6) 
Of the projects and corporate expense, which includes a corporate cost allocation, $42 million (2014: $54 million) relates to Kumba Iron Ore. The total contribution from Kumba Iron Ore to the 
Group’s underlying earnings is $238 million (2014: $693 million).
SUMMARY BY BUSINESS OPERATION  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 173
Financial statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
US$ million (unless otherwise stated) 2015 2014 2013
2012
restated
(1)
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
(2)
Income statement measures
Group revenue including associates and joint ventures 23,003 30,988 33,063 32,785 36,548 32,929 24,637 32,964 30,559 29,404
Underlying EBIT
(3)
 2,223 4,933 6,620 6,253 11,095 9,763 4,957 10,085 9,590 8,888
Underlying EBITDA
(4)
 4,854 7,832 9,520 8,860 13,348 11,983 6,930 11,847 12,132 12,197
Group revenue (statutory measure) 20,455 27,073 29,342 28,680 30,580 27,960 20,858 26,311 25,470 24,991
Net finance costs (before special items and remeasurements) (458) (256) (276) (299) (20) (244) (273) (452) (137) (110)
(Loss)/profit before tax (5,454) (259) 1,700 (171) 10,782 10,928 4,029 8,571 8,821 8,443
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (5,842) (1,524) 426 (564) 7,922 8,119 2,912 6,120 8,172 6,922
Non-controlling interests 218 (989) (1,387) (906) (1,753) (1,575) (487) (905) (868) (736)
(Loss)/profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company (5,624) (2,513) (961) (1,470) 6,169 6,544 2,425 5,215 7,304 6,186
Underlying earnings
(5)
 827 2,217 2,673 2,860 6,120 4,976 2,569 5,237 5,761 5,471
Balance sheet measures          
Total capital employed
(6)
 32,842 43,782 46,551 49,757 41,667 42,135 36,623 29,808 24,401 28,285
Net assets 21,342 32,177 37,364 43,738 43,189 37,971 28,069 21,756 24,330 27,127
Non-controlling interests (4,773) (5,760) (5,693) (6,127) (4,097) (3,732) (1,948) (1,535) (1,869) (2,856)
Equity attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 16,569 26,417 31,671 37,611 39,092 34,239 26,121 20,221 22,461 24,271
Cash flow measures          
Cash flow from operations 4,240 6,949 7,729 7,370 11,498 9,924 4,904 9,579 9,845 10,057
Capital expenditure
(7)
(4,177) (6,018) (6,075) (5,947) (5,672) (4,902) (4,707) (5,282) (4,002) (3,575)
Net debt
(8)
(12,901) (12,871) (10,652) (8,510) (1,374) (7,384) (11,280) (11,340) (4,851) (3,131)
Metrics and ratios         
Underlying earnings per share (US$) 0.64 1.73 2.09 2.28 5.06 4.13 2.14 4.36 4.40 3.73
(Loss)/earnings per share (statutory basis) (US$) (4.36) (1.96) (0.75) (1.17) 5.10 5.43 2.02 4.34 5.58 4.21
Ordinary dividend per share (US cents) 32 85 85 85 74 65 – 44 124 108
Ordinary dividend cover (based on underlying earnings per share) 2.0 2.0 2.5 2.7 6.8 6.4 – 9.9 3.5 3.5
Underlying EBIT margin 9.7% 15.9% 20.0% 19.1% 30.4% 29.6% 20.1% 30.6% 28.4% 25.4%
Underlying EBIT interest cover
(9)
10.1 30.1 35.8 36.8 n/a 34.2 19.6 24.1 33.2 33.2
Effective tax rate
(10)
31.0% 29.8% 32.0% 29.0% 28.3% 31.9% 33.1% 33.4% 31.8% 33.0%
Gearing (net debt to total capital)
(11)
37.7% 28.6% 22.2% 16.3% 3.1% 16.3% 28.7% 34.3% 16.6% 10.3%
(1) 
Certain balances relating to 2012 were restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 of the 2013 Consolidated financial statements for details. 
(2)
 Comparatives for 2006 were adjusted in the 2007 Annual Report to reclassify amounts relating to discontinued operations where applicable. 
(3)
 Underlying EBIT is operating profit presented before special items and remeasurements and includes the Group’s attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ underlying EBIT. Underlying  
EBIT of associates and joint ventures is the Group’s attributable share of revenue less operating costs before special items and remeasurements of associates and joint ventures. 
(4)
 Underlying EBITDA is underlying EBIT before depreciation and amortisation in subsidiaries and joint operations and includes the Group’s attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’  
underlying EBIT before depreciation and amortisation. 
(5)
 Underlying earnings is profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company before special items and remeasurements, and is therefore presented after net finance costs, income tax and non-controlling 
interests. 
(6)
 Total capital employed is net assets excluding net debt (including related hedges and net debt in disposal groups) and financial asset investments. 
(7)
 Capital expenditure is defined as cash expenditure on property, plant and equipment including related derivatives, proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and direct funding for capital 
expenditure from non-controlling interests. 
(8)
 Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents (including related hedges and net debt in disposal groups). 
(9)
 Underlying EBIT interest cover is underlying EBIT divided by net finance costs, excluding net foreign exchange gains and losses, unwinding of discount relating to provisions and other liabilities, financing 
special items and remeasurements, and including the Group’s attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ net finance costs, which in 2011 resulted in a net finance income and therefore the ratio is not 
applicable. 
(10)
 The effective tax rate is presented before special items and remeasurements and includes the Group’s attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ tax.
(11)
 Net debt to total capital is calculated as net debt (including related hedges and net debt in disposal groups) divided by total capital. 
KEY FINANCIAL DATA 174 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
US$ exchange rates 2015 2014
Year end spot rates
South African rand 15.47  11.57 
Brazilian real 3.96  2.66 
Sterling 0.68  0.64 
Australian dollar 1.37  1.22 
Euro 0.92  0.82 
Chilean peso 709  607 
Botswana pula 11.25  9.51 
Average rates for the year
South African rand 12.78 10.85 
Brazilian real 3.34 2.35 
Sterling 0.65 0.61 
Australian dollar 1.33 1.11 
Euro 0.90 0.75 
Chilean peso 655 571 
Botswana pula 10.12 8.97 
Commodity prices 2015 2014
Year end spot prices
Platinum
(1)
US$/oz 868 1,206 
Palladium
(1)
US$/oz 555 811 
Rhodium
(2)
US$/oz 644 1,230 
Copper
(3)
US cents/lb 213 288 
Nickel
(3)
US cents/lb 393 677 
Iron ore (62% Fe CFR)
(4)
US$/tonne 43 72 
Iron ore (66% Fe Concentrate CFR)
(5)
US$/tonne 46 82
Thermal coal (FOB South Africa)
(6)
US$/tonne 49 66 
Thermal coal (FOB Australia)
(7)
US$/tonne 50 65 
Hard coking coal (FOB Australia)
(8)
US$/tonne 89 119 
Average market prices for the year
Platinum
(1)
US$/oz 1,051 1,385 
Palladium
(1)
US$/oz 691 803 
Rhodium
(2)
US$/oz 932 1,173 
Copper
(3)
US cents/lb 249 311 
Nickel
(3)
US cents/lb 536 765 
Iron ore (62% Fe CFR)
(4)
US$/tonne 56 97 
Iron ore (66% Fe Concentrate CFR)
(5)
US$/tonne 67 112
Thermal coal (FOB South Africa)
(6)
US$/tonne 57 72 
Thermal coal (FOB Australia)
(7)
US$/tonne 59 71 
Hard coking coal (FOB Australia)
(9)
US$/tonne 102 125 
(1) 
Source: London Platinum and Palladium Market (LPPM).
(2) 
Source: Comdaq.
(3) 
Source: London Metal Exchange (LME).
(4) 
Source: Platts.
(5) 
Source: Metal Bulletin.
(6) 
Source: McCloskey.
(7) 
Source: globalCOAL.
(8) 
Source: Represents the quarter four benchmark.
(9) 
Source: Represents the average quarterly benchmark.
EXCHANGE RATES AND COMMODITY PRICES ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 175
The detailed Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates,  
Reserve and Resource Reconciliation Overview, Definitions and Glossary  
are contained in the separate Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report 2015  
which is available in the Reporting Centre on the Anglo American website.
INTRODUCTION
The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates presented in this  
Annual Report are prepared in accordance with the Anglo American plc 
(AA plc) Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore 
Reserves standard. This standard requires that the Australasian Code for 
Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves 
2012 edition (the JORC Code) be used as a minimum standard. Some 
Anglo American plc subsidiaries have a primary listing in South Africa 
where public reporting is carried out in accordance with the South African 
Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral 
Reserves (the SAMREC Code). The SAMREC Code is similar to the  
JORC Code and the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource terminology 
appearing in this section follows the definitions in both the JORC (2012) 
and SAMREC (2007 Edition as amended July 2009) Codes. Ore Reserves 
in the context of this Annual Report have the same meaning as ‘Mineral 
Reserves’ as defined by the SAMREC Code and the CIM (Canadian 
Institute of Mining and Metallurgy) Definition Standards on Mineral 
Resources and Mineral Reserves.
The information on Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources was prepared 
by or under the supervision of Competent Persons as defined in the  
JORC or SAMREC Codes. All Competent Persons have sufficient 
experience relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit  
under consideration and to the activity which they are undertaking. All  
the Competent Persons consent to the inclusion in this report of the 
information in the form and context in which it appears. The names of the 
Competent Persons (CPs) along with their Recognised Professional 
Organisation (RPO) affiliation and years of relevant experience are listed in 
the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource Report 2015.
Anglo American Group companies are subject to a comprehensive 
programme of reviews aimed at providing assurance in respect of Ore 
Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates. The reviews are conducted by 
suitably qualified Competent Persons from within the Anglo American 
Group, or by independent consultants. The frequency and depth of the 
reviews is a function of the perceived risks and/or uncertainties associated 
with a particular Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource. The overall value of 
the entity and time that has lapsed since an independent third-party review 
is also considered. Those operations/projects that were subjected to 
independent third-party reviews during the year are indicated in footnotes 
to the tables.
The JORC and SAMREC Codes require due consideration of reasonable 
prospects for eventual economic extraction for Mineral Resource 
definition. These include long-range commodity price forecasts which  
are prepared by in-house specialists largely using estimates of future 
supply and demand and long-term economic outlooks. The calculation  
of Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve estimates are based on long-term 
prices determined at the beginning of the second quarter each year. Ore 
Reserves are dynamic and are more likely to be affected by fluctuations in 
the prices of commodities, uncertainties in production costs, processing 
costs and other mining, infrastructure, legal, environmental, social and 
governmental factors which may impact the financial condition and 
prospects of the Group. Mineral Resource estimates also change and  
tend to be influenced mostly by new information pertaining to the 
understanding of the deposit and secondly by the conversion to Ore 
Reserves. Unless otherwise stated, Mineral Resources are additional  
to (exclusive of) those resources converted to Ore Reserves and are 
reported on a dry tonnes basis.
The appropriate Mineral Resource classification is determined by the 
appointed Competent (or Qualified) Persons. The choice of appropriate 
category of Mineral Resource depends upon the quantity, distribution and 
quality of geoscientific information available and the level of confidence in 
these data.
To accommodate the various factors that are important in the development 
of a classified Mineral Resource estimate, a scorecard approach is 
generally used. Mineral Resource classification defines the confidence 
associated with different parts of the Mineral Resource. The confidence 
that is assigned refers collectively to the reliability of the Grade and 
Tonnage estimates. This reliability includes consideration for the fidelity  
of the base data, the geological continuity predicated by the level of 
understanding of the geology, the likely precision of the estimated grades 
and understanding of grade variability, as well as various other factors  
(in particular density) that may influence the confidence that can be  
placed on the Mineral Resource. Most business units have developed 
commodity-specific scorecard-based approaches to the classification  
of their Mineral Resources.
The estimates of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources are stated as  
at 31 December 2015. The figures in the tables have been rounded and,  
if used to derive totals and averages, minor differences with stated results 
could occur. 
The Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report 2015, of which this 
section of the Annual Report is a summary, should be considered the only 
valid source of Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource information for the 
Anglo American group exclusive of Kumba Iron Ore and Anglo American 
Platinum Limited which publish their own independent annual reports.
It is accepted that mine design and planning may include some  
Inferred Mineral Resources. Inferred Mineral Resources in the Life of  
Mine Plan (LOM Plan) are described as ‘Inferred (in LOM Plan)’ separately  
from the remaining Inferred Mineral Resources described as ‘Inferred  
(ex. LOM Plan)’, as required. These resources are declared without 
application of any modifying factors. Reserve Life reflects the scheduled 
extraction period in years for the total Ore Reserves in the approved  
Life of Mine Plan.
The Ownership (Attributable) Percentage that Anglo American holds in 
each operation and project is presented beside the name of each entity. 
Operations and projects which fall below the internal threshold for 
reporting (25% attributable interest) are excluded from the Ore Reserves 
and Mineral Resources estimates. 
In South Africa, the Minerals and Petroleum Resources Development  
Act, Number 28 of 2002 (MPRDA) was implemented on 1 May 2004 
(subsequently amended by the Minerals and Petroleum Resources 
Development Amendment Act 49 of 2008) effectively transferred 
custodianship of the previously privately held mineral rights to the State. 
A Prospecting Right is a right issued in terms of the MPRDA that is valid for 
up to five years, with the possibility of a further extension of three years. 
A Mining Right is a right issued in terms of the MPRDA and is valid for  
up to 30 years, with the possibility of a further extension of 30 years. The 
Minister of Mineral Resources will grant a renewal of the Mining Right if the 
terms and conditions of the Mining Right have been complied with and the 
applicant is not in contravention of any relevant provisions of the MPRDA.
In preparing the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource statement for  
South African assets, Anglo American plc has adopted the following 
reporting principles in respect of Prospecting Rights and Mining Rights:
 • Where applications for Mining Rights and Prospecting Rights have been 
submitted and these are still being processed by the relevant regulatory 
authorities, the relevant Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources have been 
included in the statement.
 • Where applications for Mining Rights and Prospecting Rights have been  
initially refused by the regulatory authorities, but are the subject of 
ongoing legal process and discussions with the relevant authorities  
and where Anglo American plc has reasonable expectations that the 
Prospecting Rights will be granted in due course, the relevant Mineral 
Resources have been included in the statement (any associated 
comments appear in the footnotes). ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
176 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
ESTIMATED ORE RESERVES
(1)
 
as at 31 December 201 5
Detailed Proved and Probable estimates appear on the referenced pages in the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report 201 5.
Proved + Probable
PLATINUM
(2)
 OPERATIONS
 
(See page 10 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Reserve Life
(4)
(years)
Contained Metal 
(4E Moz)
ROM Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(4E g/t)
Merensky Reef 78.0 UG n/a 11.1 73.1 4.71
UG2 Reef UG 52.4 408.4 3.99
Platreef OP 116.0 1,295.8 2.79
Main Sulphide Zone UG 5.1 47.7 3.34
DIAMOND
(3)
 OPERATIONS – DBCi
 
(See page 1 4 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
LOM
(4)
(years)
Saleable Carats
(M¢)
Treated Tonnes
(Mt)
Recovered Grade
(cpht)
Snap Lake Kimberlite 85.0 UG 15 7.2 5.7 126.0
Victor Kimberlite 85.0 OP 3 0.7 4.3 16.8
DIAMOND
(3)
 OPERATIONS – DBCM
 
(See page 1 6 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
LOM
(4)
(years)
Saleable Carats
(M¢)
Treated Tonnes
(Mt)
Recovered Grade
(cpht)
Venetia (OP) Kimberlite 62.9 OP 31 28.7 25.8 111.3
Venetia (UG) Kimberlite UG 71.8 92.9 77.2
Voorspoed Kimberlite 62.9 OP 6 1.1 5.6 19.4
DIAMOND
(3)
 OPERATIONS – Debswana
 
(See pages 1 8– 19 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
LOM
(4)
(years)
Saleable Carats
(M¢)
Treated Tonnes
(Mt)
Recovered Grade
(cpht)
Damtshaa Kimberlite 42.5 OP 17 4.7 25.1 18.7
Jwaneng Kimberlite 42.5 OP 20 149.2 113.0 132.0
Letlhakane Kimberlite 42.5 OP 2 0.1 0.5 17.2
 TMR 24 8.5 34.9 24.2
Orapa Kimberlite 42.5 OP 14 151.4 171.9 88.0
DIAMOND
(3)
 OPERATIONS – Namdeb
 
(See page 20 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
LOM
(4)
(years)
Saleable Carats
(k¢)
Treated Tonnes
(kt)
Recovered Grade
(cpht)
Elizabeth Bay  Aeolian and Marine 42.5 OC 4 152 2,280 6.67
Mining Area 1 Beaches 42.5 OC 20 129 3,337 3.87
Orange River Fluvial Placers 42.5 OC 8 272 28,901 0.94
Saleable Carats
(k¢)
Area
(k m
2
)
Recovered Grade 
(cpm
2
) 
Atlantic 1 Marine Placers 42.5 MM 20 3,933 43,866 0.09
COPPER OPERATIONS 
(See page 22 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Reserve Life
(4)
(years)
Contained Copper
(kt)
ROM Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(%TCu)
(5)
Collahuasi Heap Leach 44.0 OP 70 204 30.0 0.68
 Flotation – direct feed 20,569 1,965.2 1.05
 Flotation – low grade stockpile 5,563 1,127.6 0.49
El Soldado Flotation 50.1 OP 12 728 88.8 0.82
Los Bronces Flotation 50.1 OP 25 7,006 1,210.1 0.58
 Dump Leach 1,272 387.5 0.33
NICKEL OPERATIONS 
(See page 25 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Reserve Life
(4)
(years)
Contained Nickel
(kt)
ROM Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(%Ni)
Barro Alto Saprolite 100 OP 20 529 35.5 1.49
Niquelândia Saprolite 100 OP 23 104 8.3 1.25
NIOBIUM OPERATIONS 
(See page 26 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Reserve Life
(4)
(years)
Contained Product
(kt)
ROM Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(%Nb 2 O 5 )
Boa Vista  Oxide 100 OP 2 6 0.6 0.87
 Fresh Rock OP 16 230 26.0 0.89
Tailings  Phosphate Tailings 100 16 118 17.1 0.69
PHOSPHATE OPERATIONS 
(See page 28 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Reserve Life
(4)
(years)
ROM Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(%P 2 O 5 )
Chapadão  Oxide 100 OP 35 214.1 12.5
KUMBA IRON ORE OPERATIONS 
(See page 30 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Reserve Life
(4)
(years)
Saleable Product
(Mt)
Grade
(%Fe)
Kolomela Hematite 51.5 OP 21 212 64.3
Sishen Hematite 51.5 OP 15 496 65.1
Thabazimbi  Hematite 51.5 OP 1 1 63.4
IRON ORE BRAZIL OPERATIONS 
(See page 32 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Reserve Life
(4)
(years)
Saleable Product
(6)
(Mt)
Grade
(6)
(%Fe)
Serra do Sapo Friable Itabirite and Hematite 100 OP 45 678 67.5
 Itabirite OP 566 67.5
SAMANCOR MANGANESE OPERATIONS 
(See page 33 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Reserve Life
(4)
(years)
ROM Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(%Mn)
GEMCO
(7)  
ROM + Sand Tailings 40.0 OP 9 84.9 44.3
Mamatwan 29.6 OP 17 58.3 37.3
Wessels 29.6 UG 49 73.4 42.2 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 177
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
Estimated Ore Reserves continued Proved + Probable
COAL OPERATIONS – Australia
 
(See page 34 & 38 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Reserve Life
(4)
(years)
Saleable Tonnes
(8)
(Mt)
 
Saleable Quality
Callide Thermal – Domestic 100 OC 30 194.3 4,440 kcal/kg
Capcoal (OC)* Metallurgical – Coking 77.6 OC 17 31.7 5.5 CSN
 
Metallurgical – Other 46.6 6,830 kcal/kg
 
Thermal – Export 8.2 6,190 kcal/kg
Capcoal (UG)* Metallurgical – Coking 70.0 UG 3 17.4 8.5 CSN
Dawson Metallurgical – Coking 51.0 OC 13 45.8 7.5 CSN
 
Thermal – Export 38.8 6,530 kcal/kg
Drayton Thermal – Export 88.2 OC 1 1.8 6,400 kcal/kg
Foxleigh Metallurgical – Other 70.0 OC 13 13.9 7,040 kcal/kg
Moranbah North Metallurgical – Coking 88.0 UG 16 94.6 8.0 CSN
Grosvenor Metallurgical – Coking 100 UG 28 130.4 8.5 CSN
COAL OPERATIONS– Canada
 
(See page 34 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Reserve Life
(4)
(years)
Saleable Tonnes
(8)
(Mt)
 
Saleable Quality
Trend Metallurgical – Coking 100 OC 7 8.3 7.0 CSN
Roman Mountain Metallurgical – Coking 100 OC 15 25.8 7.0 CSN
COAL OPERATIONS – Colombia
 
(See page 35 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Reserve Life
(4)
(years)
Saleable Tonnes
(8)
(Mt)
 
Saleable Quality
Cerrejón Thermal – Export 33.3 OC 16 611.0 6,090 kcal/kg
COAL OPERATIONS – South Africa
 
(See page 35 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Reserve Life
(4)
(years)
Saleable Tonnes
(8)
(Mt)
 
Saleable Quality
Goedehoop Thermal – Export 100 UG 11 28.3 6,010 kcal/kg
Greenside Thermal – Export 100 UG 12 35.1 6,060 kcal/kg
Isibonelo Synfuel 100 OC 12 53.9 4,690 kcal/kg
Kleinkopje Thermal – Export 100 OC 9 13.3 6,210 kcal/kg
 
Thermal – Domestic 3.1 4,630 kcal/kg
Kriel Thermal – Domestic 73.0 UG&OC 5 20.9 4,850 kcal/kg
Landau Thermal – Export 100 OC 8 10.9 6,210 kcal/kg
 
Thermal – Domestic 6.3 4,750 kcal/kg
Mafube Thermal – Export 50.0 OC 18 53.1 6,050 kcal/kg
 
Thermal – Domestic 22.8 5,070 kcal/kg
New Denmark Thermal – Domestic 100 UG 24 104.5 4,940 kcal/kg
New Vaal Thermal – Domestic 100 OC 16 252.2 3,660 kcal/kg
Zibulo Thermal – Export 73.0 UG&OC 20 51.1 6,100 kcal/kg
 
Thermal – Domestic 16.2 4,830 kcal/kg
Mining method: OP = Open Pit, UG = Underground, OC = Open Cast/Cut, MM = Marine Mining. TMR = Tailings Mineral Resource. Operations = Mines in steady-state or in ramp-up phase. 
 
* Capcoal comprises opencast operations at Lake Lindsay and Oak Park, with an underground longwall operation at Grasstree. 
(1) 
Estimated Ore Reserves are the sum of Proved and Probable Ore Reserves (on an exclusive basis, i.e. Mineral Resources are reported as additional to  
Ore Reserves unless otherwise stated). Please refer to the detailed Ore Reserve estimates tables in the AA plc R&R Report for the individual Proved and 
Probable Reserve estimates. The Ore Reserve estimates are reported in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral 
Resources and Ore Reserves (The JORC Code, 2012) as a minimum standard. Ore Reserve estimates for operations in South Africa are reported in accordance 
with The South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves (The SAMREC Code, 2007 Edition as amended 
July 2009). The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves. Anglo American plc ownership is stated separately. Rounding of figures may cause 
computational discrepancies. 
(2) 
Estimates reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves attributable to Anglo American Platinum unless otherwise noted. Details of the individual operations 
appear in the Anglo American Platinum Annual Report.  
4E is the sum of Platinum, Palladium, Rhodium and Gold. 
(3) 
DBCi = De Beers Canada, DBCM = De Beers Consolidated Mines, Debswana = Debswana Diamond Company, Namdeb = Namdeb Holdings. 
k¢ = thousand carats. M¢ = million carats. k m² = thousand square metres.  
Grade is quoted as carats per hundred metric tonnes (cpht) or as carats per square meter (cpm²).  
Reported Diamond Reserves are based on a Bottom Cut-Off (BCO) which refers to the bottom screen size aperture and varies between 1.00mm and 3.00mm 
(nominal square mesh). Specific BCO’s applied to derive estimates are included in the detailed Diamond Reserve tables in the AA plc R&R Report. 
Snap Lake and Damtshaa have been placed on Care & Maintenance.
(4) 
Reserve Life = The scheduled extraction period in years for the total Ore Reserves in the approved Life of Mine Plan. 
LOM = Life of Mine (years) is based on scheduled Probable Reserves including some Inferred Resources considered for Life of Mine planning.
(5) 
TCu = Total Copper.
(6) 
Saleable Product tonnes are on a wet basis (average moisture content is 9.0 wt% of the wet mass) with quality stated on a dry basis.
(7) 
GEMCO Manganese grades are given as per washed ore samples and should be read together with their respective yields, see page 33 in the AA plc R&R Report.
(8) 
Total Saleable Tonnes represents the product tonnes produced quoted as metric tonnes on a Product moisture basis. The coal quality for Coal Reserves is 
quoted as either kilo-calories per kilogram (kcal/kg) or Crucible Swell Number (CSN). Kilo-calories per kilogram represent Calorific Value (CV) on a Gross 
As Received (GAR) basis. CV is rounded to the nearest 10 kcal/kg and CSN to the nearest 0.5 index.  
Metallurgical – Coking: High-, medium- or low-volatile semi-soft, soft or hard coking coal primarily for blending and use in the steel industry.  
Metallurgical – Other: Semi-soft, soft, hard, semi-hard or anthracite coal, other than Coking Coal, such as pulverized coal injection (PCI) or other general 
metallurgical coal for the export or domestic market with a wider range of properties than Coking Coal.  
Thermal – Export: Low- to high-volatile thermal coal primarily for export in the use of power generation; quality measured by calorific value (CV). 
Thermal – Domestic: Low- to high-volatile thermal coal primarily for domestic consumption for power generation.  
Synfuel: Coal specifically for the domestic production of synthetic fuel and chemicals.  
Peace River Coal (Trend and Roman Mountain Mines) has been placed on Care & Maintenance. ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
178 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
ESTIMATED MINERAL RESOURCES
(1)
 
as at 31 December 201 5
Detailed Measured, Indicated and Inferred estimates appear on the referenced pages in the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report 201 5.
Measured + Indicated Total Inferred
(2)
PLATINUM
(3)
 OPERATIONS 
(See page 1 1 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Contained Metal 
(4E Moz)
Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade 
(4E g/t)
Contained Metal 
(4E Moz)
Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade 
(4E g/t)
Merensky Reef 78.0 UG 102.5 587.2 5.43 89.0 557.7 4.96
UG2 Reef UG 229.9 1,373.0 5.21 97.2 551.7 5.48
Platreef OP 102.0 1,318.4 2.41 63.1 1,095.1 1.79
Main Sulphide Zone UG 18.7 138.6 4.19 6.7 48.6 4.30
DIAMOND
(4)
 OPERATIONS – DBCi
(See page 1 4 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Carats
(M¢)
Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(cpht)
Carats
(M¢)
Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(cpht)
Snap Lake  Kimberlite 85.0 UG 7.3 4.1 177.9 29.4 16.6 176.7
Victor  Kimberlite 85.0 OP 0.1 0.4 23.8 0.6 2.8 22.8
DIAMOND
(4)
 OPERATIONS – DBCM
(See page 1 6 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Carats
(M¢)
Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(cpht)
Carats
(M¢)
Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(cpht)
Namaqualand  Beach Placers 62.9 OC 0.8 12.7 6.5 0.6 39.5 1.4
Venetia (OP)  Kimberlite 62.9 OP 0.1 0.1 148.6 3.4 20.3 16.9
Venetia (UG)  Kimberlite UG – – – 59.6 69.9 85.3
Voorspoed  Kimberlite 62.9 OP 0.5 1.7 26.9 3.5 18.2 19.4
DIAMOND
(4)
 OPERATIONS – Debswana
(See pages 1 8– 19 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Carats
(M¢)
Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(cpht)
Carats
(M¢)
Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(cpht)
Damtshaa  Kimberlite 42.5 OP 1.1 4.3 25.0 5.0 19.0 26.2
Jwaneng  Kimberlite 42.5 OP 138.8 129.5 107.2 68.7 85.7 80.3
 TMR – – – 16.5 35.8 46.0
Letlhakane  Kimberlite 42.5 OP 6.4 19.6 32.3 0.6 2.9 21.6
 TMR – – – 14.1 53.6 26.3
Orapa  Kimberlite 42.5 OP 298.8 292.4 102.2 66.2 77.6 85.3
DIAMOND
(4)
 OPERATIONS – Namdeb
(See pages 20–21 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Carats
(k¢)
Tonnes 
(kt)
Grade
(cpht)
Carats
(k¢)
Tonnes 
(kt)
Grade
(cpht)
Bogenfels  Pocket Beach/Deflation 42.5 OC – – – 752 10,955 6.86
Douglas Bay  Aeolian/Deflation 42.5 OC 160 2,269 7.05 1 127 0.79
Elizabeth Bay  Aeolian/Marine/Deflation 42.5 OC 199 3,188 6.24 2,869 42,829 6.70
Mining Area 1  Beaches 42.5 OC 255 25,890 0.98 3,100 192,578 1.61
Orange River  Fluvial Placers 42.5 OC 180 68,204 0.26 177 47,554 0.37
Carats
(k¢)
Area
(k m
2
)
Grade 
(cpm
2
) 
Carats
(k¢)
Area
(k m
2
)
Grade 
(cpm
2
) 
Atlantic 1  Marine Placers 42.5 MM 7,302 108,175 0.07 88,226 1,080,989 0.08
COPPER OPERATIONS 
(See page 23 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Contained Copper
(kt)
Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(%TCu)
(5)
Contained Copper
(kt)
Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(%TCu)
(5)
Collahuasi Heap Leach 44.0 OP 359 53.3 0.67 136 25.2 0.54
 Flotation – direct feed 13,069 1,464.0 0.89 32,502 3,397.2 0.96
 Flotation – low grade stockpile 1,836 462.0 0.40 6,568 1,453.5 0.45
El Soldado Flotation 50.1 OP 758 127.7 0.59 88 18.4 0.48
Los Bronces Flotation 50.1 OP 10,718 2,527.5 0.42 6,350 1,639.3 0.39
 Dump Leach – – – 129 46.1 0.28
NICKEL OPERATIONS 
(See page 25 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Contained Nickel
(kt)
Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(%Ni)
Contained Nickel
(kt)
Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(%Ni)
Barro Alto Saprolite 100 OP 347 27.1 1.28 533 39.0 1.37
 Ferruginous Laterite 83 6.8 1.22 24 2.0 1.21
Niquelândia Saprolite 100 OP 32 2.5 1.27 – – –
NIOBIUM OPERATIONS 
(See page 26 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Contained Product
(kt)
 Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(%Nb 2 O 5 )
Contained Product
(kt)
 Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(%Nb 2 O 5 )
Boa Vista Oxide 100 OP – – – 11 1.3 0.83
 Fresh Rock 100 OP 17 1.8 0.91 140 13.3 1.05
PHOSPHATE OPERATIONS 
(See page 28 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(%P 2 O 5 )
Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(%P 2 O 5 )
Chapadão  Oxide 100 OP 30.1 13.2 105.6 10.4
KUMBA IRON ORE OPERATIONS 
(See page 30 for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(%Fe)
Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(%Fe)
Kolomela Hematite 51.5 OP 90.2 61.6 98.1 63.8
Sishen Hematite 51.5 OP 425.6 61.0 106.9 57.0
Thabazimbi Hematite 51.5 OP 8.0 62.3 0.4 58.9
IRON ORE BRAZIL OPERATIONS 
(See page 32 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Tonnes
(6)
(Mt)
Grade
(6)
(%Fe)
Tonnes
(6)
(Mt)
Grade
(6)
(%Fe)
Serra do Sapo Friable Itabirite and Hematite 100 OP 409.4 32.5 96.0 35.7
 Itabirite 1,441.6 30.8 556.6 31.1 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 179
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
Estimated Mineral Resources continued Measured + Indicated Total Inferred
(2)
SAMANCOR MANGANESE OPERATIONS 
(See page 33 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(%Mn)
Tonnes
(Mt)
Grade
(%Mn)
GEMCO
(7)(8)
 ROM + Sand Tailings 40.0 OP 142.9 42.7 36.8 41.2
Mamatwan
(7)
29.6 OP 101.9 35.1 0.4 35.0
Wessels
(7)
29.6 UG 143.6 42.5 – –
COAL OPERATIONS – Australia 
(See page 36 & 38 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
MTIS
(9)
(Mt)
Coal Quality
(kcal/kg)
MTIS
(9)
(Mt)
Coal Quality
(kcal/kg)
Callide 100 OC 262.2 4,890 77.6 4,700
Capcoal (OC)* 77.6 OC 166.3 6,920 197.3 6,840
Capcoal (UG)* 70.0 UG 90.4 6,730 6.3 6,470
Dawson 51.0 OC 353.9 6,770 207.9 6,730
Drayton 88.2 OC – – 0.0 5,640
Foxleigh 70.0 OC 2.7 7,240 32.5 7,090
Moranbah North 88.0 UG 72.0 6,670 2.2 6,710
Grosvenor 100 UG 194.4 6,580 37.3 6,650
COAL OPERATIONS – Canada 
(See page 36 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
MTIS
(9)
(Mt)
Coal Quality
(kcal/kg)
MTIS
(9)
(Mt)
Coal Quality
(kcal/kg)
Trend 100 OC 26.5 6,980 2.6 6,370
Roman Mountain 100 OC 4.3 7,910 2.2 7,950
COAL OPERATIONS – Colombia
 
(See pages 37 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
MTIS
(9)
(Mt)
Coal Quality
(kcal/kg)
MTIS
(9)
(Mt)
Coal Quality
(kcal/kg)
Cerrejón 33.3 OC 3,447.8 6,560 791.9 6,560
COAL OPERATIONS – South Africa
 
(See pages 37 in R&R Report for details) 
Ownership  
%
Mining  
Method
MTIS
(9)
(Mt)
Coal Quality
(kcal/kg)
MTIS
(9)
(Mt)
Coal Quality
(kcal/kg)
Goedehoop 100 UG 197.8 5,350 7.9 4,770
Greenside 100 UG 20.3 5,630 0.5 5,390
Isibonelo 100 OC 16.8 5,400 – –
Kleinkopje 100 OC 28.6 5,010 – –
Kriel 73.0 UG&OC 99.4 4,850 – –
Landau 100 OC 84.9 5,230 18.1 5,500
Mafube 50.0 OC 50.1 5,190 2.1 4,770
New Denmark 100 UG 70.3 5,790 – –
Zibulo 73.0 UG&OC 324.7 4,980 197.5 4,770
Mining method: OP = Open Pit, UG = Underground, OC = Open Cast/Cut, MM = Marine Mining. TMR = Tailings Mineral Resource. Operations = Mines in steady-state or in ramp-up phase. 
Tonnes = In Situ tonnes. 
 
* Capcoal comprises opencast operations at Lake Lindsay and Oak Park, with an underground longwall operation at Grasstree. 
(1) 
Estimated Mineral Resources are presented on an exclusive basis, i.e. Mineral Resources are reported as additional to Ore Reserves unless otherwise stated. 
Please refer to the detailed Mineral Resource estimates tables in the AA plc R&R Report for the detailed Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resource estimates. 
The Mineral Resource estimates are reported in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore 
Reserves (The JORC Code, 2012) as a minimum standard. The Mineral Resource estimates for operations in South Africa are reported in accordance with The 
South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves (The SAMREC Code, 2007 Edition as amended July 
2009). The figures reported represent 100% of the Mineral Resources. Anglo American plc ownership is stated separately. Rounding of figures may cause 
computational discrepancies. 
(2) 
Total Inferred is the sum of ‘Inferred (in LOM Plan)’, the Inferred Resources within the scheduled Life of Mine Plan (LOM Plan) and ‘Inferred (ex. LOM Plan)’, the 
portion of Inferred Resources with reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction not considered in the Life of Mine Plan (LOM Plan) as relevant.
(3) 
The figures reported represent 100% of the Mineral Resources attributable to Anglo American Platinum unless otherwise noted. Details of the individual 
operations appear in the Anglo American Platinum Annual Report. Merensky Reef and UG2 Reef Mineral Resources are estimated over a practical minimum 
mining width suitable for the deposit (the ‘Resource Cut’). The ‘Resource Cut’ width takes cognisance of the mining method and geotechnical aspects in the 
hangingwall or footwall of the reef. 
4E is the sum of Platinum, Palladium, Rhodium and Gold. 
(4) 
DBCi = De Beers Canada, DBCM = De Beers Consolidated Mines, Debswana = Debswana Diamond Company, Namdeb = Namdeb Holdings. 
Estimated Diamond Resources are presented on an exclusive basis, i.e. Diamond Resources are quoted as additional to Diamond Reserves. 
k¢ = thousand carats. M¢ = million carats. k m² = thousand square metres.  
Grade is quoted as carats per hundred metric tonnes (cpht) or as carats per square meter (cpm²).  
Reported Diamond Resources are based on a Bottom Cut-Off (BCO) which refers to the bottom screen size aperture and varies between 1.00mm and 3.00mm 
(nominal square mesh). Specific BCO’s applied to derive estimates are included in the detailed Diamond Resource tables in the AA plc R&R Report.
(5) 
TCu = Total Copper.
(6) 
Tonnes and grades are on a dry basis.
(7) 
Mineral Resources are quoted as inclusive of those used to calculate Ore Reserves and must not be added to the Ore Reserves.
(8) 
GEMCO Manganese grades are given as per washed ore samples and should be read together with their respective yields, see page 33 in the AA plc R&R Report.
(9) 
Coal Resources are quoted on a Mineable Tonnes In Situ (MTIS) basis in million tonnes, which are in addition to those Coal Resources that have been modified to 
produce the reported Coal Reserves. Coal Resources are reported on an in situ moisture basis. The coal quality for Coal Resources is quoted on an in situ heat 
content as kilo-calories per kilogram (kcal/kg), representing Calorific Value (CV) on a Gross As Received (GAR) basis. CV is rounded to the nearest 10 kcal/kg. 180 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Ore Reserves
An ‘Ore Reserve’ is the economically mineable part of a Measured and/or 
Indicated Mineral Resource. It includes diluting materials and allowances 
for losses, which may occur when the material is mined. Appropriate 
assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration 
of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, 
marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors. These 
assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could 
reasonably be justified. Ore Reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing 
confidence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves.
A ‘Proved Ore Reserve’ is the economically mineable part of a Measured 
Mineral Resource. It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses 
which may occur when the material is mined. Appropriate assessments  
and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and 
modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, 
marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors. These 
assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could 
reasonably be justified.
A ‘Probable Ore Reserve’ is the economically mineable part of an Indicated,  
and in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource. It includes diluting 
materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the material is 
mined. Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and 
include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, 
metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and 
governmental factors. These assessments demonstrate at the time of 
reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
Mineral Resources
A ‘Mineral Resource’ is a concentration or occurrence of solid material of 
economic interest in or on the Earth’s crust in such form, grade (or quality), 
and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic 
extraction. The location, quantity, grade (or quality), continuity and other 
geological characteristics of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or 
interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge, including 
sampling. Mineral Resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing 
geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Measured categories.
A ‘Measured Mineral Resource’ is that part of a Mineral Resource for which 
quantity, grade (or quality), densities, shape, and physical characteristics are 
estimated with confidence sufficient to allow the application of Modifying 
Factors to support detailed mine planning and final evaluation of the 
economic viability of the deposit. Geological evidence is derived from 
detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing gathered through 
appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, 
workings and drill holes, and is sufficient to confirm geological and grade 
(or quality) continuity between points of observation where data and samples 
are gathered.
A Measured Mineral Resource has a higher level of confidence than that 
applying to either an Indicated Mineral Resource or an Inferred Mineral 
Resource. It may be converted to a Proved Ore Reserve or under certain 
circumstances to a Probable Ore Reserve.
An ‘Indicated Mineral Resource’ is that part of a Mineral Resource for which 
quantity, grade (or quality), densities, shape and physical characteristics are 
estimated with sufficient confidence to allow the application of Modifying 
Factors in sufficient detail to support mine planning and evaluation of the 
economic viability of the deposit. Geological evidence is derived from 
adequately detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing gathered 
through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, 
pits, workings and drill holes, and is sufficient to assume geological and grade 
(or quality) continuity between points of observation where data and samples 
are gathered.
An Indicated Mineral Resource has a lower level of confidence than that 
applying to a Measured Mineral Resource and may only be converted to 
a Probable Ore Reserve.
An ‘Inferred Mineral Resource’ is that part of a Mineral Resource for which 
quantity and grade (or quality) are estimated on the basis of limited geological 
evidence and sampling. Geological evidence is sufficient to imply but not 
verify geological and grade (or quality) continuity. It is based on exploration, 
sampling and testing information gathered through appropriate techniques 
from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
An Inferred Mineral Resource has a lower level of confidence than that 
applying to an Indicated Mineral Resource and must not be converted to 
an Ore Reserve. It is reasonably expected that the majority of Inferred 
Mineral Resources could be upgraded to Indicated Mineral Resources with 
continued exploration.
Life of Mine Plan (LOM Plan)
A design and costing study of an existing operation in which appropriate 
assessments have been made of realistically assumed geological, mining, 
metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social, 
governmental, engineering, operational and all other Modifying Factors, 
which are considered in sufficient detail to demonstrate at the time of 
reporting that extraction is reasonably justified.
Reserve Life
The scheduled extraction period in years for the total Ore Reserves in the 
approved LOM Plan.
Inferred (in LOM Plan)
Inferred Resources within the scheduled LOM Plan.
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan)
The portion of Inferred Resources with reasonable prospects for eventual 
economic extraction not considered in the LOM Plan.
Throughout this report a number of financial and non-financial measures 
are used to assess the Group’s performance. The measures are defined 
as follows: 
Underlying EBIT 
Underlying EBIT is operating profit presented before special items and 
remeasurements and includes the Group’s attributable share of associates’ 
and joint ventures’ underlying EBIT. Underlying EBIT of associates and joint 
ventures is the Group’s attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ 
revenue less operating costs before special items and remeasurements of 
associates and joint ventures. See notes 3 and 5 to the financial statements 
for underlying EBIT. 
Underlying earnings 
Underlying earnings is an alternative earnings measure, which the directors 
consider to be a useful additional measure of the Group’s performance. 
Underlying earnings is profit for the financial year attributable to equity 
shareholders of the Company before special items and remeasurements and  
is therefore presented after net finance costs, income tax expense and 
non-controlling interests. See note 9 to the financial statements for the basis  
of calculation of underlying earnings. See note 6 to the financial statements 
for the definition of special items and remeasurements. 
Net debt 
Net debt includes related hedges and net debt in disposal groups. 
See note 23 to the financial statements. 
Capital expenditure 
Capital expenditure is defined as cash expenditure on property, plant and 
equipment, including related derivatives, and is now presented net of 
proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and includes direct 
funding for capital expenditure from non-controlling interests in order to 
match more closely the way in which it is managed.
Underlying EBITDA 
Underlying EBITDA is underlying EBIT before depreciation and amortisation 
in subsidiaries and joint operations and includes the Group’s attributable 
share of associates’ and joint ventures’ underlying EBIT before depreciation 
and amortisation. EBITDA, as presented in the net debt table on page 38 of 
this report excludes the Group’s attributable share of associates’ and joint 
ventures’ EBITDA. 
OTHER INFORMATION 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND PERFORMANCE MEASURES  OTHER INFORMATION 
 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 181
Other information
OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Copper equivalent production 
Copper equivalent production, expressed as copper equivalent tonnes,  
is a metric used to show changes in underlying production volume. Each 
commodity’s volumes are expressed as revenue, and then converted into 
a copper equivalent volume by dividing revenue by copper price (per tonne). 
The prices used for conversion by Anglo American are based on long term 
consensus prices/Fx. When aggregated, these give the Group’s production 
expressed in units of copper equivalent. Production volumes considered 
include both equity and purchased volumes (e.g. platinum concentrate from 
joint operation partners), as well as volumes from mines in pre-commercial 
production. Thabazimbi (iron ore) and domestic thermal coal production is 
excluded. Copper equivalent production has been normalised for the disposal 
of AA Norte.
Copper equivalent unit costs 
Copper equivalent unit costs divide the gross costs associated with unit costs,  
by relevant copper equivalent volume. Only own equity volumes (and costs)  
are considered. Thabazimbi (iron ore) and domestic thermal coal production  
is excluded, as are operations not in commercial production. 
Fatal-injury frequency rate (FIFR) 
FIFR is the number of employee or contractor fatal injuries due to all causes 
per 200,000 hours worked. 
Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) 
LTIFR is the number of lost time injuries (LTIs) for both employees and 
contractors per 200,000 hours worked. An LTI is a work related injury 
resulting in the person being unable to attend work or perform the routine 
functions of his/her job, on the next calendar day after the day of the injury, 
whether a scheduled workday or not. Restricted work cases are therefore 
counted as LTIs. 
Total recordable case frequency rate (TRCFR) 
TRCFR is the number of fatal injuries, lost time injuries and medical treatment 
cases for both employees and contractors per 200,000 hours. 
New cases of occupational disease (NCOD) 
NCOD is the sum of occupational diseases due to asbestosis, noise-induced 
hearing loss, silicosis, coal-workers’ pneumoconiosis, chronic obstructive 
airways disease, occupational tuberculosis, occupational asthma, hand/arm 
vibration syndrome, musculoskeletal disorders, dermatitis, occupational 
cancers and other occupational diseases. 
Total energy consumed 
Total amount of energy consumed is the sum of total energy from electricity 
purchased, total energy from fossil fuels and total energy from renewable 
fuels and is measured in million gigajoules (GJ). 
Total new water consumed 
Total amount of water used is the total new or make-up water entering the 
operation and used for the operation’s primary operational activities and is 
measured in million m
3
. 182 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Return on capital employed (ROCE) 
ROCE is a ratio that measures the efficiency and profitability of a company’s capital investments. It displays how effectively assets are generating profit for the 
size of invested capital and is calculated as underlying EBIT divided by average capital employed.
Attributable ROCE
Attributable ROCE is the primary return measure used in the Group. It is defined as the return on the capital employed attributable to equity shareholders of 
Anglo American plc, and therefore excludes the portion of underlying EBIT and capital employed attributable to non-controlling interests in operations where 
Anglo American plc has control but does not hold 100% of the equity. Joint operations, associates and joint ventures are included in their proportionate 
interest and in line with appropriate accounting treatment. It is calculated based on achieved prices and foreign exchange.
The previous ROCE measure, used to track the Driving Value programme, incorporated a number of adjustments, principally to reverse the impact of certain 
impairments and acquisition fair value adjustments. The new attributable ROCE measure has been developed to allow a clearer link to the published financial 
statements. Comparatives have been restated to align with the current year presentation, and capital employed by segment is disclosed in note 3 to the 
Consolidated financial statements.
US$ billion 2015 2014 2013 2012
Attributable EBIT
(1)
1.6 3.4 4.4 4.1
Average attributable capital employed 32.6 38.7 41.5 40.0
Attributable ROCE 5% 9% 10% 10%
(1) 
For periods of less than one year EBIT for the period is annualised, with the exception of De Beers which is based on the last 12 months of performance due to seasonal sales and EBIT profile.
Driving Value ROCE
Driving Value ROCE is an adjusted measure of Attributable ROCE for the measurement of 2014 LTIP only. It is calculated using Attributable ROCE based on 
realised prices and foreign exchange rates and includes the following adjustments:
 • Impairments announced after 10 December 2013 are added back to total capital employed (unless the impairment resulted from the asset being taken out 
of service). 
 • Earnings and return impacts from impairments (due to reduced depreciation or amortisation expense) are excluded from underlying EBIT. 
 • The De Beers fair value uplift which resulted from the revaluing upward of Anglo American plc’s pre-existing 45% share in De Beers is removed from 
opening 2012 capital employed onwards.
 • Structural adjustments for the De Beers acquisition assuming ownership of 85% of De Beers from 1 January 2012 (actual acquisition date: 16 August 2012) 
and disposals from Anglo American Sur assuming ownership of 50.1% from the start of 2012 (actual disposal date: 23 August 2012) have been included. 
ROCE used for LTIP metrics
50% of the Executives’ annual LTIP award is predicated upon the achievement of ROCE targets over a three year performance period. The target range for the 
2014 LTIP award, 12-16%, was based on ‘Driving Value ROCE at achieved prices’, set at a level designed to support the aspiration of achieving a ROCE of 15% 
by the end of 2016. Although the subsequent steep decline in prices since that award has made the target range very stretching, it is not intended that the LTIP 
outcomes will be adjusted for the impact of prices. In 2015 Driving Value ROCE at achieved prices was 4%.
The target range for the 2015 LTIP award was set at 10–14%
(1)
, consistent with the lower commodity price expectations at the time. In order to provide a clearer 
link to the financial statements for investors and participants, the simplified Attributable ROCE, as set out above, will be used for the 2015 LTIP award onwards. 
The original range of 10–14% will be adjusted for impairments taken after 31 December 2014 until 31 December 2017 and will be restated at the point of 
vesting to assess performance. 2015 Attributable ROCE was 5%.
The range for 2016 LTIP has been increased to reflect the volatility Anglo American experiences due to commodity price and foreign exchange movements. 
It has been set at 5–15%. Given the announced portfolio review, the ranges for all LTIP awards will be restated in the year of vesting, for changes to the 
portfolio that take place between setting the target and assessing performance.
(1) 
Initial target set at 9–13% for Driving Value ROCE, subsequently updated to 10-14% for Attributable ROCE. The two targets are identical on a like-for-like basis.  OTHER INFORMATION 
 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 183
Other information
The figures below include the entire output of consolidated entities and the Group’s attributable share of joint operations, associates and joint ventures where 
applicable, except for Collahuasi in the Copper segment and De Beers’ joint ventures which are quoted on a 100% basis.
2015 2014
Platinum
Refined production
Platinum (troy oz) 2,458,800 1,889,500
Palladium (troy oz) 1,594,900 1,225,400
Rhodium (troy oz) 305,200 229,400
Copper refined (tonnes)
(1)
16,800 12,500
Copper matte (tonnes)
(1)
300 6,200
Nickel refined (tonnes)
(1)
25,400 20,500
Nickel matte (tonnes)
(1)
400 7,700
Gold (troy oz) 113,000 95,600
Produced ounces
Platinum (troy oz) 2,337,300 1,869,900
4E built-up head grade (g/tonne milled)
(2)
3.23 3.00
De Beers
Carats recovered 100% basis
Orapa 9,877,000 12,074,000
Letlhakane 506,000 548,000
Damtshaa 221,000 303,000
Jwaneng 9,764,000 11,312,000
Debswana 20,368,000 24,237,000
Namdeb 494,000 613,000
Debmarine Namibia 1,270,000 1,273,000
Namdeb Holdings 1,764,000 1,886,000
Kimberley 837,000 722,000
Venetia 3,132,000 3,201,000
Voorspoed 704,000 711,000
DBCM 4,673,000 4,634,000
Snap Lake 1,243,000 1,201,000
Victor 644,000 647,000
De Beers Canada 1,887,000 1,848,000
Total carats recovered 28,692,000 32,605,000
Copper (tonnes) on a contained metal basis unless stated otherwise
(3)
Collahuasi 
100% basis (Anglo American share 44%)
Ore mined 79,573,500 65,845,300
Ore processed – Oxide 4,653,900 6,657,500
Ore processed – Sulphide 43,790,600 48,936,100
Ore grade processed – Oxide (% ASCu)
(4)
0.63 0.72
Ore grade processed – Sulphide (% TCu)
(5)
1.15 1.08
Production – Copper cathode 22,200 25,000
Production – Copper in concentrate 433,100 445,400
Total copper production for Collahuasi 455,300 470,400
Anglo American’s share of copper production for Collahuasi
(6)
200,300 207,000
Anglo American Sur 
Los Bronces mine
(7)
Ore mined 50,258,500 57,666,200
Marginal ore mined 39,252,600 26,236,100
Ore processed – Sulphide 45,396,900 54,147,700
Ore grade processed – Sulphide (% TCu) 0.92 0.78
Production – Copper cathode 35,000 36,200
Production – Copper in concentrate 366,700 368,300
Production total 401,700 404,500
El Soldado mine
(7)
Ore mined 5,208,100 3,118,400
Ore processed – Sulphide 5,965,400 7,203,600
Ore grade processed – Sulphide (% TCu) 0.77 0.58
Production – Copper cathode 200 1,200
Production – Copper in concentrate 35,800 31,200
Production total 36,000 32,400
Chagres Smelter
(7)
 
Ore smelted 149,100 132,100
Production 145,100 128,500
Total copper production for Anglo American Sur 437,700 436,900
PRODUCTION STATISTICS
(1) 
Nickel and copper refined through third parties is shown as production of nickel matte and copper matte. 
(2) 
4E: the grade measured as the combined content of the four most valuable precious metals: platinum, palladium, rhodium and gold.
(3) 
Excludes Anglo American Platinum’s copper production.
(4) 
ASCu = acid soluble copper.
(5) 
TCu = total copper.
(6) 
Anglo American’s share of Collahuasi production is 44%.
(7) 
Anglo American ownership interest of Anglo American Sur is 50.1%. Production is stated at 100% as Anglo American consolidates Anglo American Sur. OTHER INFORMATION 
184 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
OTHER INFORMATION PRODUCTION STATISTICS
2015 2014
Copper (tonnes) (continued)
Anglo American Norte
Mantos Blancos mine
Ore processed – Sulphide 2,835,500 4,402,400
Ore grade processed – Sulphide (% TCu) 0.76 0.69
Production – Copper cathode 20,400 26,700
Production – Copper in concentrate 18,100 25,700
Production total 38,500 52,400
Mantoverde mine 
Ore processed – Oxide 6,605,300 10,312,800
Ore processed – Marginal ore 5,944,800 8,646,100
Ore grade processed – Oxide (% ASCu) 0.52 0.48
Ore grade processed – Marginal ore (% ASCu) 0.21 0.23
Production – Copper cathode 32,300 51,800
Total copper production for Anglo American Norte 70,800 104,200
Total Copper segment copper production 963,800 1,011,500
Total Attributable copper production
(1)
708,800 748,100
Total Attributable payable copper production 686,900 725,900
Attributable sales volumes 705,600 755,100
Total Attributable payable sales volumes 683,500 732,600
Third party sales – Mantos Copper
(2)
41,400 –
Nickel (tonnes) unless stated otherwise
(3)
Barro Alto
Ore mined 2,943,600 2,510,400 
Ore processed 1,472,800 1,827,400 
Ore grade processed – %Ni 1.78 1.81
Production 21,300 28,300 
Codemin 
Ore mined 8,600 6,800 
Ore processed 591,100 593,600 
Ore grade processed – %Ni 1.69 1.67
Production 9,000 8,900 
Total Nickel segment nickel production 30,300 37,200 
Sales volumes 32,000 36,100 
Niobium and Phosphates
(4)
Niobium (tonnes) unless otherwise stated
Ore mined 2,131,700 985,900
Ore processed 2,231,300 1,084,000
Ore grade processed – %Nb 0.96 1.04
Production 6,300 4,700
Sales volumes 5,100 4,600
Phosphates (tonnes) unless otherwise stated
Concentrate 1,341,400 1,415,700
Concentrate grade – %P
2
O
5
36.8 37.0
Phosphoric acid 265,100 295,000
Fertiliser 1,110,800 1,112,500
High analysis fertiliser 172,700 184,700
Low analysis fertiliser 938,100 927,700
Dicalcium phosphate (DCP) 147,300 164,100
Fertiliser sales volumes 1,060,100 1,096,600
Iron Ore and Manganese (tonnes)
Kumba Iron Ore
Lump 29,003,100 31,268,800
Fines 15,875,100 16,927,700
Total Kumba production 44,878,200 48,196,500
Sishen 31,392,800 35,540,600
Kolomela 12,054,400 11,568,100
Thabazimbi 1,431,000 1,087,800
Total Kumba production 44,878,200 48,196,500
Kumba sales volume
RSA export iron ore 43,560,000 40,467,700
RSA domestic iron ore 4,276,800 4,819,800
Minas-Rio
Pellet feed (wmt) 9,174,200 687,700
Minas-Rio sales volumes
Export – pellet feed (wmt) 8,467,600 239,600
Samancor
Manganese ore
(5)
3,111,600 3,308,600
Manganese alloys
(5)(6)
213,600 286,100
Samancor sales volume
Manganese ore 3,084,700 3,382,100
Manganese alloys 203,300 294,800
(1) 
Difference between total copper production and attributable copper production arises from Anglo American’s 44% interest in Collahuasi.
(2) 
Relates to sales made on behalf of Mantos Copper (previously Mantos Blancos and Mantoverde mines).
(3) 
Excludes Anglo American Platinum’s nickel production.
(4) 
Refer to note 3 of the Consolidated financial statements for changes in reporting segments.
(5) 
Saleable production.
(6) 
Production includes medium carbon ferro-manganese. OTHER INFORMATION 
 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 185
Other information
OTHER INFORMATION PRODUCTION STATISTICS
2015 2014
Coal (tonnes)
Australia
Metallurgical – Export Coking 15,907,900 13,442,300
Metallurgical – Export PCI 5,300,300 5,990,800
Production total 21,208,200 19,433,100
Thermal – Export 5,280,500 5,173,900
Thermal – Domestic 7,051,600 7,114,600
Production total 12,332,100 12,288,500
Canada
Metallurgical – Export Coking – 1,393,600
Metallurgical – Export PCI – 79,000
Production total – 1,472,600
South Africa
Thermal – Export 17,403,600 18,213,100
Thermal – Domestic (Eskom) 26,021,200 30,988,500
Thermal – Domestic (Non-Eskom) 6,843,900 6,594,900
Production total 50,268,700 55,796,500
Colombia 
Thermal – Export 11,074,300 11,227,000
Production total 11,074,300 11,227,000
Total Metallurgical coal production 21,208,200 20,905,700
Total Export Thermal coal production 33,758,400 34,614,000
Total Domestic Thermal coal production 39,916,700 44,698,000
Total Coal production 94,883,300 100,217,700
Weighted average achieved US$/t FOB prices
Australia and Canada
Metallurgical – Export
(1)
 90 111
Thermal – Export 55 72
Thermal – Domestic 28 35
South Africa
Thermal – Export 55 70
Thermal – Domestic 19 19
Colombia
Thermal – Export 55 67
Sales volumes
Australia and Canada
Metallurgical – Export
(2)
21,093,400 20,568,200
Thermal – Export 5,904,200 5,966,200
Thermal – Domestic 7,049,300 7,293,100
South Africa
Thermal – Export 19,919,800 17,572,800
Thermal – Domestic 31,691,600 37,217,300
Colombia
Thermal – Export 11,189,300 11,314,000 
Coal by mine (tonnes)
Australia
Callide 7,930,400 7,557,000
Capcoal (incl. Grasstree) 8,689,700 7,642,800
Dawson 4,314,500 4,240,200
Drayton 2,122,000 3,104,800
Foxleigh 1,860,600 2,034,500
Grosvenor 499,800 –
Jellinbah 3,201,500 2,923,700
Moranbah North 4,921,800 4,218,600
Production total 33,540,300 31,721,600
Canada
Peace River Coal – 1,472,600
Production total – 1,472,600
South Africa
Goedehoop 4,287,200 4,771,600
Greenside 3,876,600 3,624,100
Isibonelo 4,531,800 5,262,600
Kleinkopje 3,152,300 3,911,800
Kriel 6,158,200 6,878,100
Landau 4,268,700 4,178,400
Mafube 1,442,500 1,675,400
New Denmark 2,838,300 3,767,900
New Vaal 14,148,100 16,672,800
Zibulo 5,565,000 5,053,800
Production total 50,268,700 55,796,500
Colombia 
Carbones del Cerrejón 11,074,300 11,227,000
Production total 11,074,300 11,227,000 
Total Coal production 94,883,300 100,217,700
(1) 
Within export coking and export PCI coals there are different grades of coal with different weighted average prices compared to benchmark.
(2) 
Includes both hard coking coal and PCI sales volumes. OTHER INFORMATION 
186 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
OTHER INFORMATION
Quarter ended % Change (Quarter ended)
31 December 
2015
30 September 
2015
30 June 
2015
31 March 
2015
31 December 
2014
31 December 2015 v 
30 September 2015
31 December 2015 v 
31 December 2014
Platinum
Platinum (troy oz) 744,900 610,900 560,600 542,400 573,700 22% 30%
Palladium (troy oz) 468,400 390,700 387,700 348,100 357,700 20% 31%
Rhodium (troy oz) 85,700 77,600 76,900 65,000 71,700 10% 20%
Copper refined (tonnes) 4,700 4,200 4,000 3,900 2,600 12% 81%
Copper matte (tonnes) – – – 300 1,400 0% (100)%
Nickel refined (tonnes) 7,300 6,400 6,000 5,700 4,800 14% 52%
Nickel matte (tonnes) – – – 400 1,800 0% (100)%
Gold (troy oz) 29,500 23,000 30,400 30,100 28,900 28% 2%
Produced ounces platinum (troy oz) 598,000 614,300 580,900 544,100 602,900 (3)% (1)%
De Beers (diamonds recovered – carats)
100% basis
Diamonds 7,052,000 6,012,000 7,963,000 7,665,000 8,366,000 17% (16)%
Copper (tonnes)
(1)(2)
181,400 171,100 184,500 171,800 174,800 6% 4%
Nickel (tonnes)
(3)
10,500 6,800 6,300 6,700 6,700 54% 57%
Niobium and Phosphates
Niobium (tonnes) 1,600 1,800 1,600 1,300 1,300 (11)% 23%
Phosphates (tonnes)
Concentrate 355,700 363,100 303,300 319,300 355,600 (2)% 0%
Phosphoric Acid 63,900 75,600 62,400 63,200 78,600 (15)% (19)%
Fertiliser 303,400 294,400 274,200 238,800 284,900 3% 6%
Dicalcium phosphate (DCP) 38,700 33,700 38,700 36,200 44,800 15% (14)%
Iron Ore and Manganese (tonnes)
Iron ore – Kumba 10,935,200 11,390,900 10,384,700 12,167,400 12,431,600 (4)% (12)%
Iron ore – Minas-Rio 3,252,500 2,918,800 1,826,200 1,176,700 687,700 11% 373%
Manganese ore
(4)
596,000 923,200 805,700 786,700 882,100 (35)% (32)%
Manganese alloys
(4)(5)
43,500 43,700 53,600 72,800 80,400 0% (46)%
Coal (tonnes)
Australia 
Metallurgical – Export 5,484,300 5,475,500 5,252,600 4,995,700 4,760,200 0% 15%
Thermal – Export 1,154,300 1,366,400 1,326,600 1,433,200 1,871,600 (16)% (38)%
Thermal – Domestic 1,978,800 1,800,500 1,622,400 1,649,900 1,966,300 10% 1%
Canada
Metallurgical – Export – – – – 171,400 (100)% (100)%
South Africa
Thermal – Export 3,878,000 4,887,200 4,296,700 4,341,700 4,782,800 (21)% (19)%
Thermal – Domestic (Eskom) 5,533,500 6,763,000 6,774,000 6,950,700 7,434,600 (18)% (26)%
Thermal – Domestic (Non-Eskom) 1,821,500 1,730,400 1,590,000 1,702,000 1,761,400 5% 3%
Colombia
Thermal – Export 2,628,100 2,526,800 2,944,400 2,975,000 3,002,300 4% (12)%
(1) 
Excludes Anglo American Platinum’s copper production.
(2) 
Copper segment attributable production.
(3) 
Excludes Anglo American Platinum’s nickel production.
(4) 
Saleable production. 
(5) 
Production includes medium carbon ferro-manganese.
QUARTERLY PRODUCTION STATISTICS  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 187
Other information
OTHER INFORMATION
NON-FINANCIAL DATA
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Safety
(1)
Work-related fatalities 6 6 15 13 17
Fatal-injury frequency rate (FIFR)
(2)
0.004 0.003 0.008 0.007 0.009
Total recordable case frequency rate (TRCFR)
(2)
0.93 0.80 1.08 1.29 2.01
Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)
(2)
0.47 0.35 0.49 0.58 0.64
Occupational health
(1)
New cases of occupational disease (NCOD)
(2)
163 175 209 174 197
Occupational disease incidence rate (per 200,000 hours) (ODIR) 0.177 0.175 0.217 0.185 0.205
Environment
(1)
Total CO
2
 emissions (Mt CO
2
e) 18 17 17 18 19
Total energy consumed (million GJ)
(2)
106 108 106 113 102
Total new water consumed (million m
3
)
(2)
222 196 201 156 124
Human Resources
(1)(3)
Women in management (%)
(4)
25 24 23 23 22
Historically Disadvantaged South Africans in management (%)
(5)
60 60 64 62 51
Resignations (%)
(6)
1.9 2.0 2.0 2.4 2.7
Redundancies (%)
(7)
3.5 0.9 4.1 0.6 1.4
Dismissals (%)
(8)
1.4 1.0 1.5 1.4 1.1
Other reasons for leaving (%)
(9)
4.2 1.9 2.7 2.4 0.3
Social
(1)
CSI spend (total in US$ million)
(10)
124 136 127 146 129
CSI spend (% of underlying EBIT)
(10)
6 3 2 3 1
Procurement: BEE spend (rand billion) 36.3 39.3 32.4 25.8 23.3
Businesses supported through enterprise development initiatives 62,661 58,257 48,111 40,217 38,681
Jobs created/maintained through enterprise development programmes 108,423 96,873 76,543 64,927 47,070
(1) 
The data includes wholly owned subsidiaries and joint ventures over which Anglo American has management control, and does not include independently managed operations such as 
Collahuasi, Carbones del Cerrejón and Samancor. De Beers data included from September 2012. Divested businesses are included up until the point of divestment.
(2) 
See page 181 for definitions.
(3) 
Excludes Other Mining and Industrial.
(4) 
Women in management is the number of female managers as a percentage of all managers in the workforce excluding contractors.
(5) 
Historically Disadvantaged South Africans in management is the percentage of managers at Anglo American in South Africa who are ‘Historically Disadvantaged South Africans’.
(6) 
The number of people who resigned as a percentage of the total workforce excluding contractors.
(7) 
The number of people who have been retrenched as a percentage of total workforce excluding contractors.
(8) 
The number of people who have been dismissed or have resigned to avoid dismissal, as a percentage of total workforce excluding contractors.
(9) 
The number of people who left for reasons other than those shown above, for example retirement, ill health and death, as a percentage of total workforce excluding contractors.
(10) 
CSI spend is the sum of donations for charitable purposes and community investment (which includes cash and in-kind donations and staff time) as well as investments in commercial initiatives 
with public benefit (such as enterprise development). Included within the CSI expenditure figure for 2015 is expenditure relating to Zimele ($15.9 million, 2014: $10.1 million). OTHER INFORMATION 
188 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
THE BUSINESS – AN OVERVIEW
as at 31 December 201 5
Platinum Overall ownership: 78%
(1)
100% owned Other interests
South Africa South Africa
Bathopele Mine Union Section 85%
Thembelani Mine Masa Chrome Company 50.1%
Siphumelele Mine
Tumela Mine Joint operations or sharing agreements
Dishaba Mine Modikwa Platinum Joint Operation 50%
Mogalakwena Mine Kroondal Pooling and Sharing Agreement 50%
Western Limb Tailings Retreatment Mototolo Joint Operation 50%
Waterval Smelter (including converting process)
Mortimer Smelter Associates
Polokwane Smelter Bokoni 49%
Rustenburg Base Metals Refinery Pandora 42.5%
Precious Metals Refinery Bafokeng-Rasimone 33%
Twickenham Mine Atlatsa Resources Corporation 23%
Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells 17.5%
Zimbabwe
Unki Mine South Africa – other
Wesizwe Platinum Limited 13%
Royal Bafokeng Platinum Limited 11.6%
De Beers Overall ownership: 85%
100% owned Other interests
South Africa
De Beers Consolidated 
Mines
(2)
74%
Venetia
Voorspoed
Kimberley
De Beers Sightholder Sales 
South Africa
Botswana
Debswana
(4)
50%
Damtshaa
Jwaneng
Orapa
Letlhakane
Canada
De Beers Canada
Gahcho Kué 51%
Namibia
Namdeb Holdings
(3)
50%
Namdeb Diamond Corporation
Mining Area 1
Orange River
Elizabeth Bay
Alluvial Contractors
Debmarine Namibia
Atlantic 1
Sales
DTC Botswana 50%
Namibia DTC 50%
Synthetic Diamond Supermaterials
Element Six Abrasives 60%
Brands
De Beers Diamond Jewellers 50%
Canada
De Beers Canada
Snap Lake
Victor
Sales
De Beers Global Sightholder Sales
Auction Sales
Brands
Forevermark
South Africa
De Beers Group Services  
(Exploration and Services)
De Beers Marine
Synthetic Diamond Supermaterials
Element Six Technologies
Copper Overall ownership: 100%
Chile Peru
Chagres 50.1% Quellaveco 81.9%
El Soldado 50.1%
Los Bronces 50.1%
Collahuasi 44%
Nickel Overall ownership: 100%
100% owned
Brazil
Codemin
Barro Alto
(1) 
The Group’s effective interest in Anglo American Platinum is 79.8%, which includes shares issued as part of a community empowerment deal.
(2) 
The 74% interest in De Beers Consolidated Mines (DBCM) is held indirectly through De Beers Société Anonyme (De Beers). The 74% interest represents De Beers’ legal ownership share in 
DBCM. For accounting purposes De Beers consolidates 100% of DBCM as it is deemed to control the BEE entity which holds the remaining 26%. The Group’s effective interest in DBCM is 85%.
(3) 
The 50% interest in Namdeb Holdings is held indirectly through De Beers. The Group’s effective interest in Namdeb Holdings is 42.5%.
(4) 
The 50% interest in Debswana is held indirectly through De Beers. The Group’s effective interest in Debswana is 16.3%.  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 189
Other information
OTHER INFORMATION THE BUSINESS – AN OVERVIEW
Niobium and Phosphates
100% owned
Brazil
Anglo American Nióbio Brasil Limitada
Anglo American Fosfatos Brasil Limitada
Iron Ore and Manganese
Kumba Iron Ore (South Africa) 69.7%
Sishen Iron Ore Company
(1) 
(South Africa) 73.9%
Minas-Rio (Brazil) 100%
Ferroport (Brazil)
(2)
50%
Samancor (South Africa and Australia) 40%
Coal
100% owned Other interests
Australia Australia
Callide Capcoal 70%
Grosvenor Dartbrook 83.3%
Monash Energy Holdings Ltd Dawson 51%
Drayton 88.2%
Canada Foxleigh 70%
Peace River Coal Moranbah North 88%
Jellinbah 23.3%
South Africa
Goedehoop Australia – other
Greenside Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal Pty Ltd 25.4%
Isibonelo Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Ltd 17.6%
Kleinkopje MBD Energy Ltd 19.2%
Landau
New Denmark South Africa
New Vaal Mafube 50%
Phola plant 50%
Kriel
(3)
73%
Zibulo
(3)
73%
South Africa – other
Richards Bay Coal Terminal 23.2%
Colombia
Carbones del Cerrejón 33.3%
Corporate and other
100% owned Other interests
Vergelegen (South Africa) Aggregates and building materials
Exxaro Resources (southern Africa and Australia) 9.8%
(1) 
The 73.9% interest in Sishen Iron Ore Company (SIOC) is held indirectly through Kumba Iron Ore, in which the Group has a 69.7% interest. A further 3.1% interest in SIOC is held by the Kumba 
Envision Trust for the benefit of participants in Kumba’s broad based employee share scheme for non-managerial Historically Disadvantaged South African employees. The Trust meets the 
definition of a subsidiary under IFRS, and is therefore consolidated by Kumba Iron Ore. Consequently the effective interest in SIOC included in the Group’s results is 53.7%.
(2) 
Ferroport owns and operates the iron ore handling and shipping facilities at the port of Açu which is currently under construction (formerly referred to as LLX Minas-Rio).
(3) 
Kriel and Zibulo form part of the Anglo American Inyosi Coal Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) company of which Anglo American owns 73%. 190 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
OTHER INFORMATION 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
This section includes certain disclosures which are required by law to be 
included in the Directors’ Report.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the following items have  
been reported in other sections of the Annual Report and are included in  
this Directors’ Report by reference:
 • Details of the directors of the Company can be found on pages 66–68
 • Directors’ interests in shares at 31 December 2015 and any changes 
thereafter can be found on page 103 of the Directors’ remuneration report
 • Post-balance sheet events are set out in note 36 to the financial statements 
on page 156
 • The Strategic Report on pages 2–64 gives a fair review of the business and 
an indication of likely future developments
 • Details of the Group’s governance arrangements and its compliance with 
the Code can be found on pages 65–108
 • Comprehensive details of the Group’s approach to financial risk 
management are given in note 38 to the financial statements on  
page 157
 • The Group’s disclosure of its greenhouse gas emissions can be found  
on page 35.
Going concern
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities are set out in the Group financial review on pages 36–39. 
Further details of our policy on financial risk management are set out in note 
38 to the financial statements. The Group’s net debt at 31 December 2015 
was $12.9 billion (2014: $12.9 billion), representing a gearing level of 37.7% 
(2014: 28.6%). Details of borrowings and facilities are set out in note 24 and 
net debt is set out in note 23.
The directors have considered the Group’s cash flow forecasts for the  
period to the end of March 2017. The Board is satisfied that the Group’s 
forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes  
in trading performance, show that the Group will be able to operate within  
the level of its current facilities for the period assessed. For this reason  
the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its  
financial statements.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 32 US cents per ordinary share was paid on  
17 September 2015. The directors are not recommending a final dividend.
Share capital
The Company’s issued share capital as at 31 December 2015, together  
with details of share allotments and issue of treasury shares during the year,  
is set out in note 32 on page 153.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the AGM held on  
23 April 2015, to purchase its own shares in the market. No shares were 
purchased under this authority during 2015. This authority will expire at  
the 2016 AGM and, in accordance with usual practice, a resolution to renew  
it for another year will be proposed.
Significant shareholdings
The Company has been notified of the following significant shareholdings:
Company 
Number  
of shares
Percentage  
of voting rights
Public Investment Corporation (PIC) 1 16,355,956 8.30%
Coronation Asset Management (Pty) Ltd 87,175,679 6.22%
Silchester International Investors LLP 70,1 10,363 5.00%
Genesis Asset Managers, LLP 55,426,734 3.95%
Tarl Investment Holdings Limited
(1)
47,275,613 3.37%
Epoch Two Investment Holdings Limited
(1)
42,166,686 3.01%
(1) 
Epoch Two Investment Holdings Ltd (Epoch 2) and Tarl Investment Holdings Limited  
(Tarl) are two of the independent companies that have purchased shares as part of  
Anglo American’s share buy-back programme. Epoch 2 and Tarl have waived their  
right to vote all the shares they hold, or will hold, in Anglo American plc.
Disclosure table pursuant to Listing Rule LR9.8.4C
Listing Rule Information to be included Disclosure
9.8.4(1) Interest capitalised by the Group See note 7, page 129
9.8.4(2) Unaudited financial information 
(LR9.2.18)
None
9.8.4(4) Long term incentive scheme only 
involving a director (LR9.4.3)
None
9.8.4(5) Directors’ waivers of emoluments See page 99
9.8.4(6) Directors’ waivers of future 
emoluments
See page 99
9.8.4(7) Non pro-rata allotments for cash 
(issuer)
Treasury Shares have been 
issued pursuant to the exercise 
of options awarded under 
shareholder-approved schemes
9.8.4(8) Non pro-rata allotments for cash 
(major subsidiaries)
None
9.8.4(9) Listed company is a subsidiary of 
another company
Not applicable
9.8.4(10) Contracts of significance involving 
a director
None
9.8.4(11) Contracts of significance involving 
a controlling shareholder
Not applicable
9.8.4(12) Waivers of dividends See note 32, page 153
9.8.4(13) Waivers of future dividends See note 32, page 153
9.8.4(14) Agreement with a controlling 
shareholder LR9.2.2AR(2)(a)
Not applicable
Sustainable development
The Sustainability Report 2015 will be published online on 14 March 2016. 
This report focuses on the safety, sustainable development, health and 
environmental performance of the Group’s managed operations, its 
performance with regard to the Company’s Good Citizenship Business 
Principles, and the operational dimensions of its social programmes. 
Audit information
The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the auditors are unaware, and that all directors have 
taken all reasonable steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Employment and other policies
The Group’s key operating businesses are empowered to manage within the 
context of the different legislative and social demands of the diverse countries 
in which those businesses operate, subject to the standards embodied in 
Anglo American’s Good Citizenship Business Principles. Within all the Group’s 
businesses, the safe and effective performance of employees and the 
maintenance of positive employee relations are of fundamental importance. 
Managers are charged with ensuring that the following key principles 
are upheld:
 • adherence to national legal standards on employment and workplace rights 
at all times  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 191
Other information
OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 • in addition, adherence to the International Labour Organisation’s core 
labour rights, including: prohibition of child labour; prohibition of inhumane 
treatment of employees and any form of forced labour, physical punishment 
or other abuse; recognition of the right of our employees to freedom of 
association and the promotion of workplace equality; and the elimination  
of all forms of unfair discrimination
 • continual promotion of safe and healthy working practices
 • provision of opportunities for employees to enhance their work related skills 
and capabilities
 • adoption of fair and appropriate procedures for determining terms and 
conditions of employment.
It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full and fair 
consideration for all vacancies. Employment of disabled people is considered 
on merit and with regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the 
role. We endeavour to retain the employment of, and arrange suitable 
retraining for, any employees in the workforce who become disabled during 
their employment. Where possible we will adjust a person’s working 
environment to enable them to stay in our employment.
Further, the Group is committed to treating employees at all levels with 
respect and consideration, to investing in their development and to ensuring 
that their careers are not constrained by discrimination or arbitrary barriers.
The Good Citizenship Business Principles are supplemented by four  
Anglo American ‘Way’ documents, covering the safety, environmental, 
occupational health and social aspects of responsible operation and 
sustainable development. These set out specific standards for each of  
these subject areas, in line with international best practice. 
Copies of the Good Citizenship Business Principles and the Anglo American 
‘Way’ documents may be accessed on the Company’s website.
In addition, all Anglo American suppliers must commit to adhering to the 
requirements set out in the ‘Sustainable Development in Supply Chain Policy’, 
which is available on the Company’s website.
The Business Integrity Policy and its 11 Performance Standards support our 
anti-corruption commitment by making it clear that we will neither give, nor 
accept, bribes, nor permit others to do so in our name, either in our dealings 
with public officials or with our suppliers and customers. The Policy sets out 
the standards of conduct required at every level of Anglo American, including 
our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, in combating corrupt 
behaviour of all types. It also sets out the requirements of those with whom 
we  do business and those who work on our behalf.
The Business Integrity Policy and Performance Standards have been 
translated into all the main languages that we use at our operations. Two 
dedicated business integrity managers, who operate within a broader risk 
management and business assurance team, oversee implementation of the 
policy by working with senior managers in our business units and corporate 
functions and assisting them to put in place adequate procedures for 
managing corruption risks (including extensive face-to-face training of 
employees in high-risk roles).
Our internal audit team provide assurance on anti-corruption controls on an 
annual basis and all stakeholders are able to confidentially report breaches, 
or potential breaches, of the Business Integrity Policy through our 
independently-managed Speak Up facility.
The Group has a social intranet called Eureka! which helps employees 
to connect, communicate and collaborate more effectively. In addition, the 
Company regularly publishes Optima (available on the Company’s website) 
and Our World, which contain items of news, current affairs and information 
relevant to Group employees.
Political donations
No political donations were made during 2015. Anglo American has an 
established policy of not making donations to, or incurring expenses for the 
benefit of, any political party in any part of the world, including any political 
party or political organisation as defined in the Political Parties, Elections and 
Referendums Act 2000.
Additional information for shareholders
Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Company’s current 
Articles and applicable English law concerning companies (the Companies 
Act 2006 (the ‘Companies Act’)) required as a result of the implementation of 
the Takeovers Directive in English law. This is a summary only and the relevant 
provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if further 
information is required.
Dividends and distributions
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may, by 
ordinary resolution, from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the 
amount recommended by the Board. The Board may pay interim dividends 
whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, 
justifies such payment.
The Board may withhold payment of all, or any part of any dividends or other 
monies payable in respect of the Company’s shares, from a person with a 
0.25% interest or more (as defined in the Articles) if such a person has been 
served with a notice after failing to provide the Company with information 
concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the 
Companies Act.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary and preference shares 
are set out in the Articles. The Articles may only be changed by a special 
resolution passed by the shareholders.
Voting
Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or restrictions as to 
voting attached by or in accordance with the Articles to any class of shares, on 
a show of hands every member who is present in person at a general meeting 
shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or 
by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he/she is the holder. It is, 
and has been for some years, the Company’s practice to hold a poll on every 
resolution at shareholder meetings.
Where shares are held by trustees/nominees in respect of the Group’s 
employee share plans and the voting rights attached to such shares are not 
directly exercisable by the employees, it is the Company’s practice that such 
rights are not exercised by the relevant trustee/nominee.
Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need 
not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend 
and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting. 
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting 
or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights 
attached to a different share or shares held by that member. A member that 
is a corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a 
general meeting or class meeting as a corporate representative. The debate 
around s323 of the Companies Act has been resolved so that where a 
shareholder appoints more than one corporate representative in respect 
of its shareholding, but in respect of different shares, those corporate 
representatives can act independently of each other, and validly vote in 
different ways.
Restrictions on voting
No member shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, be entitled in 
respect of any share held by him/her to vote either personally or by proxy 
at a shareholders’ meeting, or to exercise any other right conferred 
by membership in relation to shareholders’ meetings, if any call or other sum 
presently payable by him/her to the Company in respect of that share remains 
unpaid. In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he/she has been 
served with a notice after failing to provide the Company with information 
concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the 
Companies Act.
Issue of shares
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act relating to authority and 
pre-emption rights and of any resolution of the Company in a UK general 
meeting, all unissued shares of the Company shall be at the disposal of 
the directors and they may allot (with or without conferring a right of 
renunciation), grant options over, or otherwise dispose of them to such 
persons at such times, and on such terms, as they think proper. 192 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Shares in uncertificated form
Directors may determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated 
form, and title to such shares may be transferred by means of a relevant 
system, or that shares of any class should cease to be so held and transferred. 
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the CREST regulations and 
every other statute, statutory instrument, regulation or order for the time 
being in force concerning companies and affecting the Company (together, 
the Statutes), the directors may determine that any class of shares held on the 
branch register of members of the Company resident in South Africa, or any 
other overseas branch register of the members of the Company, may be held 
in uncertificated form in accordance with any system outside the UK that 
enables title to such shares to be evidenced and transferred without a written 
instrument and which is a relevant system. The provisions of the Articles shall 
not apply to shares of any class that are in uncertificated form to the extent 
that the Articles are inconsistent with the holding of shares of that class in 
uncertificated form, the transfer of title to shares of that class by means of 
a relevant system or any provision of the CREST regulations.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights
Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in respect of 
which the business being voted upon is being heard. Votes may be exercised 
in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate 
representative. The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms 
of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the 
meeting or adjourned meeting.
Variation of rights
Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of 
shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than 
three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the 
sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting 
of the holders of those shares. At every such separate general meeting  
the quorum shall be two persons holding, or representing by proxy, at least  
one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class (calculated 
excluding any shares held as treasury shares). The rights conferred upon the 
holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the 
rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or 
issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Transfer of shares
All transfers of shares that are in certificated form may be effected by transfer 
in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the 
directors and may be under hand only. The instrument of transfer shall be 
signed by, or on behalf of, the transferor and (except in the case of fully paid 
shares) by or on behalf of the transferee. The transferor shall remain the 
holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in 
the register of shareholders. All transfers of shares that are in uncertificated 
form may be effected by means of the CREST system.
The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer relating to 
shares in certificated form unless it:
(a) is in respect of only one class of share; and
(b)  is lodged at the transfer office (duly stamped if required) accompanied 
by the relevant share certificate(s) and such other evidence as the 
directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to 
make the transfer (and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some 
other person on his/her behalf, the authority of that person so to do).
The directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in their absolute 
discretion and without assigning any reason therefore, refuse to register any 
transfer of shares (not being fully paid shares) provided that, where any 
such shares are admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, 
such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings 
in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis. 
The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares 
(whether fully paid or not) in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer, they shall send the 
refusal to the allottee or the transferee within two months after the date on 
which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company.
A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of 
other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to 
take place.
Directors
Directors shall not be fewer than 10 nor more than 18 in number. A director  
is not required to hold any shares of the Company by way of qualification.  
The Company may by ordinary resolution increase or reduce the maximum  
or minimum number of directors.
Powers of directors
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by special 
resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who 
may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and 
to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property and uncalled capital 
and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral 
security, for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any 
third party.
The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends, but no dividend 
shall be payable in excess of the amount recommended by the directors. 
Subject to the provisions of the Articles and to the rights attaching to any 
shares, any dividends or other monies payable on or in respect of a share may 
be paid in such currency as the directors may determine. The directors may 
deduct from any dividend payable to any member all sums of money (if any) 
presently payable by him/her to the Company on account of calls or otherwise 
in relation to shares of the Company. The directors may retain any dividends 
payable on shares on which the Company has a lien, and may apply the same 
in or towards satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or engagements in respect of 
which the lien exists.
Appointment and replacement of directors
The directors may from time to time appoint one or more directors.
The Board may appoint any person to be a director (so long as the total 
number of directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles). 
Any such director shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall then be 
eligible for election.
The Articles provide that at each AGM all those directors who have been in 
office for three years or more since their election, or last re-election, shall 
retire from office. In addition, a director may at any AGM retire from office and 
stand for re-election. However, in accordance with the Code, all directors will 
be subject to annual re-election.
Significant agreements: Change of control
At 31 December 2015, Anglo American had committed bilateral and 
syndicated borrowing facilities totalling $11.0 billion with a number of 
relationship banks which contain change of control clauses. $6.2 billion of the 
Group’s bond issues also contain change of control provisions. In aggregate, 
this financing is considered significant to the Group and in the event of a 
takeover (change of control) of the Company, these contracts may be 
cancelled, become immediately payable or be subject to acceleration. In the 
ordinary course of its business the Group’s subsidiaries enter into a number of 
other commercial agreements, some of which would alter or terminate upon a 
change of control of the Company. None of these are considered by the 
Group to be significant to the Group as a whole. 
Purchases of own shares
At the AGM held on 23 April 2015, authority was given for the Company to 
purchase, in the market, up to 209.3 million Ordinary Shares of 54
86
⁄ 91 
US cents each. The Company did not purchase any of its own shares under 
this authority during 2015.
Indemnities
To the extent permitted by law and the Articles, the Company has made 
qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its directors 
during the year, which remain in force at the date of this report. Copies of 
these indemnities are open for inspection at the Company’s registered office.
By order of the Board
John Mills
Company Secretary 
15 February 2016  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 193
Other information
OTHER INFORMATION 
Annual General Meeting
Will be held at 14:30 on Thursday 21 April 2016, at The Queen Elizabeth II 
Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
Shareholding enquiries
Enquiries relating to shareholdings should be made to the Company’s UK 
Registrars, Equiniti, or the South African Transfer Secretaries, Link Market 
Services South Africa (Pty) Limited, at the relevant address below:
UK Registrars
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
England
Telephone: 
In the UK: 0371 384 2026
From outside the UK: +44 121 415 7558
Transfer Secretaries in South Africa
Link Market Services South Africa (Pty) Limited 
13th Floor, Rennie House 
19 Ameshoff Street 
Braamfontein 2001, South Africa 
(PO Box 4844, Johannesburg, 2000) 
Telephone: +27 (0) 11 713 0800
Enquiries on other matters should be addressed to the Company Secretary  
at the following address:
Registered and Head Office
Anglo American plc 
20 Carlton House Terrace 
London SW1Y 5AN 
England
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7968 8888 
Fax: +44 (0) 20 7968 8500 
Registered number: 3564138 
www.angloamerican.com
On the Investors section of the Group website a whole range of useful 
information for shareholders can be found, including amongst other things:
– investor calendar 
– share price and tools 
– dividend information 
– AGM information 
– FAQs.
Electronic communication
Shareholders may elect to receive, electronically, notification of the 
availability on the Company’s website of future shareholder correspondence 
e.g. Annual Reports and Accounts and Notices of AGMs. 
By registering for this service, UK shareholders can also vote online in respect 
of future AGMs and access information on their shareholding including, for 
example, dividend payment history, sales and purchases and indicative share 
prices. In order to register for the services, UK shareholders should contact 
the UK registrars or log on to www.shareview.co.uk and follow the 
on-screen instructions. It will be necessary to have a shareholder reference 
number when registering, which is shown on share certificates, dividend tax 
vouchers and proxy cards. New UK shareholders also have the option to elect 
via their proxy card.
Dividends
Dividends are declared and paid in US dollars to shareholders with registered 
addresses in all countries except the UK, eurozone countries and South Africa 
where they are paid in sterling, euros and South African rand respectively. 
Shareholders outside South Africa may elect to receive their dividends in 
US dollars.
Shareholders with bank accounts in the UK or South Africa can have their 
cash dividends credited directly to their own accounts. Shareholders should 
contact the relevant registrar to make use of this facility. South African branch 
register shareholders would need South African exchange control approval to 
mandate their dividends to an account outside South Africa.
The Company operates a dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP), which  
enables shareholders to reinvest their cash dividends into purchasing  
Anglo American shares. Details of the DRIP and how to join are available  
from Anglo American’s UK Registrars and South African Transfer Secretaries 
and on the Company’s website.
ShareGift
The Company supports ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme 
administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation (registered charity number 
1052686). Through ShareGift, shareholders with very small numbers of 
shares which might be considered uneconomic to sell are able to donate  
them to charity. Donated shares are aggregated and sold by ShareGift,  
the proceeds being passed on to a wide range of charities. For those 
shareholders who wish to use ShareGift, transfer forms are available from  
the Registrars and further details of the scheme can be found on the website 
www.sharegift.org.
Share dealing service
Telephone, internet and postal share dealing services have been arranged 
through Equiniti, providing a simple way for UK residents to buy or sell  
Anglo American shares. For telephone transactions call 0345 603 7037 
during normal office hours and for internet dealing log on to www.shareview.
co.uk/dealing. You will need your shareholder reference number, found on 
share certificates, dividend tax vouchers and proxy cards. For further details 
on the postal dealing service call 0371 384 2026 (or +44 121 415 7558 
from overseas).
Unsolicited mail
Under the Companies Act, the Company is obliged to make the share register 
available upon request on payment of the appropriate fee. Because of this, 
some shareholders may receive unsolicited mail. If you wish to limit the 
receipt of addressed marketing mail you can register with the Mailing 
Preference Service (MPS). The quickest way to register with the MPS is  
via the website: www.mpsonline.org.uk. Alternatively you can register by 
telephone on: 020 7291 3310, or by email to: mps@dma.org.uk, or by writing 
to MPS Freepost LON20771, London W1E 0ZT.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OTHER INFORMATION 
194 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
 • Sustainability Report 2015
 • Notice of 2016 AGM 
 • Business Unit Sustainable Development Reports (2015)
 • Good Citizenship: Business Principles
 • The Environment Way
 • The Occupational Health Way
 • The Projects Way
 • The Safety Way
 • The Social Way
 • The People Development Way
 • www.facebook.com/angloamerican
 • www.twitter.com/angloamerican
 • www.linkedin.com/company/anglo-american
 • www.youtube.com/angloamerican
 • www.flickr.com/angloamerican
 • www.slideshare.com/angloamerican
Financial and sustainable development reports may be found at: 
www.angloamerican.com/reportingcentre
If you would like to receive paper copies of Anglo American’s publications,  
please write to:
Investor Relations
Anglo American plc 
20 Carlton House Terrace 
London SW1Y 5AN 
England
Alternatively, publications can be ordered online at: 
www.angloamerican.com/siteservices/requestreport
Charitable partners
This is just a selection of the charities which Anglo American, Anglo American 
Chairman’s Fund and the Anglo American Group Foundation have worked 
with in 2015:
OTHER ANGLO AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS Designed and produced by 
SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP
This document is printed  
on Amadeus 50 Silk and  
Amadeus 100 Offset which  
has been independently certified 
according to the rules of the  
Forest Stewardship Council®  
(FSC). All the paper in this report  
is at least 50% recycled, with  
pages 65–194 being 100%  
recycled. The recycled fibre is 
bleached in a Process Chlorine  
Free (PCF) process and the virgin 
fibre is Elemental Chlorine Free 
(ECF) bleached.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint  
using its alcofree® and pureprint® 
environmental printing technology, 
and vegetable inks were used 
throughout. Pureprint is a 
CarbonNeutral® company.
Both manufacturing paper mill  
and the printer are registered to  
the Environmental Management 
System ISO 14001 and are Forest 
Stewardship Council® (FSC) 
chain-of-custody certified.
Back cover images 
1. Global Safety Day 
demonstration  
attended by Anglo 
American Platinum’s 
senior management 
team underground at 
Tumela platinum mine  
in South Africa.
2. Building a new road  
to the campsite at the 
Quellaveco copper 
project in southern Peru.
3. Loading overburden 
at Platinum’s huge open 
pit at Mogalakwena in 
South Africa.
4. Sorter Kay Modise  
at the De Beers Global 
Sightholder Sales 
diamond sorting facility 
in Gaborone, Botswana.
5. The 12,000 tonne 
exploration and 
sampling vessel,  
SS Nujoma, the latest 
vessel to join the 
Debmarine Namibia 
fleet in the search  
for offshore diamonds,  
at its launch in Norway  
in January 2016.
1 2
3
5 4 Anglo American plc
20 Carlton House T errace
London  
SW1Y 5AN
England
T el +44 (0)20 7968 8888
Fax +44 (0)20 7968 8500
Registered number 3564138
www.angloamerican.com
Find us on Facebook 
Follow us on T witter
ANGLO AMERICAN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
